Repeated measures analyses of variance are the method of choice in many studies from experimental psychology and the neurosciences. Data from these fields are often characterized by small sample sizes, high numbers of factor levels of the within-subjects factor(s), and nonnormally distributed response variables such as response times. For a design with a single within-subjects factor, we investigated Type I error control in univariate tests with corrected degrees of freedom, the multivariate approach, and a mixed-model (multilevel) approach (SAS PROC MIXED) with Kenward-Roger's adjusted degrees of freedom. We simulated multivariate normal and nonnormal distributions with varied population variance-covariance structures (spherical and nonspherical), sample sizes (N), and numbers of factor levels (K). For normally distributed data, as expected, the univariate approach with Huynh-Feldt correction controlled the Type I error rate with only very few exceptions, even if samples sizes as low as three were combined with high numbers of factor levels. The multivariate approach also controlled the Type I error rate, but it requires N  K. PROC MIXED often showed acceptable control of the Type I error rate for normal data, but it also produced several liberal or conservative results. For nonnormal data, all of the procedures showed clear deviations from the nominal Type I error rate in many conditions, even for sample sizes greater than 50. Thus, none of these approaches can be considered robust if the response variable is nonnormally distributed. The results indicate that both the variance heterogeneity and covariance heterogeneity of the population covariance matrices affect the error rates.
In an emerging area of memory research, it is becoming apparent that one particular type of false memory, called spontaneous false memory, follows a developmental trajectory that is the opposite of what is commonly assumed in false memory research - that is, spontaneous false memories are more likely to occur in adults than in children. The present study focused on developmental trends of different types of spontaneous false memories. Specifically, in the current study, 6-8 year-olds, 10-12 year-olds, and adults were presented with two methods to induce spontaneous false memories: (i) semantically related word lists that are commonly used to evoke spontaneous false memories [i.e, Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) paradigm]; and (ii) a video in which related details were not shown but were presented during a recognition task. The results showed that children were more likely to form false memories than adults in the video false memory paradigm, whereas DRM false memories were more evident in adults than in children. Furthermore, we found that on a general level, DRM false memories were positively related to video spontaneous false memories. We explain that stimuli that contain obvious themes attenuate or even reverse developmental trends in spontaneous false memories.
We represent behaviorally relevant information in different spatial reference frames in order to interact effectively with our environment. For example, we need an egocentric (e.g., body-centered) reference frame to specify limb movements and an allocentric (e.g., world-centered) reference frame to navigate from one location to another. Posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is vital for performing transformations between these different coordinate systems. Here, we review evidence for multiple pathways in the human brain, from PPC to motor, premotor, and supplementary motor areas, as well as to structures in the medial temporal lobe. These connections are important for transformations between egocentric reference frames to facilitate sensory-guided action, or from egocentric to allocentric reference frames to facilitate spatial navigation.
Ceramide, cholesterol, and phosphatidic acid are major basic structures for cell membrane lipids. These lipids are modified with glucose to generate glucosylceramide (GlcCer), cholesterylglucoside (ChlGlc), and phosphatidylglucoside (PtdGlc), respectively. Glucosylation dramatically changes the functional properties of lipids. For instance, ceramide acts as a strong tumor suppressor that causes apoptosis and cell cycle arrest, while GlcCer has an opposite effect, downregulating ceramide activities. All glucosylated lipids are enriched in lipid rafts or microdomains and play fundamental roles in a variety of cellular processes. In this review, we discuss the biological functions and metabolism of these three glucosylated lipids.

Several mental illnesses, including anxiety, can manifest during development, with onsets in late childhood. Understanding the neurobiological underpinnings of risk for anxiety is of crucial importance for early prevention and intervention approaches. Translational neuroscience offers tools to investigate such mechanisms in human and animal models. The current review describes paradigms derived from neuroscience, such as fear conditioning and extinction and overviews studies that have used these paradigms in animals and humans across development. The review also briefly discusses developmental trajectories of the relevant neural circuits and the emergence of clinical anxiety. Future studies should focus on developmental changes in these paradigms, paying close attention to neurobiological and hormonal changes associated with childhood and adolescence.
We investigated the relationship between individual differences in acute fatigue and endogenous cortisol changes elicited by the sustained performance of cognitively demanding tasks (fatigue condition). Healthy males provided salivary cortisol measurements and subjective fatigue ratings, and were scanned (functional magnetic resonance imaging) during memory encoding and recognition tasks in fatigue and control conditions. A group of 15 'responders' showed significantly higher cortisol levels in the fatigue condition than 12 'non-responders'. Responders showed higher subjective fatigue and reduced encoding and recognition activation than non-responders in the fatigue condition. An interaction in activation changes in the right hippocampus during encoding reflected decreased activation in responders, but somewhat increased activation in non-responders in the fatigue compared to control condition. Moreover, decreased hippocampal activation in responders was associated with increased subjective fatigue. Findings are consistent with a central role for the hippocampus in differences between responders and non-responders and also implicate the right hippocampus in individual differences in induced cognitive fatigue effects.
Humans engage in deceptive behavior that negatively affects others. The propensity to deceive is, however, characterized by vast inter-individual heterogeneity that is poorly understood. Attempts to investigate the origins of this heterogeneity have so far mainly relied on subjective measures and have shown little predictive power. Here, we used resting electroencephalography to measure objective and stable individual differences in neural baseline activation in combination with an ecologically valid deception paradigm. Results showed that task-independent baseline activation in the anterior insula, a brain area implicated in mapping internal bodily states and in representing emotional arousal and conscious feelings, predicts individuals' propensity for deceptive behavior. The higher the neural baseline activation in this area is, the lower individuals' propensity to deceive. Moreover, results provide evidence that high baseline activation in the anterior insula is associated with negative affect and dispositional tendencies to avoid aversive emotional situations. These results provide converging neural and psychological evidence that individuals might avoid a deceptive act due to a highly active negative emotional system which would make a deceptive act too stressful and bothersome.
The effects of irrelevant stimuli complexity on event-related potentials were investigated in 3 conditions using both auditory and visual oddball tasks. In Conditions 1 and 2, simple standard and target stimuli were presented in series with complex, identical (Condition 1) or variable (Condition 2), task-irrelevant stimuli. In Condition 3, complex standards and targets were presented with simple, identical, task-irrelevant stimuli. In Conditions 1 and 2, but not Condition 3, the irrelevant stimuli elicited the P3a component in both auditory and visual modalities and the N2b component in the visual modality. While we found that variable, irrelevant stimuli evoked larger P3a in the auditory modality compared with identical irrelevant stimuli, we observed the opposite effect in the visual modality. These results suggest that stimuli rareness and irrelevance are not sufficient for eliciting P3a. This component is only elicited by irrelevant stimuli that are at least as complex as the task-related stimuli.
People at high risk for alcoholism show deficits in aversive learning, as indicated by impaired electrodermal responses during fear conditioning, a basic form of associative learning that depends on the amygdala. A positive family history of alcohol dependence has also been related to decreased amygdala responses during emotional processing. In the present study we report reduced amygdala activity during the acquisition of conditioned fear in healthy carriers of a risk variant for alcoholism (rs2072450) in the NR2A subunit-containing N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor. These results indicate that rs2072450 might confer risk for alcohol dependence through deficient fear acquisition indexed by a diminished amygdala response during aversive learning, and provide a neural basis for a weak behavioral inhibition previously documented in individuals at high risk for alcohol dependence. Carriers of the risk variant additionally exhibit dampened insula activation, a finding that further strengthens our data, given the importance of this brain region in fear conditioning.
The evolution of amide 3 into conformationally restricted bicyclic triazolo-piperidine 14-S as a -secretase modulator is described. This is a potential disease modifying anti-Alzheimer's drug which demonstrated high in vitro and in vivo potency against A42 peptide, reduced lipophilicity and enhanced brain free fraction compared to the previous series.
A novel series of N-type calcium channel inhibitors have been discovered. Optimization of potency and HT-ADME properties provides 4-aminocyclopentapyrrolidines with analgesic efficacy after oral dosing.

LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) has been identified as a gene corresponding to PARK8, an autosomal-dominant gene for familial Parkinson's disease (PD). LRRK2 pathogenic-specific mutants induce neurotoxicity and shorten neurites. To elucidate the mechanism underlying LRRK2 expression, we constructed the LRRK2-promoter-luciferase reporter and used it for promoter analysis. We found that the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) transactivated LRRK2 in a ligand-dependent manner. Using quantitative RT-PCR and Western analysis, we further showed that treatment with dexamethasone, a synthetic GR ligand, induced LRRK2 expression at both the transcriptional and translational levels, in dopaminergic MN9D cells. Dexamethasone treatment also increased expression of  -synuclein, another PD causative gene, and enhanced transactivation of the -synuclein promoter-luciferase reporter. In addition, dexamethasone treatment to MN9D cells weakly induced cytotoxicity based on an LDH assay. Because glucocorticoid hormones are secreted in response to stress, our data suggest that stress might be a related factor in the pathogenesis of PD.




Neuropsychoanalysis is a new school of thought attempting to bridge neuroscience and psychoanalysis. Yet few neuroscientists and psychiatrists would have heard of it if it had not recently received public support from notable neuroscientists. The present paper discusses whether such support is warranted.
Differentiating bipolar from recurrent unipolar depression is a major clinical challenge. In 18 healthy females and 36 females in a depressive episode--18 with bipolar disorder type I, 18 with recurrent unipolar depression--we applied pattern recognition analysis using subdivisions of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) blood flow at rest, measured with arterial spin labelling. Subgenual ACC blood flow classified unipolar v. bipolar depression with 81% accuracy (83% sensitivity, 78% specificity).

Individuals with autism spectrum conditions have difficulties in understanding and responding appropriately to others. Additionally, they demonstrate impaired perception of biological motion and problems with motor control. Here we investigated whether individuals with autism move with an atypical kinematic profile, which might help to explain perceptual and motor impairments, and in principle may contribute to some of their higher level social problems. We recorded trajectory, velocity, acceleration and jerk while adult participants with autism and a matched control group conducted horizontal sinusoidal arm movements. Additionally, participants with autism took part in a biological motion perception task in which they classified observed movements as 'natural' or 'unnatural'. Results show that individuals with autism moved with atypical kinematics; they did not minimize jerk to the same extent as the matched typical control group, and moved with greater acceleration and velocity. The degree to which kinematics were atypical was correlated with a bias towards perceiving biological motion as 'unnatural' and with the severity of autism symptoms as measured by the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule. We suggest that fundamental differences in movement kinematics in autism might help to explain their problems with motor control. Additionally, developmental experience of their own atypical kinematic profiles may lead to disrupted perception of others' actions.
Visual motion perception is fundamental to many aspects of visual perception. Visual motion perception has long been associated with the dorsal (parietal) pathway and the involvement of the ventral 'form' (temporal) visual pathway has not been considered critical for normal motion perception. Here, we evaluated this view by examining whether circumscribed damage to ventral visual cortex impaired motion perception. The perception of motion in basic, non-form tasks (motion coherence and motion detection) and complex structure-from-motion, for a wide range of motion speeds, all centrally displayed, was assessed in five patients with a circumscribed lesion to either the right or left ventral visual pathway. Patients with a right, but not with a left, ventral visual lesion displayed widespread impairments in central motion perception even for non-form motion, for both slow and for fast speeds, and this held true independent of the integrity of areas MT/V5, V3A or parietal regions. In contrast with the traditional view in which only the dorsal visual stream is critical for motion perception, these novel findings implicate a more distributed circuit in which the integrity of the right ventral visual pathway is also necessary even for the perception of non-form motion.

Inflammatory processes are important in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and in response to amyloid- immunotherapy. We investigated the expression of multiple inflammatory markers in the brains of 28 non-immunized patients with Alzheimer's disease and 11 patients with Alzheimer's disease immunized against amyloid-42 (AN1792): microglial ionized calcium-binding adaptor Iba-1, lysosome marker CD68, macrophage scavenger receptor A, Fc receptors I (CD64) and II (CD32); and also immunoglobulin IgG, complement C1q and the T lymphocyte marker CD3 using immunohistochemistry. The data were analysed with regard to amyloid- and phospho-tau pathology, severity of cerebral amyloid angiopathy and cortical microhaemorrhages. In non-immunized Alzheimer's disease cases, amyloid-42 correlated inversely with CD32 and Iba-1, whereas phospho-tau correlated directly with all microglial markers, IgG, C1q and the number of T cells. In immunized Alzheimer's disease cases, amyloid-42 load correlated directly with macrophage scavenger receptor A-positive clusters and inversely with C1q. The severity of cerebral amyloid angiopathy and microhaemorrhages did not relate to any of the analysed markers. Overall, the levels of CD68, macrophage scavenger receptor A, CD64, CD32 and the number of macrophage scavenger receptor A-positive plaque-related clusters were significantly lower in immunized than non-immunized cases, although there was no significant difference in Iba-1 load, number of Iba-1-positive cells, IgG load, C1q load or number of T cells. Our findings indicate that different microglial populations co-exist in the Alzheimer's disease brain, and that the local inflammatory status within the grey matter is importantly linked with tau pathology. After amyloid- immunization, the microglial functional state is altered in association with reduced amyloid- and tau pathology. The results suggest that, in the long term, amyloid- immunotherapy results in downregulation of microglial activation and potentially reduces the inflammation-mediated component of the neurodegeneration of Alzheimer's disease.
In autism, heterogeneity is the rule rather than the exception. One obvious source of heterogeneity is biological sex. Since autism was first recognized, males with autism have disproportionately skewed research. Females with autism have thus been relatively overlooked, and have generally been assumed to have the same underlying neurobiology as males with autism. Growing evidence, however, suggests that this is an oversimplification that risks obscuring the biological base of autism. This study seeks to answer two questions about how autism is modulated by biological sex at the level of the brain: (i) is the neuroanatomy of autism different in males and females? and (ii) does the neuroanatomy of autism fit predictions from the 'extreme male brain' theory of autism, in males and/or in females? Neuroanatomical features derived from voxel-based morphometry were compared in a sample of equal-sized high-functioning male and female adults with and without autism (n = 120, n = 30/group). The first question was investigated using a 2  2 factorial design, and by spatial overlap analyses of the neuroanatomy of autism in males and females. The second question was tested through spatial overlap analyses of specific patterns predicted by the extreme male brain theory. We found that the neuroanatomy of autism differed between adult males and females, evidenced by minimal spatial overlap (not different from that occurred under random condition) in both grey and white matter, and substantially large white matter regions showing significant sex  diagnosis interactions in the 2  2 factorial design. These suggest that autism manifests differently by biological sex. Furthermore, atypical brain areas in females with autism substantially and non-randomly (P &lt; 0.001) overlapped with areas that were sexually dimorphic in neurotypical controls, in both grey and white matter, suggesting neural 'masculinization'. This was not seen in males with autism. How differences in neuroanatomy relate to the similarities in cognition between males and females with autism remains to be understood. Future research should stratify by biological sex to reduce heterogeneity and to provide greater insight into the neurobiology of autism.
Background Visual height intolerance occurs when a visual stimulus causes apprehension of losing balance and falling from some height. Affecting one-third of the population, it has a broad spectrum of symptoms, ranging from minor distress to fear of heights, which is defined as a specific phobia. Specific phobias are associated with higher alcohol consumption. This has not been specifically shown for susceptibility to the more general visual height intolerance. Methods Representative case-control study nested within a population-based cross-sectional telephone survey to assess epidemiologically 1253 individuals 14 years, using a questionnaire on sociodemographic data, typical symptoms, precipitating visual stimuli, and alcohol drinking patterns (overall frequency of alcohol consumption, the daily quantities, and the motives). Results Individuals susceptible or nonsusceptible to visual height intolerance showed no significant differences in drinking patterns. The daily average alcohol consumption was slightly higher in persons susceptible to visual height intolerance (4.1 g/day vs. 3.7 g/day). Of those consuming alcohol, cases and controls reported on average consuming 2.3 glasses per day. The prevalence of visual height intolerance was insignificantly higher in the small minority of those drinking 2-3 times per week versus teetotalers. Conclusions Our study does not provide evidence that visual height intolerance - contrary to various specific phobias - is significantly associated with individual alcohol consumption patterns.
Introduction Understanding the relationship between brain and complex latent behavioral constructs like cognitive control will require an inordinate amount of data. Internet-based methods can rapidly and efficiently refine behavioral measures in very large samples that are needed for genetics and behavioral research. Cognitive control is a multifactorial latent construct that is considered to be an endophenotype in numerous neuropsychiatric disorders, including attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). While previous studies have demonstrated high correlations between Web- and lab-based scores, skepticism remains for its broad implementation. Methods Here, we promote a different approach by characterizing a completely Web-recruited and tested community family sample on measures of cognitive control. We examine the prevalence of attention deficit symptoms in an online community sample of adolescents, demonstrate familial correlations in cognitive control measures, and use construct validation techniques to validate our high-throughput assessment approach. Results A total of 1214 participants performed Web-based tests of cognitive control with over 200 parent-child pairs analyzed as part of the primary study aims. The data show a wide range of &quot;subclinical&quot; symptomatology in a web community sample of adolescents that supports a dimensional view of attention and also provide preliminary narrow-sense heritability estimates for commonly used working memory and response inhibition tests. Conclusions Finally, we show strong face and construct validity for these measures of cognitive control that generally exceeds the evidence required of new lab-based measures. We discuss these results and how broad implementation of this platform may allow us to uncover important brain-behavior relationships quickly and efficiently.
Introduction How human brains acquire second languages (L2) is one of the fundamental questions in neuroscience and language science. However, it is unclear whether the first language (L1) has a cross-linguistic influence on the processing of L2. Methods Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare brain activities during L2 word reading tasks of phonographic Japanese Kana between two groups of learners of the Japanese language as their L2 and who had different orthographic backgrounds of their L1. For Chinese learners, a L1 of the Chinese language (Hanji) and a L2 of the Japanese Kana differed orthographically, whereas for Korean learners, a L1 of Korean Hangul and a L2 of Japanese Kana were similar. Results Our analysis revealed that, although proficiency and the age of acquisition did not differ between the two groups, Chinese learners showed greater activation of the left middle frontal gyrus than Korean learners during L2 word reading. Conclusion Our results provide evidence that strongly supported the hypothesis that cross-linguistic variations in orthography between L1 and L2 induce differential brain activation during L2 word reading, which has been proposed previously.
Infantile spasms are age-specific seizures of infantile epileptic encephalopathies that are usually associated with poor epilepsy and neurodevelopmental outcomes. The current treatments are not always effective and may be associated with significant side effects. Various mechanisms have been proposed as pathogenic for infantile spasms, including cortical or brainstem dysfunction, disruption of normal cortical-subcortical communications, genetic defects, inflammation, stress, developmental abnormalities. Many of these have been recently tested experimentally, resulting into the emergence of several animal models of infantile spasms. The stress theory of spasms yielded the corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH)-induced model, which showed the higher proconvulsant potency of CRH in developing rats, although only limbic seizures were observed. Models of acute induction of infantile spasms in rodents include the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) model of emprosthotonic seizures, the prenatal betamethasone and prenatal stress variants of the NMDA model, and the -butyrolactone induced spasms in a Down's syndrome mouse model. Chronic rodent models of infantile spasms include the tetrodotoxin model and the multiple-hit models in rats, as well as two genetic mouse models of interneuronopathies with infantile spasms due to loss of function of the aristaless X-linked homeobox-related gene (ARX). This review discusses the emerging mechanisms for generation of infantile spasms and their associated chronic epileptic and dyscognitive phenotype as well as the recent progress in identifying pathways to better treat this epileptic encephalopathy.
Two routes have been proposed for auditory repetition: a lexical route which activates a lexical item and retrieves its phonology, and a nonlexical route which maps input phonology directly onto output phonology. But when is the nonlexical route recruited? In a sample of 103 aphasic patients, we use computational models to select patients who do and do not recruit the nonlexical route, and compare them in light of three hypotheses: 1 - Lexical-phonological hypothesis: when the lexical route is weak, the nonlexical route is recruited. 2 - Nonlexical hypothesis: when the nonlexical route is weak, it is abandoned. 3 - Semantic-access hypothesis: when access to meaning fails, the nonlexical route is recruited. In neurocognitive terms, hypotheses 1 and 2 identify different aspects of the intactness of the dorsal stream, while the third hypothesis focuses on the ventral stream. Our findings (and a subsequent meta-analysis of four studies) support hypotheses 2 and 3. Ultimately, we claim that the choice about whether to recruit the nonlexical route is guided, not by assessment of production abilities that support repetition, but instead by relying on accessible cues, namely whether the speaker understands the word, or can remember its sequence of phonemes.
Left-hemispheric language dominance is a well-known characteristic of the human language system, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this crucial feature of vocal communication are still far from being understood. The forkhead box P2 gene FOXP2, which has been related to speech development, constitutes an interesting candidate gene in this regard. Therefore, the present study was aimed at investigating effects of variation in FOXP2 on individual language dominance. To this end, we used a dichotic listening and a visual half-field task in a sample of 456 healthy adults. The FOXP2 SNPs rs2396753 and rs12533005 were found to be significantly associated with the distribution of correct answers on the dichotic listening task. These results show that variation in FOXP2 may contribute to the inter-individual variability in hemispheric asymmetries for speech perception.
Atypical white-matter integrity and elevated dopamine levels have been reported for individuals who stutter. We investigated how such abnormalities may lead to speech dysfluencies due to their effects on a syllable-sequencing circuit that consists of basal ganglia (BG), thalamus, and left ventral premotor cortex (vPMC). &quot;Neurally impaired&quot; versions of the neurocomputational speech production model GODIVA were utilized to test two hypotheses: (1) that white-matter abnormalities disturb the circuit via corticostriatal projections carrying copies of executed motor commands and (2) that dopaminergic abnormalities disturb the circuit via the striatum. Simulation results support both hypotheses: in both scenarios, the neural abnormalities delay readout of the next syllable's motor program, leading to dysfluency. The results also account for brain imaging findings during dysfluent speech. It is concluded that each of the two abnormality types can cause stuttering moments, probably by affecting the same BG-thalamus-vPMC circuit.
The prevalence of dementia in the aging population is increasing in Japan; therefore, expert neurologists are urgently required in dementia practice. We, the neurologists, should recognize that our expertise is the core of the medical care for dementia and be prepared to lead people in other areas of medical professions, including general practitioners and psychiatrists, who are involved in dementia management. Expertise of neurologists in different areas, including neurological examination, neuropsychology, movement disorders, and neuroimaging, are essential, and their skills in managing both acute and chronic medical conditions are advantageous. Behavioral neurology, which is a subspecialty of neurology, is committed to the care of individuals with cognitive and behavioral disturbances and plays a central role in the diagnosis and treatment of all forms of dementia. However, there is a huge scarcity of behavioral neurologists in Japan, and more of them are needed urgently. In addition, to assign a clear role for neurologists in the management of dementia, we should strongly encourage the government to involve neurologists in policy-making.
Vascular early response gene (Verge) is a novel immediate early gene that is highly expressed during developmental angiogenesis and after ischemic insults in adult brain. However, the role of Verge after neonatal injury is not known. In the present study, we investigated the hypothesis that Verge contributes to vascular remodeling and tissue repair after neonatal ischemic injury. The Rice-Vanucci model (RVM) was employed to induce neonatal stroke in both Verge knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) postnatal day 10 (P10) mice. Histological and behavioral outcomes at acute (24h), subacute (7 days) and chronic (30 days) phases were evaluated. Angiogenesis, neurogenesis, and glial scar formation were also examined in the ischemic brain. No significant differences in outcomes were found between WT and Verge mice at 24h or 7 days after stroke. However genetic deletion of Verge led to pronounced cystic cavitation, decreased angiogenensis and glial scar formation in the ischemic hemisphere compared to WT mice at 30 days. Verge KO mice also had significantly worse functional outcomes at 30 days which was accompanied by decreased neurogenesis and angiogenesis in the ischemic hemisphere. Our study suggests that Verge plays an important role in the induction of neurogenesis and angiogenesis after ischemia, contributes to improved tissue repair, and enhances chronic functional recovery.
Resistance to tissue hypoxia is a robust fundamental adaptation to low oxygen supply, and represents a novel neuroscience problem with significance to mammalian physiology as well as human health. With the underlying mechanisms strongly conserved in evolution, the ability to resist tissue hypoxia in natural systems has recently emerged as an interesting model in mammalian physiology research to understand mechanisms that can be manipulated for the clinical management of stroke. The extraordinary ability to resist tissue hypoxia by the naked mole rat (NMR) indicates the presence of a unique mechanism that underlies the remarkable healthy life span and exceptional hypoxia resistance. This opens an interesting line of research into understanding the mechanisms employed by the naked mole rat (Heterocephalus glaber) to protect the brain during hypoxia. In a series of studies, we first examined the presence of neuroprotection in the brain cells of naked mole rats (NMRs) subjected to hypoxic insults, and then characterized the expression of such neuroprotection in a wide range of time intervals. We used oxygen nutrient deprivation (OND), an in vitro model of resistance to tissue hypoxia to determine whether there is evidence of neuronal survival in the hippocampal (CA1) slices of NMRs that are subjected to chronic hypoxia. Hippocampus neurons of NMRs that were kept in hypoxic condition consistently tolerated OND right from the onset time of 5h. This tolerance was maintained for 24h. This finding indicates that there is evidence of resistance to tissue hypoxia by CA1 neurons of NMRs. We further examined the effect of hypoxia on metabolic rate in the NMR. Repeated measurement of metabolic rates during exposure of naked mole rats to hypoxia over a constant ambient temperature indicates that hypoxia significantly decreased metabolic rates in the NMR, suggesting that the observed decline in metabolic rate during hypoxia may contribute to the adaptive mechanism used by the NMR to resist tissue hypoxia. This work is aimed to contribute to the understanding of mechanisms of resistance to tissue hypoxia in the NMR as an important life-sustaining process, which can be translated into therapeutic interventions during stroke.


Selection of the most appropriate response necessitates inhibition of competing or prepotent responses. It is important to characterize which cortical areas are relevant to achieve response inhibition. Using the stop signal task, previous imaging studies revealed consistent activation in the right pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA). However, imaging alone suffers from the limitation that it can only provide neuronal correlates and cannot establish causality between brain activation and behavior. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) can be used to temporarily interfere with the function of a cortical area considered to play a specific role in the behavior. Thus, we combined rTMS with H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography (PET) scans during the stop signal task, to test whether rTMS-induced changes in excitability of the right pre-SMA influenced response inhibition. We found that rTMS over the pre-SMA increased the efficiency of the inhibitory control over prepotent ongoing responses. A significant interaction was present in the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) along with an increase in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the left pre-SMA, left IFG, right premotor and right inferior parietal cortex. These areas best fitted the path analysis model in the effective connectivity model. The results of this study suggest that stimulation of the right pre-SMA, by interfering with its activity, may have a significant impact on response inhibition.


The process of development, maturation, and regression in the central nervous system (CNS) are genetically programmed and influenced by environment. Hitherto, most research efforts have focused on either the early development of the CNS or the late changes associated with aging, whereas an important period corresponding to adolescence has been overlooked. In this study, we searched for age-dependent changes in the number of cells that compose the CNS (divided into isocortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, cerebellum, 'rest of the brain', and spinal cord) and the pituitary gland in 4-40-week-old C57BL6 mice, using the isotropic fractionator method in combination with neuronal nuclear protein as a marker for neuronal cells. We found that all CNS structures, except for the isocortex, increased in mass in the period of 4-15 weeks. Over the same period, the absolute number of neurons significantly increased in the olfactory bulb and cerebellum while non-neuronal cell numbers increased in the 'rest of the brain' and isocortex. Along with the gain in body length and weight, the pituitary gland also increased in mass and cell number, the latter correlating well with changes of the brain and spinal cord mass. The majority of the age-dependent alterations (e.g., somatic parameters, relative brain mass, number of pituitary cells, and cellular composition of the cerebellum, isocortex, rest of the brain, and spinal cord) occur rapidly between the 4th and 11th postnatal weeks. This period includes murine adolescence, underscoring the significance of this stage in the postnatal development of the mouse CNS.
The present study investigated the projection from the paralemniscal nucleus (PL) to the spinal cord in the mouse by injecting the retrograde tracer fluoro-gold to different levels of the spinal cord and injecting the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine into PL. We found that PL projects to the entire spinal cord with obvious contralateral predominance--420 neurons projected to the contralateral cervical cord and 270 to the contralateral lumbar cord. Fibers from PL descended in the dorsolateral funiculus on the contralateral side and terminated in laminae 5, 6, 7, and to a lesser extent in the dorsal and ventral horns. A smaller number of fibers also descended in the ventral funiculus on the ipsilateral side and terminated in laminae 7, 8 and, to a lesser extent in lamina 9. The present study is the first demonstration of the PL fiber termination in the spinal cord in mammals. The PL projection to the spinal cord may be involved in vocalization and locomotion.
An array of brain regions in the fronto-parietal and temporal lobes cooperates to process observation and execution of actions performed by other individuals. Using functional MRI, we hypothesized that vegetarians and vegans might show brain responses to mouth actions performed by humans, monkeys, and pigs different from omnivores. We scanned 20 omnivores, 19 vegetarians, and 21 vegans while watching a series of silent videos, which presented a single mouth action performed by a human, a monkey, and a pig. Compared to omnivores, vegetarians and vegans have increased functional connectivity between regions of the fronto-parietal and temporal lobes versus the cerebellum during observation of mouth actions performed by humans and, to the same degree, animals. Vegans also had increased connectivity with the supplementary motor area. During human mouth actions, increased amygdala activity in vegetarians and vegans was found. More critically, vegetarians recruited the right middle frontal gyrus and insula, which are involved in social mirroring, whereas vegans activated the left inferior frontal gyrus and middle temporal gyrus, which are part of the mirror neuron system. Monkey mouth actions triggered language network activity in both groups, which might be due to the attempt to decode monkey mouth gesture, with an additional recruitment of associative temporo-occipital areas in vegans, whereas pig mouth actions activated empathy-related regions, including the anterior cingulum. These results support the role of the action observation-execution matching system in social cognition, which enables us to interact not only with our conspecifics but also with species in phylogenetic proximity to humans.
The ventral pallidum (VP) is a key component of the cortico-basal ganglia circuits that process motivational and emotional information, and also a crucial site for reward. Although the main targets of the two VP compartments, medial (VPm) and lateral (VPl) have already been established, the collateralization patterns of individual axons have not previously been investigated. Here we have fully traced eighty-four axons from VPm, VPl and the rostral extension of VP into the olfactory tubercle (VPr), using the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine in the rat. Thirty to fifty percent of axons originating from VPm and VPr collateralized in the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus and lateral habenula, indicating a close association between the ventral basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical loop and the reward network at the single axon level. Additional collateralization of these axons in diverse components of the extended amygdala and corticopetal system supports a multisystem integration that may take place at the basal forebrain. Remarkably, we did not find evidence for a sharp segregation in the targets of axons arising from the two VP compartments, as VPl axons frequently collateralized in the caudal lateral hypothalamus and ventral tegmental area, the well-known targets of VPm, while VPm axons, in turn, also collateralized in typical VPl targets such as the subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra pars compacta and reticulata, and retrorubral field. Nevertheless, VPl and VPm displayed collateralization patterns that paralleled those of dorsal pallidal components, confirming at the single axon level the parallel organization of functionally different basal ganglia loops.
Vascular disorders can either be cause or consequence in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To comprehensively characterize the occurrence of vascular impairment in a double transgenic mouse model for AD (APPswe/PS1dE9) during aging, we developed a new method to obtain microvascular relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV(micro)) maps from gradient echo MR imaging by histogram evaluation and we applied a voxel-wise approach to detect rCBV(micro) changes. With this methodology the development of cerebral microvascular impairments can be described in vivo with 0.16 mm isotropic resolution for the whole mouse brain. At 8 months, impaired rCBV(micro) appeared in some cortical regions and in the thalamus, which spreads over several sub-cortical areas and the hippocampus at 13 months. With a ROI-based approach, we further showed that hippocampal rCBV(micro) in 13-month-old wild-type and APP(swe)/PS1(dE9) mice correlates well with capillary density measured with immunohistochemical staining. However, no differences in capillary density were detected between genotypes. The rCBV(micro) values showed no significant correlation with amyloid- (A) plaque deposition, A at blood vessel walls and biochemically measured levels of A, A oligomers and fibrillar forms. These results suggest that rCBV(micro) reduction is caused by an impaired vasoactivity of capillaries and arterioles, which is not directly correlated with the amount of A deposition in parenchyma nor blood vessel walls.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of female sexual hormones on intestinal and serum cytokines following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Adult female rats were ovariectomized and distributed among the following 9 groups: (i) sham trauma, (ii) TBI (Marmarou's method), (iii) vehicle (dimethylsulfoxide) treated, (iv) estrogen (E2) treated, (v) progesterone (P) treated, (vi) treated with E2+P, (vii) propylpyrazole triol (PPT) treated, (viii) diarylpropionitrile (DPN) treated, and (ix) control. PPT and DPN are estrogen receptor and  agonists, respectively. Serum and intestinal levels of interleukin (IL)-1 were increased by TBI (P &lt; 0.001). The level of intestinal IL-1 was increased in the group treated with E2 (P &lt; 0.001). There was a reduction in serum IL-1 (P &lt; 0.01) and an increase in intestinal IL-1 level (P &lt; 0.001) in the PPT-treated group compared with the vehicle-treated group. TBI reduced serum IL-6 (P &lt; 0.01) and increased intestinal IL-6 (P &lt; 0.001). Serum IL-6 was increased in the group treated with E2 (P &lt; 0.001), P (P &lt; 0.001), E2+P (P &lt; 0.01), and DPN (P &lt; 0.001) after TBI; however, intestinal IL-6 was higher in the E2-treated group compared with the vehicle-treated group (P &lt; 0.01). Intestinal tumor necrosis factor  (TNF-) was increased by TBI (P &lt; 0.001). Progesterone decreased serum TNF- (P &lt; 0.01). Intestinal TNF- in the E2 (P &lt; 0.01), E2+P (P &lt; 0.001), and PPT (P &lt; 0.001) treatment groups was less than in the vehicle-treated group. In conclusion, estrogen influences the intestinal levels of proinflammatory cytokines, in particular TNF-, mediated through estrogen receptor .
Whilst there is a small literature on the cardiovascular toxicity of opiates, there is no detailed antemortem data on non-cardiovascular patient populations. A cross-sectional and longitudinal naturalistic observational study was performed comparing methadone (N = 71)-, buprenorphine (N = 593)-, naltrexone (N = 23)-treated patients with controls (N = 576) on indices of arterial stiffness and vascular age by Pulse Wave Analysis in primary care, 2006-2011. Controls were younger 29.96  0.45 (mean  SEM) vs. 34.00  0.34-39.22  1.11 years (all P &lt; 0.005) and had fewer smokers (15.9 % vs. 86.9 %-92.96 %, all P &lt; 0.0001). The sex ratio was similar (69.6 vs. 67.7 % male, P = 0.46). These baseline differences were controlled for by multiple regression. Linear regression of vascular age, central augmentation pressure, central augmentation index and other measures against chronologic age showed significant protective effects by treatment group against the treatment standard of methadone, in both sexes in additive and interactive models (all P &lt; 0.02). Interactive terms in treatment type remained significant including all conventional risk factors accounting for differing opiate exposures. The principal findings from multiple regression were confirmed in the time series analysis up to 5 years by repeated measures nonlinear regression. These studies show that the deleterious impact of chronic opiate pharmacotherapy on vascular age and arterial stiffness varies significantly by treatment type.
Appendicular mucoceles are rare clinical findings characterized by dilation and distention of the appendicular lumen by the accumulation of mucus. Their discovery is often incidental from abdominal imaging or more commonly as a secondary surgical finding. In this case study we report the first known recorded case of a cadaveric mucocele appendix discovered during routine dissection of the gastrointestinal system. The recorded cause of death for the 86-year-old female patient was congestive heart failure. We compared the gross anatomy and histology of this enormous appendix with another cadaveric appendix. A pathology report identified the appendicular mucocele as a mucinous cystadenoma.

Unsuccessful cytotoxic anticancer treatments may contribute to tumor morphologic instability and consequent tissue invasion, promoting the selection of a more malignant phenotype. Indeed, morphological changes have been demonstrated to be more pronounced in strongly vs. weakly metastatic cells. By means of normalized bending energy, we have previously quantitatively defined the link between cell shape modifications and the acquisition of a more malignant phenotype by 5-FU-resistant colon cancer cells (HCT-8FUres). Such changes were significantly correlated with an increase in motility speed. Herein, we propose a method to quantitatively analyze the shape of wild and chemoresistant HCT-8 migration front cells during wound healing assay. We evaluated the reliability of parameters (area/perimeter ratio [A/p], circularity, roundness, fractal dimension, and solidity) in describing the biological behavior of the two cell lines, enabling hence in distinguishing the chemoresistant line from the other one. We found solidity index the parameter that better described the difference between chemoresistant and wild cells. Moreover, solidity is able to capture the differences between chemoresistant and wild cells at each time point of the migration process. Indeed, motility speed was found to be inversely correlated with solidity, a quantitative index of cell deformability. Deformability is an outstanding hallmark of the process leading to metastatic spread; consequently, solidity may be considered a marker of acquired metastatic property.
The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is the most extensively studied model of neuronal synaptogenesis. Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering on the postsynaptic membrane is a cardinal event in the differentiation of NMJs. AChR clustering and postsynaptic differentiation is orchestrated by sophisticated interactions among three proteins: the neuron-secreted proteoglycan agrin, the co-receptor LRP4, and the muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase MuSK. LRP4 and MuSK act as scaffolds for multiple binding partners, resulting in a complex and dynamic network of interacting proteins that is required for AChR clustering. In this review, we discuss the structural basis for NMJ postsynaptic differentiation mediated by the agrin-LRP4-MuSK signaling pathway.

Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we show for the first time that levels of musical expertise stepwise modulate higher order brain functioning. This suggests that degree of training intensity drives such cerebral plasticity. Participants (non-musicians, amateurs, and expert musicians) listened to a comprehensive set of specifically composed string quartets with hierarchically manipulated endings. In particular, we implemented 2 irregularities at musical closure that differed in salience but were both within the tonality of the piece (in-key). Behavioral sensitivity scores (d') of both transgressions perfectly separated participants according to their level of musical expertise. By contrasting brain responses to harmonic transgressions against regular endings, functional brain imaging data showed compelling evidence for stepwise modulation of brain responses by both violation strength and expertise level in a fronto-temporal network hosting universal functions of working memory and attention. Additional independent testing evidenced an advantage in visual working memory for the professionals, which could be predicted by musical training intensity. The here introduced findings of brain plasticity demonstrate the progressive impact of musical training on cognitive brain functions that may manifest well beyond the field of music processing.
Homozygous mutations in the cyclin-dependent kinase-5 regulatory subunit-associated protein 2 gene CDK5RAP2 cause primary autosomal recessive microcephaly (MCPH). MCPH is characterized by a pronounced reduction of brain volume, particularly of the cerebral cortex, and mental retardation. Though it is a rare developmental disorder, MCPH has moved into the spotlight of neuroscience because of its proposed central role in stem-cell biology and brain development. Investigation of the neural basis of genetically defined MCPH has been limited to animal studies and neuroimaging of affected patients as no neuropathological studies have been published. In the present study, we depict the spatiotemporal expression of CDK5RAP2 in the developing brain of mouse and human. We found intriguing concordance between regions of high CDK5RAP2 expression in the mouse and sites of pathology suggested by neuroimaging studies in humans and mouse. Our findings in human tissue confirm those in mouse tissues, underlining the function of CDK5RAP2 in cell proliferation and arguing for a conserved role of this protein in the development of the mammalian cerebral cortex.
The human brain is thought to process auditory objects along a hierarchical temporal &quot;what&quot; stream that progressively abstracts object information from the low-level structure (e.g., loudness) as processing proceeds along the middle-to-anterior direction. Empirical demonstrations of abstract object encoding, independent of low-level structure, have relied on speech stimuli, and non-speech studies of object-category encoding (e.g., human vocalizations) often lack a systematic assessment of low-level information (e.g., vocalizations are highly harmonic). It is currently unknown whether abstract encoding constitutes a general functional principle that operates for auditory objects other than speech. We combined multivariate analyses of functional imaging data with an accurate analysis of the low-level acoustical information to examine the abstract encoding of non-speech categories. We observed abstract encoding of the living and human-action sound categories in the fine-grained spatial distribution of activity in the middle-to-posterior temporal cortex (e.g., planum temporale). Abstract encoding of auditory objects appears to extend to non-speech biological sounds and to operate in regions other than the anterior temporal lobe. Neural processes for the abstract encoding of auditory objects might have facilitated the emergence of speech categories in our ancestors.
The role of music training in fostering brain plasticity and developing high cognitive skills, notably linguistic abilities, is of great interest from both a scientific and a societal perspective. Here, we report results of a longitudinal study over 2 years using both behavioral and electrophysiological measures and a test-training-retest procedure to examine the influence of music training on speech segmentation in 8-year-old children. Children were pseudo-randomly assigned to either music or painting training and were tested on their ability to extract meaningless words from a continuous flow of nonsense syllables. While no between-group differences were found before training, both behavioral and electrophysiological measures showed improved speech segmentation skills across testing sessions for the music group only. These results show that music training directly causes facilitation in speech segmentation, thereby pointing to the importance of music for speech perception and more generally for children's language development. Finally these results have strong implications for promoting the development of music-based remediation strategies for children with language-based learning impairments.
The parietal cortex is central to numerical cognition. The right parietal region is primarily involved in basic quantity processing, while the left parietal region is additionally involved in precise number processing and numerical operations. Little is known about how the 2 regions interact during numerical cognition. We hypothesized that functional connectivity between the right and left parietal cortex is critical for numerical processing that engages both basic number representation and learned numerical operations. To test this hypothesis, we estimated neural activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging in participants performing numerical and arithmetic processing on dot arrays. We first found task-based functional connectivity between a right parietal seed and the left sensorimotor cortex in all task conditions. As we hypothesized, we found enhanced functional connectivity between this right parietal seed and both the left parietal cortex and neighboring right parietal cortex, particularly during subtraction. The degree of functional connectivity also correlated with behavioral performance across individual participants, while activity within each region did not. These results highlight the role of parietal functional connectivity in numerical processing. They suggest that arithmetic processing depends on crosstalk between and within the parietal cortex and that this crosstalk contributes to one's numerical competence.
The perception of the pleasantness of sweet tastes varies widely across individuals. Here, we exploit these differences to isolate brain response to sweet-taste pleasantness while controlling for intensity, quality, and physiological significance. Thirty subjects participated in functional MRI scanning while consuming individually calibrated weak and strong sucrose solutions. All subjects found the weak sweet taste to be neutral in pleasantness, but half of the subjects found strong sweet taste pleasant (likers), whereas half found strong sweet taste unpleasant (dislikers). Greater response was observed in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) to the sucrose when it was rated pleasant versus neutral compared with unpleasant versus neutral. This suggests that response in the vmPFC underlies sweet-taste preference, this region is preferentially sensitive to affectively positive tastes, and it is the positive value rather than physiological significance, quality, or intensity that drives responses here. Likers versus dislikers did not differ in their diet, alcohol use, body weight, gender, or taq1A allele status, but likers were more likely to report emotional eating. None of these factors influenced response in the vmPFC.

Children participating in the Ben-Gurion Infant Development Study were assessed with a dynamic-tracking version of the stop-signal task at the age of 5years. The sample consisted of 60 males. Stop-signal reaction time (SSRT) was correlated with concurrent ratings of the child's attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms. Paternal symptoms measured in the child's early infancy predicted the child's performance in the stop-signal task: Paternal inattentiveness predicted SSRT, whereas hyperactivity predicted error proportion. Maternal symptoms were not correlated with the performance of the child in the task. A subsample of children, who were tested while electrophysiological brain activity was measured, showed that having higher ADHD symptomatology, especially hyperactivity, correlated with less activity in the brain areas that are usually recruited by children for successful inhibition.



We draw upon family resilience and narrative theory to describe an evidence-based method for intervening with military families who are impacted by multiple wartime deployments and psychological, stress-related, or physical parental injuries. Conceptual models of familial resilience provide a guide for understanding the mechanics of how families respond and recover from exposure to extreme events, and underscore the role of specific family processes and interaction patterns in promoting resilient capabilities. Leading family theorists propose that the family's ability to make meaning of stressful and traumatic events and nurture protective beliefs are critical aspects of resilient adaptation. We first review general theoretical and empirical research contributions to understanding family resilience, giving special attention to the circumstances, challenges, needs, and strengths of American military families. Therapeutic narrative studies illustrate the processes through which family members acquire meaning-making capacities, and point to the essential role of parents' in facilitating discussions of stressful experiences and co-constructing coherent and meaningful narratives. This helps children to make sense of these experiences and develop capacities for emotion regulation and coping. Family-based narrative approaches provide a structured opportunity to elicit parents' and children's individual narratives, assemble divergent storylines into a shared family narrative, and thereby enhance members' capacity to make meaning of stressful experiences and adopt beliefs that support adaptation and growth. We discuss how family narratives can help to bridge intra-familial estrangements and re-engage communication and support processes that have been undermined by stress, trauma, or loss. We conclude by describing a family-based narrative intervention currently in use with thousands of military children and families across the USA.
Adolescents in wartime US military families are a unique group of young people who are experiencing the usual milestones of adolescent development, including establishing their identities and becoming autonomous, while they face the challenges of military life such as multiple frequent moves, relocation, and parent deployment to combat settings. This paper reviews research on adolescents in wartime US military families, within the context of adolescent development, to identify their behavioral, emotional and academic risk status, and challenges and resources. Recommendations for future research and interventions to foster the healthy development of these adolescents are also provided.








A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study of patients with essential trigeminal neuralgia and treatment with a single injection of onabotulinum toxin A (BTX) was carried out. The efficacy, safety, and tolerability of either 1 mL 0.9% saline plus 50 U of BTX or only 1 mL of 0.9% saline injected subcutaneously in the affected area were evaluated. Cases with involvement of the third branch of the trigeminal nerve also received intramuscularly either 10 U of BTX or matching placebo in the masseter muscle, ipsilateral to the pain location. Pain was assessed with the visual analog scale (VAS). Twenty subjects were administered BTX, and 16 subjects received placebo. Two months after the intervention, a trend to statistical significance was observed for the VAS mean values in subjects treated with BTX and those who received placebo (VAS 4.9 vs 6.63, t test, P = 0.07). Three months after the injection, significant differences were observed in the average VAS score for subjects treated with BTX and those treated with placebo (VAS 4.75 vs 6.94, respectively; t test, P = 0.01). Onabotulinum toxin A was well tolerated and seems to be a safe and useful therapy for patients with essential trigeminal neuralgia.






Neuropathic pain is a serious consequence of injury or disease in the nervous system itself. Current treatment options for this condition are often unsatisfactory. From being originally viewed as a diseased caused by neuronal dysfunction, a growing body of evidence implicate activated microglia as a key player in the development of this pain condition. In this review, some of the evidence for this proposal is briefly discussed and placed in a translational context, pointing out the difficulties in translating commonly used animal models of neuropathic pain to the clinical condition, as well as emphasizing the broader role of activated microglia in the injured or diseased nervous system.
In order to understand microglial senescence it is important to also understand neuroinflammation because the distinction between senescent and activated microglia is a fine one to make and not always made easily. Indeed, it is not easy to reliably identify activated microglia which is why we spend some effort here discussing intricacies associated with both acute and chronic neuroinflammation before addressing the subject of microglial senescence. The idea of microglial senescence in the context of aging-related neurodegenerative disease (NDD) pathogenesis represents a relatively recent idea that emerged largely because of the many caveats and inconsistencies found to be associated with the belief that neuroinflammation is a critical event in NDD pathogenesis. In this paper, we discuss most of these discrepancies and explain why microglial senescence can provide a better conceptual framework for understanding NDD mechanisms and for devising radically different pharmacological approaches to treatment.

Octodon degus (O.degus) is a diurnal rodent that spontaneously develops several physiopathological conditions, analogous in many cases to those experienced by humans. In light of this, O.degus has recently been identified as a very valuable animal model for research in several medical fields, especially those concerned with neurodegenerative diseases in which risk is associated with aging. Octodon degus spontaneously develops -amyloid deposits analogous to those observed in some cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Moreover, these deposits are thought to be the key feature for AD diagnosis, and one of the suggested causes of cell loss and cognitive deficit. This review aims to bring together information to support O.degus as a valuable model for the study of AD.

Personality neuroscience involves examining relations between cognitive or behavioral variability and neural variables like brain structure and function. Such studies have uncovered a number of fascinating associations but require large samples, which are expensive to collect. Here, we propose a system that capitalizes on neuroimaging data commonly collected for separate purposes and combines it with new behavioral data to test novel hypotheses. Specifically, we suggest that groups of researchers compile a database of structural (i.e., anatomical) and resting-state functional scans produced for other task-based investigations and pair these data with contact information for the participants who contributed the data. This contact information can then be used to collect additional cognitive, behavioral, or individual-difference data that are then reassociated with the neuroimaging data for analysis. This would allow for novel hypotheses regarding brain-behavior relations to be tested on the basis of large sample sizes (with adequate statistical power) for low additional cost. This idea can be implemented at small scales at single institutions, among a group of collaborating researchers, or perhaps even within a single lab. It can also be implemented at a large scale across institutions, although doing so would entail a number of additional complications.
Improved fMRI data analysis methods hold promise for breakthroughs in cognitive and affective neuroscience. Group probabilistic independent component analysis (pICA), such as that implemented by MELODIC (Beckmann &amp; Smith IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 23:137-152, 2004), is one popular technique that typifies this development. Recently pICA has been proposed to be a reliable method for studying connectivity networks (Zuo et al. NeuroImage 49:2163-2177, 2010); however, there is no &quot;standard&quot; way to complete a pICA, and the full impact of the options on neurometric properties of resulting components is unknown. In the present study, we sought to assess the robustness, reproducibility, and within-subject test-retest reliability of ICA in two data sets: The first included 30 subjects imaged 3 weeks apart while completing a cognitive control task, and the second included 27 subjects imaged 9 months apart during rest. In addition to examining the impact of analytic parameters on the neurometrics, this study was the first to simultaneously investigate within-subject reliability of ICA-derived components from rest and task fMRI data. Results suggested that for both task and rest, meta-level analyses using 25 subject orders optimized robustness of the components. The impact of dimensionality and voxel threshold for components was subsequently examined regarding properties of reproducibility and within-subject retest reliability. Component thresholds between 0.2 and 0.6 of the maximum value optimized reproducibility across multiple dimensionalities and produced generally fair to moderate reliability estimates (Cicchetti &amp; Sparrow American Journal of Mental Deficiency 86:127-137, 1981). These guidelines strengthen the foundation for this data-driven approach to fMRI analysis by providing prescriptive findings and a descriptive set of neurometrics for resting-state and task fMRI.

Neuroscience is a rapidly expanding field in which complex studies and equipment setups are the norm. Often these push boundaries in terms of what technology can offer, and increasingly they make use of a wide range of stimulus materials and interconnected equipment (e.g., magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, magnetoencephalography, eyetrackers, biofeedback, etc.). The software that bonds the various constituent parts together itself allows for ever more elaborate investigations to be carried out with apparent ease. However, research over the last decade has suggested a growing, yet underacknowledged, problem with obtaining millisecond-accurate timing in some computer-based studies. Crucially, timing inaccuracies can affect not just response time measurements, but also stimulus presentation and the synchronization between equipment. This is not a new problem, but rather one that researchers may have assumed had been solved with the advent of faster computers, state-of-the-art equipment, and more advanced software. In this article, we highlight the potential sources of error, their causes, and their likely impact on replication. Unfortunately, in many applications, inaccurate timing is not easily resolved by utilizing ever-faster computers, newer equipment, or post-hoc statistical manipulation. To ensure consistency across the field, we advocate that researchers self-validate the timing accuracy of their own equipment whilst running the actual paradigm in situ.


&quot;Implicit awareness&quot; may be inferred from compliance with medical treatment, even when the patient explicitly denies the need for treatment. Such compliance may cause medics and other health professionals to underestimate the frequency of anosognosia and its effects on the lives of patients and carers. We report survey data showing that health professionals do indeed consider anosognosia following stroke to be relatively uncommon and unimportant, in contrast with evidence on its true frequency and impact. Mograbi and Morris' emphasis on the distinction between implicit and explicit awareness may promote increased recognition of anosognosia amongst health professionals.
The preserved &quot;implicit awareness&quot; in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) presenting anosognosia has opened a new branch of research regarding explicit-implicit integration. The behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), contrary to AD, would present impaired anosognosia-related implicit awareness due to a dysfunctional implicit integration of contextual information caused by an abnormal fronto-insular-temporal network. Loss of insight and anosognosia are pervasive in bvFTD, but no reports have assessed the implicit emotional awareness in this condition. We emphasize the need to investigate and extend our knowledge of implicit contextual integration impairments and their relation with anosognosia in bvFTD vs AD.
Mograbi and Morris review work highlighting an interesting phenomenon whereby individuals are explicitly anosognosic for their deficits despite intact expression of implicit awareness. Parallels exist between this phenomenon and recent cognitive neuroscience findings demonstrating intact memory test performance despite unawareness of performance. We discuss these parallels with regard to the proposed CAM model. Given that it is possible to investigate the neurological underpinnings of explicit and implicit processing in memory tasks, methods from cognitive neuroscience may offer substantial insight into implicit awareness in anosognosia in various forms of dementia as well as in addition to advancing theoretical understanding of anosognosia broadly.
A central flaw in models of anosognosia is to consider metacognitive awareness and affective regulation and responsiveness as separate functional modular subsystems. This line of reasoning leads to an &quot;either or&quot; conceptualization of the probable causes of implicit awareness in anosognosic patients. Neuroscience research and clinical observations of patients suggest that anosognosia is often associated with a change in the affective status of the individual as well as a change in their explicit verbal descriptions of themselves. Studying anosognosic patients over time and including measures of psychological denial and anosodiaphoria are necessary when interpreting markers of implicit awareness.
Mograbi and Morris present a review of the literature on anosognosia of hemiplegia and dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. Their review focuses on aspects of implicit anosognosia. The authors' viewpoint is supported by the presentation of a general model on implicit anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease. The notions have important implications for clinical management, in particular, failure of treatment in Alzheimer's patients.
This study examined the role of visual working memory when transforming visual representations to motor representations in the context of motor imagery. Participants viewed randomized number sequences of three, four, and five digits, and then reproduced the sequence by finger tapping using motor imagery or actually executing the movements; movement duration was recorded. One group viewed the stimulus for three seconds and responded immediately, while the second group had a three-second view followed by a three-second blank screen delay before responding. As expected, delay group times were longer with each condition and digit load. Whereas correlations between imagined and executed actions (temporal congruency) were significant in a positive direction for both groups, interestingly, the delay group's values were significantly stronger. That outcome prompts speculation that delay influenced the congruency between motor representation and actual execution.
A major problem in the field of neurodegeneration is the basis of selective vulnerability of subsets of neurons to disease. In aging, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and other disorders such as temporal lobe epilepsy, the superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex (EC) are an area of selective vulnerability. In AD, it has been suggested that the degeneration of these neurons may play a role in causing the disease because it occurs at an early stage. Therefore, it is important to define the distinctive characteristics of the EC that make this region particularly vulnerable. It has been shown that neurotrophins such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are critical to the maintenance of the cortical neurons in the adult brain, and specifically the EC. Here we review the circuitry, distinctive functions, and neurotrophin-dependence of the EC that are relevant to its vulnerability. We also suggest that a protein that is critical to the actions of BDNF, the ARMS/Kidins220 scaffold protein, plays an important role in neurotrophic support of the EC.
We investigated the effects of indirect, ambient visual information on haptic spatial memory. Using touch only, participants first learned an array of objects arranged in a scene and were subsequently tested on their recognition of that scene which was always hidden from view. During haptic scene exploration, participants could either see the surrounding room or were blindfolded. We found a benefit in haptic memory performance only when ambient visual information was available in the early stages of the task but not when participants were initially blindfolded. Specifically, when ambient visual information was available a benefit on performance was found in a subsequent block of trials during which the participant was blindfolded (Experiment 1), and persisted over a delay of one week (Experiment 2). However, we found that the benefit for ambient visual information did not transfer to a novel environment (Experiment 3). In Experiment 4 we further investigated the nature of the visual information that improved haptic memory and found that geometric information about a surrounding (virtual) room rather than isolated object landmarks, facilitated haptic scene memory. Our results suggest that vision improves haptic memory for scenes by providing an environment-centred, allocentric reference frame for representing object location through touch.
Oligodendrocytes are the myelinating cells of the vertebrate central nervous system, responsible for generating the myelin sheath necessary for saltatory conduction. The use of increasingly sophisticated genetic tools, particularly in mice, has vastly increased our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that regulate development of the oligodendrocyte lineage. This increased reliance on the mouse as a genetic model has led to a need for the development of culture methods to allow the use of mouse cells in vitro as well as in vivo. Here, we present a protocol for the isolation of different stages of the oligodendrocyte lineage, oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) and/or postmitotic oligodendrocytes, from the postnatal mouse cortex using immunopanning. This protocol allows for the subsequent culture or biochemical analysis of these cells.
Rab family small GTPases function as molecular switches in the regulation of membrane traffic, and their activity is thought to be controlled by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs). However, the role of GEFs in targeting Rab proteins to specific membrane compartments is poorly understood. We have recently reported finding that Rabex-5, originally described as a Rab5-GEF, also functions as a Rab17-GEF in mouse hippocampal neurons. The Rab17 in developing hippocampal neurons is specifically targeted to their dendrites and not to their axons, and the GEF activity of Rabex-5 is required for translocation of Rab17 from the cell body to the dendrites. Interestingly, Rabex-5 is also required for the axon and dendrite localization of Rab5 and Rab21 in hippocampal neurons. Our findings indicate that Rabex-5 determines the targeting of its downstream Rab proteins to the dendrites (Rab17) or to both the axon and dendrites (Rab5 and Rab21).
A key new risk to our pollinators has been identified as exposure to neonicotinoid insecticides. These discoveries have refuelled the debate over whether or not the neonicotinoid insecticides should be banned and conflicting evidence is used in this battle. However, the issue is not black or white, but gray. It is not an issue of whether the neonicotinoids are toxic to insects or not. Clearly, all insecticides were designed and optimized for this attribute. The real question is, or at least should be, which insecticide is the safest for use for a particular need.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected cells actively release the transcriptional activator (Tat) viral protein that is required for efficient HIV gene transcription. We recently reported that extracellular Tat is able to enter uninfected neurosecretory cells. Internalized Tat escapes endosomes to reach the cytosol and is then recruited to the plasma membrane by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphophate (PtdIns(4,5)P 2). Tat strongly impairs exocytosis from chromaffin and PC12 cells and perturbs synaptic vesicle exo-endocytosis cycle through its ability to interact with PtdIns(4,5)P 2. Among PtdIns(4,5)P 2-dependent processes required for neurosecretion, we found that Tat impairs annexin A2 recruitment involved in the organization of exocytotic sites at the plasma membrane. Moreover Tat perturbs the actin cytoskeleton reorganization necessary for the movement of secretory vesicles toward their plasma membrane fusion sites during the exocytotic process.  Here, we investigated whether extracellular Tat affects PtdIns(4,5)P 2 metabolism in PC12 cells. Using a diacylglycerol (DAG) sensor, we found that ATP stimulation of exocytosis triggers the production of DAG at the plasma membrane as seen by the relocation of the DAG probe from the cytosol to the plasma membrane. Exposure to Tat strongly delayed the recruitment of the DAG sensor, suggesting a reduced level of DAG production at the early phase of ATP stimulation. These observations indicate that Tat reduces the hydrolysis rate of PtdIns(4,5)P 2 by phospholipase C during exocytosis. Thus, the neuronal disorders often associated with HIV-1 infection may be linked to the capacity of Tat to interact with PtdIns(4,5)P 2, and alter both its metabolism and functions in neurosecretion.
Recycling endosomes are key platforms for endocytic recycling that return internalized molecules back to the plasma membrane. To determine how recycling endosomes perform their functions, searching for proteins and lipids that specifically localized at recycling endosomes has often been performed by colocalization analyses between candidate molecules and conventional recycling endosome markers. However, it remains unclear whether all the conventional markers have identical localizations. Here we report finding that three well-known recycling endosome markers, i.e., Arf6, Rab11 and transferrin receptor (TfR), have different intracellular localizations in PC12 cells. The results of immunofluorescence analyses showed that the signals of endogenous Arf6, Rab11 and TfR in nerve growth factor-stimulated PC12 cells generally differed, although there was some overlapping. Our findings provide new information about recycling endosome markers, and they highlight the heterogeneity of recycling endosomes.
Comparison of behavioural measures of consciousness has attracted much attention recently. In a recent article, Szczepanowski et al. conclude that confidence ratings (CR) predict accuracy better than both the perceptual awareness scale (PAS) and post-decision wagering (PDW) when using stimuli with emotional content (fearful vs. neutral faces). Although we find the study interesting, we disagree with the conclusion that CR is superior to PAS because of two methodological issues. First, the conclusion is not based on a formal test. We performed this test and found no evidence that CR predicted accuracy better than PAS (p=.4). Second, Szczepanowski et al. used the present version of PAS in a manner somewhat different from how it was originally intended, and the participants may not have been adequately instructed. We end our commentary with a set of recommendations for future studies using PAS.


Patients with alien hand syndrome (AHS) experience making apparently deliberate and purposeful movements with their hand against their will. However, the mechanisms contributing to these involuntary actions remain poorly understood. Here, we describe two experimental investigations in a patient with corticobasal syndrome (CBS) with alien hand behaviour in her right hand. First, we show that responses with the alien hand are made significantly more quickly to images of objects which afford an action with that hand compared to objects which afford an action with the unaffected hand. This finding suggests that involuntary grasping behaviours in AHS might be due to exaggerated, automatic motor activation evoked by objects which afford actions with that limb. Second, using a backwards masked priming task, we found normal automatic inhibition of primed responses in the patient's unaffected hand, but importantly there was no evidence of such suppression in the alien limb. Taken together, these findings suggest that grasping behaviours in AHS may result from exaggerated object affordance effects, which might potentially arise from disrupted inhibition of automatically evoked responses.
Neuropsychological studies showed that manipulatory and semantic knowledge can be independently impaired in patients with upper-limb apraxia, leading to different tool use disorders. The present study aimed to dissociate the brain regions involved in judging the hand configuration or the context associated to tool use. We focussed on the left supramarginalis gyrus (SMG) and left middle temporal gyrus (MTG), whose activation, as evidenced by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies, suggests that they may play a critical role in tool use. The distinctive location of SMG in the dorsal visual stream led us to postulate that this parietal region could play a role in processing incoming information about tools to shape hand posture. In contrast, we hypothesized that MTG, because of its interconnections with several cortical areas involved in semantic memory, could contribute to retrieving semantic information necessary to create a contextual representation of tool use. To test these hypotheses, we used neuronavigated transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to interfere transiently with the function of either left SMG or left MTG in healthy participants performing judgement tasks about either hand configuration or context of tool use. We found that SMG virtual lesions impaired hand configuration but not contextual judgements, whereas MTG lesions selectively interfered with judgements about the context of tool use while leaving hand configuration judgements unaffected. This double dissociation demonstrates that the ability to infer a context of use or a hand posture from tool perception relies on distinct processes, performed in the temporal and parietal regions. The present findings suggest that tool use disorders caused by SMG lesions will be characterized by difficulties in selecting the appropriate hand posture for tool use, whereas MTG lesions will yield difficulties in using tools in the appropriate context.
Pain is a complex sensory experience resulting from the activity of a network of brain regions. However, the functional contribution of individual regions in this network remains poorly understood. We delivered single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the contralateral primary somatosensory cortex (S1), secondary somatosensory cortex (S2) and vertex (control site) 120msec after selective stimulation of nociceptive afferents using neodymium:yttrium-aluminium-perovskite (Nd:YAP) laser pulses causing painful sensations. Participants were required to judge either the intensity (medium/high) or the spatial location (proximal/distal) of the stimulus in a two-alternative forced choice paradigm. When TMS pulses were delivered over S2, participants' ability to judge pain intensity was disrupted, as compared to S1 and vertex (control) stimulation. Signal-detection analysis demonstrated a loss of sensitivity to stimulation intensity, rather than a shift in perceived pain level or response bias. We did not find any effect of TMS on the ability to localise nociceptive stimuli on the skin. The novel finding that TMS over S2 can disrupt perception of pain intensity suggests a causal role for S2 in encoding of pain intensity.
Consistent evidence nowadays indicates that sleep protects declarative memory from lexical interference. However, little is known about its effect against emotional interference. In a within-subject counterbalanced design, participants learned a list of word pairs after a mood induction procedure (MIP), then slept or stayed awake during the post-learning night. After two recovery nights, half of the list was recalled after a similar mood induction than at the encoding session (no interference condition) and the other half after a different mood induction (interference condition). Amongst participants for whom the MIP was effective, an emotional interference effect appeared only in the sleep-deprived condition, with a lower recall of word pairs subjected to contextual interference than of the other pairs. These findings support the hypothesis of a decoupling between memories and their &quot;affective blanket&quot; during post-learning sleep, protecting recent memories against emotional contextual interference.
Refined investigation of infrequent dissociations within remote memory, such as preservation of autobiographical episodic memory and selective impairment of public semantic memory could provide some insight on the interactions of long-term memory systems and their underlying brain correlates. Combining clinical neuropsychological and neuroimaging methods in the present study, we examined a patient surgically treated for temporal lobe epilepsy showing this rare pattern of dissociation. Specifically, we investigated along the two temporal directions, past and future, his autobiographical episodic memory, semantic memory for public events and famous people and their interaction through the concept of autobiographical significance (AS). The results showed impaired ability not only to recall past but also to imagine future public events in a context of preserved past and future personal episodic memory. Remarkably, impersonal future thinking was impaired regardless of AS, while the autobiographical-significant public past knowledge relied exclusively on the patient's spared autobiographical episodic memory. These results were corroborated by neuroimaging data showing the absence of brain activation for public knowledge devoid of personal significance and activation of the autobiographical memory cerebral network for personally significant public knowledge. Our findings suggest that AS did not 'restore' the code to access public semantic memory, but bypassed it by using personal memory sources successful only for past public recollections. Therefore, remembering impersonal and imagining public events seems to require the contribution of public semantic knowledge per se. The patient's cognitive profile suggested a reorganization of memory systems.
Effective cognitive functioning not only relies on brain activity elicited by an event, but also on activity that precedes it. This has been demonstrated in a number of cognitive domains, including memory. Here, we show that brain activity that precedes the effective encoding of a word into long-term memory depends on the availability of sufficient processing resources. We recorded electrical brain activity from the scalps of healthy adult men and women while they memorized intermixed visual and auditory words for later recall. Each word was preceded by a cue that indicated the modality of the upcoming word. The degree to which processing resources were available before word onset was manipulated by asking participants to make an easy or difficult perceptual discrimination on the cue. Brain activity before word onset predicted later recall of the word, but only in the easy discrimination condition. These findings indicate that anticipatory influences on long-term memory are limited in capacity and sensitive to the degree to which attention is divided between tasks. Prestimulus activity that affects later encoding can only be engaged when the necessary cognitive resources can be allocated to the encoding process.
An infection of the ventricular system of the brain is referred to as ventriculitis. The signs and symptoms of ventriculitis include the triad of altered mental status, fever, and headache, as seen in the patient with meningitis. Identifying the organism responsible is important in determining the cause and in planning a treatment strategy. Nurses have a pivotal role in the early identification and management of the patient with ventriculitis.
Glioblastomas (GBMs) are invariably associated with unavoidable tumor recurrence and overall poor prognosis. The present study is to summarize the results of clinical Phase III studies on GBMs over the past seven years. A systematic literature search was performed using major electronic databases and by screening meeting abstracts. Totally, 16 studies of patients with newly diagnosed GBMs, recurrent GBMs, and elderly patients with GBMs were selected for this review. Although the outcomes of the experimental therapies were not encouraging, these studies produced a considerable amount of potentially clinically relevant information. Such aspects as surgical outcomes, radiation schedules, temozolomide (TMZ) schedules, methylation status of the O6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene, combination of therapies, novel drug delivery methods and use of targeted agents have come to light and are being addressed here. In addition, we discuss the existing controversies of (1) surgical studies, (2) evaluations of recurrence, (3) salvage treatment bias, and (4) studies on elderly patients.
The use of genetically modified (GM) mice to assess carcinogenicity is playing an increasingly important role in the safety evaluation of chemicals. While progress has been made in developing and evaluating mouse models such as the Trp53/, Tg.AC and the rasH2, the suitability of these models as replacements for the conventional rodent cancer bioassay and for assessing human health risks remains uncertain. The objective of this research was to evaluate the use of accelerated cancer bioassays with GM mice for assessing the potential health risks associated with exposure to carcinogenic agents. We compared the published results from the GM bioassays to those obtained in the National Toxicology Program's conventional chronic mouse bioassay for their potential use in risk assessment. Our analysis indicates that the GM models are less efficient in detecting carcinogenic agents but more consistent in identifying non-carcinogenic agents. We identified several issues of concern related to the design of the accelerated bioassays (e.g., sample size, study duration, genetic stability and reproducibility) as well as pathway-dependency of effects, and different carcinogenic mechanisms operable in GM and non-GM mice. The use of the GM models for dose-response assessment is particularly problematic as these models are, at times, much more or less sensitive than the conventional rodent cancer bioassays. Thus, the existing GM mouse models may be useful for hazard identification, but will be of limited use for dose-response assessment. Hence, caution should be exercised when using GM mouse models to assess the carcinogenic risks of chemicals.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether vitrification is an effective cryopreservation method for storage of human umbilical cord mesenchymal cells (HUCMs). HUCMs were vitrified using a two step method. The viability of vitrified HUCMs (v-HUCM) and non-vitrified HUCMs (n-HUCM) was determined by Trypan Blue staining. The expression of several markers was evaluated using flow cytometry. The osteogenic, adipogenic and chondrogenic differentiation potential of v-HUCMs and n-HUCMs was determined. The post-warming viability of HUCMs was 95.54 +/- 2.30. The expression of surface antigens (strong positive for CD44, CD90 and CD105; negative for CD34 and CD45) was similar in the above mentioned groups. The v-HUCM cells retained ability to differentiate into osteoblasts, adipocytes and chondrocytes under appropriate culture conditions. The analysis of these results showed that vitrification is a reliable and effective method for cryopreservation of human umbilical cord mesenchymal cells.
Inflammatory neuropathies are treatable immune-mediated disorders of the peripheral nerves, the prevalence of which is higher than previously believed. Although there are now established treatments of proven benefit for acute and chronic inflammatory neuropathies consisting of intravenous immunoglobulins, corticosteroids and plasma exchanges, there are patients who fail to respond to these therapies. Immunosuppressants have been used in these refractory patients and also to lower the requirements of therapies of established efficacy due to their cost (e.g. immunoglobulins) or sideeffects (e.g., corticosteroids). These drugs include &quot;conventional&quot; immunosuppressants like azathioprine, cyclophosphamide etc. and also newer drugs like Rituximab. Other immunomodulatory drugs like interferon beta have also been trialled in some patients. Currently the role of newer drugs like Fingolimod in inflammatory neuropathies is being studied. In this article, the issue of treating inflammatory neuropathies with immunomodulatory and immunosuppressive agents in the context of their potential adverse effects, is reviewed and discussed. The published evidence on these drugs is reviewed, rationale behind the use of such drugs is analyzed and benefit to risk ratio highlighted.
Therapeutic advances in transplantation medicine have resulted in ever expanding patient populations that receive organ or stem cell transplantation. Modern potent immunomodulatory therapies have resulted in improvements in allograft and patient survival, but, consequently, as a result of the immunosuppressive state, transplant recipients are highly vulnerable to infection, including those that affect the central nervous system (CNS). CNS infections present a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge for clinicians involved in the care of the transplant patient, with a propensity to result in profound morbidity and often high mortality in this patient population. Here, we review major opportunistic pathogens of the CNS seen in transplant patients, highlighting distinguishing epidemiologic and clinical features.






Nutritional status is an essential component in determining whole body energy homeostasis. The balance between energy/food intake and metabolism is governed by a range of hormones secreted from various parts of the body. Their subsequent dissemination via the blood results in a wide range of biological responses including satiety, hunger, and glucose uptake. The roles of these systemic hormones also extend to bone regulation with animal and clinical studies establishing a relationship between these regulatory pathways. This review covers the gastrointestinal hormones, ghrelin, PYY, GIP, GLP-1, and GLP-2, and the adipokines, leptin, and adiponectin and their roles in regulating bone homeostasis. Their known actions are reviewed, with an emphasis upon recent advances in understanding. Taken together, this review outlines an expanding appreciation of the interactions between bone mass and the nutritional control of whole body energy balance by gut and adipose tissue.
Depressive disorders are among the most common ailments affecting humankind and some of the world's leading causes of medical disability. Despite being common, disabling and a major public health problem, the etiology of depression is unknown. Indeed, investigators have suggested that the causes of depression are multiple and multi-factorial. With these considerations in mind, in this article we examine the hypothesis that our inability to identify the causes of depressive disorders is because depression is a nonspecific epiphenomenon of brain injury or insult arising through multiple pathways.
Clinical experience and research findings suggest that schizophrenia is a disorder comprised of multiple genetic and neurophysiological subtypes with differential response to treatment. Electroencephalography (EEG) is a non-invasive, inexpensive and useful tool for investigating the neurobiology of schizophrenia and its subtypes. EEG studies elucidate the neurophysiological mechanisms potentially underlying clinical symptomatology. In this review article recent advances in applying EEG to study pathophysiology, phenomenology, and treatment response in schizophrenia are discussed. Investigative strategies employed include: analyzing quantitative EEG (QEEG) spectral power during the resting state and cognitive tasks; applying machine learning methods to identify QEEG indicators of diagnosis and treatment response; and using the event-related brain potential (ERP) technique to characterize the neurocognitive processes underlying clinical symptoms. Studies attempting to validate potential EEG biomarkers of schizophrenia and its symptoms, which could be useful in assessing familial risk and treatment response, are also reviewed.

Adolescence is a period of major risk for depression, which is associated with negative personal, social, and educational outcomes. Yet, in comparison to adult models of depression, very little is known about the specific psychosocial stressors that contribute to adolescent depression, and whether these can be targeted by interventions. In this review, we consider the role of peer rejection. First, we present a comprehensive review of studies using innovative experimental paradigms to understand the role of peer rejection in adolescent depression. We show how reciprocal relationships between peer rejection and depressive symptoms across adolescence powerfully shape and maintain maladaptive trajectories. Second, we consider how cognitive biases and their neurobiological substrates may explain why some adolescents are more vulnerable to the effects of, and perhaps exposure to, peer rejection compared to others. Finally, we draw attention to emerging cognitive and functional magnetic resonance imaging-based neurofeedback training, which by modifying aspects of information processing may promote more adaptive responses to peer rejection. A better understanding of the mechanisms underlying adolescent depression may not only alleviate symptoms during a period of substantial developmental challenges, but may also reduce the burden of the disorder across the lifespan.



The corpus callosum (CC) plays a crucial role in interhemispheric communication. It has been shown that CC formation relies on the guidepost cells located in the midline region that include glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons as well as glial cells. However, the origin of these guidepost GABAergic neurons and their precise function in callosal axon pathfinding remain to be investigated. Here, we show that two distinct GABAergic neuronal subpopulations converge toward the midline prior to the arrival of callosal axons. Using in vivo and ex vivo fate mapping we show that CC GABAergic neurons originate in the caudal and medial ganglionic eminences (CGE and MGE) but not in the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE). Time lapse imaging on organotypic slices and in vivo analyses further revealed that CC GABAergic neurons contribute to the normal navigation of callosal axons. The use of Nkx2.1 knockout (KO) mice confirmed a role of these neurons in the maintenance of proper behavior of callosal axons while growing through the CC. Indeed, using in vitro transplantation assays, we demonstrated that both MGE- and CGE-derived GABAergic neurons exert an attractive activity on callosal axons. Furthermore, by combining a sensitive RT-PCR technique with in situ hybridization, we demonstrate that CC neurons express multiple short and long range guidance cues. This study strongly suggests that MGE- and CGE-derived interneurons may guide CC axons by multiple guidance mechanisms and signaling pathways.
In the past 20-25 years, there have been a number of studies published on handedness in nonhuman primates. The goal of these studies has been to evaluate whether monkeys and apes show patterns of hand preference that resemble the right-handedness found in the human species. The extant findings on handedness in nonhuman primates have revealed inconsistent evidence for population-level handedness within and between species. In this article, I discuss some of the methodological and statistical challenges to comparative studies of handedness in human and nonhuman primates. I further offer a framework for developing some consensus on evaluating the validity of different handedness measures and the characterization of individual hand preferences.



Franois Guillemot heads the Division of Molecular Neurobiology at the MRC National Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) in London. His research focuses on the transcriptional control of neurogenesis, adult neurogenesis and the epigenetic regulation of gene expression in neural development. Franois recently became an editor for Development, and we asked him about his research and career, as well as his labs future move to the Crick Institute.
Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous psychiatric disorder of unknown cause or characteristic pathology. Clinical neuroscientists increasingly postulate that schizophrenia is a disorder of brain network organization. In this article we discuss the conceptual framework of this dysconnection hypothesis, describe the predominant methodological paradigm for testing this hypothesis, and review recent evidence for disruption of central/hub brain regions, as a promising example of this hypothesis. We summarize studies of brain hubs in large-scale structural and functional brain networks and find strong evidence for network abnormalities of prefrontal hubs, and moderate evidence for network abnormalities of limbic, temporal, and parietal hubs. Future studies are needed to differentiate network dysfunction from previously observed gray- and white-matter abnormalities of these hubs, and to link endogenous network dysfunction phenotypes with perceptual, behavioral, and cognitive clinical phenotypes of schizophrenia.
Because of the wide availability of hardware as well as of standardized analytic quantification tools, proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) has become widely used to study psychiatric disorders. (1)H-MRS allows measurement of brain concentrations of more traditional singlet neurometabolites like N-acetylaspartate, choline, and creatine. More recently, quantification of the more complex multiplet spectra for glutamate, glutamine, inositol, and -aminobutyric acid have also been implemented. Here we review applications of (1)H-MRS in terms of informing treatment options in schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorders. We first discuss recent meta-analytic studies reporting the most reliable findings. Then we evaluate the more sparse literature focused on 1H-MRS-detected neurometabolic effects of various treatment approaches in psychiatric populations. Finally we speculate on future developments that may result in translation of these tools to improve the treatment of psychiatric disorders.
Neural oscillations at low- and high-frequency ranges are a fundamental feature of large-scale networks. Recent evidence has indicated that schizophrenia is associated with abnormal amplitude and synchrony of oscillatory activity, in particular, at high (beta/gamma) frequencies. These abnormalities are observed during task-related and spontaneous neuronal activity which may be important for understanding the pathophysiology of the syndrome. In this paper, we shall review the current evidence for impaired beta/gamma-band oscillations and their involvement in cognitive functions and certain symptoms of the disorder. In the first part, we will provide an update on neural oscillations during normal brain functions and discuss underlying mechanisms. This will be followed by a review of studies that have examined high-frequency oscillatory activity in schizophrenia and discuss evidence that relates abnormalities of oscillatory activity to disturbed excitatory/inhibitory (E/I) balance. Finally, we shall identify critical issues for future research in this area.

Bath salts are designer drugs with stimulant properties that are a growing medical and psychiatric concern due to their widespread availability and use. Although the chemical compounds in the mixtures referred to as &quot;bath salts&quot; vary, many are derivatives of cathinone, a monoamine alkaloid. Cathinones have an affinity for dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine synapses in the brain. Because of the strong selection for these neurotransmitters, these drugs induce stimulating effects similar to those of methamphetamines, cocaine, and 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine (MDMA). Much of the emerging information about bath salts is from emergency department evaluation and treatment of severe medical and neuropsychiatric adverse outcomes. This review consists of a compilation of case reports and describes the emergent literature that illustrates the chemical composition of bath salts, patterns of use, administration methods, medical and neuropsychiatric effects, and treatments of patients with bath salt toxicity.


Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu5) represents a novel strategy for therapeutic intervention into multiple central nervous system disorders, including schizophrenia. Recently, a number of positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of mGlu5 were discovered to exhibit in vivo efficacy in rodent models of psychosis, including PAMs possessing varying degrees of agonist activity (ago-PAMs), as well as PAMs devoid of agonist activity. However, previous studies revealed that ago-PAMs can induce seizure activity and behavioral convulsions, whereas pure mGlu5 PAMs do not induce these adverse effects. We recently identified a potent and selective mGlu5 PAM, VU0403602, that was efficacious in reversing amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion in rats. The compound also induced time-dependent seizure activity that was blocked by coadministration of the mGlu5 antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl) pyridine. Consistent with potential adverse effects induced by ago-PAMs, we found that VU0403602 had significant allosteric agonist activity. Interestingly, inhibition of VU0403602 metabolism in vivo by a pan cytochrome P450 (P450) inactivator completely protected rats from induction of seizures. P450-mediated biotransformation of VU0403602 was discovered to produce another potent ago-PAM metabolite-ligand (M1) of mGlu5. Electrophysiological studies in rat hippocampal slices confirmed agonist activity of both M1 and VU0403602 and revealed that M1 can induce epileptiform activity in a manner consistent with its proconvulsant behavioral effects. Furthermore, unbound brain exposure of M1 was similar to that of the parent compound, VU0403602. These findings indicate that biotransformation of mGlu5 PAMs to active metabolite-ligands may contribute to the epileptogenesis observed after in vivo administration of this class of allosteric receptor modulators.

Several studies have reported that pulsed magnetic fields (PMFs) can be a choice of therapy for diabetic peripheral neuropathy. However, the exact underlying mechanism of PMF is still not known. The purpose of this study was, therefore, to investigate the effects of clodronate encapsulated with liposome, a specific agent depleting macrophage, on PMF-treated streptozotocin-induced type I diabetic rats with peripheral neuropathy. Effects of PMF, liposome-encapsulated clodronate (LEC) or their combined treatments were investigated in diabetic rats by measuring the thermal latencies, mechanical thresholds, whole blood glucose levels, serum insulin level, and body mass. In diabetic rats, PMF exhibited a decrease in the blood glucose levels but did not change the serum insulin level. Both mechanical thresholds and thermal latencies of diabetic rats enhanced throughout the PMF treatment. During the PMF treatment, the administration of LEC suppressed the PMF-induced decrease in blood glucose level, PMF-induced increase in mechanical threshold and thermal latencies in diabetic animals. In addition, PMF reduced the LEC-induced increase in insulin levels of diabetic rats. Findings demonstrated that although effects of both PMF alone and LEC alone on diabetic animals are mostly positive, LEC may remove the therapeutic efficacies of PMF in combined treatment.
In the last decades, schizophrenia has intensively been studied using various brain imaging techniques. However, several potential confounding factors limited their interpretation power (e.g. chronicity, the impact of antipsychotic medication). By considering psychosis as a continuum of changes starting from mild cognitive impairments to serious psychotic symptoms, it became possible to provide deeper insight in the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the onset of psychosis by focusing on at-risk individuals and first-episodes. Recent brain imaging meta-analyses of the first episode psychosis (FEP), noteworthy reported conjoint bilateral structural and functional differences at the level of the insula, the superior temporal gyrus and the medial frontal gyrus, encompassing the anterior cingulate cortex. In the present review, we thus provide an update of brain imaging studies of FEP with a particular emphasis on more recent anatomical, functional and molecular explorations. Specifically, we provide 1) a review of the common features observed in individuals with high risk for psychosis and changes characterizing the transition to psychosis, 2) a description of the environmental and drug factors influencing these abnormalities, 3) how these findings in FEP may differ from those observed in chronic individuals with schizophrenia, and 4) a short overview of new classification algorithms able to use MRI findings as valuable biomarkers to guide early detection in the prodromal phase of psychosis.
Anhedonia, or markedly diminished interest or pleasure, is a hallmark symptom of major depression, schizophrenia, and other neuropsychiatric disorders. The term &quot;anhedonia&quot; was introduced by the French psychologist Ribot in 1896to describe the counterpart to analgesia in his patients, for which &quot;it was impossible to find the least pleasure&quot;. Over the last decades, the clinical definition of anhedonia has remained relatively unchanged, but recently, behavioral neurosciences have significantly changed our knowledge of reward-related processes. Now, the construct of anhedonia reflects deficits in hedonic capacity, and is closely linked to the processes of reward valuation, decision-making, anticipation, and motivation. The neural circuits underlying these reward-related mechanisms include essentially the ventral striatum and prefrontal cortical regions. Here, we review the clinical concepts, neural bases and psychopharmacological data related to the deficits of hedonia in depression. Understanding anhedonia will facilitate diagnosis and treatment management.

Type 2 diabetes, like dementia, disproportionately affects the elderly. Diabetes has consistently been associated with risk of dementia, mild cognitive impairment, and cognitive decline suggesting that cognitive compromise is a deleterious manifestation of diabetes. This review summarizes observational studies and clinical trials of diabetes medications and their respective associations and effects on cognitive outcomes. Despite biological plausibility, results from most human clinical trials have failed to show any efficacy in treating Alzheimer disease symptomatology and pathology. Clinical trials targeting vascular-related outcomes, diabetic patients, or cognitively normal elderly at risk for dementia, may provide greater cognitive benefits.
Botulinum neurotoxin is a potent inhibitor of acetylcholine secretion and acts by cleaving members of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attachment protein receptor family, which are critical to exocytotic vesicular secretion. However, the potential of botulinum neurotoxin for treating secretory disease is limited both by its neural selectivity and the necessity for direct injection into the relevant target tissue. To circumvent these limitations, a technology platform called targeted secretion inhibitors (TSIs) is being developed. TSIs are derived from botulinum neurotoxin but are retargeted to specific cell types to inhibit aberrant secretion. A TSI called qGHRH-LHN/D, with a GHRH receptor targeting domain and designed to specifically inhibit pituitary somatotroph GH release through cleavage of the N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attachment protein receptor protein, vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP), has recently been described. Here we show this TSI activates GHRH receptors in primary cultured rat pituicytes is internalized into these cells, depletes VAMP-3, and inhibits phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate-induced GH secretion. In vivo studies show that this TSI, but not one with an inactive catalytic unit, produces a dose-dependent inhibition of pulsatile GH secretion, thus confirming its mechanism of action through VAMP cleavage. Selectivity of action has been shown by the lack of effect of this TSI in vivo on secretion from thyrotrophs, corticotrophs, and gonadotrophs. In the absence of suitable in vivo models, these data provide proof of concept for the use of somatotroph-targeted TSIs in the treatment of acromegaly and moreover raise the potential that TSIs could be used to target other diseases characterized by hypersecretion.
Prolonged chronic stress causing elevated plasma glucocorticoids leads to neurodegeneration. Adaptation to stress (allostasis) through neuroprotective mechanisms can delay this process. Studies on hippocampal neurons have identified carboxypeptidase E (CPE) as a novel neuroprotective protein that acts extracellularly, independent of its enzymatic activity, although the mechanism of action is unclear. Here, we aim to determine if CPE plays a neuroprotective role in allostasis in mouse hippocampus during chronic restraint stress (CRS), and the molecular mechanisms involved. Quantitative RT-PCR/in situ hybridization and Western blots were used to assay for mRNA and protein. After mild CRS (1 h/d for 7 d), CPE protein and mRNA were significantly elevated in the hippocampal CA3 region, compared to nave littermates. In addition, luciferase reporter assays identified a functional glucocorticoid regulatory element within the cpe promoter that mediated the up-regulation of CPE expression in primary hippocampal neurons following dexamethasone treatment, suggesting that circulating plasma glucocorticoids could evoke a similar effect on CPE in the hippocampus in vivo. Overexpression of CPE in hippocampal neurons, or CRS in mice, resulted in elevated prosurvival BCL2 protein/mRNA and p-AKT levels in the hippocampus; however, CPE(-/-) mice showed a decrease. Thus, during mild CRS, CPE expression is up-regulated, possibly contributed by glucocorticoids, to mediate neuroprotection of the hippocampus by enhancing BCL2 expression through AKT signaling, and thereby maintaining allostasis.
Glial cells, which constitute more than 50% of the mass of the central nervous system and greatly outnumber neurons, are at the vanguard of neuroendocrine research in metabolic control and obesity. Historically relegated to roles of structural support and protection, diverse functions have been gradually attributed to this heterogeneous class of cells with their protagonism in crescendo in all areas of neuroscience during the past decade. However, this dramatic increase in attention bestowed upon glial cells has also emphasized our vast lack of knowledge concerning many aspects of their physiological functions, let alone their participation in numerous pathologies. This minireview focuses on the recent advances in our understanding of how glial cells participate in the physiological regulation of appetite and systemic metabolism as well as their role in the pathophysiological response to poor nutrition and secondary complications associated with obesity. Moreover, we highlight some of the existing lagoons of knowledge in this increasingly important area of investigation.
A major barrier in reversing diabetic complications is that molecular and pathologic effects of elevated glucose persist despite normalization of glucose, a phenomenon referred to as metabolic memory. In the present studies we have investigated the effects of elevated glucose on Schwann cells, which are implicated in diabetic neuropathy. Using quantitative PCR arrays for glucose and fatty acid metabolism, we have found that chronic (&gt;8 wk) 25 mM high glucose induces a persistent increase in genes that promote glycolysis, while inhibiting those that oppose glycolysis and alternate metabolic pathways such as fatty acid metabolism, the pentose phosphate pathway, and trichloroacetic acid cycle. These sustained effects were associated with decreased peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) binding and persistently increased reactive oxygen species, cellular NADH, and altered DNA methylation. Agonists of PPAR and PPAR prevented select effects of glucose-induced gene expression. These observations suggest that Schwann cells exhibit features of metabolic memory that may be regulated at the transcriptional level. Furthermore, targeting PPAR may prevent metabolic memory and the development of diabetic complications.

The environmental dioxin 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is classified as a Group 1 human carcinogen and teratogenic agent. We hypothesize that TCDD-induced oxidative stress may also interfere with mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels (mitoKATP), which are known to regulate and to be regulated by mitochondrial redox state. We investigated the effects of an acute treatment of male Wistar rats with TCDD (50g/kg i.p.) and measured the regulation of cardiac mitoKATP. While the function of cardiac mitochondria was slightly depressed, mitoKATP activity was 52% higher in animals treated with TCDD. The same effects were not observed in liver mitochondria isolated from the same animals. Our data also shows that regulation of mitochondrial ROS production by mitoKATP activity is different in both groups. To our knowledge, this is the first report to show that TCDD increases mitoKATP activity in the heart, which may counteract the increased oxidative stress caused by the dioxin during acute exposure.
This brief review aims to examine the structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI) studies on corpus callosum in autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and discuss the clinical and demographic factors involved in the interpretation of results.
Benzodiazepines (BZDs), which enhance -aminobutyric acid (GABAA ) receptor-mediated inhibition, are the first-line therapy for treatment of status epilepticus (SE). However, pharmacoresistance to BZDs develops rapidly after SE initiation. This is due to an activity-dependent internalization of BZD-sensitive GABAA receptors during SE. Stiripentol (STP) is a positive allosteric modulator of GABAA receptors with a unique subunit selectivity profile. We report that in a rodent model of SE, STP terminates behavioral seizures and remains effective in established SE when seizures have become BZD resistant. The anticonvulsant effects of STP are age dependent, with greater potency in juvenile animals. Whole cell recordings from dentate granule cells in hippocampal slices reveal that STP potentiates GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and tonic GABAergic currents by acting at a site on the GABAA receptor that is separate from the benzodiazepine binding site. This potentiation persists in established SE, whereas potentiation of GABAergic inhibition by BZDs is lost. STP potentiates IPSCs in juvenile animals with greater potency than in adult animals. We suggest that STP, either alone or as add-on therapy, may prove useful in treating established and BZD-resistant status epilepticus. Furthermore, STP may be particularly effective in terminating SE in children when SE is most prevalent.
Proceeding from the proposed classification of status epilepticus syndromes by Shorvon in 1994, we performed a systematic search for reports presenting electroencephalography (EEG) patterns of nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) on all syndromes in the classification, where possible. Using the online medical search engine PubMed for 22 different search strategies, EEG patterns supporting a diagnosis of NCSE were sought. From a total of 4,328 search results, 123 cases with corresponding EEG patterns could be allocated to underlying epilepsy syndromes. Based on the characteristic EEG patterns found for the different NCSE syndromes, we present a synthesis of the significant EEG morphologies and evolutions in the individual NCSE syndromes.

Epilepsy modeling is essential for understanding the basic mechanisms of the epileptic process. The Genetic Audiogenic Seizure Hamster (GASH:Sal) exhibits generalized tonic-clonic seizures of genetic origin in response to sound stimulation and is currently being validated as a reliable model of epilepsy. Here, we performed a pharmacological and neuroethological study using well-known and widely used antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including phenobarbital (PB), valproic acid (VPA), and levetiracetam (LEV). The intraperitoneal administration of PB (5-20mg/kg) and VPA (100-300mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent decrease in GASH:Sal audiogenic seizure severity scores. The administration of LEV (30-100mg/kg) did not produce a clear effect. Phenobarbital showed a short plasmatic life and had a high antiepileptic effect starting at 10mg/kg that was accompanied by ataxia. Valproic acid acted only at high concentrations and was the AED with the most ataxic effects. Levetiracetam at all doses also produced sedation and ataxia side effects. We conclude that the GASH:Sal is a reliable genetic model of epilepsy suitable to evaluate AEDs.
Exotic experiences such as the sensing of another consciousness or the detachment of consciousness from the body are occasionally reported by individuals with partial seizures from a temporal lobe focus. The experiences display the characteristics of Hughlings Jackson's &quot;parasitic consciousness&quot;. We have hypothesized that these experiences are encouraged by slight discrepancies in hemispheric activity that can be simulated by application of weak, physiologically-patterned magnetic fields across the cerebral hemispheres. Electroencephalographic and Low Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography (sLORETA) data revealed altered activity bands within specific regions within the cerebral cortices during these experiences. The clear changes in power of brain activity were discerned after consistent durations of exposure to specifically patterned weak magnetic fields. Millisecond range point durations were required. The technology may be useful to explore the subjective components associated with complex partial seizures.
Little attention has been paid to the specific needs of people with intellectual disability and epilepsy despite evidence of increased prevalence of epilepsy, increased risk of complex epilepsy, and heightened use of health services among this group. In an attempt to address this gap, an online international survey was undertaken inviting health professionals and caregivers, both paid and family members, to share their views on the adequacy and quality of available treatment. This paper reports on the responses obtained from 113 individuals from the UK and Ireland. Findings revealed that professionals and carers differ in their expectations of treatment and with regard to maximizing communication during consultations. In addition, findings suggested that the potential of consultations to provide information for carers, as well as to allay concerns, may not be realized. Rescue medications were viewed favorably; however, respondents expressed less satisfaction with routine medications. These findings may reflect a failure by professionals to appropriately transfer knowledge of these treatments.
Although vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is an effective alternative option for patients with refractory epilepsy unsuitable for conventional resective surgery, predictors of a better control of seizure frequency and severity are still unavailable. This prospective study reports on 39 patients, including 4 children affected by epilepsia partialis continua (EPC), who underwent VNS for refractory epilepsy. The overall seizure frequency outcome was classified into three groups according to reduction rate: 75%, 50%, and &lt;50%. Engel and McHugh classifications were also used. The median follow-up period was 36months. A seizure reduction rate 50% or EPC improvement was observed in 74% of the patients. Twenty-one out of 35 cases (60%) resulted in Engel classes II and III. Outcome, as defined by the McHugh scale, showed a responder rate of 71%. These results suggest that younger patient age and focal or multifocal epilepsy are related to a better seizure control and cognitive outcome. Vagus nerve stimulation could also be considered as an effective procedure in severe conditions, such as drug-refractory EPC.
Transient epileptic amnesia (TEA) is a recently described epilepsy syndrome characterized by recurrent episodes of isolated memory loss. It is associated with two unusual forms of interictal memory impairment: accelerated long-term forgetting (ALF) and autobiographical amnesia. We investigated the neural basis of TEA using manual volumetry and automated multi-atlas-based segmentation of whole-brain magnetic resonance imaging data from 40 patients with TEA and 20 healthy controls. Both methods confirmed the presence of subtle, bilateral hippocampal atrophy. Additional atrophy was revealed in perirhinal and orbitofrontal cortices. The volumes of these regions correlated with anterograde memory performance. No structural correlates were found for ALF or autobiographical amnesia. The results support the hypothesis that TEA is a focal medial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome but reveal additional pathology in connected brain regions. The unusual interictal memory deficits of TEA remain unexplained by structural pathology and may reflect physiological disruption of memory networks by subclinical epileptiform activity.
This study aimed to identify the issues experienced as essential in rehabilitation for persons with epilepsy. Six focus group interviews were conducted, five groups with patients that had completed comprehensive rehabilitation for persons with epilepsy, in a day-care setting, at the Neurological Rehabilitation Clinic at Stora Skndal Hospital, between 2006 and 2009 (total n=17) and one group with staff members (n=5). Using content analysis, two themes emerged: life with epilepsy and rehabilitation experiences. The result emphasizes that rehabilitation for persons with epilepsy should be designed individually, in structure and in content. Encounters between patients were important, as well as the team's attitude in meeting with the patients. Therapeutic working alliance is essential between patients and staff for creating an individual rehabilitation.

Voltage-gated Na(+) channels control neuronal excitability and are the primary target for the majority of anti-epileptic drugs. This study investigates the (sub)cellular expression patterns of three important brain-associated Na(+) channel  subunits: NaV1.1, NaV1.2 and NaV1.6 during epileptogenesis (induced by kainic acid) using time points that cover the period from induction to the chronic phase of epilepsy. NaV1.1 immunoreactivity was persistently reduced at 1 day, 3 weeks and 2 months after SE in CA1 and CA3. About 50% of the NaV1.1-positive interneurons was lost at one day after SE in all regions investigated. In the hilus a similar reduction in NeuN-positive neurons was found, while in the CA1 and CA3 region the loss in NeuN-positive neurons only reached 15% in the chronic phase of epilepsy. This implies a stronger shift in the balance between excitation and inhibition toward excitation in the CA1 and CA3 region than in the hilus. NaV1.2 immunoreactivity in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus was lower than control at 1 day after SE. It increased at 3 weeks and 2 months after SE in the inner molecular layer and overlapped with sprouted mossy fibers. NaV1.6 immunoreactivity in the dendritic region of CA1 and CA3 was persistently reduced at all time-points during epileptogenesis. Some astrocytes expressed NaV1.1 and NaV1.6 at 3 weeks after SE. Expression data alone are not sufficient to explain changes in network stability, or infer causality in epileptogenesis. These results demonstrate that hippocampal sub-regional expression of NaV1.1, NaV1.2 and NaV1.6 Na(+) channel  subunits is altered during epileptogenesis in a time and location specific way. This implies that understanding epileptogenesis has to take into account several distinct and type-specific changes in sodium channel expression.
Status epilepticus (SE) is a dreaded neurological emergency. A reignited interest in SE has resulted in a more adaptive use of treatment protocols. More knowledge on SE of various aetiologies is therefore needed. We are interested in treatment of SE under hyponatremia, and have here evaluated whether SE induced by systemic kainic acid could be a suitable platform for such studies. Acute hyponatremia was induced in C57/BL6 mice by intraperitoneal injection of dDAVP and water loading. Hyponatremic mice displayed an increased frequency of epileptiform spikes on EEG and 5/9 hyponatremic mice displayed electrographic seizures. After kainic acid (20mg/kg) treatment, hyponatremic mice displayed significantly longer time with electrographic seizure activity, which was also seen after treatment with diazepam (20mg/kg). We conclude that hyponatremia augments kainic acid-induced SE, This model might be a valuable platform for studies on treatment of SE in hyponatremia.
Psychosis is more common in people with temporal lobe epilepsy than it is in the general population. Treatment can be difficult in these patients because of the complex interactions between antipsychotic and antiepileptic drugs. Some antipsychotic drugs also decrease the seizure threshold. We report the case of a 49-year-old man with a hypothalamic hamartoma, with a history of both gelastic and temporal lobe seizures. The patient was rendered seizure-free after three neurosurgical procedures but developed a drug-resistant paranoid psychosis. He was treated with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). After two weeks with six stimulations that resulted in seizures, the psychiatric phenomena disappeared completely. There was no relapse of either the psychiatric symptoms or the seizures during the 42 months of follow-up. This case report suggests that ECT might be safe for psychosis in patients with a history of seizures that have previously been successfully treated with neurosurgery, although caution should be exercised in drawing general conclusions from a single case report.


Although promise exists for patterns of resting-state blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) brain connectivity to be used as biomarkers of early brain pathology, a full understanding of the nature of the relationship between neural activity and spontaneous fMRI BOLD fluctuations is required before such data can be correctly interpreted. To investigate this issue, we combined electrophysiological recordings of rapid changes in multi-laminar local field potentials from the somatosensory cortex of anaesthetized rats with concurrent two-dimensional optical imaging spectroscopy measurements of resting-state haemodynamics that underlie fluctuations in the BOLD fMRI signal. After neural 'events' were identified, their time points served to indicate the start of an epoch in the accompanying haemodynamic fluctuations. Multiple epochs for both neural 'events' and the accompanying haemodynamic fluctuations were averaged. We found that the averaged epochs of resting-state haemodynamic fluctuations taken after neural 'events' closely resembled the temporal profile of stimulus-evoked cortical haemodynamics. Furthermore, we were able to demonstrate that averaged epochs of resting-state haemodynamic fluctuations resembling the temporal profile of stimulus-evoked haemodynamics could also be found after peaks in neural activity filtered into specific electroencephalographic frequency bands (theta, alpha, beta, and gamma). This technique allows investigation of resting-state neurovascular coupling using methodologies that are directly comparable to that developed for investigating stimulus-evoked neurovascular responses.
To examine whether an inflammatory process occurs in the amikacin-poisoned cochlea, we investigated the presence of the cytokines tumour necrosis factor- (TNF-), interleukin (IL)-1, and IL-10. No TNF-, IL-1 or IL-10 was detected in the cochlear perilymph after the loss of most auditory hair cells, indicating the absence of severe inflammation. In contrast, we observed a significant and temporary increase in the level of extracellular high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), a late mediator of inflammation that also functions as a signal of tissue damage. This increase coincided with epithelial remodelling of the injured organ of Corti, and occurred concomitantly with robust and transient cytoplasmic expression of acetylated HMGB1 within the non-sensory supporting cells, Deiters cells. Here, HMGB1 was found to be enclosed within vesicles, a number of which carried the secretory vesicle-associated membrane-bound protein Rab 27A. In addition, transient upregulation of receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE), an HMGB1 membrane receptor, was found in most epithelial cells of the scarring organ of Corti when extracellular levels of HMGB1 were at their highest. Altogether, these results strongly suggest that, in stressful conditions, Deiters cells liberate HMGB1 to regulate the epithelial reorganization of the injured organ of Corti through engagement of RAGE in neighbouring epithelial cells.
Anti-Nogo-A antibody and chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) enzyme are two promising treatments that promote functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI). Treatment with them has encouraged axon regeneration, sprouting and functional recovery in a variety of spinal cord and central nervous system injury models. The two compounds work, in part, through different mechanisms, so it is possible that their effects will be additive. In this study, we used a rat cervical partial SCI model to explore the effectiveness of a combination of anti-Nogo-A, ChABC, and rehabilitation. We found that spontaneous recovery of forelimb functions reflects the extent of the lesion on the ipsilateral side. We applied a combination treatment with acutely applied anti-Nogo-A antibody followed by delayed ChABC treatment starting at 3weeks after injury, and rehabilitation starting at 4weeks, to accommodate the requirement that anti-Nogo-A be applied acutely, and that rehabilitation be given after the cessation of anti-Nogo-A treatment. We found that single treatment with either anti-Nogo-A or ChABC, combined with rehabilitation, produced functional recovery of similar magnitude. The combination treatment, however, was more effective. Both single treatments produced increases in sprouting and axon regeneration, but the combination treatment produced greater increases. Anti-Nogo-A stimulated growth of a greater number of axons with a diameter of &gt;3m, whereas ChABC treatment stimulated increased growth of finer axons with varicosities. These results point to different functions of Nogo-A and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans in axonal regeneration. The combination of anti-Nogo-A, ChABC and rehabilitation shows promise for enhancing functional recovery after SCI.
Recently, genome-wide association between schizophrenia and an intronic variant in AMBRA1 (rs11819869) was reported. Additionally, in a reverse genetic approach in adult healthy subjects, risk allele carriers showed a higher medial prefrontal cortex blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response during a flanker task examining motor inhibition as an aspect of impulsivity. To test whether this finding can be expanded to further aspects of impulsivity, we analysed the effects of the rs11819869 genotype on impulsivity-related traits on a behavioral, temperament and neural level in a large sample of healthy adolescents. We consider this reverse genetic approach specifically suited for use in a healthy adolescent sample, as these individuals comprise those who will eventually develop mental disorders in which impulsivity is implicated. Healthy adolescents from the IMAGEN study were included in the neuropsychological analysis (n=848) and a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) task (n=512). Various aspects of impulsivity were assessed using the Temperament and Character Inventory-Revised, the Substance Use Risk Profile Scale, the Cambridge Cognition Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery, and the Stop Signal Task (SST) in the fMRI paradigm. On a behavioral level, increased delay aversion was observed in risk allele carriers. Furthermore, risk allele carriers showed a higher BOLD response in an orbito-frontal target region during the SST, which declined to trend status after Family Wise Error correction. Our findings support the hypothesis that the schizophrenia-related risk variant of rs11819869 is involved in various aspects of impulsivity, and that this involvement occurs on a behavioral as well as an imaging genetics level.

Incontinentia pigmenti (IP) is an X-linked dominant genodermatosis confined to females. It is usually lethal in males. However, the survival of some males has been reported in literature. We describe a long follow-up case of a 12-year-old male with IP and a normal karyotype but a genomic deletion of the NEMO gene in the Xq28 position in the form of somatic mosaicism. The patient showed severe ophthalmic abnormalities and neurological manifestations characterised by very mild cerebellar ataxia and a history of epilepsy that was severe at the beginning with West syndrome, become moderate overtime and is now resolved. Despite these neurological manifestations, probably related to the presence of at least some mutated cells in his brain, the long-term follow-up in this patient demonstrated good neurological and cognitive outcome.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are an attractive cell source for regenerative medicine strategies in brain diseases. Experimental studies have shown that repeated administration of phencyclidine (PCP) leads to schizophrenia-like behavioral changes in mice. The aim of the present study was to explore the effectiveness of MSC transplantation into the hippocampus in attenuating PCP-induced social behavior deficits. PCP was administered subcutaneously to C57bl mice (10mg/kg daily) for 2 weeks. On the first day of PCP administration, adult human MSCs were transplanted into the hippocampus. A week after the last PCP dose, the mice underwent social preference testing. MSC transplantation was associated with a significant reduction in the adverse social behavior induced by PCP. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the stem cells survived in the mouse brain, and hippocampal Western blot analysis revealed a statistical trend towards a decrease in cleaved caspase 3 protein levels in the stem cell treated group. Upon in vitro co-culture of astrocytes and MSCs, the MSCs, in the presence of PCP, positively regulated astrocyte expression of genes involved in glutamate metabolism and antioxidant defenses. These findings suggest that MSC transplantation into the hippocampus may serve as a novel neuroprotective tool for the treatment of the PCP-induced schizophrenia-like social endophenotype. The mechanism underlying the beneficial behavioral effect may involve modulation of host astrocyte functioning, including glutamate processing and antioxidant capacity.
Systemic administration of cannabidiol (CBD) is able to attenuate cardiovascular responses to acute restraint stress through activation of 5-HT1A receptors. Previous results from our group suggest that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is involved in the antiaversive effects of the CBD. Moreover, it has been proposed that synapses within the BNST influence restraint-evoked cardiovascular changes, in particular by an inhibitory influence on the tachycardiac response associated to restraint stress. Thus, the present work investigated the effects of CBD injected into the BNST on cardiovascular changes induced by acute restraint stress and if these effects would involve the local activation of 5-HT1A receptors. The exposition to restraint stress increased both blood pressure and heart rate (HR). The microinjection of CBD (30 and 60 nmol) into the BNST enhanced the restraint-evoked HR increase, in a dose-dependent manner, without affecting the pressor response. The selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY100635 by itself did not change the cardiovascular responses to restraint stress, but blocked the effects of CBD. These results showed that CBD microinjected into the BNST enhanced the HR increase associated with acute restraint stress without affecting the blood pressure response. Although these results are not in agreement with those observed after systemic administration of CBD, they are similar to effects observed after reversible inactivation of the BNST. Moreover, similar to the effects observed after systemic administration, CBD effects in the BNST seem to depend on activation of 5-HT1A receptors.
We examined the effect of temporal context on discrimination of intervals marked by auditory, visual and tactile stimuli. Subjects were asked to compare the duration of the interval immediately preceded by an irrelevant &quot;distractor&quot; stimulus with an interval with no distractor. For short interval durations, the presence of the distractor affected greatly the apparent duration of the test stimulus: short distractors caused the test interval to appear shorter and vice versa. For very short reference durations ( 100 ms), the contextual effects were large, changing perceived duration by up to a factor of two. The effect of distractors reduced steadily for longer reference durations, to zero effect for durations greater than 500 ms. We found similar results for intervals defined by visual flashes, auditory tones and brief finger vibrations, all falling to zero effect at 500 ms. Under appropriate conditions, there were strong cross-modal interactions, particularly from audition to vision. We also measured the Weber fractions for duration discrimination and showed that under the conditions of this experiment, Weber fractions decreased steadily with duration, following a square-root law, similarly for all three modalities. The magnitude of the effect of the distractors on apparent duration correlated well with Weber fraction, showing that when duration discrimination was relatively more precise, the context dependency was less. The results were well fit by a simple Bayesian model combining noisy estimates of duration with the action of a resonance-like mechanism that tended to regularize the sound sequence intervals.
The vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) acts to maintain images stable on the retina by rotating the eyes in exactly the opposite direction, but with equal magnitude, to head velocity. When viewing a near target, this reflex has an increased response to compensate for the translation of the eyes relative to the target that acts to reduce retinal image slip. Previous studies have shown that retinal velocity error provides an important visual feedback signal to increase the low-frequency (&lt;1 Hz) VOR response during near viewing. We sought to determine whether initial eye position and retinal image position error could provide enough information to substantially increase the high-frequency VOR gain (eye velocity/head velocity) during near viewing. Ten human subjects were tested using the scleral search coil technique during horizontal head impulses under different lighting conditions (constant dark, strobe light at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 10, 15 Hz, constant light) while viewing near (9.5  1.3 cm) and far (104 cm) targets. Our results showed that the VOR gain increased during near viewing compared to far viewing, even during constant dark. For the near target, there was an increase in VOR gain with increasing strobe frequency from 1.17  0.17 in constant dark to 1.36  0.27 in constant light, a 21  9 % increase. For the far target, strobe frequency had no effect. Presentation order of strobe frequency (i.e. 0.5-15 vs. 15-0.5 Hz) did not affect the gain, but it did affect the vergence angle (angle between the two eye's lines of sight). The VOR gain and vergence angles were constant during each trial. Our findings show that a retinal position error signal helps increase the vergence angle and could be invoking vestibular adaptation mechanisms to increase the high-frequency VOR response during near viewing. This is in contrast to the low-frequency VOR that depends more on retinal velocity error and predictive adaptation mechanisms.
In our study we examined acute and chronic changes in c-Fos expression patterns in the visual system of the rat after complete visual deafferentation. In 20 male Lewis rats, the retro-bulbar part of the optic nerve was sectioned bilaterally. Ten animals underwent c-Fos immunohistochemistry after 3 days and 10 animals after 3 weeks examining time-dependent changes. The control group consisted of 10 animals, which did not undergo any surgical manipulation. c-Fos expression in the rat visual system experienced significant changes after acute and chronic bilateral complete visual deafferentation. Acute decrease in c-Fos level was observed in the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus, intergeniculate leaflet, superficial gray layer of the superior colliculus and layers IV and V of the primary visual cortex. After chronic deafferentation, c-Fos expression was also found to be decreased in the optic and deep layers of the superior colliculus and layer VI of the primary visual cortex. No change in c-Fos expression was observed in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and layers I, II and III of the primary visual cortex. This work shows that secondary complete blindness does not lead to uniform decrease in c-Fos levels in all subcortical and cortical brain regions related to vision. These findings provide important information concerning expression of the immediate-early gene product c-Fos in secondary blind rodent models. It may further serve as a relevant baseline finding when electrical stimulation of the visual system is performed, aiding the assessment of visual neuroprosthesis using c-Fos as a functional mapping tool when evaluating different stimulus parameters in blind rodent models.
Two experiments investigated (1) how activation of manual affordances is triggered by visual and linguistic cues to manipulable objects and (2) whether graspable object parts play a special role in this process. Participants pressed a key to categorize manipulable target objects copresented with manipulable distractor objects on a computer screen. Three factors were varied in Experiment 1: (1) the target's and (2) the distractor's handles' orientation congruency with the lateral manual response and (3) the Visual Focus on one of the objects. In Experiment 2, a linguistic cue factor was added to these three factors-participants heard the name of one of the two objects prior to the target display onset. Analysis of participants' motor and oculomotor behaviour confirmed that perceptual and linguistic cues potentiated activation of grasp affordances. Both target- and distractor-related affordance effects were modulated by the presence of visual and linguistic cues. However, a differential visual attention mechanism subserved activation of compatibility effects associated with target and distractor objects. We also registered an independent implicit attention attraction effect from objects' handles, suggesting that graspable parts automatically attract attention during object viewing. This effect was further amplified by visual but not linguistic cues, thus providing initial evidence for a recent hypothesis about differential roles of visual and linguistic information in potentiating stable and variable affordances (Borghi in Language and action in cognitive neuroscience. Psychology Press, London, 2012).
The question of how we can voluntarily control our behaviour dates back to the beginnings of scientific psychology. Currently, there are two empirical research disciplines tackling human volition: cognitive neuroscience and social psychology. To date, there is little interaction between the two disciplines in terms of the investigation of human volition. The aim of the current article is to highlight recent brain imaging work on human volition and to relate social psychological concepts of volition to the functional neuroanatomy of intentional action. A host of studies indicate that the medial prefrontal cortex plays a crucial role in voluntary action. Accordingly, we postulate that social psychological concepts of volition can be investigated using neuroimaging techniques, and propose that by developing a social cognitive neuroscience of human volition, we may gain a deeper understanding of this fascinating and complex aspect of the human mind.
'Intentional binding' describes the perceived temporal attraction between a voluntary action and its sensory consequence. Binding has been used in health and disease as an indirect measure of awareness of action or agency, that is, the sense that one controls one's own actions. It has been proposed that binding results from cue integration, in which a voluntary action provides information about the timing of its consequences or vice versa. The perception of the timing of either event is then a weighted average, determined according to the reliability of each of these two cues. Here we tested the contribution of cue integration to the perception of action and its sensory effect in binding, that is, action and tone binding, by manipulating the sensory reliability of the outcome tone. As predicted, when tone reliability was reduced, action binding was diminished and tone binding was increased. However, further analyses showed that cue integration accounted for changes in action binding, but not tone binding. These findings establish a role for cue integration in action binding and support the growing evidence suggesting that action and tone binding are, at least in part, driven by distinct mechanisms.
The sense of agency is a profoundly important human experience and is strongly linked to volitional action. The importance of this experience is underscored by the fact that many neurological and psychiatric disorders are partially characterized by an abnormal sense of agency (e.g., schizophrenia, anxiety disorders, depression). Healthy participants perceive the temporal interval between a voluntary action and its effect to be shorter than it actually is, and this illusion has been suggested as an implicit index of agency. Here, we investigated whether activating memories of depression alters perception of this action-effect interval, compared to activating memories of the previous day, or a baseline condition in which specific memories were not activated. Results showed that action-effect interval estimates were significantly longer after remembering a depressing episode than after remembering the previous day, or in the baseline condition. Thus, activating memories of depression alters the experience of voluntary actions and effects. We suggest that interval estimation measures could be useful in clinical settings, to implicitly assess the sense of agency in patients with disorders affecting their sense of control. In this way, obtaining action-effect interval estimates, pre-, during, and post-treatment, could aid in tracking treatment-induced changes in the sense of agency.
Emmetropization is a vision dependent mechanism that attempts to minimize refractive error through coordinated growth of the cornea, lens and sclera such that the axial length matches the focal length of the eye. It is generally accepted that this visually guided eye growth is controlled via a cascade of locally generated chemical events that are initiated in the retina and ultimately cause changes in scleral extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling which lead to changes in eye size and refraction. Of much interest, therefore, are the molecular mechanisms that underpin emmetropization and visually guided ocular growth. The choroid, a highly vascularized layer located between the retina and the sclera is uniquely situated to relay retina-derived signals to the sclera to effect changes in ECM synthesis and ocular size. Studies initiated by Josh Wallman clearly demonstrate that the choroid plays an active role in emmetropization, both by modulation of its thickness to adjust the retina to the focal plane of the eye (choroidal accommodation), and well as through the release of growth factors that have the potential to regulate scleral extracellular matrix remodeling. His discoveries prompted numerous investigations on the molecular composition of the choroid and changes in gene expression associated with visually guided ocular growth. This article will review molecular and functional studies of the choroid to provide support for the hypothesis that the choroid is a source of sclera growth regulators that effect changes in ocular growth in response to visual stimuli.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitotoxicity is one of the major causes for neuronal cell death during cerebral ischemic insult. Previously, we reported that the final product of lipid membrane peroxidation 4-hydroxy-2E-nonenal (HNE) synergistically increased NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity (J Neurochem., 2006). In this study, we investigated the mechanism involved in the synergistic neuronal cell death induced by co-treatment with HNE and NMDA. Although neither HNE (1 M) nor NMDA (2 M) alone induced the death of cortical neurons, simultaneous treatment of neuronal cells with HNE and NMDA synergistically evoked the death of the cells. However, the synergistic effect on neuronal death was observed only in the presence of calcium. HNE neither increased the cytosolic calcium level ([Ca(2+)]i) nor altered the NMDA-induced intracellular calcium influx. However, HNE together with NMDA elevated the mitochondrial calcium level and depolarized the mitochondrial transmembrane potential. Furthermore, HNE evoked damage of isolated mitochondria at the cytosolic calcium level (200 nM), which is maximally induced by 2 M NMDA. Consistently, ATP was depleted in neurons when treated with both HNE and NMDA together. Ciclopirox, a potent inhibitor of mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening (Br. J. Pharmacol., 2005), largely prevented the synergistic damage of mitochondria and death of cortical neurons. Therefore, although low concentrations of HNE and NMDA cannot individually induce neuronal cell death, they can evoke the neuronal cell death by synergistically accelerating mitochondrial dysfunction.


Restoring voluntary fine motor control of the arm and hand is one of the main goals following cervical spinal cord injury (SCI). Although the functional improvement achievable with rehabilitative training in rat models is frequently accompanied by corticospinal tract (CST) plasticity, CST rewiring alone seems insufficient to account for the observed recovery. Recent investigations in animal models of SCI have suggested that the reticulospinal tract (RtST) might contribute to mediating improved motor performance of the forelimb. Here we investigate whether the spared RtST can compensate for the loss of CST input and whether RtST projections rearrange in response to cervical SCI. Animals underwent unilateral ablation of the dorsal CST and rubrospinal tract at spinal level C4, while the ventral RtST projections were spared. At the end of the six-week recovery period, injured animals had made significant improvements in single pellet reaching. This was not accompanied by increased sprouting of the injured CST above the injury compared to uninjured control animals. Injury-induced changes in RtST fiber density within the gray matter, as well as in the number of RtST collaterals entering the gray matter or crossing the cord midline were minor above the injury. However, all analyses directly below the injured spinal level consistently point to a significant decrease of RtST projections. The mechanism and the functional relevance behind this new finding warrant further study. Our results also suggest that mechanisms other than anatomical plasticity, such as plastic changes on a cellular level, might be responsible for the observed spontaneous recovery.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder owing to loss of dopaminergic cells. Akinesia - one of the core symptoms of PD - is associated with exaggerated oscillations at beta frequency (13-30 Hz) within the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Thus, enhanced oscillations below 30 Hz are assumed to represent a pathophysiological marker of PD. However, recent data suggest that OFF medication exaggerated beta oscillations within basal ganglia (BG) cortical networks may serve for the compensation of BG dysfunctions. The STN is functionally connected to mesial prefrontal areas like the supplementary motor area (SMA). But, it is still not fully understood how enhanced beta oscillations within the BG exert dominance over the primary motor cortex (M1) thereby yielding motor impairment. The present study, therefore, investigates the effect of dopaminergic state on SMA-M1 functional connectivity using Magnetoencephalography (MEG). MEG data were recorded in 7 patients suffering from PD with preponderance of akinesia during isometric contraction of the right forearm and during rest. Coherence as a measure of functional connectivity between M1 and SMA was calculated OFF and ON medication and correlated with the motor part of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS III) and with disease duration. During rest a significant positive correlation between disease duration and SMA-M1 coherence was found ON but not OFF medication. Conversely, during isometric contraction SMA-M1 coherence and UPDRS III were inversely correlated OFF but not ON medication explaining more than 80% of variance. The results favor the hypothesis that OFF medication exaggerated cortical coherence at beta frequency represents a compensatory mechanism rather than a pathophysiological marker per se.
Activation of GABA(A) receptors by GABA causes phasic and tonic conductances in different brain areas. In the ventrobasal (VB) thalamus, tonic inhibition originates from GABA acting on extrasynaptic receptors. Here we show that dopamine (DA), the D2-like agonist quinpirole and the selective D4R agonist PD-168,077 decrease the magnitude of the tonic GABA(A) current while D1-like agonist SKF39383 lacks any significant effects in VB neurons of Wistar rats. On the other hand, DA and D1/D2 receptor activation does not alter phasic GABA(A) conductance. As we previously reported that an increased tonic GABA(A) current in VB neurons is critical for absence seizure generation, we also investigated whether D2-D4 receptor activation is capable of normalizing this aberrant conductance in genetic absence epilepsy rats from Strasbourg (GAERS). Quinpirole and PD-168,077 selectively reduces tonic GABA(A) current as in normal rats. Therefore, it is conceivable that some DA anti-absence effects occur via modulation of tonic GABA(A) current in the VB.
Approximately one-third of people with a spinal cord injury (SCI) will experience persistent neuropathic pain following injury. This pain negatively affects quality of life and is difficult to treat. Opioids are among the most effective drug treatments, and are commonly prescribed, but experimental evidence suggests that opioid treatment in the acute phase of injury can attenuate recovery of locomotor function. In fact, spinal cord injury and opioid administration share several common features (e.g. central sensitization, excitotoxicity, aberrant glial activation) that have been linked to impaired recovery of function, as well as the development of pain. Despite these effects, the interactions between opioid use and spinal cord injury have not been fully explored. A review of the literature, described here, suggests that caution is warranted when administering opioids after SCI. Opioid administration may synergistically contribute to the pathology of SCI to increase the development of pain, decrease locomotor recovery, and leave individuals at risk for infection. Considering these negative implications, it is important that guidelines are established for the use of opioids following spinal cord and other central nervous system injuries.
Alterations in the NO pathway play an important role in the development of convulsive seizures via the glutamatergic and GABAergic systems in acute pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) seizure animals. We previously reported that the background NO levels under physiological conditions negatively regulate convulsive seizures, while excess NO levels under pathologic conditions positively regulate PTZ-induced convulsive seizures. In this study, the NO content in various brain regions after a single dose injection of PTZ was quantitatively and directly measured using the ex vivo X-band electron paramagnetic resonance method with an NO-trapping agent. Experimental data demonstrated the effects of NO on the convulsive seizure threshold: a 1.5-fold increase in the NO level in all brain regions compared to that observed in the control state showed proconvulsive properties without any involvement with nonconvulsive seizures. The distribution of the background NO content in the normal animals was higher in the temporal region of the cerebral cortex, including the amygdala, than in the hippocampus, cerebellum and other regions of the cerebral cortex. However, the levels of NO after the occurrence of acute PTZ-induced convulsive seizures significantly increased by more than 50% in all brain regions, thus suggesting that the NO levels in all brain regions contribute to PTZ-induced convulsions as a seizure threshold. In a pharmacological study, the inhibitor of neuronal NO synthase and antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptors prevented PTZ-induced convulsions and excessive NO generation. In addition, therapeutic drugs, such as valproate and ethosuximide used to treat generalized seizures not only inhibited the increase in NO generation induced by PTZ, but also prevented both convulsive and nonconvulsive seizures caused by PTZ. We herein provide novel insight into the involvement of NO in PTZ-seizure susceptibility at the whole-animal level.
Modeling spinal cord injury (SCI) in animals is challenging because an appropriate combination of lesion location, lesion severity and behavioral testing is essential to analyze recovery of motor function. For particular tests such as single pellet reaching, the contribution of individual descending tracts to recovery has been investigated using specific tract ablation or graded lesions. However, it has not been established whether single pellet reaching is sufficiently sensitive for assessing the efficacy of treatments for cervical SCI (e.g., one of the currently most successful treatment approaches: rehabilitative training). To address this issue, we trained adult rats in single pellet reaching before and after a cervical (C4) spinal lesion. Animals with lesions of increasing severity were grouped into categories based on damage to anatomical structures such as the corticospinal tract (CST) and the rubrospinal tract (RST), two descending motor tracts that have been implicated in fine motor control of the forelimb. We related lesion extent to spontaneous recovery and plasticity-promoting post injury training and found that reaching performance was not correlated with lesion size or the extent of CST or RST injury. Interestingly, the dorsolateral quadrant (DLQ) lesion category, in which the unilateral dorsal CST and most of the unilateral RST are lesioned, was the only category that showed a clear effect of plasticity-promoting treatment (i.e., training), indicating its usefulness as a lesion model for this testing paradigm. The DLQ lesion likely strikes a balance between tissue sparing and functional impairment and is, therefore, best suited to maximize the potential to observe treatment effects of plasticity-promoting treatments using single pellet reaching. Because of the specific lesion size that is necessary to observe treatment effects, the single pellet skilled reaching task can be considered a stringent behavioral test and therefore may be useful for predicting translational success of potential treatments. However, due to the variability in the success rate, the labor-intensive nature, and the limited usefulness to test functional outcome of a wide range of lesion severities, we are hesitant to continue to use single pellet reaching to assess the effectiveness of currently available treatments for cervical SCI.
The relationship between dysmyelination and the progression of neuropathy in Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) hereditary polyneuropathy is unclear. Mice heterozygously deficient for the myelin protein P gene (P+/-) are indistinguishable from wild-type (WT) at birth and then develop a slowly progressing demyelinating neuropathy reminiscent of CMT Type 1b. Accumulating evidence suggests that impulse conduction can become lethal to acutely demyelinated central and peripheral axons. Here we investigated the vulnerability of motor axons to long-lasting, high-frequency repetitive stimulation (RS) in P+/- mice as compared to WT littermates at 7, 12, and 20 months of age. RS was carried out in interrupted trains of 200 Hz trains for 3h. Tibial nerves were stimulated at the ankle while the evoked compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) and the ascending compound nerve action potentials (CNAPs) were recorded from plantar muscles and the sciatic nerve, respectively. In 7-month old mice, there was recovery of CMAP and CNAP following RS. When mice were about one year old, electrophysiological recovery following RS was incomplete and in P+/- also associated with morphological signs of partial Wallerian degeneration. The effect of RS was larger in P+/- as compared to age-matched WT. When mice were about 2 years old, the effect was stronger and became similar between WT and P+/-. RS was followed by a transient hyperpolarization, which decreased with age and was smaller in P0+/- than in WT. Our data suggest that both aging and the dysmyelinating disease process may contribute to the susceptibility to activity-induced axonal degeneration. It is possible that in aging mice and in P+/- there is inadequate energy-dependent Na(+)/K(+) pumping, as indicated by the reduced post-stimulation hyperpolarization, which may lead to a lethal Na(+) overload in some axons.
The concept of repair of the nervous system by adult stem cells has recently evolved from the original hypothesis that tissue regeneration could have been achieved through stem cell differentiation into neural cells to the current vision that they act mainly by means of paracrine mechanisms. In a recent paper from Voulgari-Kokota and colleagues in the July issue of Experimental Neurology it was shown that bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) can protect against glutamate excitotoxicity in a mouse model of temporal lobe epilepsy and that conditioned medium from MSC could rescue primary cortical neurons from glutamate-receptor induced cell death. Other studies have emphasized that MSC secretome may suffice to recapitulate many of the effects carried out by these cells on immune and tissue resident cells. However, MSC priming by local cues, upon interaction with the host environment, represents a prerequisite to maximally enhance their therapeutic plasticity. Future studies will have to resolve if stem cell transplantation is still preferable over the administration of their secreted factors.
Radiotherapy is a major cause of long-term complications in survivors of pediatric brain tumors. These complications include intellectual and memory impairments as well as perturbed growth and puberty. We investigated the long-term effects of a single 8 Gy irradiation dose to the brains of 14-day-old mice. Behavior was assessed one year after irradiation using IntelliCage and open field, followed by immunohistochemical investigation of proliferation and neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. We found a 61% reduction in proliferation and survival (BrdU incorporation 4 weeks prior to sacrifice), 99% decrease in neurogenesis (number of doublecortin-positive cells) and gliosis (12% higher astrocyte density) one year following irradiation. Irradiated animals displayed increased activity in a novel environment but decreased activity in their home cage. Place learning in the IntelliCage was unaffected by irradiation but reversal learning was impaired. Irradiated animals persevered in visiting previously correct corners to a higher extent compared to control animals. Hence, despite the virtual absence of neurogenesis in these old mice, spatial learning could take place. Reversal learning however, where a previous memory was replaced with a new one, was partly impaired. This model is useful to study the so called late effects of radiotherapy to the young brain and to evaluate possible interventions.
Neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies have implicated the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway and the prefrontal cortex in learning and memory deficits in patients with Parkinson's disease. However, little is known about how these two brain regions interact in the processing of learning and memory. We employed a disconnection procedure to test whether interaction of these regions contributes to performance in various memory tasks. Male rats received either a unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the nigro-striatal tract or a unilateral NMDA lesion in the medial prefrontal cortex, or both these lesions combined in either the same or opposite hemispheres. Spontaneous object exploration, spatial working memory, locomotor, emotional and sensorimotor tests were administered. Only the group with both lesions placed in opposite hemispheres failed to show object recognition memory. None of the groups treated with 6-hydroxydopamine showed intact temporal order memory, whereas only the groups that received combined lesions failed to show object-in-place and spatial recognition memory. No differences between groups were found in the spatial working memory test. Our data indicate that locomotor, emotional and sensorimotor factors are not likely to confound the results of the memory tests. Thus, the interaction between the dopaminergic forebrain projections, particularly the nigrostriatal dopamine, and the medial prefrontal cortex is critical for object recognition memory but not for spatial working memory in rats.
Voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs) mediate calcium entry into neuronal cells in response to membrane depolarisation and play an essential role in a variety of physiological processes. In Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), a fatal neurodegenerative disease caused by motor neuron degeneration in the brain and spinal cord, intracellular calcium dysregulation has been shown, while no studies have been carried out on VGCCs. Here we show that the subtype N-type Ca(2+) channels are over expressed in G93A cultured cortical neurons and in motor cortex of G93A mice compared to Controls. In fact, by western blotting, immunocytochemical and electrophysiological experiments, we observe higher membrane expression of N-type Ca(2+) channels in G93A neurons compared to Controls. G93A cortical neurons filled with calcium-sensitive dye Fura-2, show a net calcium entry during membrane depolarization that is significantly higher compared to Control. Analysis of neuronal vitality following the exposure of neurons to a high K(+) concentration (25 mM, 5h), shows a significant reduction of G93A cellular survival compared to Controls. N-type channels are involved in the G93A higher mortality because -conotoxin GVIA (1 M), which selectively blocks these channels, is able to abolish the higher G93A mortality when added to the external medium. These data provide robust evidence for an excess of N-type Ca(2+) expression in G93A cortical neurons which induces a higher mortality following membrane depolarization. These results may be central to the understanding of pathogenic pathways in ALS and provide novel molecular targets for the design of rational therapies for the ALS disorder.

Despite the fact that neurophysiological evaluation is not useful for primary headache diagnosis, the nociceptive system exploration through reflexes and evoked potentials procedures may give an aid in understanding the pathophysiological mechanism subtending pain. Neuropathic pain is caused by a lesion or disease of the somatosensory nervous system, which is supported by clinical evaluation and instrumental assessment by trigeminal and nociceptive reflexes and laser evoked potentials. The same methods, applied to migraine and cluster headache, together with evidences coming from structural and functional neuroimaging, excluded the neuropathic origin of pain, which is attaining to symptomatic and idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia, but confirmed a complex dysfunction of pain processing. Tension-type headache fits with a model of non-nociceptive and non-neuropathic pain, subtended by a complex interaction of peripheral muscular and central neuronal factors. The presence of altered modulation of pain concurs with migraine and tension-type headache, and should be taken into account for the choice of the best therapeutic approach.
MicroRNA (miR)-142 is up-regulated in the brain in HIV and SIV encephalitis (SIVE). We identified the cell types where miR-142 is up-regulated and its relevant downstream target. Fluorescent in situ hybridization combined with immunofluorescent labeling revealed that miR-142-3p and -5p are expressed within hippocampal neurons and myeloid cells in SIVE. Sirtuin1 (SIRT1) was predicted as a potential miR-142 target by analysis of its 3'-UTR and bioinformatic analysis of factors linked to altered hippocampal gene expression profile in SIVE. Overexpression of pre-miR-142 in HEK293T cells led to a 3.7-fold decrease in SIRT1 protein level. Examination of the individual effects of miR-142-5p and miR-142-3p through overexpression and inhibition studies revealed that significant effects on SIRT1 occurred only with miR-142-5p. Luciferase reporter assays revealed a 2.3-fold inhibition of expression due to interaction of miR-142 with the SIRT1 3'-UTR, mutation analysis revealed that only the miR-142-5p target site was active. MiR-142 expression in primary human neurons led to a small (1.3-fold) but significant decrease in SIRT1 protein level. Furthermore, qRT-PCR revealed up-regulation of miR-142-3p (6.4-fold) and -5p (3.9-fold) and down-regulation of SIRT1 (33-fold) in macrophages/microglia from animals with SIVE. We have therefore elucidated a miR-mediated mechanism of regulation of SIRT1 expression in SIVE.
The functional significance of the molecular swivel at the head-to-tail overlapping ends of contiguous tropomyosin (Tm) dimers in striated muscle is unknown. Contractile measurements were made in muscle fibers from transgenic (TG) mouse hearts that expressed a mutant -Tm (Tm(H276N)). We also reconstituted mouse cardiac troponin T (McTnT) N-terminal deletion mutants, McTnT(1-44) and McTnT(45-74), into muscle fibers from Tm(H276N). For controls, we used the wild-type (WT) McTnT because altered effects could be correlated with the mutant forms of McTnT. Tm(H276N) slowed crossbridge (XB) detachment rate (g) by 19%. McTnT(1-44) attenuated Ca(2+)-activated maximal tension against Tm(WT) (36%) and Tm(H276N) (38%), but sped g only against Tm(H276N) by 35%. The rate of tension redevelopment decreased (17%) only in McTnT(1-44) + Tm(H276N) fibers. McTnT(45-74) attenuated tension (19%) and myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity (pCa50=5.93 vs. 6.00 in the control fibers) against Tm(H276N), but not against Tm(WT) background. Thus, altered XB cycling kinetics decreased the fraction of strongly bound XBs in McTnT(1-44) + Tm(H276N) fibers, whereas diminished thin-filament cooperativity attenuated tension in McTnT(45-74) + Tm(H276N) fibers. In summary, our study is the first to show that the interplay between the N terminus of cTnT and the overlapping ends of contiguous Tm effectuates different states of Tm on the actin filament.
Complement is an essential component of inflammation that plays a role in ischemic brain injury. Recent reports demonstrate novel functions of complement in normal and diseased CNS, such as regulation of neurogenesis and synapse elimination. Here, we examined the role of complement-derived peptide C3a in unilateral hypoxia-ischemia (HI), a model of neonatal HI encephalopathy. HI injury was induced at postnatal day 9 (P9), and loss of hippocampal tissue was determined on P31. We compared WT mice with transgenic mice expressing C3a under the control of glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter, which express biologically active C3a only in CNS and without the requirement of a priori complement activation. Further, we injected C3a peptide into the lateral cerebral ventricle of mice lacking the C3a receptor (C3aR) and WT mice and assessed HI-induced memory impairment 41 d later. We found that HI-induced tissue loss in C3a overexpressing mice was reduced by 50% compared with WT mice. C3a peptide injected 1 h after HI protected WT but not C3aR-deficient mice against HI-induced memory impairment. Thus, C3a acting through its canonical receptor ameliorates behavioral deficits after HI injury, and C3aR is a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of neonatal HI encephalopathy.
Aggregation and accumulation of A42 play an initiating role in Alzheimer's disease (AD); thus, selective lowering of A42 by -secretase modulators (GSMs) remains a promising approach to AD therapy. Based on evidence suggesting that steroids may influence A production, we screened 170 steroids at 10 M for effects on A42 secreted from human APP-overexpressing Chinese hamster ovary cells. Many acidic steroids lowered A42, whereas many nonacidic steroids actually raised A42. Studies on the more potent compounds showed that A42-lowering steroids were bonafide GSMs and A42-raising steroids were inverse GSMs. The most potent steroid GSM identified was 5-cholanic acid (EC50=5.7 M; its endogenous analog lithocholic acid was virtually equipotent), and the most potent inverse GSM identified was 4-androsten-3-one-17-carboxylic acid ethyl ester (EC50=6.25 M). In addition, we found that both estrogen and progesterone are weak inverse GSMs with further complex effects on APP processing. These data suggest that certain endogenous steroids may have the potential to act as GSMs and add to the evidence that cholesterol, cholesterol metabolites, and other steroids may play a role in modulating A production and thus risk for AD. They also indicate that acidic steroids might serve as potential therapeutic leads for drug optimization/development.
The past decade has witnessed huge advances in our understanding of the genetics underlying Parkinson's disease. Identifying commonalities in the biological function of genes linked to Parkinson's provides an opportunity to elucidate pathways that lead to neuronal degeneration and eventually to disease. We propose that the genetic forms of Parkinson's disease largely associated with -synuclein-positive neuropathology (SNCA, LRRK2, and GBA) are brought together by involvement in the autophagy/lysosomal pathway and that this represents a unifying pathway to disease in these cases.
This year (2013) marks the 20th anniversary of identification of the causal genetic mutation for Huntington's disease (HD), a landmark discovery that heralded study of the biological underpinnings of this most common dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder. Among the variety of model organisms used to study HD pathogenesis, the mouse model is by far the most commonly used mammalian genetic model. Much of our current knowledge regarding mutant huntingtin (mHtt)-induced disease pathogenesis in mammalian models has been obtained by studying transgenic mouse models expressing mHtt N-terminal fragments, full-length murine or human mHtt. In this review, we focus on recent progress in using novel HD mouse models with targeted mHtt expression in specific brain cell types. These models help to address the role of distinct neuronal and non-neuronal cell types in eliciting cell-autonomous or non-cell-autonomous disease processes in HD. We also describe several mHtt transgenic mouse models with targeted mutations in Htt cis-domains to address specific pathogenic hypotheses, ranging from mHtt proteolysis to post-translational modifications. These novel mouse genetic studies, through direct manipulations of the causal HD gene, utilize a reductionist approach to systematically unravel the cellular and molecular pathways that are targeted by mHtt in disease pathogenesis, and to potentially identify novel targets for therapy.
A new and exciting phase of muscle disease research has recently been entered. The application of next generation sequencing technology has spurred an unprecedented era of gene discovery for both myopathies and muscular dystrophies. Gene-based therapies for Duchenne muscular dystrophy have entered clinical trial, and several pathway-based therapies are doing so as well for a handful of muscle diseases. While many factors have aided the extraordinary developments in gene discovery and therapy development, the zebrafish model system has emerged as a vital tool in these advancements. In this review, we will highlight how the zebrafish has greatly aided in the identification of new muscle disease genes and in the recognition of novel therapeutic strategies. We will start with a general introduction to the zebrafish as a model, discuss the ways in which muscle disease can be modeled and analyzed in the fish, and conclude with observations from recent studies that highlight the power of the fish as a research tool for muscle disease.
Recognition of injury to the hyoid bone and thyroid and cricoid cartilages is intrinsic to post-mortem examination. Due to its increasing brittleness with age the thyroid cartilage is particularly susceptible to injury following neck trauma, although there is inconsistency in the patterns of injury reported. In this study computed tomography scans of the head and neck of 431 deceased persons (235 males and 196 females) between the ages of 1 day and 100 years (mean age 35.93  24.15), and including 25 victims of hangings, were examined to reveal the pattern of age-related change and the types of injury that occurred. Thyroid cartilage anomalies likely to cause confusion and be misinterpreted as trauma-related are documented. Angulation of the thyroid cartilage horns was found to change with age, and it is suggested this may be a significant factor in traumatic neck injury. Unlike in previous reports, the average age of hanging victims with fractures to the thyroid cartilage was 34 years. The base of the superior horn was the most common fracture site and in 50 % of hanging cases was associated with a ligature positioned on the thyrohyoid membrane or thyroid lamina. Although an age-related relationship exists it was not possible to establish narrow age-prediction ranges from calcification of the thyroid cartilage.
Parkinson disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive neurological disease associated with a loss of dopaminergic neurons. In most cases the disease is sporadic but genetically inherited cases also exist. One of the major pathological features of PD is the presence of aggregates that localize in neuronal cytoplasm as Lewy bodies, mainly composed of -synuclein (-syn) and ubiquitin. The selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons suggests that dopamine itself may contribute to the neurodegenerative process in PD. Furthermore, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress constitute key pathogenic events of this disorder. Thus, in this review we give an actual perspective to classical pathways involving these two mechanisms of neurodegeneration, including the role of dopamine in sporadic and familial PD, as well as in the case of abuse of amphetamine-type drugs. Mutations in genes related to familial PD causing autosomal dominant or recessive forms may also have crucial effects on mitochondrial morphology, function, and oxidative stress. Environmental factors, such as MPTP and rotenone, have been reported to induce selective degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathways leading to -syn-positive inclusions, possibly by inhibiting mitochondrial complex I of the respiratory chain and subsequently increasing oxidative stress. Recently, increased risk for PD was found in amphetamine users. Amphetamine drugs have effects similar to those of other environmental factors for PD, because long-term exposure to these drugs leads to dopamine depletion. Moreover, amphetamine neurotoxicity involves -syn aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and oxidative stress. Therefore, dopamine and related oxidative stress, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction, seem to be common links between PD and amphetamine neurotoxicity.
The constant high energy demand of neurons makes them rely heavily on their mitochondria. Dysfunction of mitochondrial energy metabolism leads to reduced ATP production, impaired calcium buffering, and generation of reactive oxygen species. There is strong evidence that mitochondrial dysfunction results in neurodegeneration and may contribute to the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). Studies over the past few years have implicated an impaired function of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)- coactivator-1 (PGC-1), a transcriptional master coregulator of mitochondrial biogenesis, metabolism, and antioxidant defenses, in causing mitochondrial dysfunction in HD. Here we have attempted to discuss in a nutshell, the key findings on the role of PGC-1 in mitochondrial dysfunction in HD and its potential as a therapeutic target to cure HD.
A role for mitochondria and oxidative stress is emerging in acquired epilepsies such as temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). TLE is characterized by chronic unprovoked seizures arising from an inciting insult with a variable seizure-free &quot;latent period.&quot; The mechanism by which inciting injury induces chronic epilepsy, known as epileptogenesis, involves multiple cellular, molecular, and physiological changes resulting in altered hyperexcitable circuitry. Whether mitochondrial and redox mechanisms contribute to epileptogenesis remains to be fully clarified. Mitochondrial impairment is revealed in studies from human imaging and tissue analysis from TLE patients. The collective data from animal models suggest that steady-state mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and resultant oxidative damage to cellular macromolecules occur during different phases of epileptogenesis. This review discusses evidence for the role of mitochondria and redox changes occurring in human and experimental TLE. Potential mechanisms by which mitochondrial energetic and redox mechanisms contribute to increased neuronal excitability and therapeutic approaches to target TLE are delineated.
Neurologic conditions including stroke, Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease, and Huntington disease are leading causes of death and long-term disability in the United States, and efforts to develop novel therapeutics for these conditions have historically had poor success in translating from bench to bedside. Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 mediates a broad, evolutionarily conserved, endogenous adaptive program to hypoxia, and manipulation of components of the HIF pathway is neuroprotective in a number of human neurological diseases and experimental models. In this review, we discuss molecular components of one aspect of hypoxic adaptation in detail and provide perspective on which targets within this pathway seem to be ripest for preventing and repairing neurodegeneration. Further, we highlight the role of HIF prolyl hydroxylases as emerging targets for the salutary effects of metal chelators on ferroptosis in vitro as well in animal models of neurological diseases.
2012 has been another year in which multiple large-scale clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have failed to meet their clinical endpoints. With the social and financial burden of this disease increasing every year, the onus is now on the field of AD researchers to investigate alternative ideas to deliver outcomes for patients. Although several major clinical trials targeting A have failed, three smaller clinical trials targeting metal interactions with A have all shown benefit for patients. Here we review the genetic, pathological, biochemical, and pharmacological evidence that underlies the metal hypothesis of AD. The AD-affected brain suffers from metallostasis, or fatigue of metal trafficking, resulting in redistribution of metals into inappropriate compartments. The metal hypothesis is built upon a triad of transition elements: iron, copper, and zinc. The hypothesis has matured from early investigations showing amyloidogenic and oxidative stress consequences of these metals; recently, disease-related proteins, APP, tau, and presenilin, have been shown to have major roles in metal regulation, which provides insight into the pathway of neurodegeneration in AD and illuminates potential new therapeutic avenues.


The neuropeptide NK3 receptor is expressed almost exclusively within the mammalian nervous system and its localization is commensurate with a role in modulating central monoaminergic neurotransmission. Following on from our previous work we review the rationale for NK3 receptor antagonists as wide spectrum antipsychotics and the recent scientific and patent literature that has highlighted new chemical strategies to identify selective NK3 and dual activity NK1/3 receptor ligands for the putative treatment of schizophrenia. We discuss the emerging structural biology and its use in the design of molecules with increased structural diversity and predictable receptor pharmacology. Particular attention is paid to the progress in improving ligand drug-like properties. The status of imaging and the development of translational technologies in the neurokinin field are also discussed. Finally, we summarize the available clinical information on the compounds that have progressed into psychiatric patient populations and evaluate the potential therapeutic utility of NK3 receptor targeted ligands.
Dr Conn is the Lee E Limbird Professor of Pharmacology at Vanderbilt University and Director of the Vanderbilt Center for Neuroscience Drug Discovery (VCNDD). Dr Conn received a PhD in Pharmacology from Vanderbilt in 1986 and pursued postdoctoral studies at Yale University. He served as a professor of Pharmacology at Emory University from 1988 to 2000, before moving to Merck and Co. (PA, USA) as head of the Department of Neuroscience. Dr Conn moved to Vanderbilt University in 2003 where he is the founding director of the VCNDD, with a primary mission of facilitating translation of recent advances in basic science to novel therapeutics. The VCNDD consists of approximately 100 full-time scientists and has advanced novel molecules from four major programs as development candidates for clinical testing with industry partners. Dr Conn has served in editorial positions with multiple international journals and has served the scientific advisory boards of multiple foundations and companies. He has received numerous awards based on the impact of his basic and translational research. Dr Conn's current research is focused on development of novel treatment strategies for schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease and other serious brain disorders. Interview conducted by Hannah Coaker, Assistant Commissioning Editor.


The aim of this study was to evaluate the linearity of the relationship between stride length and cadence (STRIDELC) over three self-selected speeds (normal, slow, fast) in below-knee prosthesis users (n=14, 11 men, mean age 4312 years, mean time since amputation 9.26.9 years) in comparison to controls (n=20, 11 men, mean age 4317 years). The step length-cadence relationship (STEPLC) was also calculated for the prosthetic and intact legs in prosthesis users and compared to the dominant leg of controls. The goodness of linear fit (R2) and slope over 3 speeds were used as outcome measures. Prosthesis users walked significantly slower than controls (slow-fast speed means 82-131 vs. 97-169 cm/s, respectively, ANOVA p&lt;0.0001) due to both lower cadence (42-53 vs. 47-63 strides/min, p&lt;0.0001) and shorter stride length (116-149 vs. 123-161 cm, p&lt;0.0001). The R2 of STRIDELC relationship in below-knee prosthesis users (0.760.13) was significantly lower than in controls (0.910.03, p&lt;0.001). The R2 values of STEPLC relationship between the prosthetic and intact legs in prosthesis users were correlated (r=0.85, p&lt;0.001) and both (0.670.19, 0.580.21, respectively) were significantly smaller than in the dominant leg of controls (0.860.04, p&lt;0.01). The slopes of STRIDELC and STEPLC were not different. The R2 of 0.84 for STRIDELC best discriminated prosthesis users from controls with high sensitivity (71%) and specificity (95%). The results indicate that coupling between stride/step length and cadence is disturbed in prosthesis users. Upon further investigation, the goodness of linear fit may prove to be useful in assessing prosthetic design, optimizing prosthetic fit, and predicting clinical outcomes.
Postactivation depression is decreased in patients with spasticity and partially restored by physical exercise in spinal cord injured patients. Up until now, the possibility to modulate postactivation depression with motor training has never been explored in subjects with spasticity following brain lesions. Postactivation depression, assessed as frequency related depression of soleus H-reflex, was investigated before and after robotic-assisted gait training in a group of seven subjects with spastic hemiparesis following hemispheric stroke. Patients received three sessions per week of robotic-assisted gait training for a period of 4 weeks (12 sessions in total). Postactivation depression was measured before the treatment (T0), after the first session (T1) and after the last session (T2). Postactivation depression was quantified as the ratio between H-reflex amplitude at 1 Hz and at 0.1 Hz. The greater the 1 Hz/0.1 Hz ratio, the smaller the postactivation depression. Following robotic-assisted gait training, the 1 Hz/0.1 Hz ratio decreased from 0.790.26 at T0 to 0.560.18 at T1 and 0.580.13 at T2. Post hoc analysis showed a significant difference between T0 and T1 and between T0 and T2, stating an increase of postactivation depression. No significant differences were found between T1 and T2. This study provides the first demonstration that physical exercise can determine a partial normalization of postactivation depression in hemiparetic patients with spasticity following unilateral hemispheric stroke.
The risk of clozapine-induced agranulocytosis is highest in the initial 6 months after onset of treatment. There have been very few reports of neutropenia and agranulocytosis after this period. We report a unique case of delayed clozapine-induced agranulocytosis in a patient with preexisting multiple sclerosis (MS) which was treated with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. Both MS and clozapine-induced agranulocytosis have an underlying autoimmune immune mechanism. This case highlights the need for frequent blood count monitoring on clozapine even after the initial 6 months of starting treatment especially in patients with a past history of drop in white blood cell counts as well as with a comorbid autoimmune disorder.
Given the limitations of pharmacological treatments in Alzheimer's disease, many non-drug therapies have emerged in recent decades and are often offered in complement of pharmacological treatments. The cognitive rehabilitation interventions focused on memory are usual in Alzheimer's disease. Memory deficits are prominent from the early stages of the disease and cause detriment to patient autonomy in daily life. In particular, problems of identity and autobiographical memory, although still often overlooked in the patients' general neuropsychological profile, appear right away. Because of their more insidious negative influence, specific treatments are still underdeveloped. Rehabilitation of autobiographical memory is complex because it requires taking into account its multiple components, both semantic and episodic, but also understanding its links with personal identity. Thus, this article provides an overview of existing cognitive rehabilitation interventions of anterograde and retrograde autobiographical memory in Alzheimer's disease. We specify the contribution of new technologies to improve the consolidation of recent events memory and of a rehabilitation program of autobiographical memory - REMau -, derived from the TEMPau task, which takes into account the constructive nature of episodic memories via the personal semantic through different periods of life. The main aim is to examine what are the objectives, benefits and limitations of these interventions and to estimate how they can meet the more general problem of deficiency in personal identity. As identity is constructed on the basis of past experience, but is modulated by new experiences, our current challenge is to associate combined treatments of anterograde and retrograde memory based on the interaction between autobiographical memory and the self.
Autistic individuals display impaired social interactions and language, and restricted, stereotyped behaviors. Elevated levels of secreted amyloid precursor protein-alpha (sAPP), the product of -secretase cleavage of APP, are found in the plasma of some individuals with autism. The sAPP protein is neurotrophic and neuroprotective and recently showed a correlation to glial differentiation in human neural stem cells (NSCs) via the IL-6 pathway. Considering evidence of gliosis in postmortem autistic brains, we hypothesized that subsets of patients with autism would exhibit elevations in CNS sAPP and mice generated to mimic this observation would display markers suggestive of gliosis and autism-like behavior. Elevations in sAPP levels were observed in brains of autistic patients compared to controls. Transgenic mice engineered to overexpress human sAPP (TgsAPP mice) displayed hypoactivity, impaired sociability, increased brain glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression, and altered Notch1 and IL-6 levels. NSCs isolated from TgsAPP mice, and those derived from wild-type mice treated with sAPP, displayed suppressed -tubulin III and elevated GFAP expression. These results suggest that elevations in brain sAPP levels are observed in subsets of individuals with autism and TgsAPP mice display signs suggestive of gliosis and behavioral impairment.
Advances in stem cell biology have raised great expectations that diseases and injuries of the central nervous system (CNS) may be ameliorated by the development of non-hematopoietic stem cell medicines. Yet, the application of adult stem cells as CNS therapeutics is challenging and the interpretation of some of the outcomes ambiguous. In fact, the initial idea that stem cell transplants work only via structural cell replacement has been challenged by the observation of consistent cellular signaling between the graft and the host. Cellular signaling is the foundation of coordinated actions and flexible responses, and arises via networks of exchanging and interacting molecules that transmit patterns of information between cells. Sustained stem cell graft-to-host communication leads to remarkable trophic effects on endogenous brain cells and beneficial modulatory actions on innate and adaptive immune responses in vivo, ultimately promoting the healing of the injured CNS. Among a number of adult stem cell types, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and neural stem/precursor cells (NPCs) are being extensively investigated for their ability to signal to the immune system upon transplantation in experimental CNS diseases. Here, we focus on the main cellular signaling pathways that grafted MSCs and NPCs use to establish a therapeutically relevant cross talk with host immune cells, while examining the role of inflammation in regulating some of the bidirectionality of these communications. We propose that the identification of the players involved in stem cell signaling might contribute to the development of innovative, high clinical impact therapeutics for inflammatory CNS diseases.

The treatment of migraine was transformed in 1992 with the introduction of the first triptan-based therapy, subcutaneous (SC) sumatriptan. SC sumatriptan has high efficacy and a rapid onset of action compared with other available triptans and formulations presumably because of its short Tmax, high Cmax, and avoidance of enteral absorption. Because of these characteristics, SC sumatriptan is still considered the most reliably and rapidly effective self-administered medication available for acute migraine. Even so, it is relatively little used possibly in part because of patient &quot;needle-phobia.&quot; The needle-free sumatriptan injection system (Sumavel DosePro) was developed to address this concern. Clinical trials have shown that the needle-free system is bioequivalent to needle-based injection systems, easy to use, and capable of providing rapid and effective symptom relief for many migraine episodes. Sumavel DosePro is an effective treatment for migraine and should be part of the therapeutic armamentarium, particularly in cases where a rapid onset of action is critical or where oral administration is problematic.
Spoken language is rarely heard in silence, and a great deal of interest in psychoacoustics has focused on the ways that the perception of speech is affected by properties of masking noise. In this review we first briefly outline the neuroanatomy of speech perception. We then summarise the neurobiological aspects of the perception of masked speech, and investigate this as a function of masker type, masker level and task. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Annual Reviews 2013&quot;.
The hippocampus is critical for memory tasks which require an active maintenance of memory for a short period of time; however, the underlying neural mechanisms remain unknown. Most theoretical and computational models, which date back to the classic proposals by Donald Hebb in , have been self-constrained by anatomy, as most models rely on the recurrent connectivity in region CA3 to support &quot;reverberating activity&quot; capable of memory maintenance. However, several physiological and behavioral studies have specifically implicated region CA1 in tasks which require an active maintenance of memory. Here, we demonstrate that despite limited recurrent connectivity, CA1 contains a robust cellular mechanism for active memory maintenance in the form of self-sustained persistent firing. Using in vitro whole-cell recordings, we demonstrate that brief stimulation (0.2-2 s) reliably elicits long-lasting (&gt; 30 s) persistent firing that is supported by the calcium-activated non-selective cationic current. In contrast to more traditional ideas, these data suggest that the hippocampal region CA1 is capable of active maintenance of memory.
Rodent brains encode space in both the firing rate and the spike timing of neurons in the medial entorhinal cortex. The rate code is realized by grid fields, that is, the neurons fire at multiple places that are arranged on a hexagonal lattice. Such activity is accompanied by theta oscillations of the local field potential. The phase of spikes thereby encodes space as well, since it decreases with the distance traveled in the field-a phenomenon called phase precession. A likely candidate for grid cells are entorhinal cortex stellate cells, which are type II oscillators and have been suggested to act as pacemakers. It is unclear how spiking of such putative pacemaker neurons would be able to precess in phase relative to a self-generated oscillation. This article presents a computational model of how this paradox can be resolved although the periodicity of the grid fields interferes with the periodic firing of the neurons. Our simulations show that the connections between stellate cells synchronize small cell groups, which allows a population oscillation during grid field activity that is accompanied by theta phase precession. Direct excitatory coupling between the stellate cells, indirect inhibitory coupling via a gamma-oscillating network of interneurons, or both could mediate this phase coordination. Our model further suggests modulation of h-currents to be a feasible mechanism to adjust phase precession to running-speed. The coexistence of rate and timing code for space hence follows as a natural consequence of the self-organization in a recurrent network.
Estrogens differentially modulate behavior in the adult female rodent. Voluntary exercise can also impact behavior, often reversing age associated decrements in memory processes. Our research group has published a series of papers reporting a deficit in the acquisition of an operant working memory task, delayed spatial alternation (DSA), following 17-estradiol treatment to middle-aged ovariectomized (OVX) rats. The current study examined if voluntary exercise could attenuate the 17-estradiol induced deficits on DSA performance. OVX 12-month old Long-Evans rats were implanted with a Silastic capsule containing 17-estradiol (10% in cholesterol: low physiological range) or with a blank capsule. A subset of the 17-estradiol and OVX untreated rats were given free access to a running wheel in their home cage. All rats were tested for 40 sessions on the DSA task. Surprisingly, we found running wheel access to impair initial acquisition of the DSA task in 17-estradiol treated rats, an effect not seen in OVX untreated rats given running wheel access. This deficit was driven by an increase in perseverative responding on a lever no longer associated with reinforcement. We also report for the first time a 17-estradiol induced impairment on the DSA task following a long intertrial delay (18-sec), an effect revealed following more extended testing than in our previous studies (15 additional sessions). Overall, running wheel access increased initial error rate on the DSA task in 17-estradiol treated middle-aged OVX rats, and failed to prevent the 17-estradiol induced deficits in performance of the operant DSA task in later testing sessions.
Estradiol is thought to play a critical role in the increased vulnerability to psychostimulant abuse in women. Sex differences in the ability of estradiol to influence cocaine self-administration in adult rats have been hypothesized to depend upon pubertal estradiol exposure. The current study investigated whether the presence of gonadal hormones during puberty affected cocaine self-administration behavior and its sensitivity to adult estradiol treatment in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats. Subjects were gonadectomized or SHAM-operated at postnatal day (PD) 22, and received either OIL or estradiol benzoate (EB) during the approximate time of puberty (PD27 to PD37). Adult rats were subsequently treated with either EB or OIL 30 min before cocaine self-administration (0.3 mg/kg/inf) in order to examine the effects of pubertal manipulations on the estradiol sensitivity of acquisition on a fixed ratio (FR) 1 schedule, total intake on a FR5 schedule and motivation on a progressive ratio schedule. Adult EB treatment only affected cocaine self-administration in females, which is consistent with previous research. Adult EB treatment enhanced acquisition in all females irrespective of puberty manipulations. All females, except those treated with EB during puberty, displayed increased cocaine intake following adult EB treatment. Adult EB treatment only enhanced motivation in females that were intact during puberty, whereas those treated with EB during puberty showed reduced motivation. Therefore, the sensitivities of different self-administration behaviors to adult estradiol treatment are organized independently in females, with pubertal estradiol exerting a greater influence over motivational processes, and negligible effects on learning/acquisition.
Successful reproduction in mammals depends on proceptive or solicitational behaviors that enhance the probability of encountering potential mates. In female Syrian hamsters, one such behavior is vaginal scent marking. Recent evidence suggests that the neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) may be critical for regulating this behavior. Blockade of OT receptors in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) or the medial preoptic area (MPOA) decreases vaginal marking responses to male odors; lesion data suggest that BNST, rather than MPOA, mediates this effect. However, how OT interacts with sexual odor processing to drive preferential solicitation is not known. To address this issue, intact female Syrian hamsters were exposed to male or female odors and their brains processed for immunohistochemistry for Fos, a marker of recent neuronal activation, and OT. Additional females were injected intracerebroventricularly (ICV) with an oxytocin receptor antagonist (OTA) or vehicle, and then tested for vaginal marking and Fos responses to sexual odors. Colocalization of OT and Fos in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus was unchanged following exposure to male odors, but decreased following exposure to female odors. Following injections of OTA, Fos expression to male odors was decreased in BNST, but not in MPOA or the medial amygdala (MA). Fos expression in BNST may be functionally relevant for vaginal marking, given that there was a positive correlation between Fos expression and vaginal marking for BNST, but not MPOA or MA. Together, these data suggest that OT facilitation of neuronal activity in BNST underlies the facilitative effects of OT on solicitational responses to male odors.
Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is the most frequent form of focal epilepsy. At rest, there is evidence that brain abnormalities in MTLE are not limited to the epileptogenic region, but extend throughout the whole brain. It is also well established that MTLE patients suffer from episodic memory deficits. Thus, we investigated the relation between the functional connectivity seen at rest in fMRI and episodic memory impairments in MTLE. We focused on resting state BOLD activity and evaluated whether functional connectivity (FC) differences emerge from MTL seeds in left and right MTLE groups, compared with healthy controls. Results revealed significant FC reductions in both patient groups, localized in angular gyri, thalami, posterior cingulum and medial frontal cortex. We found that the FC between the left non-pathologic MTL and the medial frontal cortex was positively correlated with the delayed recall score of a non-verbal memory test in right MTLE patients, suggesting potential adaptive changes to preserve this memory function. In contrast, we observed a negative correlation between a verbal memory test and the FC between the left pathologic MTL and posterior cingulum in left MTLE patients, suggesting potential functional maladaptative changes in the pathologic hemisphere. Overall, the present study provides some indication that left MTLE may be more impairing than right MTLE patients to normative functional connectivity. Our data also indicates that the pattern of extra-temporal FC may vary as a function of episodic memory material and each hemisphere's capacity for cognitive reorganization.
Numerous diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have implicated white matter brain tissue abnormalities in schizophrenia. However, the vast majority of these studies included patient populations that use antipsychotic medication. Previous research showed that medication intake can affect brain morphology and the question therefore arises to what extent the reported white matter aberrations can be attributed to the disease rather than to the use of medication. In this study we included 16 medication-nave patients with schizophrenia and compared them to 23 healthy controls to exclude antipsychotic medication use as a confounding factor. For each subject DTI scans and magnetization transfer imaging (MTI) scans were acquired. A new tract-based analysis was used that combines fractional anisoptropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD) and magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) to examine group differences in 12 major white matter fiber bundles. Significant group differences in combined FA, MD, MTR values were found for the right uncinate fasciculus and the left arcuate fasciculus. Additional analysis revealed that the largest part of both tracts showed an increase in MTR in combination with an increase in MD for patients with schizophrenia. We interpret these group-related differences as disease-related axonal or glial aberrations that cannot be attributed to antipsychotic medication use.
Neurogenic stuttering is an acquired speech disorder characterized by the occurrence of stuttering-like dysfluencies following brain damage. Because the onset of stuttering in these patients is associated with brain lesions, this condition provides a unique opportunity to study the neural processes underlying speech dysfluencies. Lesion localizations of 20 stroke subjects with neurogenic stuttering and 17 control subjects were compared using voxel-based lesion symptom mapping. The results showed nine left-hemisphere areas associated with the presence of neurogenic stuttering. These areas were largely overlapping with the cortico-basal ganglia-cortical network comprising the inferior frontal cortex, superior temporal cortex, intraparietal cortex, basal ganglia, and their white matter interconnections through the superior longitudinal fasciculus and internal capsule. These results indicated that stroke-induced neurogenic stuttering is not associated with neural dysfunction in one specific brain area but can occur following one or more lesion throughout the cortico-basal ganglia-cortical network. It is suggested that the onset of neurogenic stuttering in stroke subjects results from a disintegration of neural functions necessary for fluent speech.
The aim of this study was to analyze correlations among the annual rate of gray matter volume change, age, gender, and cerebrovascular risk factors in 381 healthy community-dwelling subjects with a large age range by applying a longitudinal design over 6 years using brain magnetic resonance images (MRIs). Brain MRI data were processed with voxel-based morphometry using a custom template by applying diffeomorphic anatomical registration using the exponentiated lie algebra procedure. The annual rate of regional gray matter volume change showed significant positive correlations with age in several regions, including the bilateral temporal pole, caudate nucleus, ventral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices, insula, hippocampus, and temporoparietal cortex, whereas significant negative correlations with age were observed in several regions including the bilateral cingulate gyri and anterior lobe of the cerebellum. Additionally, a significant age-by-gender interaction was found for the annual rate of regional gray matter volume change in the bilateral hippocampus. No significant correlations were observed between the annual rate of regional gray matter volume change and body mass index or systolic blood pressure. A significant positive correlation between the annual rate of gray matter volume change and age indicates that the region shows not linear but accelerated gray matter loss with age. Therefore, evaluating the annual rate of the gray matter volume change with age in healthy subjects is important in understanding how gray matter volume changes with aging in each brain region and in anticipating what cognitive functions are likely to show accelerated decline with aging.
Recently, blink-related delta oscillations (delta BROs) have been observed in healthy subjects during spontaneous blinking at rest. Delta BROs have been linked with continuous gathering of information from the surrounding environment, which is classically attributed to the precuneus. Furthermore, fMRI studies have shown that precuneal activity is reduced or missing when consciousness is low or absent. We therefore hypothesized that the source of delta BROs in healthy subjects could be located in the precuneus and that delta BROs could be absent or reduced in patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC). To test these hypotheses, electroencephalographic (EEG) activity at rest was recorded in 12 healthy controls and nine patients with DOC (four vegetative states, and five minimally conscious states). Three-second-lasting EEG epochs centred on each blink instance were analyzed in both time- (BROs) and frequency domains (event-related spectral perturbation or ERSP and intertrial coherence or ITC). Cortical sources of the maximum blink-related delta power, corresponding to the positive peak of the delta BROs, were estimated by standardized Low Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography. In control subjects, as expected, the source of delta BROs was located in the precuneus, whereas in DOC patients, delta BROs were not recognizable and no precuneal localization was possible. Furthermore, we observed a direct relationship between spectral indexes and levels of cognitive functioning in all subjects participating in the study. This reinforces the hypothesis that delta BROs reflect neural processes linked with awareness of the self and of the environment.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is used in the presurgical work-up of patients with focal epilepsy. In particular, localization of MEG interictal spikes may guide or replace invasive electroencephalography monitoring that is required in difficult cases. From literature, it is not clear which MEG source localization method performs best in this clinical setting. Therefore, we applied three source localization methods to the same data from a large patient group for which a gold standard, interictal spikes as identified in electrocorticography (ECoG), was available. The methods used were multiple signal classification (MUSIC), Synthetic Aperture Magnetometry kurtosis [SAM(g2)], and standardized low-resolution electromagnetic tomography. MEG and ECoG data from 38 patients with refractory focal epilepsy were obtained. Results of the three source localization methods applied to the interictal MEG data were assigned to predefined anatomical regions. Interictal spikes as identified in ECoG were also assigned to these regions. Identified regions by each MEG method were compared to ECoG. Sensitivity and positive predictive value (PPV) of each MEG method were calculated. All three MEG methods showed a similar overall correlate with ECoG spikes, but the methods differ in which regions they detect. The choice of the inverse model thus has an unexpected influence on the results of magnetic source imaging. Combining inverse methods and seeking consensus can be used to improve specificity at the cost of some sensitivity. Combining MUSIC with SAM(g2) gives the best results (sensitivity = 38% and PPV = 82%).
Superior temporal and inferior frontal cortices are involved in the processing of pitch information in the domain of language and music. Here, we used fMRI to test the particular roles of these brain regions in the neural implementation of pitch in music and in tone language (Mandarin) with a group of Mandarin speaking musicians whose pertaining experiences in pitch are similar across domains. Our findings demonstrate that the neural network for pitch processing includes the pars triangularis of Broca's area and the right superior temporal gyrus (STG) across domains. Within this network, pitch sensitive activation in Broca's area is tightly linked to the behavioral performance of pitch congruity judgment, thereby reflecting controlled processes. Activation in the right STG is independent of performance and more sensitive to pitch congruity in music than in tone language, suggesting a domain-specific modulation of the perceptual processes. These observations provide a first glimpse at the cortical pitch processing network shared across domains.
The ability to stop a prepared response (reactive inhibition) appears to depend on the degree to which stopping is expected (proactive inhibition). Functional MRI studies have shown that activation during proactive and reactive inhibition overlaps, suggesting that the whole neural network for reactive inhibition becomes already activated in anticipation of stopping. However, these studies measured proactive inhibition as the effect of stop-signal probability on activation during go trials. Therefore, activation could reflect expectation of a stop-signal (evoked by the stop-signal probability cue), but also violation of this expectation because stop-signals do not occur on go trials. We addressed this problem, using a stop-signal task in which the stop-signal probability cue and the go-signal were separated in time. Hence, we could separate activation during the cue, reflecting expectation of the stop-signal, from activation during the go-signal, reflecting expectation of the stop-signal or violation of that expectation. During the cue, the striatum, the supplementary motor complex (SMC), and the midbrain activated. During the go-signal, the right inferior parietal cortex (IPC) and the right inferior frontal cortex (IFC) activated. These findings suggest that the neural network previously associated with proactive inhibition can be subdivided into two components. One component, including the striatum, the SMC, and the midbrain, activated during the cue, implicating this network in proactive inhibition. Another component, consisting of the right IPC and the right IFC, activated during the go-signal. Rather than being involved in proactive inhibition, this network appears to be involved in processes associated with violation of expectations.
Group identification can lead to a biased view of the world in favor of &quot;in-group&quot; members. Studying the brain processes that underlie such in-group biases is important for a wider understanding of the potential influence of social factors on basic perceptual processes. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate how people perceive the actions of in-group and out-group members, and how their biased view in favor of own team members manifests itself in the brain. We divided participants into two teams and had them judge the relative speeds of hand actions performed by an in-group and an out-group member in a competitive situation. Participants judged hand actions performed by in-group members as being faster than those of out-group members, even when the two actions were performed at physically identical speeds. In an additional fMRI experiment, we showed that, contrary to common belief, such skewed impressions arise from a subtle bias in perception and associated brain activity rather than decision-making processes, and that this bias develops rapidly and involuntarily as a consequence of group affiliation. Our findings suggest that the neural mechanisms that underlie human perception are shaped by social context.
An expansion of glutamines within the human ataxin-1 protein underlies spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1), a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia and loss of cerebellar Purkinje neurons. Although the mechanisms linking the mutation to the disease remain unclear, evidence indicates that it involves a combination of both gain and loss of functions of ataxin-1. We previously showed that the mutant ataxin-1 interacts with Anp32a, a potent and selective PP2A inhibitor, suggesting a role of PP2A in SCA1. Herein, we found a new function of ataxin-1: the modulation of Pp2a activity and the regulation of its holoenzyme composition, with the polyglutamine mutation within Atxn1 altering this function in the SCA1 mouse cerebellum before disease onset. We show that ataxin-1 enhances Pp2a-b expression and down-regulates Anp32a levels without affecting post-translational modifications of Pp2a catalytic subunit (Pp2a-c) known to regulate Pp2a activity. In contrast, mutant Atxn1 induces a decrease in Y307-phosphorylation in Pp2a-c, known to enhance its activity, while reducing Pp2a-b expression and inhibiting Anp32a levels. qRT-PCR and chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses show that ataxin-1-mediated regulations of the Pp2a-b subunit, specifically b2, and of Anp32a occur at the transcriptional level. The Pp2a pathway alterations were confirmed by identified phosphorylation changes of the known Pp2a-substrates, Erk2 and Gsk3. Similarly, mutant ataxin-1-expressing SH-SY5Y cells exhibit abnormal neuritic morphology, decreased levels of both PP2A-B and ANP32A, and PP2A pathway alterations, all of which are ameliorated by overexpressing ANP32A. Our results point to dysregulation of this newly assigned function of ataxin-1 in SCA1 uncovering new potential targets for therapy.
Passive immunization is a crucial parameter for prevention of human rabies. Presently as World Health Organization (WHO) strongly advocates local infiltration of rabies immunoglobulin in and around the bite wound, we feel that there is no basis for calculating the dose of immunoglobulin based on body weight. Keeping this in view we conducted both in vitro and in vivo studies to know whether the dose of immunoglobulin can be reduced and still obtain complete neutralization of the virus. In vitro neutralization studies were conducted using CVS strain of virus and BHK 21 cells. In vivo experiments were conducted in 4 weeks old Swiss albino mice by initial challenge with CVS followed by infiltration with increasing dilutions of either human rabies immunoglobulin (HRIG) and equine rabies immunoglobulin (ERIG). In vitro studies showed that a dose of 100 FFD 50 of CVS was neutralized by increasing dilution of both HRIG and ERIG and 100% neutralization was observed with HRIG and ERIG in as low quantities as 0.025 IU. In mice studies there was 100% survival of mice infiltrated with 0.025 IU of both HRIG and ERIG compared with 100% mortality in mice infiltrated with normal saline. These results suggest that it is possible to reduce the dose of rabies immunoglobulins by at least 16 times the presently advocated dose. These findings needs to be further evaluated using larger animal models and street viruses prevalent in nature but cannot serve as recommendations for use of RIG for passive immunization in humans.
Following two decades of design and clinical research on robot-mediated therapy for the shoulder and elbow, therapeutic robotic devices for other joints are being proposed: several research groups including ours have designed robots for the wrist, either to be used as stand-alone devices or in conjunction with shoulder and elbow devices. However, in contrast with robots for the shoulder and elbow which were able to take advantage of descriptive kinematic models developed in neuroscience for the past 30 years, design of wrist robots controllers cannot rely on similar prior art: wrist movement kinematics has been largely unexplored. This study aimed at examining speed profiles of fast, visually evoked, visually guided, target-directed human wrist pointing movements. One thousand three-hundred ninety-eight (1398) trials were recorded from seven unimpaired subjects who performed center-out flexion/extension and abduction/adduction wrist movements and fitted with 19 models previously proposed for describing reaching speed profiles. A nonlinear, least squares optimization procedure extracted parameters' sets that minimized error between experimental and reconstructed data. Models' performances were compared based on their ability to reconstruct experimental data. Results suggest that the support-bounded lognormal is the best model for speed profiles of fast, wrist pointing movements. Applications include design of control algorithms for therapeutic wrist robots and quantitative metrics of motor recovery.
The Golgi methods have long been used to study the neuronal soma, axons, dendritic arborization and spines. The major concerns of the Golgi method have been its unpredictable nature (inconsistency of impregnation of the stain), time consumed, tissue hardening and clear background, resulting in several modifications to improve the cellular visualization. In the present work we describe a modification of the rapid-Golgi method that takes the benefit of perfusion fixation (with rapid-Golgi solution) then post-fixation in the same fixative for 36 h followed by 36 h impregnation in aqueous AgNO3 followed by vibratomy. This modification is simpler, faster and inexpensive, provides a consistent staining of neurons with good resolution of neuronal soma, dendritic arborization as well as spines with much reduced formation of silver chromate crystals and background in just 3 days.

The aim of this study was to quantitatively review, using a meta-analytic approach, randomized-controlled trials analyzing the efficacy and safety profiles of asenapine in the treatment of bipolar disorder (BD). MEDLINE (1966 to August 2012) and EMBASE (1980 to August 2012) databases were systematically searched to identify relevant papers. Data from four randomized-controlled trials were analyzed. For continuous data (Young Mania Rating Scale, Clinical Global Impression Scale for Bipolar Disorder, and Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale scores), the Hedges g was adopted as a measure of the effect size; for dichotomous outcome measures (discontinuation and rates of adverse events), the risk ratio was calculated. In short-term trials, asenapine was found to be significantly superior to placebo in the treatment of manic symptoms of BD. There is also evidence of the positive effects of asenapine compared with placebo on depressive symptoms in mixed bipolar states. In the medium-term and long-term studies, asenapine showed comparable efficacy with the well-established comparator olanzapine in the treatment of manic and depressive symptoms of BD. Adverse events such as somnolence, weight gain, and extrapyramidal symptom, which have an impact on treatment adherence, are scarcely or moderately elicited by asenapine, which shows a better profile than olanzapine on metabolic parameters. On the basis of these results, asenapine can be considered as an effective and tolerable treatment for manic and mixed episodes of BD.
IB- is a nuclear IB protein robustly induced in macrophages and fibroblasts upon TLR or IL-1R stimulation. IB- associates with NF-B in the cell nucleus and is essential for the induction of a subset of secondary response genes represented by IL-6. Here, we analyzed induction of IB- in mouse B cells and found that IB- is induced by BCR or TLR stimulation. Similar to TLR stimulation, BCR stimulation elicited NF-B-mediated transcriptional activation and mRNA stabilization of IB- via a cis-element in IB- mRNA. Proteasome inhibitors inhibited transcriptional activation but not post-transcriptional activation, indicating independency of the two signals. Co-stimulation of the BCR and TLR9 or TLR7, but not TLR2/1, synergistically induced IB-. Co-engagement of inhibitory Fc receptor suppressed BCR-mediated IB- expression but not that induced by TLR stimulation alone or co-stimulation of TLR and the BCR. The PI3K inhibitor LY294002 inhibited BCR-mediated, but not TLR-mediated, induction of IB-, consistent with the role of PI3K in BCR signaling and its suppression by FcR. Analysis of IB--deficient B cells demonstrated that IB- was essential upon stimulation of BCR or TLR for the expression of several genes including IL-10 and CTLA4. IB--deficient B cells exhibited impaired proliferation and enhanced up-regulation of CD86 following stimulation of TLR9, but not the BCR, indicating critical roles for IB- in TLR signaling in B cells. Strict regulatory mechanisms for the induction of IB- via multiple pathways and its essential function upon stimulation indicate that IB- plays an important role in B cells.
Peroxisomes are intracellular organelles that perform vital metabolic functions. They have been extensively studied in the hepatic and renal systems, yet their pivotal roles in facilitating central nervous system patterning and in disease pathogenesis are only recently being firmly established by the neuroscience community. Peroxisomal functions including the break-down of long chain fatty acids, the removal of H2O2, and the biosynthesis of ether lipids. The build up of long chain fatty acids and H2O2 is detrimental to cellular function, and ether lipids play roles in maintaining cell membrane structure. These findings have major implications for treatments for the full spectrum of peroxisomal disorders. Here, we provide a timely review highlighting the most important data in recent times linking peroxisomal functions to brain formation, and we describe how peroxisomal deficiency and pathway dysfunction results in neurological deficits, the more severe of which result in life changing disabilities and death.
This case report describes a 26-year-old woman affected by long-lasting anorexia nervosa (AN) and Crohn's disease. Worsening of the bowel illness led to the prescription of immunosuppressive therapy (biologic infliximab for 4 months, followed by adalimumab for 6 months) and referral to our Eating Disorders Unit. Although she initially demonstrated denial of her eating disorder, in a few months she gradually improved her weight and psychopathology. Crohn's disease can worsen AN by modifying hunger and energy expenditure through the effects of TNF- and IL-6, pro-inflammatory cytokines which moderate leptin and melanocortin signaling. Previous studies have observed the antidepressant effects of TNF antagonist in patients with treatment-resistant depression with high baseline inflammatory biomarkers. Our case report suggests that future studies are needed to clarify the existence, patterns, and extent of increased inflammatory markers in patients with AN, and whether they determine clinical features or identify subgroups of patients. Potential therapeutic significance of above issues remains to be determined.


Background: To identify the prevalence of behavioural (Pre-pregnancy), obstetrical and medical risks of pregnancy in Iranian women. Methods: A total of 2993 postpartum women who delivered in 23 randomly selected hospitals of six provinces were enrolled in this nationwide cross-sectional study. A structured questionnaire was completed based on interviewees' self-reports and medical record data, consisting of socio-demographic characteristics, behavioural, obstetrical and medical risks, before and during pregnancy. Results: Less than 6.0% had no health insurance and 5.0% had no prenatal visit before labour. Unintended pregnancy was reported by 27.5% of women. Waterpipe and/or cigarette smoking was reported by 7.1% of them and 0.9% abused opiates during pregnancy. Physical abuse by husband in the year before pregnancy occurred in 7.5% of participants. The rate of cesarean section was 50.4%. Preterm birth, low birth weight, and stillbirth were seen in 6.8, 7.7, and 1.2% of deliveries respectively. The most frequent medical risk factors were urinary tract infection (32.5%), anemia (21.6%), and thyroid disease (4.1%). Conclusion: More effort should be devoted by health policymakers to the establishment of a preconception counselling (health education and risk assessment) and surveillance system; although obstetrical and medical risks should not be neglected too.
Early-life stress is a main contributory factor to the onset of depression. Treatments remain inadequate and as such, a large unmet medical need for novel therapeutics remains. Impeding advancement is the poor understanding of the molecular pathology. microRNAs (miRNAs) are novel regulators of gene expression. A paucity of information regarding their role in depressive pathology and antidepressant action remains. This study investigated changes to hippocampal miRNA levels induced via early-life stress in Sprague-Dawley rats and whether antidepressant treatments could reverse these changes. Investigated were the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine, the rapid acting N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist ketamine and electroconvulsive shock therapy (ECT). Microarray analysis revealed early-life stress affected the expression of multiple hippocampal miRNAs. Antidepressant treatments reversed some of these effects including a stress-induced change to miR-451. Ketamine and ECT possessed the highest number of common targets suggesting convergence on common pathways. Interestingly all three treatments possessed miR-598-5p as a common target. This demonstrates that changes to hippocampal miRNA expression may represent an important component of stress-induced pathology and antidepressant action may reverse these.
Prenatal infection is an environmental risk factor for schizophrenia while later in life, stressful events have been associated with the onset and severity of psychosis. Recent findings on the impact of stress on the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), of which hypofunctioning is implicated in schizophrenia, suggest changes in stress-induced regulation of the glutamatergic system may be related to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Our study aimed to test whether prenatal immune activation could interact with stress at adolescence to alter NMDAR function. We used offspring from rat dams administered bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) during pregnancy (gestational days 15 and 16), an animal model expressing schizophrenia-related behavioural phenotypes. Using electrophysiological techniques, we investigated effects of stress and the stress hormone corticosterone (Cort) on NMDAR-mediated synaptic function and long-term depression (LTD) in hippocampal CA1 slices from these adolescent (aged 28-39d) male offspring. In prenatal LPS offspring, NMDAR-mediated synaptic function and LTD were reduced and abolished, respectively, compared to prenatal saline controls. Notably, in vivo stress and in vitro Cort treatment facilitated LTD in slices from prenatal LPS rats but not prenatal saline controls. Finally, Cort enhanced NMDAR-mediated synaptic function in slices from prenatal LPS rats only. We conclude that prenatal immune activation results in NMDAR hypofunction in the hippocampus of adolescent rats but also increases responsiveness of NMDAR-mediated synaptic function and LTD towards stress. Prenatal infection could confer susceptibility to schizophrenia through modification of hippocampal NMDAR function, with hypofunction in resting conditions and heightened responsiveness to stress, thus impacting the development of the disorder.
Transcranial direct current stimulation is an emerging treatment for brain disorders but its mode of action is not well understood. We applied 10min 1mA anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) inside the bore of a 3T MRI scanner to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of 13 healthy volunteers (aged 19-28 yr) in a blinded, sham-controlled, cross-over design. Brain bioenergetics were measured from the left temporo-frontal region using 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy before, during and for 20min following tDCS. Brain pH rose during tDCS and remained elevated afterwards. Phosphomonoesters were significantly decreased while inorganic phosphate (Pi) also fell. Partial-least squares discriminant analysis of the data revealed two significantly different subject groups: one where phosphocreatine (PCr), ATP and Pi fell along with a larger increase in pH and one where PCr and ATP increased along with a smaller increase in pH and a slower and more sustained decrease in Pi. Group membership was predicted by baseline pH and ATP. We interpreted the effects of tDCS as driving two biochemical processes: cellular consumption of ATP causing hydrolysis of PCr via the creatine kinase reaction driving the increase in pH; synthesis of ATP and PCr by mitochondria with concomitant drop in Pi and phosphomonoester levels.
Accurate and efficient segmentation of the whole brain in magnetic resonance (MR) images is a key task in many neuroscience and medical studies either because the whole brain is the final anatomical structure of interest or because the automatic extraction facilitates further analysis. The problem of segmenting brain MRI images has been extensively addressed by many researchers. Despite the relevant achievements obtained, automated segmentation of brain MRI imagery is still a challenging problem whose solution has to cope with critical aspects such as anatomical variability and pathological deformation. In the present paper, we describe and experimentally evaluate a method for segmenting brain from MRI images basing on two-dimensional graph searching principles for border detection. The segmentation of the whole brain over the entire volume is accomplished slice by slice, automatically detecting frames including eyes. The method is fully automatic and easily reproducible by computing the internal main parameters directly from the image data. The segmentation procedure is conceived as a tool of general applicability, although design requirements are especially commensurate with the accuracy required in clinical tasks such as surgical planning and post-surgical assessment. Several experiments were performed to assess the performance of the algorithm on a varied set of MRI images obtaining good results in terms of accuracy and stability.
The sympathetic nervous system subserves many of the autonomic responses to mental stress and emotional processing. While peripheral markers of sympathetic activity can be obtained indirectly - by measuring heart rate, blood pressure, sweat release and skin blood flow - these effector-organ responses are slower compared to the directly recorded sympathetic nerve activity. Microneurography, in which a tungsten microelectrode is inserted percutaneously into a peripheral nerve in awake human subjects, allows one to record sympathetic nerve activity to either muscle or skin. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) is involved in the beat-to-beat control of blood pressure, and is elevated during mental stress; chronic stress can lead to high blood pressure. The primary role of skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) is to regulate body temperature by controlling sweat release and skin blood flow, but it has also been commandeered for emotional expression. In this review we discuss our recent work in which we have performed concurrent microelectrode recordings of MSNA or SSNA and fMRI of the brain, with a view to identifying areas in the brain responsible for generating the increases in sympathetic outflow at rest and during emotional engagement. Spontaneous bursts of MSNA at rest were positively correlated to activity in the left dorsomedial hypothalamus and left insula, and bilaterally in the ventromedial hypothalamus, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus. Spontaneous bursts of SSNA at rest were positively correlated with activity in the left ventromedial nucleus of the thalamus, the left posterior and right anterior insula, the right orbitofrontal and frontal cortices and bilaterally in the mid-cingulate cortex and precuneus. Increases in SSNA occurred when subjects viewed emotionally charged images, resulting in increases in activity in the central and lateral amygdala, dorsolateral pons, thalamus, nucleus accumbens, and cerebellar cortex; surprisingly, there was no activation of the insula in response to these emotional stimuli. We have shown that concurrent microelectrode recordings of sympathetic outflow to either muscle or skin and fMRI of the brain can be used to identify areas of the brain involved in the generation of sympathetic nerve activity. We propose that this approach can be extended to examine specific disorders of emotional expression to increase our understanding of the underlying neural processes.
Recent research suggests that multisensory integration may occur at an early phase in sensory processing and within cortical regions traditionally though to be exclusively unisensory. Evidence from perceptual and electrophysiological studies indicate that the cross modal temporal correspondence of multisensory stimuli plays a fundamental role in the cortical integration of information across separate sensory modalities. Further, oscillatory neural activity in sensory cortices may provide the principle mechanism whereby sensory information from separate modalities is integrated. In the present study we aimed to extend this prior research by using the steady-state EEG response (SSR) to examine whether variations in the cross-modality temporal correspondence of amplitude modulated auditory and vibrotactile stimulation are apparent in SSR activity to multisensory stimulation. To achieve this we varied the cross-modal congruence of modulation rate for passively and simultaneously presented amplitude modulated auditory and vibrotactile stimuli. In order to maximise the SSR response in both modalities 21 and 40 Hz modulation rates were selected. Consistent with prior SSR studies, the present results showed clear evidence of phase-locking for EEG frequencies corresponding to the modulation rate of auditory and vibrotactile stimulation. As also found previously, the optimal modulation rate for SSR activity differed according to the modality, being greater at 40 Hz for auditory responses and greater at 21 Hz for vibrotactile responses. Despite consistent and reliable changes in SSR activity with manipulations of modulation rate within modality, the present study failed to provide strong evidence of multisensory interactions in SSR activity for temporally congruent, relative to incongruent, cross modal conditions. The results are discussed in terms of the role of attention as a possible factor in reconciling inconsistencies in SSR studies of multisensory integration.
Identification of markers of abnormal brain function in children at-risk of schizophrenia may inform early intervention and prevention programs. Individuals with schizophrenia are characterised by attenuation of MMN amplitude, which indexes automatic auditory sensory processing. The current aim was to examine whether children who may be at increased risk of schizophrenia due to their presenting multiple putative antecedents of schizophrenia (ASz) are similarly characterised by MMN amplitude reductions, relative to typically developing (TD) children. EEG was recorded from 22 ASz and 24 TD children aged 9 to 12 years (matched on age, sex, and IQ) during a passive auditory oddball task (15% duration deviant). ASz children were those presenting: (1) speech and/or motor development lags/problems; (2) social, emotional, or behavioural problems in the clinical range; and (3) psychotic-like experiences. TD children presented no antecedents, and had no family history of a schizophrenia spectrum disorder. MMN amplitude, but not latency, was significantly greater at frontal sites in the ASz group than in the TD group. Although the MMN exhibited by the children at risk of schizophrenia was unlike that of their typically developing peers, it also differed from the reduced MMN amplitude observed in adults with schizophrenia. This may reflect developmental and disease effects in a pre-prodromal phase of psychosis onset. Longitudinal follow-up is necessary to establish the developmental trajectory of MMN in at-risk children.

Interventional Neuroradiology (INR) is not bound by the classical limits of a specialty, and is not restricted by standard formats of teaching and education. Open and naturally linked towards neurosciences, INR has become a unique source of novel ideas for research, development and progress allowing new and improved approaches to challenging pathologies resulting in better anatomo-clinical results. Opening INR to Neurosciences is the best way to keep it alive and growing. Anchored in Neuroradiology, at the crossroad of neurosciences, INR will further participate to progress and innovation as it has often been in the past.
Neuregulins (NRG) are proteins that belong to the family of epidermal growth factors. It is well established that these factors are essential for the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Due to the difficulty of purifying enough quantities of these factors and the lack of specificity from commercially available antibodies, the aim of this work was to produce antibodies against a synthetic peptide capable to detect and identify neuregulin GGFbeta isoforms. To accomplish this goal, polyclonal antibodies were raised in hens against a synthetic peptide designed from the GGFbeta1 extracellular sequence. The sequence analysis was made using different epitope-predicting programs. Our results showed that the peptide sequence selected was immunogenic because it was capable of inducing a specific type B immune response in the experimental animal model. These antibodies were also capable of recognizing a recombinant GGF protein and GGF isoforms present in different samples. Our results suggest that the development of immunoglobulin Y (IgY) using synthetic peptides represents, a valuable tool for neuroscience research.
Background: Epidemiological research has shown that increased total homocysteine (tHcy) levels are associated with an increased risk of thromboembolic disease; however, controversy still exists over which subtype of stroke is allied to hyperhomocysteinemia. This study aimed to investigate whether elevated tHcy is an independent risk factor for ischemic stroke and to compare tHcy levels in patients with ischemic stroke subtypes. Methods: We performed a case-control study, in which 171 ischemic stroke patients aged over 16 years and 86 age and sex-matched controls were eligible to participate and were enrolled from January 2009 to January 2010. The patients' demographic data, traditional stroke risk factors, and the results of fasting tHcy, vitamin B12, and folate of serum were collected in the first 5 days after ischemic stroke. Stroke subtypes were classified according to the Trial of Org 10172 in Acute Stroke Treatment (TOAST) criteria. SPSS software (version 13) was used for the statistical analysis of the data, and a P value smaller than 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results: The mean fasting Hcy levels was significantly higher in the cases (16.2 mol/L, 95% CI: 14.8 to 17.5) than in the controls (13.5 mol/L, 95% CI: 12.4 to 14.6) (P=0.013). The mean Hcy levels was elevated significantly in those with cardioembolic strokes compared with the controls (17.7 mol/L, 95% CI: 14.8 to 20.5; P=0.010). The plasma Hcy level was associated with an adjusted odds ratio of 2.17 (95% CI: 1.24 to 3.79; P=0.004) for Hcy above 15 mol/L concentration for all types of stroke. Conclusion: Our data showed that elevated serum Hcy is an independent risk factor for ischemic stroke and it has a strong association with cardioembolic subtype.





This paper discusses research by Beatrice Beebe, Bessel van der Kolk and others, exploring the interpersonal processes that underpin early relational trauma and how this contributes to adult psychopathology. An essential feature of early relational trauma, the infant's experience of being unable to evoke an empathic response from the caregiver and the feelings of shame this gives rise to, is discussed and its implications for psychotherapy are considered. The neuroscience that underpins two forms of empathy in the therapeutic relationship, of 'feeling for' and 'feeling with' the patient is discussed and explored in relation to the concordant and complementary countertransference. I argue that when therapists respond to the projection on to them of the abuser by an increasingly determined adherence to analytic technique, this may become a complementary countertransference identification with the abuser and an enactment of the abusive relationship.
Aloe emodin, one of the active compounds found in Aloe vera leaves, plays an important role in the regulation of cell growth and death. It has been reported to promote the anti-cancer effects in various cancer cells by inducing apoptosis. However, the mechanism of inducing apoptosis by this agent is poorly understood in glioma cells. This research is to investigate the apoptosis and cell cycle arrest inducing by aloe emodin on U87 human malignant glioma cells. Aloe emodin showed a time- and dose-dependent inhibition of U87 cells proliferation and decreased the percentage of viable U87 cells via the induction of apoptosis. Characteristic morphological changes, such as the formation of apoptotic bodies, were observed with confocal microscope by Annexin V-FITC/PI staining, supporting our viability study and flow cytometry analysis results. Our data also demonstrated that aloe emodin arrested the cell cycle in the S phase and promoted the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential in U87 cells that indicated the early event of the mitochondria-induced apoptotic pathway.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system (CNS) in which myelin becomes the target of attack by autoreactive T cells. The immune components of the disease are recapitulated in mice using the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model. EAE is classically induced by the immunization of mice with encephalitogenic antigens derived from CNS proteins such as proteolipid protein (PLP), myelin basic protein (MBP) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG). Immunization of susceptible mouse strains with these antigens will induce autoreactive inflammatory T cell infiltration of the CNS. More recently, the advent of clonal T cell receptor transgenic mice has led to the development of adoptive transfer protocols in which myelin-specific T cells may induce disease upon transfer into nave recipient animals. When used in concert with gene knockout strains, these protocols are powerful tools by which to dissect the molecular pathways that promote inflammatory T cells responses in the central nervous system (CNS). Further, myelin-antigen-specific transgenic T cells may be cultured invitro under a variety of conditions prior to adoptive transfer, allowing one to study the effects of soluble factors or pharmacologic compounds on T cell pathogenicity. In this review, we describe many of the existing models of EAE, and discuss the contributions that use of these models has made in understanding both T helper cell differentiation and the function of inhibitory T cell receptors. We focus on the step-by-step elucidation of the network of signals required for T helper 17 (Th17) cell differentiation, as well as the molecular dissection of the Tim-3 negative regulatory signaling pathway in Th1 cells.
Narcolepsy is a sleep disorder characterized by excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy (a sudden weakening of posture muscle tone usually triggered by emotion) caused by the loss of orexin neurons in the hypothalamus. Autoimmune mechanisms are implicated in narcolepsy by increased frequency of specific HLA alleles and the presence of specific autoantibody (anti-Tribbles homolog 2 (TRIB2) antibodies) in the sera of patients with narcolepsy. Presently, we passively transferred narcolepsy to nave mice by injecting intra-cerebra-ventricularly (ICV) pooled IgG positive for anti-TRIB2 antibodies. Narcolepsy-IgG-injected mice had a loss of the NeuN (neuronal marker), synaptophysin (synaptic marker) and orexin-positive neurons in the lateral hypothalamus area in narcolepsy compared to control-IgG-injected mice and these changes were associated with narcolepsy-like immobility attacks at four weeks post injection and with hyperactivity and long term memory deficits in the staircase and novel object recognition tests. Similar behavioral and cognitive deficits are observed in narcoleptic patients. This is the first report of passive transfer of experimental narcolepsy to nave mice induced by autoantibodies and supports the autoimmune pathogenesis in narcolepsy.
Expanding our previously proposed &quot;time segment analysis&quot; for a two-layered turbid medium, this study attempted to selectively determine the absorption coefficient (a) of the bottom layer in a four-layered human head model with time-domain near-infrared measurements. The difference curve in the temporal profiles of the light attenuation between an object and a reference medium, which are obtained from Monte Carlo simulations, is divided into segments along the time axis, and a slope for each segment is calculated to obtain the depth-dependent a(aseg). The reduced scattering coefficient (s') of the reference is determined by curve fitting with the temporal point spread function derived from the analytical solution of the diffusion equation to the time-resolved reflectance of the object. The deviation of aseg from the actual a is expressed by a function of the ratio of aseg in an earlier time segment to that in a later segment for mediums with different optical properties and thicknesses of the upper layers. Using this function, it is possible to determine the a of the bottom layer in a four-layered epoxy resin-based phantom. These results suggest that the method reported here has potential for determining the a of the cerebral tissue in humans.
Pharmacoperone drugs correct the folding of misfolded protein mutants and restore function (i.e., &quot;rescue&quot;) by correcting the routing of (otherwise) misrouted mutants. Assays for pharmacoperones have not been applied to screen large libraries previously. Currently, most pharmacoperones possess intrinsic agonist or antagonist activities since these were identified using high-throughput screens aimed at discovering direct agonists or antagonists. Here we describe an ultra-high-throughput compatible no-wash assay system designed to specifically identify pharmacoperones of the vasopressin type 2 receptor (V2R). Development of such assays is important and novel since useful chemical structures with the ability to control cellular trafficking but lacking intrinsic agonist or antagonist properties have not likely been identified using existing screens. In the described assay, the level of functional human V2R (hV2R) (mutant) present in each test well is quantitated by stimulation with saturating levels of agonist followed by use of a luminescent-based cyclic adenosine monophosphate assay. This allows the assay to identify compounds that increase the trafficking of mutant hV2R[L(83)Q] in our model system.

Accurate imaging of ischemic penumbra is crucial for improving the management of acute stroke patients. T2* magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) combined with a T2*oxygen challenge (T2*OC) is being developed to detect penumbra based on changes in blood deoxyhemoglobin. Using 100% O2, T2*OC-defined penumbra exhibits ongoing glucose metabolism and tissue recovery on reperfusion. However, potential limitations in translating this technique include a sinus artefact in human scans with delivery of 100% OC and relatively small signal changes. Here we investigate whether an oxygen-carrying perfluorocarbon (PFC) emulsion can enhance the sensitivity of the technique, enabling penumbra detection with lower levels of inspired oxygen. Stroke was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=17) with ischemic injury and perfusion deficit determined by diffusion and perfusion MRI, respectively. T2* signal change was measured in regions of interest (ROIs) located within ischemic core, T2*OC-defined penumbra and equivalent contralateral areas during 40% O2prior PFC injection. Region of interest analyses between groups showed that PFC significantly enhanced the T2* response to 40% O2 in T2*-defined penumbra (mean increase of 10.62.3% compared to 5.61.5% with 40% O2, P&lt;0.001). This enhancement was specific to the penumbra ROI. Perfluorocarbon emulsions therefore enhances the translational potential of the T2*OC technique for identifying penumbra in acute stroke patients.
To clarify mechanisms through which activation of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) increases cerebral cortical blood flow, we examined whether cortical parenchymal arteries dilate during NBM stimulation in anesthetized mice. We used two-photon microscopy to measure the diameter of single penetrating arteries at different depths (~800m, layers I to V) of the frontal cortex, and examined changes in the diameter during focal electrical stimulation of the NBM (0.5ms at 30 to 50A and 50Hz) and hypercapnia (3% CO2 inhalation). Stimulation of the NBM caused diameter of penetrating arteries to increase by 9% to 13% of the prestimulus diameter throughout the different layers of the cortex, except at the cortical surface and upper part of layer V, where the diameter of penetrating arteries increased only slightly during NBM stimulation. Hypercapnia caused obvious dilation of the penetrating arteries in all cortical layers, including the surface arteries. The diameters began to increase within 1second after the onset of NBM stimulation in the upper cortical layers, and later in lower layers. Our results indicate that activation of the NBM dilates cortical penetrating arteries in a layer-specific manner in magnitude and latency, presumably related to the density of cholinergic nerve terminals from the NBM.
In this study, positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with a radioligand to adenosine A2A receptors (A2AR)-a potent regulator of inflammation-was used to gain insight into the molecular alterations in normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) and gray matter (GM) in secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). Normal-appearing white matter and GM, despite seeming normal in conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), are important loci of widespread inflammation, neuronal damage, and source of progressive disability in multiple sclerosis (MS). Dynamic PET imaging using A2AR-specific [(11)C]TMSX and brain MRI with diffusion tensor imaging were performed to eight SPMS patients and seven healthy controls. Distribution volumes (VT) of [(11)C]TMSX were analyzed from 13 regions of interest using Logan plot with arterial plasma input. The SPMS patients had significantly increased [(11)C]TMSX-VT in NAWM compared with controls (mean (s.d.): 0.55 (0.08) vs. 0.45 (0.05); P=0.036). Both the increased VT and the decreased fractional anisotropy (FA) in NAWM were associated with higher expanded disability status scale (EDSS) scores (P=0.030 and P=0.012, respectively), whereas the T2-lesion load of SPMS patients did not correlate with EDSS. This study shows, that A2ARs are increased in the brain of SPMS patients, and that [(11)C]TMSX-PET provides a novel approach to learn about central nervous system pathology in SPMS in vivo.
The cerebellar cortex has a fundamental parasagittal organization that is reflected in the physiological responses of Purkinje cells, projections of Purkinje cells, afferent inputs from climbing and mossy fibres and the expression of several molecular markers. The most thoroughly studied of these molecular markers is zebrin II (ZII; a.k.a. aldolase C). ZII is differentially expressed in Purkinje cells, resulting in a pattern of sagittal stripes of high expression (ZII+ve) interdigitated with stripes of little or no expression (ZII-ve). The calcium binding protein calretinin (CR) is expressed heavily in mossy fibres terminating throughout the cerebellar cortex, but whether CR is heterogeneously expressed in parasagittal stripes, like ZII, is unknown. In this study, we examined CR expression in the cerebellum of pigeons and compared it to that of ZII. CR was expressed heavily in the granule layer in mossy fibres and their terminal rosettes. Moreover, CR is expressed heterogeneously in the granule layer such that there are sagittal stripes of heavy CR labelling (CR+ve) alternating with stripes of weaker labelling (CR-ve). The CR heterogeneity is most notable in folium IXcd and folia II-IV in the anterior lobe. In the anterior lobe, the central CR+ve stripe spanning the midline is aligned with the central ZII+ve stripe, whereas the other CR+ve stripes are aligned with the ZII-ve stripes. In IXcd, the CR+ve stripes are aligned with the ZII+ve stripes. This combination of aligned and unaligned CR+ve stripes, relative to ZII+ve stripes, differs from that of parvalbumin and other neurochemical markers, but the functional consequences of this is unclear. With respect to the posterior lobe, we suggest that the CR+ve mossy fibres to IXcd originate in two retinal recipient nuclei that are involved in the processing of optic flow.
Based on the importance of the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system and the dorsal raphe nucleus-serotonergic (DRN-5-HT) system in stress-related pathologies, additional understanding of brain regions coordinating their activity is of particular interest. One such candidate is the amygdalar complex, and specifically, the central nucleus (CeA), which has been implicated in emotional arousal and is known to send monosynaptic afferent projections to both these regions. Our present data using dual retrograde tract tracing is the first to demonstrate a population of amygdalar neurons that project in a collateralized manner to the LC and DRN, indicating that amygdalar neurons are positioned to coordinately regulate the LC and DRN, and links these brain regions by virtue of a common set of afferents. Further, we have also characterized the phenotype of a population of these collaterally projecting neurons from the amygdala as containing corticotropin releasing factor or dynorphin, two peptides heavily implicated in the stress response. Understanding the co-regulatory influences of this limbic region on 5HT and NE regions may help fill a gap in our knowledge regarding neural circuits impacting these systems and their adaptations in stress.
Previous studies on children's pragmatic abilities have tended to focus on just one pragmatic phenomenon and one expressive means at a time, mainly concentrating on comprehension, and overlooking the production side. We assessed both comprehension and production in relation to several pragmatic phenomena (simple and complex standard communication acts, irony, and deceit) and several expressive means (linguistic, extralinguistic, paralinguistic). Our study involved 390 Italian-speaking children divided into three age groups: 5;0-5;6, 6;6-7;0, and 8;0-8;6. Children's performance on all tasks improved with their age. Within each age group, children responded more accurately to tasks involving standard communication than to those involving deceit and irony, across all expressive means and for both comprehension and production. Within each pragmatic phenomenon, children responded more accurately to simple acts than to complex ones, regardless of age group and expressive means, i.e., linguistic or extralinguistic. Overall results fit well with the Cognitive Pragmatics theory (Bara, 2010).
The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (Batten disease) are collectively the most common inherited neurodegenerative disorder of childhood. Mouse models of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis represent a powerful resource for investigating the underlying disease mechanisms, which remain poorly understood. Here we present a new rostrocaudal analysis of regional brain volume rather than focusing on central nervous system structures that can be affected. This has revealed an earlier onset of regional atrophy than was suspected in infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (or CLN1 disease, infantile), with a greater involvement of rostral structures. We have also provided the first description of regional atrophy in severely affected mice with the juvenile variant (CLN3 disease, juvenile). These data reveal new perspectives on how the central nervous system is affected in these disorders, which have implications for judging the efficacy of therapeutic strategies in preclinical studies.

Morvan's Fibrillary Chorea (MFC) is a rare autoimmune disorder causally associated with auto-antibodies directed at the voltage-gated potassium channel (VGKC-Abs). It classically presents with sleep disturbances, neuromyotonia and dysautonomia. We aimed to systematically characterise the features of MFC by describing a patient and reviewing published literature. Case notes of 27 patients with MFC (one from our clinic and 26 from the literature) were reviewed and clinical data were extracted and analysed. We found that MFC mainly affects men (96%) and runs a subacute course over months. Neoplasia (56%), VGKC-Abs positivity (79%) and autoimmunity (41%) are frequent associations. Myokymia, insomnia and hyperhidrosis were almost universally described. Other autonomic features were present in 63% with the most common being cardiovascular and bowel disturbances. Clinical, radiological or electroencephalographical features of limbic encephalitis were present in 19% of patients. Outcome was fair with an overall recovery rate of 78%. All patients with malignancies underwent surgery. Immunotherapies including corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulins and plasma exchange were instituted in 22 patients and 19 (86%) responded. Of all symptomatic treatments tried, carbamazepine, phenytoin, sodium valproate, levetiracetam and niaprazine were found to be effective. The broad clinical spectrum of VGKC-Abs diseases can make early recognition of MFC difficult. Myokymia, insomnia and hyperhidrosis are invariably present. There may be abnormalities on cerebrospinal fluid testing and VGKC-Abs can occasionally be absent. Early initiation of immunotherapies and malignancy screening are important to prevent adverse outcomes in a condition that generally responds favourably to treatment.




Brain scans have frequently been credited with uniquely seductive and persuasive qualities, leading to claims that fMRI research receives a disproportionate share of public attention and funding. It has been suggested that functional brain images are fascinating because they contradict dualist beliefs regarding the relationship between the body and the mind. Although previous research has indicated that brain images can increase judgments of an article's scientific reasoning, the hypotheses that brain scans make research appear more interesting, surprising, or worthy of funding have not been tested. Neither has the relation between the allure of brain imaging and dualism. In the following three studies, laypersons rated both fictional research descriptions and real science news articles accompanied by brain scans, bar charts, or photographs. Across 988 participants, we found little evidence of neuroimaging's seductive allure or of its relation to self-professed dualistic beliefs. These results, taken together with other recent null findings, suggest that brain images are less powerful than has been argued.
Among brain functions, language is one of the most lateralized. Cortical language areas are also some of the most asymmetrical in the brain. An open question is whether the asymmetry in function is linked to the asymmetry in anatomy. To address this question, we measured anatomical asymmetry in 34 participants shown with fMRI to have language dominance of the left hemisphere (LLD) and 21 participants shown to have atypical right hemisphere dominance (RLD). All participants were healthy and left-handed, and most (80%) were female. Gray matter (GM) volume asymmetry was measured using an automated surface-based technique in both ROIs and exploratory analyses. In the ROI analysis, a significant difference between LLD and RLD was found in the insula. No differences were found in planum temporale (PT), pars opercularis (POp), pars triangularis (PTr), or Heschl's gyrus (HG). The PT, POp, insula, and HG were all significantly left lateralized in both LLD and RLD participants. Both the positive and negative ROI findings replicate a previous study using manually labeled ROIs in a different cohort [Keller, S. S., Roberts, N., Garcia-Finana, M., Mohammadi, S., Ringelstein, E. B., Knecht, S., et al. Can the language-dominant hemisphere be predicted by brain anatomy? Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 23, 2013-2029, 2011]. The exploratory analysis was accomplished using a new surface-based registration that aligns cortical folding patterns across both subject and hemisphere. A small but significant cluster was found in the superior temporal gyrus that overlapped with the PT. A cluster was also found in the ventral occipitotemporal cortex corresponding to the visual word recognition area. The surface-based analysis also makes it possible to disentangle the effects of GM volume, thickness, and surface area while removing the effects of curvature. For both the ROI and exploratory analyses, the difference between LLD and RLD volume laterality was most strongly driven by differences in surface area and not cortical thickness. Overall, there were surprisingly few differences in GM volume asymmetry between LLD and RLD indicating that gross morphometric asymmetry is only subtly related to functional language laterality.
Systematic description and the unambiguous communication of findings and models remain among the unresolved fundamental challenges in systems neuroscience. No common descriptive frameworks exist to describe systematically the connective architecture of the nervous system, even at the grossest level of observation. Furthermore, the accelerating volume of novel data generated on neural connectivity outpaces the rate at which this data is curated into neuroinformatics databases to synthesize digitally systems-level insights from disjointed reports and observations. To help address these challenges, we propose the Neural Systems Language (NSyL). NSyL is a modeling language to be used by investigators to encode and communicate systematically reports of neural connectivity from neuroanatomy and brain imaging. NSyL engenders systematic description and communication of connectivity irrespective of the animal taxon described, experimental or observational technique implemented, or nomenclature referenced. As a language, NSyL is internally consistent, concise, and comprehensible to both humans and computers. NSyL is a promising development for systematizing the representation of neural architecture, effectively managing the increasing volume of data on neural connectivity and streamlining systems neuroscience research. Here we present similar precedent systems, how NSyL extends existing frameworks, and the reasoning behind NSyL's development. We explore NSyL's potential for balancing robustness and consistency in representation by encoding previously reported assertions of connectivity from the literature as examples. Finally, we propose and discuss the implications of a framework for how NSyL will be digitally implemented in the future to streamline curation of experimental results and bridge the gaps among anatomists, imagers, and neuroinformatics databases.
The presubiculum (PrS) plays critical roles in spatial information processing and memory consolidation and has also been implicated in temporal lobe epileptogenesis. Despite its involvement in these processes, a basic structure-function analysis of PrS cells remains far from complete. To this end, we performed whole-cell recording and biocytin labeling of PrS neurons in layer (L)II and LIII to examine their electrophysiological and morphological properties. We characterized the cell types based on electrophysiological criteria, correlated their gross morphology, and classified them into distinct categories using unsupervised hierarchical cluster analysis. We identified seven distinct cell types: regular-spiking (RS), irregular-spiking (IR), initially bursting (IB), stuttering (Stu), single-spiking (SS), fast-adapting (FA), and late-spiking (LS) cells, of which RS and IB cells were common to LII and LIII, LS cells were specific to LIII, and the remaining types were identified exclusively in LII. Recorded neurons were either pyramidal or nonpyramidal and, except for Stu cells, displayed spine-rich dendrites. The RS, IB, and IR cells appeared to be projection neurons based on extension of their axons into LIII of the medial entorhinal area (MEA) and/or angular bundle. We conclude that LII and LIII of PrS are distinct in their neuronal populations and together constitute a more diverse population of neurons than previously suggested. PrS neurons serve as major drivers of circuits in superficial (LII-III) entorhinal cortex (ERC) and couple neighboring structures through robust afferentation, thereby substantiating the PrS's critical role in the parahippocampal region.
Vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT1-3) carry glutamate into synaptic vesicles. VGLUT3 has been reported to be localized in nonglutamatergic neuronal populations in the brain. However, detailed subcellular localization of VGLUT3 has not been shown. In particular, the identity of synaptic vesicles expressing VGLUT3 remains to be revealed. Here we present novel electron microscopic postembedding immunogold data from mouse and rat brains showing that small, clear, and round synaptic vesicles in -aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic nerve terminals contain labeling for both VGLUT3 and the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT). Immunoisolation of synaptic vesicles confirmed the immunogold data and showed vesicular colocalization of VGLUT3 and VGAT. Moreover, we show that gold particles signaling VGLUT3 are present in synaptic vesicles in acetylcholinergic nerve terminals in the striatum. Quantitative immunogold analyses reveal that the density of VGLUT3 gold particles is similar in GABAergic terminals in the hippocampus and the neocortex to that in cholinergic terminals in the striatum. In contrast to in the hippocampus and the neocortex, VGLUT3 was absent from VGAT-positive terminals in the striatum. The labeling pattern produced by the VGLUT3 antibodies was found to be specific; there was no labeling in VGLUT3 knockout tissue, and the observed labeling throughout the rat brain corresponds to the known light-microscopic distribution of VGLUT3. From the present results, we infer that glutamate is released with GABA from inhibitory terminals and acetylcholine from cholinergic terminals.
Muscarinic modulation of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) plays an important role in reward, potentially mediated through the M5 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (M5R). However, the key sites for M5R-mediated control of dopamine neurons within this region are still unknown. To address this question we examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of antipeptide antisera against M5R and the plasmalemmal dopamine transporter (DAT) in single sections through the rat VTA. M5R was located mainly to VTA somatodendritic profiles (71%; n = 627), at least one-third (33.2%; n = 208) of which also contained DAT. The M5R immunoreactivity was distributed along cytoplasmic tubulovesicular endomembrane systems in somata and large dendrites, but was more often located at plasmalemmal sites in small dendrites, the majority of which did not express DAT. The M5R-immunoreactive dendrites received a balanced input from unlabeled terminals forming either asymmetric or symmetric synapses. Compared with dendrites, M5R was less often seen in axon terminals, comprising only 10.8% (n = 102) of the total M5R-labeled profiles. These terminals were usually presynaptic to unlabeled dendrites, suggesting that M5R activation can indirectly modulate non-DAT-containing dendrites through presynaptic mechanisms. Our results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that in the VTA, M5R has a subcellular location conducive to major involvement in postsynaptic signaling in many dendrites, only some of which express DAT. These findings suggest that cognitive and rewarding effects ascribed to muscarinic activation in the VTA can primarily be credited to M5R activation at postsynaptic plasma membranes distinct from dopamine transport.
The objective of this study was to valuate 2 substances as potential carriers of fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF-1) in a rat craniectomy model: gelatin sponge (Spongostan; Ferrosan A/S, Sborg, Denmark) and natural bone mineral (Bio-Oss; Geistlich Biomaterials, Wolhusen, Switzerland).Forty-eight adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were used. A 5-mm-diameter circular craniectomy was performed in the left parietal bone. Animals were divided into 6 experimental groups of 8 rats, each group receiving a different treatment: control (no substance added), Spongostan, Bio-Oss, FGF, FGF + Spongostan, and FGF + Bio-Oss. Animals were killed 12 weeks after surgery.Descriptive histology and stereology were used, the latter to measure the volumes of regenerated bone and Bio-Oss remaining in the defect. Analysis of variance was used to determine differences in bone regeneration between groups, and Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare the volume of remaining Bio-Oss particles.Histologically, the control defects behaved like critical size defects, showing incomplete bone regeneration. Only the FGF + Spongostan group achieved nearly complete bone regeneration. Bio-Oss particles seemed to reduce centripetal bone regeneration. Spongostan by itself did not interfere with spontaneous bone healing.Stereologic measurements of the volume of new bone growth, measured in cubic millimeter, were as follows: control group, 3.86  1.03; Bio-Oss, 2.26  1.06; Spongostan, 3.00  0.81; FGF, 3.99  1.85; FGF + Bio-Oss, 3.02  1.88; and FGF + Spongostan, 8.93  1.28. Analysis of variance showed a statistically significant difference between the FGF + Spongostan group and the other groups (P &lt; 0.001). Comparison among the other groups did not show significant differences.Fibroblast growth factor 1 with a Spongostan carrier has shown great efficacy for bone regeneration in cranial critical size defects in rats. Bio-Oss did not produce a regenerative effect, either alone or with FGF-1.


Treatment of nonresponsive auditory hallucinations in schizophrenia have been reported to improve with transcranial direct-current stimulation. This case description illustrates the use of add-on transcranial direct-current stimulation for rapid amelioration of auditory hallucinations in schizophrenia during the acute phase. Because transcranial direct-current stimulation is safe, largely well tolerated, and relatively inexpensive, this add-on treatment option is worth exploring through further rigorous studies.






The hyperpolarization-activated current, Ih, is carried by members of the Hcn channel family and contributes to resting potential and firing properties in excitable cells of various systems, including the auditory system. Ih has been identified in spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs); however, its molecular correlates and their functional contributions have not been well characterized. To investigate the molecular composition of the channels that carry Ih in SGNs, we examined Hcn mRNA harvested from spiral ganglia of neonatal and adult mice using quantitative RT-PCR. The data indicate expression of Hcn1, Hcn2, and Hcn4 subunits in SGNs, with Hcn1 being the most highly expressed at both stages. To investigate the functional contributions of HCN subunits, we used the whole-cell, tight-seal technique to record from wild-type SGNs and those deficient in Hcn1, Hcn2, or both. We found that HCN1 is the most prominent subunit contributing to Ih in SGNs. Deletion of Hcn1 resulted in reduced conductance (Gh), slower activation kinetics (fast), and hyperpolarized half-activation (V1/2) potentials. We demonstrate that Ih contributes to SGN function with depolarized resting potentials, depolarized sag and rebound potentials, accelerated rebound spikes after hyperpolarization, and minimized jitter in spike latency for small depolarizing stimuli. Auditory brainstem responses of Hcn1-deficient mice showed longer latencies, suggesting that HCN1-mediated Ih is critical for synchronized spike timing in SGNs. Together, our data indicate that Ih contributes to SGN membrane properties and plays a role in temporal aspects of signal transmission between the cochlea and the brain, which are critical for normal auditory function.
The effects of empathy loss in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and Alzheimer disease (AD) on carer symptomatology were investigated. Carers of patients with 2 clinical subtypes of FTD (behavioral-variant FTD [bvFTD] = 18; semantic dementia [SD] = 14) and AD (n = 18) completed the Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI), a standardized questionnaire of empathy as well as a measure of perceived burden (Zarit Burden Interview) and the quality of the marital relationship (Intimate Bond Measure). Patient ratings were also obtained on the IRI. Loss of empathy was most striking in the bvFTD group with a marked discrepancy observed between carer and patient ratings for change in emotional warmth and the ability to take the perspective of others. Empathy loss in bvFTD was associated with a loss of a caring marital relationship. Empathic deficits in SD were milder by comparison to bvFTD and correlated with disease severity and increased perceived carer burden. The behavioral pattern observed in AD differed from the FTD syndromes; deficits were observed only for measures of personal distress with carers reporting that patients were less able to handle emotionally evocative situations. Results highlight that changes in aspects of empathy differ across dementia syndromes and are associated with differing carer and clinical variables. These findings might be explained by the progression of atrophy in regions that are known to be critical for empathy and social behavior and has implications for the delivery and planning of services in dementia.
Schizophrenia is a relatively common disorder diagnosed by the presentation of psychotic symptoms in the absence of identifiable neurologic or other organic cause. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a relatively rare progressive neurodegenerative disorder that can present with a multitude of cognitive and behavioral symptoms including psychosis. At times, this phenotypic overlap can mean that schizophrenia and FTD are 2 possibilities in the differential diagnosis of a psychotic presentation. In this article, we systematically review the literature on the relationship between schizophrenia and FTD including case reports that highlight the potential for diagnostic confusion, clinical studies examining the relationship between the disorders, and the molecular evidence of shared pathophysiologic mechanisms. Although a relationship between the disorders is not definitively supported by the current literature, we identify the characteristics of a psychotic presentation that should alert the clinician to the possibility of FTD and describe the areas where further research is needed to clarify the pathophysiologic relationship.
Disorders of the gastrointestinal tract are common in the elderly people; however, the precise trait(s) of aging that contribute to the vulnerability of the gastrointestinal tract are poorly understood. Recent evidence suggests that patients with gastrointestinal disorders have increased intestinal permeability. Here, we address the hypothesis that disruption of the intestinal barrier is associated with aging. Our results demonstrated that permeability was significantly higher in colonic biopsies collected from old baboons compared with young baboons. Additionally, colonic tissue from the older animals had decreased zonula occluden-1, occludin, and junctional adhesion molecule-A tight junction protein expression and increased claudin-2 expression. Upregulation of miR-29a and inflammatory cytokines IFN-, IL-6, and IL-1 was also found in colonic biopsies from old baboons relative to young baboons. These results show for the first time that a pivotal contributing factor to geriatric vulnerability to gastrointestinal dysfunction may be increased colonic permeability via age-associated remodeling of intestinal epithelial tight junction proteins.

Once biologically available aluminum bypasses gastrointestinal and blood-brain barriers, this environmentally-abundant neurotoxin has an exceedingly high affinity for the large pyramidal neurons of the human brain hippocampus. This same anatomical region of the brain is also targeted by the earliest evidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology. The mechanism for the selective targeting and transport of aluminum into the hippocampus of the human brain is not well understood. In an effort to improve our understanding of a pathological aluminum entry system into the brain, this study examined the aluminum content of 8 arteries that supply blood to the hippocampus, including the aorta and several cerebral arteries. In contrast to age-matched controls, in AD patients we found a gradient of increasing aluminum concentration from the aorta to the posterior cerebral artery that supplies blood to the hippocampus. Primary cultures of human brain endothelial cells were found to have an extremely high affinity for aluminum when compared to other types of brain cells. Together, these results suggest for the first time that endothelial cells that line the cerebral vasculature may have biochemical attributes conducive to binding and targeting aluminum to selective anatomical regions of the brain, such as the hippocampus, with potential downstream pro-inflammatory and pathogenic consequences.
The theory of cognitive reserve attempts to explain why some individuals are more resilient to age-related brain pathology. Efforts to explore reserve have been hindered by measurement difficulties. Reed et al. (2010) proposed quantifying reserve as residual variance in episodic memory performance that remains after accounting for demographic factors and brain pathology (whole brain, hippocampal, and white matter hyperintensity volumes). This residual variance represents the discrepancy between an individuals predicted and actual memory performance. The goals of the present study were to extend these methods to a larger, community-based sample and to investigate whether the residual reserve variable is explained by age, predicts longitudinal changes in language, and predicts dementia conversion independent of age. Results support this operational measure of reserve. The residual reserve variable was associated with higher reading ability, lower likelihood of meeting criteria for mild cognitive impairment, lower odds of dementia conversion in dependent of age, and less decline in language abilities over 3 years. Finally, the residual reserve variable moderated the negative impact of memory variance explained by brain pathology on language decline. This method has the potential to facilitate research on the mechanisms of cognitive reserve and the efficacy of interventions designed to impart reserve.
Real-time magnetoencephalography (rtMEG) is an emerging neurofeedback technology that could potentially benefit multiple areas of basic and clinical neuroscience. In the present study, we implemented voxel-based real-time coherence measurements in a rtMEG system in which we employed a beamformer to localize signal sources in the anatomical space prior to computing imaginary coherence. Our rtMEG experiment showed that a healthy subject could increase coherence between the parietal cortex and visual cortex when attending to a flickering visual stimulus. This finding suggests that our system is suitable for neurofeedback training and can be useful for practical brain-machine interface applications or neurofeedback rehabilitation.
Melanogenic enzymes are transported by vesicular/membrane trafficking to immature melanosomes in melanocytes where they catalyze the synthesis of melanin pigments. Although several factors involved in melanogenic enzyme trafficking have been identified in the past decade, involvement of the SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) proteins, which generally mediate membrane fusion, on melanosomes in the process of melanogenic enzyme trafficking has never been investigated. In this study we identified syntaxin-3, which was originally described as a target SNARE protein at the plasma membrane, as a melanosome-resident protein and investigated whether syntaxin-3 is involved in the trafficking of the melanogenic enzyme Tyrp1 (tyrosinase-related protein 1) in mouse melanocytes. The results showed that knockdown of endogenous syntaxin-3 protein in melanocytes caused a dramatic reduction in Tyrp1 signals, especially from peripheral melanosomes, presumably as a result of lysosomal degradation of Tyrp1. They also showed that syntaxin-3 interacts with another target SNARE SNAP23 (synaptosome-associated protein of 23kDa) and with vesicle SNARE VAMP7 (vesicle-associated membrane protein 7), which has been shown to be localized at Tyrp1-containing vesicles/organelles. These findings suggested that the SNARE machinery composed of VAMP7 on Tyrp1-containing vesicles and syntaxin-3 and SNAP23 on melanosomes regulates Tyrp1 trafficking to the melanosome in melanocytes.
Occipital neuralgia is a rare pain syndrome characterized by periodic lancinating pain involving the occipital nerve complex. We present a unique case of entrapment of the greater occipital nerve (GON) within the semispinalis capitis, which was thought to be the cause of occipital neuralgia. A 66-year-old woman with refractory left occipital neuralgia revealed an abnormally low-loop of the left posterior inferior cerebellar artery on the magnetic resonance imaging, suggesting possible vascular compression of the upper cervical roots. During exploration, however, the GON was found to be entrapped at the perforation site of the semispinalis capitis. There was no other compression of the GON or of C1 and C2 dorsal roots in their intracranial course. Postoperatively, the patient experienced almost complete relief of typical neuralgic pain. Although occipital neuralgia has been reported to occur by stretching of the GON by inferior oblique muscle or C1-C2 arthrosis, peripheral compression in the transmuscular course of the GON in the semispinalis capitis as a cause of refractory occipital neuralgia has not been reported and this should be considered when assessing surgical options for refractory occipital neuralgia.


Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is frequently associated with suicidal ideation and suicide attempts. Suicide is an important cause of death in veterans, and the risk for intentional death continues to be high many years after service. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether there is a relationship between PTSD and suicidal behavior among veterans. We also discussed the risk factors of suicide among war veterans with PTSD. A systematic review was conducted focusing on war-related PTSD and suicidal behavior. A total of 80 articles from peer-reviewed journals were identified, 34 were assessed for eligibility, and 16 were included. Having a history of PTSD is associated with higher rates of morbidity and mortality and increased the risk for suicidal behavior. The association between PTSD and suicidal behavior was confirmed by the presence of other risk factors and high rates of comorbidity. Current suicidal behavior should be adequately assessed in war veterans.
Biological rhythms, describing the temporal variation of biological processes, are a characteristic feature of complex systems. The analysis of biological rhythms can provide important insights into the pathophysiology of different diseases, especially, in cardiovascular medicine. In the field of the autonomic nervous system, heart rate variability (HRV) and baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) describe important fluctuations of blood pressure and heart rate which are often analyzed by Fourier transformation. However, these parameters are stochastic with overlaying rhythmical structures. R-R intervals as independent variables of time are not equidistant. That is why the trigonometric regressive spectral (TRS) analysis--reviewed in this paper--was introduced, considering both the statistical and rhythmical features of such time series. The data segments required for TRS analysis can be as short as 20 s allowing for dynamic evaluation of heart rate and blood pressure interaction over longer periods. Beyond HRV, TRS also estimates BRS based on linear regression analyses of coherent heart rate and blood pressure oscillations. An additional advantage is that all oscillations are analyzed by the same (maximal) number of R-R intervals thereby providing a high number of individual BRS values. This ensures a high confidence level of BRS determination which, along with short recording periods, may be of profound clinical relevance. The dynamic assessment of heart rate and blood pressure spectra by TRS allows a more precise evaluation of cardiovascular modulation under different settings as has already been demonstrated in different clinical studies.
The long disease duration of multiple sclerosis and the increasing therapeutic options require a individualized therapeutic approach which should be carefully documented over years of observation. To switch from MS documentation to an innovative MS management, new computer- and internet-based tools could be implemented as we could demonstrate with the novel computer-based patient management system &quot;multiple sclerosis management system 3D&quot; (MSDS 3D). MSDS 3D allows documentation and management of visit schedules and mandatory examinations via defined study modules by integration of data input from various sources (patients, attending physicians and MS nurses). It provides forms for the documentation of patient visits as well as clinical and diagnostic findings. Information can be collected via interactive touch screens. Specific modules allow the management of highly efficacious treatments as natalizumab or fingolimod. MSDS can be used to transfer the documented data to databases as, e.g. the registry of the German MS society or REGIMS. MSDS has already been implemented successfully in clinical practice and is currently being evaluated in a multicenter setting. High-quality management and documentation are crucial for improvements in clinical practice and research work.
Recent advances in somatic cell reprogramming is one of the most important developments in neuroscience in the last decades since it offers for the first time the opportunity to work with disease/patient-specific neurons or other neural cell types. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) can be differentiated into all cell types of the body enabling investigations not only on neurons but also on muscle or endothelial cells which are cell types often also of great interest in neurodegenerative diseases. The novel technology of direct lineage conversion of somatic cells into neurons (induced neurons; iNs) or into expandable multipotent neural stem cells (induced neural stem cells; iNSCs) provides interesting alternatives to the iPSC technology. These techniques have the advantage of easier cell culture, but only neurons (iNs) or neuroectodermal cells (iNSCs) can be generated. Although there are several open questions coming along with these new neural cell types, they hold great promises for both cell replacement and cell modelling of neurodegenerative diseases.
Intra-neuronal metabolism of dopamine (DA) begins with production of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL),which is toxic. According to the 'catecholaldehyde hypothesis', DOPAL destroys nigrostriatal DA terminals and contributes to the profound putamen DA deficiency that characterizes Parkinsons disease (PD). We tested the feasibility of using post-mortem patterns of putamen tissue catechols to examine contributions of altered activities of the type 2 vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) and aldehyde dehydrogenase(ALDH) to the increased DOPAL levels found in PD. Theoretically, the DA : DOPA concentration ratio indicates vesicular uptake, and the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid: DOPAL ratio indicates ALDH activity. We validated these indices in transgenic mice with very low vesicular uptake VMAT2-Lo) or with knockouts of the genes encoding ALDH1A1 and ALDH2 (ALDH1A1,2 KO), applied these indices in PD putamen, and estimated the percent decreases in vesicular uptake and ALDH activity in PD. VMAT2-Lo mice had markedly decreased DA:DOPA (50 vs. 1377, p &lt; 0.0001),and ALDH1A1,2 KO mice had decreased 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid:DOPAL (1.0 vs. 11.2, p &lt; 0.0001). In PD putamen, vesicular uptake was estimated to be decreased by 89% and ALDH activity by 70%. Elevated DOPAL levels in PD putamen reflect a combination of decreased vesicular uptake of cytosolic DA and decreased DOPAL detoxification by ALDH.
Beta amyloid (A) oligomers are thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimers disease. However, clinical trials using A immunization were unsuccessful due to strong brain inflammation, the mechanisms of which are poorly understood. In this study we tested whether monoclonal antibodies to oligomeric A would prevent the neurotoxicity of A oligomers in primary neuronal-glial cultures. However, surprisingly,the antibodies dramatically increased the neurotoxicity of A. Antibodies bound to monomeric A fragments were non-toxic to cultured neurons, while antibodies to other oligomeric proteins: hamster polyomavirus major capsid protein, human metapneumovirus nucleocapsid protein, and measles virus nucleocapsid protein, strongly potentiated the neurotoxicity of their antigens. The neurotoxicity of antibody-antibody oligomeric antigen complexes was abolished by removal of the Fc region from the antibodies or by removal of microglia from cultures, and was accompanied by inflammatory activation and proliferation of the microglia in culture. In conclusion, we find that immune complexes formed by A oligomers or other oligomeric/multimeric antigens and their specific antibodies can cause death and loss of neurons in primary neuronal-glial cultures via Fc-dependent microglial activation. The results suggest that therapies resulting in antibodies to oligomeric A or oligomeric brain virus proteins should be used with caution or with suppression of microglial activation.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is the second leading cause of dementia in individuals under age 65. In many patients, the predominant pathology includes neuronal cytoplasmic or intranuclear inclusions of ubiquitinated TAR DNA binding protein 43 (FTLD-TDP). Recently, a genome-wide association study identified the first FTLD-TDP genetic risk factor, in which variants in and around the TMEM106B gene (top SNP rs1990622) were significantly associated with FTLD-TDP risk. Intriguingly, the most significant association was in FTLD-TDP patients carrying progranulin (GRN) mutations. Here, we investigated to what extent the coding variant, rs3173615 (p.T185S) in linkage disequilibrium with rs1990622, affects progranulin protein (PGRN) biology and transmembrane protein 106 B (TMEM106B) regulation. First, we confirmed the association of TMEM106B variants with FTLD-TDP in a new cohort of GRN mutation carriers. We next generated and characterized a TMEM106B-specific antibody for investigation of this protein. Enzyme-linked immunoassay analysis of progranulin protein levels showed similar effects upon T185 and S185 TMEM106B over-expression. However, over-expression of T185 consistently led to higher TMEM106B protein levels than S185. Cycloheximide treatment experiments revealed that S185 degrades faster than T185 TMEM106B, potentially due to differences in N-glycosylation at residue N183. Together, our results provide a potential mechanism by which TMEM106B variants lead to differences in FTLD-TDP risk. We studied the p.T185S TMEM106B genetic variant previously implicated in frontotemporal dementia with TAR DNA binding protein 43 pathology caused by progranulin mutations. Our cell culture studies provide evidence that the protective S185 isoform is degraded more rapidly than T185 TMEM106B, potentially due to differences in glycosylation. These findings suggest that low TMEM106B levels might protect against FTLD-TDP in these patients.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system, regulates waking and rapid eye movement sleep. Here, we demonstrate immunohistochemical labeling of the leptin receptor signaling isoform in PPN neurons, and investigated the effects of G-protein modulation and the leptin triple antagonist (TA) on the action of leptin in the PPN. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were performed in rat brainstem slices from 9 to 17 day old pups. Previous results showed that leptin caused a partial blockade of sodium (I(Na)) and h-current (I(H)) in PPN neurons. TA (100 nM) reduced the blockade of I(Na) (~ 50% reduction) and I(H) (~ 93% reduction) caused by leptin. Intracellular guanosine 5'-[-thio]diphosphate trilithium salt (a G-protein inhibitor) significantly reduced the effect of leptin on I(Na) (~ 60% reduction) but not on I(H) (~ 25% reduction). Intracellular GTPS (a G-protein activator) reduced the effect of leptin on both I(Na) (~ 80% reduction) and I(H) (~ 90% reduction). These results suggest that the effects of leptin on the intrinsic properties of PPN neurons are leptin receptor- and G-protein dependent. We also found that leptin enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated responses in single neurons and in the PPN population as a whole, an effect blocked by TA. These experiments further strengthen the association between leptin dysregulation and sleep disturbances. Beck et al. investigated the effects of leptin on the intrinsic properties of neurons from the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN). Leptin reduced the amplitude of voltage-gated sodium (I(Na)) and hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated HCN (I(H)) channels. These effects were antagonized by a leptin receptor (OB-R) antagonist and by the G-protein antagonist GDP.
-Synuclein (-syn) is the major component of Lewy bodies, a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease and other synucleinopathies. The characterization of -syn post-translational modifications (PTMs), thought to interfere with its aggregation propensity and cellular signaling, has been limited by the availability of extraction methods of endogenous protein from cells and tissues, and by the availability of antibodies toward -syn PTMs. Here, by taking advantage of -syn thermostability, we applied a method to achieve high enrichment of soluble -syn both from cultured cells and brain tissues followed by proteomics analysis. Using this approach, we obtained 98% -syn sequence coverage in a variety of model systems, including a transgenic mouse model of PD, and validated the strategy by identifying previously described PTMs such as phosphorylation and N-terminal acetylation. Our findings demonstrate that this procedure overcomes existing technical limitations and can be used to facilitate the systematic study of -syn PTMs, thereby enabling the clarification of their role under physiological and pathological conditions. Ultimately, this approach may enable the development of novel biomarkers and strategies for therapeutic intervention in synucleinopathies.

Microglia are the prime innate immune cells of the central nervous system. They can transit from a (so-called) resting state under homeostatic conditions towards a pro-inflammatory activation state upon homeostatic disturbances. Under neurodegenerative conditions, microglia have been largely perceived as neurotoxic cells. It is now becoming clear that resting microglia are not inactive but that they serve house-keeping functions. Moreover, microglia activity is not limited to proinflammatory responses, but covers a spectrum of reactive profiles. Depending on the actual situation, activated microglia display specific effector functions supporting inflammation, tissue remodeling, synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis. Many of these functions not only relate to the current state of the local neural environment but also depend on previous experience. In this review, we address microglia functions with respect to determining factors, phenotypic presentations, adaptation to environmental signals and aging. Finally, we point out primary mechanisms of microglia activation, which may comprise therapeutic targets to control neuro-inflammatory and neurodegenerative activity.
In the finely balanced environment of the central nervous system astrocytes, the most numerous cell type, play a role in regulating almost every physiological system. First found to regulate extracellular ions and pH, they have since been shown to regulate neurotransmitter levels, cerebral blood flow and energy metabolism. There is also growing evidence for an essential role of astrocytes in central immunity, which is the topic of this review. In the healthy state, the central nervous system is potently anti-inflammatory but under threat astrocytes readily respond to pathogens and to both sterile and pathogen-induced cell damage. In response, astrocytes take on some of the roles of immune cells, releasing cyto- and chemokines to influence effector cells, modulating the blood-brain barrier and forming glial scars. To date, much of the data supporting a role for astrocytes in immunity have been obtained from in vitro systems; however data from experimental models and clinical samples support the suggestion that astrocytes perform similar roles in more complex environments. This review will discuss some aspects of the role of astrocytes in central nervous system immunity.
Despite the availability of combination antiretroviral therapy, at least mild cognitive dysfunction is commonly observed in HIV-infected patients, with an estimated prevalence of 35-70%. Neuropsychological studies of these HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) have documented aberrations across a broad range of functional domains, although the basic pathophysiology remains unresolved. Some of the most common findings have been deficits in fine motor control and reduced psychomotor speed, but to date no neuroimaging studies have evaluated basic motor control in HAND. In this study, we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to evaluate the neurophysiological processes that underlie motor planning in older HIV-infected adults and a matched, uninfected control group. MEG is a noninvasive and direct measure of neural activity with good spatiotemporal precision. During the MEG recording, participants fixated on a central crosshair and performed a finger-tapping task with the dominant hand. All MEG data was corrected for head movements, preprocessed, and imaged in the time-frequency domain using beamforming methodology. All analyses focused on the pre-movement beta desynchronization, which is known to be an index of movement planning. Our results demonstrated that HIV-1-infected patients have deficient beta desynchronization relative to controls within the left/right precentral gyri, and the supplementary motor area. In contrast, HIV-infected persons showed abnormally strong beta responses compared to controls in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and medial prefrontal areas. In addition, the amplitude of beta activity in the primary and supplementary motor areas correlated with scores on the Grooved Pegboard test in HIV-infected adults. These results demonstrate that primary motor and sensory regions may be particularly vulnerable to HIV-associated damage, and that prefrontal cortices may serve a compensatory role in maintaining motor performance levels in infected patients.
Many synaptic plasticity-related signaling pathways have been identified as important regulators of the pathogenesis of chronic pain in animal models. However, their relevance to human pathological pain is rarely confirmed rigorously. Recent studies suggest that Wnt signaling plays critical roles in synaptic plasticity and is dysregulated in the spinal cord dorsal horn (SDH) of different mouse pain models. In this study, we compared the protein levels of Wnt ligands, Wnt receptors and their downstream effector proteins in the SDH from non-HIV patients, HIV patients who developed chronic pain ('pain-positive' HIV patients), and HIV patients who did not develop chronic pain ('pain-negative' HIV patients). Our results indicate that many Wnt ligands and downstream effector proteins were specifically up-regulated in the SDH of 'pain-positive' HIV patients but not in the 'pain-negative' HIV patients. These findings describe an HIV pain-associated activation of Wnt signaling in the SDH of human patients. Given the established role of Wnt signaling in the regulation of synaptic plasticity, these results suggest that the activated Wnt signaling might contribute to the expression of the synaptic plasticity in the SDH during the pathogenesis of HIV-associated chronic pain.
Research directed at anatomical, integrative and functional activities of the central nervous system (CNS) can be realized through bioimaging. A wealth of data now demonstrates the utility of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) towards unraveling complex neural connectivity operative in health and disease. A means to improve MRI sensitivity is through contrast agents and notably manganese (Mn). The Mn ions enter neurons through voltage-gated calcium channels and unlike other contrast agents such as gadolinium, iron oxide, iron platinum and imaging proteins, provide unique insights into brain physiology. Nonetheless, a critical question that remains is the brain target cells serving as sources for the signal of Mn enhanced MRI (MEMRI). To this end, we investigated MEMRI's abilities to detect glial (astrocyte and microglia) and neuronal activation signals following treatment with known inflammatory inducing agents. The idea is to distinguish between gliosis (glial activation) and neuronal injury for the MEMRI signal and as such use the agent as a marker for neural activity in inflammatory and degenerative disease. We now demonstrate that glial inflammation facilitates Mn neuronal ion uptake. Glial Mn content was not linked to its activation. MEMRI performed on mice injected intracranially with lipopolysaccharide was associated with increased neuronal activity. These results support the notion that MEMRI reflects neuronal excitotoxicity and impairment that can occur through a range of insults including neuroinflammation. We conclude that the MEMRI signal enhancement is induced by inflammation stimulating neuronal Mn uptake.
HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) afflict up to 50% of HIV-1+ individuals, despite the effectiveness of combination antiretroviral therapy (CART) in reducing the prevalence of more severe neurocognitive impairment. Alterations in brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP), a measure of temporal processing, are one of the earliest neurological abnormalities of HIV-1-positive individuals. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the auditory startle response (ASR), a measure of sensorimotor gating, was studied in HIV-1 transgenic (Tg) rats, which express 7 of the 9 HIV-1 genes. Ovariectomized female Fischer HIV-1 Tg and control rats (ns=41-42) were tested for PPI at three test periods, with at least 2months separating each test period, using auditory and visual prepulses, an auditory startle stimulus, and interstimulus intervals (ISI) ranging from 0 to 4000msec. Auditory and visual prepulse trial blocks were presented in counterbalanced order. For both auditory and visual prepulses, HIV-1 Tg animals exhibited a flatter ISI function, which did not sharpen with age, as it did in controls. Over time, auditory prepulses precipitated a temporal shift in peak inhibition in HIV-1 Tg animals relative to controls, whereas with visual prepulses, both groups displayed peak inhibition at the 40msec ISI. A lack of perceptual sharpening with age and a relative insensitivity to the temporal dimension of sensorimotor gating are evident in the HIV-1 Tg rat prior to clinical signs of wasting. Deficits in sensorimotor gating may not only provide an early subtle diagnostic marker of HAND, but may also afford a key target for development of potential therapeutics.
A plethora of prior studies has linked HIV-1-infected and immune activated brain mononuclear phagocytes (MP; blood borne macrophages and microglia) to neuronal dysfunction. These are modulated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists and supporting their relevance for HIV-1-associated nervous system disease. The role of NMDAR subsets in HIV-1-induced neuronal injury, nonetheless, is poorly understood. To this end, we investigated conditioned media from HIV-1gp120-treated human monocyte-derived-macrophages (MDM) for its abilities to affect NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSC(NMDAR)) in rat hippocampal slices. Bath application of gp120-treated MDM-conditioned media (MCM) produced an increase of EPSC(NMDAR). In contrast, control (untreated) MCM had limited effects on EPSC(NMDAR). Testing NR2A NMDAR (NR2AR)-mediated EPSC (EPSC(NR2AR)) and NR2B NMDAR (NR2BR)-mediated EPSC (EPSC(NR2BR)) for MCM showed significant increased EPSC(NR2BR) when compared to EPSC(NR2AR) enhancement. When synaptic NR2AR-mediated EPSC was blocked by bath application of MK801 combined with low frequency stimulations, MCM retained its ability to enhance EPSC(NMDAR) evoked by stronger stimulations. This suggested that increase in EPSC(NMDAR) was mediated, in part, through extra-synaptic NR2BR. Further analyses revealed that the soluble factors with low (&lt;3 kD) to medium (3-10 kD) molecular weight mediated the observed increases in EPSC(NMDAR). The link between activation of NR2BRs and HIV-1gp120 MCM for neuronal injury was demonstrated by NR2BR but not NR2AR blockers. Taken together, these results indicate that macrophage secretory products induce neuronal injury through extra-synaptic NR2BRs.


We report a rare case of episodic limb weakness caused by a tentorial dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) draining into the perimesencephalic veins. A middle-aged man presented with episodes of transient quadriparesis preceded by recurrent vomiting. The patient was initially suspected of having periodic paralysis but, due to the presence of recurrent vomiting and brisk reflexes, MR imaging of the brain was performed which revealed marked T2 hyperintensity of the brainstem and cervical cord along with multiple prominent flow voids. Cerebral angiography showed a Borden type 3 DAVF at the left tentorial margin which was draining into the perimesencepahlic and perimedullary veins and refluxing into the cervical epidural veins. The patient made a remarkable recovery after surgical interruption of the fistula.

Longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis (LETM) is a characteristic feature of Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO), but it can also occur in several other inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). An IgG autoantibody that binds to aquaporin-4 (AQP4), the predominant water channel of the CNS, is a reliable biomarker of the NMO spectrum disorders, and if detected predicts the recurrence of the myelitis. In this study, we compared the clinical and neuroimaging characteristics of AQP4-IgG+ and AQP4-IgG- LETM patients. Thirty-seven first-ever LETM patients were retrospectively evaluated and divided into two groups according to the presence of AQP4 autoantibodies. AQP4-IgG was detected in the serum and in the cerebrospinal fluid of sixteen patients. The female to male ratio was higher in AQP4-IgG+ patients. Intractable nausea and vomiting and paroxysmal tonic spasms often accompanied the LETM in AQP4-IgG+ patients. T2-weighted spinal cord MRI revealed that inflammatory lesions extending into the brainstem and involving the central grey matter occurred more frequently in AQP4-IgG+ LETM patients. Hypointense lesions on T1-weighted spinal cord MRI were detected more frequently in the seropositive group, and their presence correlated with attack severity. In conclusion, this study provides clinical and spinal cord neuroimaging clues that can help distinguishing AQP4-IgG+ LETM patients.
The purpose of this study is to monitor the development of anti-natalizumab antibodies to evaluate their first appearance in multiple sclerosis patients, since their presence has been associated with a reduction in the efficacy of the treatment and an increase of adverse events. A total of 134 multiple sclerosis patients were included in the trial. Anti-natalizumab antibodies were monthly detected by ELISA up to the first year of treatment and subsequently, a determination was made at 18 months. 15.7% of the patients were positive, being 7.5% transiently positive and 8.2% persistently positive. The first appearance of anti-natalizumab antibodies occurred after the first month of treatment onset in 72% of positive patients; 18% did so after the second month, and 9.7% after the third month. Antibodies were never detected for the first time after the fourth infusion. The development of anti-natalizumab antibodies occurs very early after treatment onset. This observation should be considered when standardizing the follow up of patients treated with this drug in order to minimize the risks and optimize the treatment.
The relation between cognitive and motor functions in Parkinson's disease is not fully understood. In an incidence population of newly diagnosed drug nave patients with Parkinson's disease, associations were found between the degree of bradykinesia and postural instability and gait disturbances, measured by the Unified Disease Rating Scale, and different types of cognitive functions. To investigate the stability of these associations over time, we explored the association of differences between baseline and 1-year follow-up in 91 incident cases with Parkinson's disease. The magnitude of change between the two assessments was assessed together with analysis of differences based on which dopaminergic medication was used. Change in bradykinesia was associated with change in working memory and mental flexibility. Changes in postural instability and gait disturbances were associated with change in visuospatial memory. A negative effect of the dopamine agonist pramipexole on phonemic fluency performance was found compared to treatment with other dopaminergic drugs. Change in cognitive and motor functions were associated from time of diagnosis until 1 year after diagnosis. These persisting findings strengthen results from a previous cross-sectional study suggesting similar associations. The effects of dopamine agonists on phonemic fluency should be investigated further.
Post-stroke cognitive impairment (PSCI) includes all forms of cognitive decline that develop after stroke, even if not severe enough to fit the criteria of dementia. Our aims were to investigate the predictive value of a brief bedside examination (Montreal Cognitive Assessment, MoCA) in the acute phase of stroke on the diagnosis of mid-term PSCI, taking into account other clinical, cognitive, functional, and neuroimaging predictors. Consecutive patients admitted to a stroke unit were evaluated with MoCA between 5 and 9 days after stroke. At baseline, clinical, functional, and neuroimaging data were collected. Patients were reassessed between 6 and 9 months after stroke by means of an extensive neuropsychological and functional evaluation. Out of 137 enrolled stroke patients, 80 (58.4%) were followed up (mean age 68.2  14.6 years, males 66%, mean NIHSS score 3.6  4.8). PSCI was diagnosed in 47 patients (59%; 35 mild cognitive impairment, 12 dementia). Controlling for age, education, functional and cognitive pre-morbid status, stroke severity, and pre-existing lacunar infarcts, MoCA baseline score [OR (95% CI) = 1.4(1.1-1.8)] for each point] and leukoaraiosis severity [OR (95% CI) = 0.4(0.2-0.9)] for each point of the van Swieten scale] were independently associated with PSCI. Using a ROC analysis, a cut-off of 21 predicted the diagnosis of PSCI with 91.4 % sensitivity, 75.8 % specificity, 80 % positive predictive value, and 89.3 % negative predictive value. In a sample of mild stroke patients, MoCA seems to be a good predictor of mid-term PSCI, making it a possible candidate for a brief cognitive screening in the acute stroke setting.




Perfusion and diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (pMRI, dMRI) are valuable diagnostic tools for assessing brain tumors in the clinical setting. The aim of this study was to determine the correlation of pMRI and dMRI with C-methionine positron emission tomography (MET PET) in suspected low-grade gliomas (LGG) prior to surgery. Twenty-four adults with suspected LGG were enrolled in an observational study and examined by MET PET, pMRI and dMRI. Histological tumor diagnosis was confirmed in 23/24 patients (18 gliomas grade II, 5 gliomas grade III). The maximum relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV(max)) and the minimum mean diffusivity (MD(min)) were measured in tumor areas with highest MET uptake (hotspot) on PET by using automated co-registration of MRI and PET scans. A clearly defined hotspot on PET was present in all 23 tumors. Regions with rCBV(max) corresponded with hotspot regions in all tumors, regions with MD(min) corresponded with hotspot regions in 20/23 tumors. The correlation between rCBV(max) (r = 0.19, P = 0.38) and MD(min) (r = -0.41, P = 0.053) with MET uptake in the hotspot was not statistically significant. Taken into account the difficulties of measuring perfusion abnormalities in non-enhancing gliomas, this study demonstrates that co-registered MET PET and pMRI facilitates the identification of regions with rCBV(max). Furthermore, the lack of a clear positive correlation between tumor metabolism in terms of MET uptake and tumor vascularity measured as rCBV(max) suggests that combined pMRI/PET provides complementary baseline imaging data in these tumors.

Healthy subjects can easily produce voluntary actions at different speeds and with varying accuracy requirements. It remains unknown whether rapid corrective responses to mechanical perturbations also possess this flexibility and, thereby, contribute to the capability expressed in voluntary control. Paralleling previous studies on self-initiated movements, we examined how muscle activity was impacted by either implicit or explicit criteria affecting the urgency to respond to the perturbation. Participants maintained their arm position against torque perturbations with unpredictable timing and direction. In the first experiment, the urgency to respond was explicitly altered by varying the time limit (300 ms vs. 700 ms) to return to a small target. A second experiment addresses implicit urgency criteria by varying the radius of the goal target, such that task accuracy could be achieved with less vigorous corrections for large targets than small target. We show that muscle responses at 60 ms scaled with the task demand. Moreover, in both experiments, we found a strong intertrial correlation between long-latency responses (50-100 ms) and the movement reversal times, which emphasizes that these rapid motor responses are directly linked to behavioral performance. The slopes of these linear regressions were sensitive to the experimental condition during the long-latency and early voluntary epochs. These findings suggest that feedback gains for very rapid responses are flexibly scaled according to task-related urgency.
In both the upper and lower limbs, evidence suggests that short-latency electromyographic (EMG) responses to mechanical perturbations are modulated based on muscle stretch or joint motion, whereas long-latency responses are modulated based on attainment of task-level goals, e.g., desired direction of limb movement. We hypothesized that long-latency responses are modulated continuously by task-level error feedback. Previously, we identified an error-based sensorimotor feedback transformation that describes the time course of EMG responses to ramp-and-hold perturbations during standing balance (Safavynia and Ting 2013; Welch and Ting 2008, 2009). Here, our goals were 1) to test the robustness of the sensorimotor transformation over a richer set of perturbation conditions and postural states; and 2) to explicitly test whether the sensorimotor transformation is based on task-level vs. joint-level error. We developed novel perturbation trains of acceleration pulses such that perturbations were applied when the body deviated from the desired, upright state while recovering from preceding perturbations. The entire time course of EMG responses (4 s) in an antagonistic muscle pair was reconstructed using a weighted sum of center of mass (CoM) kinematics preceding EMGs at long-latency delays (100 ms). Furthermore, CoM and joint kinematic trajectories became decorrelated during perturbation trains, allowing us to explicitly compare task-level vs. joint feedback in the same experimental condition. Reconstruction of EMGs was poorer using joint kinematics compared with CoM kinematics and required unphysiologically short (10 ms) delays. Thus continuous, long-latency feedback of task-level variables may be a common mechanism regulating long-latency responses in the upper and lower limbs.
Hand and foot movements are made more reliably when both limbs move in the same direction at the same time (isodirectional) compared with when they are made in opposite directions (anisodirectional). We hypothesized that M1 intracortical facilitation may subserve hand-foot coordination and reveal correlates that explain the preference for hand-foot movements to be performed in an isodirectional pattern. To test our hypothesis we investigated behavioral kinematics of hand-foot coordination (experiment 1) and neurophysiological measures of corticomotor excitability and intracortical facilitation (experiment 2) in 17 healthy young adults. As expected, coordination became unstable in the anisodirectional pattern but not the isodirectional pattern, as confirmed in measures of wrist and ankle relative phase error and stability (both P &lt; 0.001). Short-latency paired-pulse TMS was used to elicit motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and produce short-latency intracortical facilitation (sICF) in right extensor carpi radialis (ECR) and flexor carpi radialis (FCR) in the presence and absence of right ankle plantarflexion/dorsiflexion (P &lt; 0.015). An isodirectional preference was confirmed by facilitation of FCR MEPs and TMS-induced wrist flexion during ankle plantarflexion (both P &lt; 0.025) but no evidence of modulation of any particular &quot;I wave&quot; during foot movement compared with rest. A novel finding was the association between loss of stability of the anisodirectional pattern (experiment 1) and the modulation of corticomotor excitability in support of the isodirectional pattern (experiment 2) (P &lt; 0.05). The preference for isodirectional hand-foot movements appears not to depend on M1 intracortical facilitation.
Cortical sensory representation is highly adaptive to the environment, and prevalent or behaviorally important stimuli are often overrepresented. One class of such stimuli is species-specific vocalizations. Rats vocalize in the ultrasonic range &gt;30 kHz, but cortical representation of this frequency range has not been systematically examined. We recorded in vivo cortical electrophysiological responses to ultrasonic pure-tone pips, natural ultrasonic vocalizations, and pitch-shifted vocalizations to assess how rats represent this ethologically relevant frequency range. We find that nearly 40% of the primary auditory cortex (AI) represents an octave-wide band of ultrasonic vocalization frequencies (UVFs; 32-64 kHz) compared with &lt;20% for other octave bands &lt;32 kHz. These UVF neurons respond preferentially and reliably to ultrasonic vocalizations. The UVF overrepresentation matures in the cortex before it develops in the central nucleus of inferior colliculus, suggesting a cortical origin and corticofugal influences. Furthermore, the development of cortical UVF overrepresentation depends on early acoustic experience. These results indicate that natural sensory experience causes large-scale cortical map reorganization and improves representations of species-specific vocalizations.
Although hyperalgesia to mechanical stimuli is a frequent sign in patients with inflammation or neuropathic pain, there is to date no objective electrophysiological measure for its evaluation in the clinical routine. Here we describe a technique for recording the electroencephalographic (EEG) responses elicited by mechanical stimulation with a flat-tip probe (diameter 0.25 mm, force 128 mN). Such probes activate A nociceptors and are widely used to assess the presence of secondary hyperalgesia, a psychophysical correlate of sensitization in the nociceptive system. The corresponding pinprick-evoked potentials (PEPs) were recorded in 10 subjects during stimulation of the right and left hand dorsum before and after intradermal injection of capsaicin into the right hand and in 1 patient with a selective lesion of the right spinothalamic tract. PEPs in response to stimulation of normal skin were characterized by a vertex negative-positive (NP) complex, with N/P latencies and amplitudes of 111/245 ms and 3.5/11 V, respectively. All subjects developed a robust capsaicin-induced increase in the pain elicited by pinprick stimulation of the secondary hyperalgesic area (+91.5%, P &lt; 0.005). Such stimulation also resulted in a significant increase of the N-wave amplitude (+92.9%, P &lt; 0.005), but not of the P wave (+6.6%, P = 0.61). In the patient, PEPs during stimulation of the hypoalgesic side were reduced. These results indicate that PEPs 1) reflect cortical activities triggered by somatosensory input transmitted in A primary sensory afferents and spinothalamic projection neurons, 2) allow quantification of experimentally induced secondary mechanical hyperalgesia, and 3) have the potential to become a diagnostic tool to substantiate mechanical hyperalgesia in patients with presumed central sensitization.
Executive dysfunction can be present from the early stages of Parkinson's disease (PD). It is characterized by deficits in internal control of attention, set shifting, planning, inhibitory control, dual task performance, and on a range of decision-making and social cognition tasks. Treatment with dopaminergic medication has variable effects on executive deficits, improving some, leaving some unchanged, and worsening others. In this review, we start by defining the specific nature of executive dysfunction in PD and describe suitable neuropsychological tests. We then discuss how executive deficits relate to pathology in specific territories of the basal ganglia, consider the impact of dopaminergic treatment on executive function (EF) in this context, and review the changes in EFs with disease progression. In later sections, we summarize correlates of executive dysfunction in PD with motor performance (e.g., postural instability, freezing of gait) and a variety of psychiatric (e.g., depression, apathy) and other clinical symptoms, and finally discuss the implications of these for the patients' daily life.
Impulse control disorders (ICDs) and apathy are recognized as two important neuropsychiatric syndromes associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), but as yet we understand very little about the cognitive mechanisms underlying them. Here, we review emerging findings, from both human and animal studies, that suggest that impulsivity and apathy are opposite extremes of a dopamine-dependent spectrum of motivated decision making. We first argue that there is strong support for a hypodopaminergic state in PD patients with apathy, as well as for an association between dopamine therapy and development of ICDs. However, there is little evidence for a clear dose-response relationship, and great heterogeneity of findings. We argue that dopaminergic state on its own is an insufficient explanation, and suggest instead that there is now substantial evidence that both apathy and impulsivity are in fact multi-dimensional syndromes, with separate, dissociable mechanisms underlying their 'surface' manifestations. Some of these mechanisms might be dopamine-dependent. According to this view, individuals diagnosed as impulsive or apathetic may have very different mechanisms underlying their clinical states. We propose that impulsivity and apathy can arise from dissociable deficits in option generation, option selection, action initiation or inhibition and learning. Review of the behavioural and neurobiological evidence leads us to a new conceptual framework that might help understand the variety of functional deficits seen in PD.
Cognitive impairment occurs frequently in Parkinson's disease (PD) and the concept of Mild Cognitive Impairment in PD (PD-MCI) has recently emerged. Patients with mild impairment are at risk of developing dementia, and thus it is a topic of growing interest. Many previous studies have investigated the neural correlates of cognitive impairment, in particular executive dysfunction, in PD patients without dementia using neuroimaging techniques including structural MRI, functional MRI and PET imaging. These studies, which have provided a foundation for understanding which brain regions and neurotransmitter systems may be involved in executive dysfunction in PD, will be reviewed. Recent neuroimaging studies that have used specific criteria to classify patients as PD-MCI, in the hopes of gaining further insight into the underlying neural mechanisms will also be discussed. In particular, this review will cover key findings involving structural MRI investigating grey and white matter changes, functional MRI to examine changes in neural activation and PET imaging to investigate metabolic and neurochemical changes that have led to an improved understanding of pathology associated with executive dysfunction in PD without dementia and PD-MCI.
-Aminobutyric acid (GABA)- and serotonin (5-HT)-mediated cell signaling, neuronal survival enhancement, and reduced neuronal death in brainstem during liver injury followed by active liver regeneration have a critical role in maintaining routine bodily functions. In the present study, GABAB and 5-HT2A receptor functional regulation, interrelated actions of neuronal survival factors, and expression of apoptotic factors in the brainstem during GABA and 5-HT chitosan nanoparticles-induced active liver regeneration in partially hepatectomized rats were evaluated. Partially hepatectomized rats were treated with the nanoparticles, and receptor assays and confocal microscopic studies of GABAB and 5-HT2A receptors, gene expression studies of GABAB and 5-HT2A receptors, nuclear factor-B (NF-B), tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), Akt-1, phospholipase C, Bax, and caspase-8 were performed with the brainstems of experimental animals. A significant decrease in GABAB and 5-HT2A receptor numbers and gene expressions denoted a homeostatic adjustment by the brain to trigger the sympathetic innervations during elevated DNA synthesis in the liver. The neuronal apoptosis resulting from the loss of liver function after partial hepatectomy was minimized by nanoparticle treatment in rats compared with rats with no treatment during regeneration. This was confirmed from the gene expression patterns of NF-B, TNF-, Akt-1, phospholipase C, Bax, and caspase-8. The present study revealed the potential of GABA and 5-HT chitosan nanoparticles for increasing neuronal survival in the brainstem during liver injury following regeneration, which avoids many neuropsychiatric problems.
Neuroinflammation is required for tissue clearance and repair after infections or insults. To prevent excessive damage, it is crucial to limit the extent of neuroinflammation and thereby the activation of its principal effector cell, microglia. The two main major innate immune cell types in the CNS are astrocytes and microglia. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) have been implicated in regulating the innate inflammatory response, and here we addressed their role in pure astrocyte and microglia cultures. Endogenous HDAC expression levels were determined in microglia and astrocytes and after treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or LPS and interferon  (IFN). The relative expression level of HDACs was reduced in LPS- or LPS/IFN (with the exception of HDAC1 and -7)-stimulated astrocytes and increased in microglia after LPS treatment both in primary cultures and in microglia acutely isolated from LPS-treated mice, so we focused on the inflammatory response in microglia. Primary microglia cultures were treated with LPS in the presence or absence of HDAC inhibitors (HDACi). Expression and release of inflammatory cytokines was determined by quantitative RT-PCR, flow cytometry, and ELISA. HDACi strongly suppressed LPS-induced cytokine expression and release by microglia. Furthermore, expression of M1- and M2-associated activation markers was suppressed, and the migratory behavior of microglia was attenuated. Our findings strongly suggest that HDACi suppress innate immune activation in microglia.
The anatomical description of the fifth cranial nerve ganglion lacked detail before the work of Antonius Balthazar Raymundus Hirsch (1744-1778). Hirsch used new dissection techniques that resulted in the most meticulous report of the trigeminal ganglion (the gasserian ganglion) to have been reported. In 1765, the 21-year-old published these findings in a thesis, Paris Quinti Nervorum Encephali Disquisitio Anatomica In Quantum Ad Ganglion Sibi Proprium, Semilunare, Et Ad Originem Nervi Intercostalis Pertinet [An anatomical inquiry of the fifth pair of the nerves of the brain, so far as it relates to the ganglion unto itself, the semilunar, and to the source of the intercostal nerve]. Hirsch wrote his thesis as a paean to his ailing teacher, Johann Lorenz Gasser, but Gasser died before Hirsch was able to defend his thesis. Thereafter, Hirsch applied to teach anatomy at his alma mater, the University of Vienna, but the university did not consider his application, deeming him too young for the position. Oddly, Hirsch died at the young age of 35. For the present paper, the library at the University of Vienna (Universitt Wien), Austria, was contacted, and Anton Hirsch's thesis was digitized and subsequently translated from Latin into English. The authors here attempt to place the recognition of the fifth cranial nerve ganglion within a historical perspective and trace the trajectory of its anatomical descriptions.
This review article provides a general overview of the role of minimal access spine surgery (MASS) in the context of spinal neoplastic disease. Illustrative cases included outline advances in new techniques with a focus on improved patient outcome. The article challenges the traditional indication for surgical decompression by considering the objective of better local control of tumor. MASS can be used to improve focused environments in which the delivery of a higher and safer dose of radiation can be accomplished. This combination of treatment has the purpose of better overall survival for some cancer patients by positively influencing local control. The role of surgical intervention in the context of managing cancer patients is continuously being redefined for this challenging population. The modern surgeon must stay abreast of all advances in their field in order to provide the best care for their patients.
The existing literature on lingering effects from concussions in children and adolescents is limited and mixed, and there are no clear answers for patients, clinicians, researchers, or policy makers. The purpose of this study was to examine whether there are lingering effects of past concussions in adolescent athletes. Participants in this study included 643 competitive Bantam and Midget hockey players (most elite 20% by division of play) between 13 and 17 years of age (mean age=15.5, SD=1.2). Concussion history at baseline assessment was retrospectively documented using a pre-season questionnaire (PSQ), which was completed at home by parents and players in advance of baseline testing. Players with English as a second language, self-reported attention or learning disorders, a concussion within 6 months of baseline, or suspected invalid test profiles were excluded from these analyses. Demographically adjusted standard scores for the five composites/domains and raw symptom ratings from the brief Immediate Post-Concussion Assessment and Cognitive Testing (ImPACT) computerized battery were analyzed. Adolescent athletes with one or two or more prior concussions did not have significantly worse neurocognitive functioning on ImPACT than did those with no previous concussions. There were significantly more symptoms reported in those with two or more prior concussions than in those with no or one prior concussion. Adolescents with multiple previous concussions had higher levels of baseline symptoms, but there were not group differences in neurocognitive functioning using this brief computerized battery.







Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley's modern Prometheus shows us the eternal punishment of unrepaired shame--eternal entrapment within the shame triangle of victim, perpetrator and rescuer. This paper describes how Shelley's insight--that lack of love creates a monster living in shame--is being confirmed by neuroscience and how this is exemplified in two characters--the creature and Victor Frankenstein. Additionally, it delineates how pastoral counselors can help those suffering from unrepaired shame



Twenty patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) meeting the EFNS/PNS criteria were examined in order to assess differences/similarities between the various grading systems according to CIDP disease activity status (CDAS). A principal component (PC) analysis and the correlations between the following scores were performed: Neurological Symptom Score; MRC sum score; Neurological Impairment Score; Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale; Inflammatory Neuropathy Cause and Treatment (INCAT) Sensory Sum Score; Overall Disability Sum Score; INCAT Disability Score; Rasch-built Overall Disability Scale. Our analysis outlined two main sets of scales, with high influence in the top two PCs. The first PC that best explained the variability within the cohort consisted of CDAS, general disability scores and motor scores; these parameters were also strongly correlated amongst each other. The second PC explained less the variability and consisted mainly of sensory scores and disease duration; these parameters did not correlate with the scores of the first PC or with the CDAS. Our findings suggest separating screening for motor and sensory deficits when evaluating CIDP patients, as only the motor scores correlate with CDAS.
Transgenic mice have been previously used to assess nerve regeneration following peripheral nerve injury. However, mouse models are limited by their small caliber nerves, short nerve lengths, and their inability to fully participate during behavioral assessments. The transgenic Thy1 GFP rat is a novel transgenic rat model designed to assess regeneration following peripheral nerve injury. However, return of functional and behavioral recovery following nerve injury has not yet been evaluated in these rats. In this study, we ask whether differences in anatomy, recovery of locomotion, myological, and histomorphological measures exist between transgenic Thy1 GFP rats when compared to wild type (WT) Sprague Dawley rats following unilateral sciatic nerve injury. We found that both motor and sensory neuronal architecture, overground and skilled locomotion, muscle force, motor unit number estimation (MUNE) and wet muscle weights, and histomorphometric assessments are similar between both genetic phenotypes. Overall, these data support the use of the transgenic Thy1-GFP rat in experiments assessing functional and behavioral recovery following nerve injury and repair.
Trafficking of autoreactive leukocytes across the blood-nerve barrier and into peripheral nerves is an early pathological hallmark of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). Tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), a proinflammatory cytokine, promotes transendothelial migration by upregulating endothelial expression of inflammatory mediators, including CCL2, a chemokine implicated in GBS. We sought to determine the mechanism by which TNF- induces expression and secretion of CCL2 from peripheral nerve microvascular endoneurial endothelial cells (PNMECs). Expression of CCL2 mRNA and protein in quiescent PNMEC cultures was minimal. In contrast, cultures treated with TNF- exhibited increased CCL2 mRNA and protein content, as well as protein secretion. Simvastatin significantly attenuated TNF--induced CCL2 secretion without affecting CCL2 mRNA or protein expression. Co-incubation with geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate, but not farnesyl pyrophosphate, prevented the effect of simvastatin. By comparison, inhibiting protein isoprenylation with GGTI-298, but not FTI-277, mimicked the effect of simvastatin and significantly attenuated transendothelial migration in vitro. Inhibition of the monomeric GTPase Cdc42, but not Rac1 or RhoA-C, attenuated TNF--mediated CCL2 secretion. TNF--mediated trafficking of autoreactive leukocytes into peripheral nerves during GBS may proceed by a mechanism that involves Cdc42-facilitated secretion of CCL2.
Anorexia nervosa is situated at the junction between two time scales, the time scale of adolescence, in which intense physiological and psychological upheavals are occurring over a relatively short period of time, and the time scale of the potentially chronic evolution of the disease over the course of the patient's lifespan. This second time scale links the critical period of adolescence with the pre-morbid period, during which a complex state of vulnerability, often unseen and unheard, combines with different risk factors, which may be isolated, associated, dissociated or concomitant, to produce the emergence of anorexia; it ushers also adolescence into the period of adulthood, flagged with the reorganization that occurs in the course of the healing process (in case of recovery), or pervaded by somatic and mental distress (in cases where the condition becomes chronic). Given the lifespan nature of the disease, it is difficult to differentiate premorbid pathogenic factors from changes resulting from the acute or chronic phases of the illness. It is also difficult to establish straightforward correlations between physiological disturbances and their clinical consequences, or conversely to assume that the restoration of physiological parameters means the disappearance of the underlying mental disorder. Taken together, these observations support an approach to anorexia nervosa that is both developmental and integrative, taking into account both the complexity of the pathways involved and the developmental timescales of these pathways. This type of approach can help to adjust therapeutic strategies and thus enhance prognosis, in particular by integrating the temporal parameter into the dynamics of care plans.
Mass shootings, such as the 2012 Newtown massacre, have repeatedly led to political discourse about limiting access to guns for individuals with serious mental illness. Although the political climate after such tragic events poses a considerable challenge to mental health advocates who wish to minimize unsympathetic portrayals of those with mental illness, such media attention may be a rare opportunity to focus attention on risks of victimization of those with serious mental illness and barriers to obtaining psychiatric care. Current federal gun control laws may discourage individuals from seeking psychiatric treatment and describe individuals with mental illness using anachronistic, imprecise, and gratuitously stigmatizing language. This article lays out potential talking points that may be useful after future gun violence.
Neurochemical studies have pointed to a modulatory role in human aggression for various central neurotransmitters. Some (e.g., serotonin) appear to play an inhibitory role, while others appear to play a facilitator role. While recent animal studies of glutaminergic activity suggest a facilitator role for central glutamate in the modulation of aggression, no human studies of central glutaminergic indices have yet been reported regarding aggression. Basal lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was obtained from 38 physically healthy subjects with DSM-IV Personality Disorder (PD: n=28) and from Healthy Volunteers (HV: n=10) and assayed for glutamate, and other neurotransmitters, in CSF and correlated with measures of aggression and impulsivity. CSF Glutamate levels did not differ between the PD and HC subjects but did directly correlate with composite measures of both aggression and impulsivity and a composite measure of impulsive aggression in both groups. These data suggest a positive relationship between CSF Glutamate levels and measures of impulsive aggression in human subjects. Thus, glutamate function may contribute to the complex central neuromodulation of impulsive aggression in human subjects.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have failed to replicate common genetic variants associated with antidepressant response, as defined using a single endpoint. Genetic influences may be discernible by examining individual variation between sustained versus unsustained patterns of response, which may distinguish medication effects from non-specific, or placebo responses to active medication. We conducted a GWAS among 1116 subjects with Major Depressive Disorder from the Sequenced Treatment Alternatives to Relieve Depression (STAR*D) trial who were characterized using Growth Mixture Modeling as showing a sustained versus unsustained pattern of clinical response over 12 weeks of treatment with citalopram. Replication analyses examined 585 subjects from the Genome-based Therapeutic Drugs for Depression (GENDEP) trial. The strongest association with sustained as opposed to unsustained response in STAR*D involved a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP; rs10492002) within the acyl-CoA synthetase short-chain family member 3 gene (ACSS3, p-value=4.510(-6), odds ratio=0.61). No SNPs met our threshold for genome-wide significance. SNP data were available in GENDEP for 18 of the top 25 SNPs in STAR*D. The most replicable association was with SNP rs7816924 (p=0.008, OR=1.58); no SNP met the replication p-value threshold of 0.003. Joint analysis of these 18 SNPs resulted in the strongest signal coming from rs7816924 (p=2.1110(-7)), which resides in chondroitin sulfate N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 1 gene (CSGALNACT1). An exploratory genetic pathway analysis revealed evidence for an involvement of the KEGG pathway of long-term potentiation (FDR=.02). Results suggest novel genetic associations to sustained response.
Glutamatergic therapies are emerging as the new path for the treatment of Major Depression Disorder. Recent reports reviewing the use of glutamate activity modulators in the treatment of resistant depression advocate the importance of understanding the alterations of the diverse components of this complex system in mood disorders. In this postmortem study we used in situ hybridization and microarray analysis to evaluate the gene expression of the membrane transporters SLC1A2 and SLCA3 and the vesicular transporter SLCA17A7 in the hippocampus of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and Bipolar Disorder (BPD) subjects. Samples from 8 controls, 11 MDD and 6 BPD subjects were processed for in situ hybridization using cRNA probes for SLC1A2, SLC1A3 and SLC17A7. Laser capture microdissection was used to collect tissue from adjacent sections for microarray analysis. The results showed that the expression of the membrane transporters SLC1A2 and SLC1A3 was diminished in the MDD group compared to controls. The expression of the vesicular glutamate transporter SLC17A7 on the other hand was increased in MDD subjects. As for the BPD group, all three transporters showed trends similar to those observed in MDD, but the changes observed did not reach significance. We hypothesize that the decreased expression of the membrane glutamate transporters and the increased expression of the vesicular transporter in the hippocampus would affect the balance of the glutamatergic circuitry of the hippocampus, and that this effect may be a major contributor to depressive symptoms.



Previous research regarding the role of individuals within the organizational ambidexterity construct has primarily focused on behavioral characteristics of managers. Drawing from the organizational, psychological, and neuroscience literatures, this study develops and tests hypotheses concerning the formative construct of Individual Ambidexterity (IA), the cognitive abilities necessary to balance efforts of exploration and exploitation. In an initial criterion-related predictive validity laboratory study, 181 undergraduate students completed successive trials in a computer-simulated, real-time dynamic microworld context. Findings explained unique variance beyond measures of general intelligence on the total score of task adaptive performance. The results indicate a novel combination of abilities that may further understanding of how individual abilities contribute to the ambidexterity literature.

Systemic administration of the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)- receptor antagonist, MK-801, has been proposed to model cognitive deficits similar to those seen in patients with schizophrenia. Evidence has shown that MK-801 increases the probability of operant responding during extinction, possibly modeling perseveration, as would be seen in patients with schizophrenia. This MK-801-induced behavioral perseveration is reversed by dopamine receptor antagonism. To further explore the role of dopamine in this behavioral change, the current study sought to determine if the MK-801-induced increase in non-rewarded operant responding could be mimicked by dopamine agonism and determine how it was related to locomotor activity. Male Long Evans rats were treated systemically with MK-801, cocaine, GBR12909 or apomorphine (APO) and given a single trial operant extinction session, followed by a separate assessment of locomotor activity. Both MK-801 (0.05 mg/kg) and cocaine (10 mg/kg) significantly increased responding during the extinction session and both increased horizontal locomotor activity. No dose of GBR-12909 (5, 10 or 20 mg/kg) was found to effect non-rewarded operant responding or locomotor activity. APO (0.05, 0.5, 2 or 5 mg/kg) treatment produced a dose-dependent decrease in both operant responding and locomotor activity. These results suggest the possibility that, rather than a primary influence of increased dopamine concentration on elevating bar-pressing responses during extinction, other neurotransmitter systems may be involved.





Combining the use of cells with sparse cristae marked with IMP-EGFP and short pulsed sub-saturating fluorescence excitation (non-saturation fluorescence microscopy/NSFM) revealed inhomogeneous fluorescence distribution along mitochondria in living cells. Also the matrix located TMRE was distributed non-uniformly and at least in part filling the gaps between the IMP-EGFP fluorescence: fluorescence intensities are modulated in space and time in part in an antidromic manner. The spatial modulations can be interpreted to represent cristae/matrix distributions. The temporal fluctuations of fluorescence vary within 0.3-3s. Because most peak positions of IMP fluorescence remain stationary up to at least several minutes, temporal intensity modulations may result from varying emissions related to the degree of excitation and/or represent wobbling of cristae, i.e. lateral movements, bending or size changes. Modulations by noise and non-saturated excitation have been reduced by 3 steps of deconvolution followed by averaging 4 images. This allowed a final temporal resolution of 150ms. Disappearance of cristae or formation of new ones takes place within a few seconds, but these are rare events. Thus position of cristae seems to be rather stable, but they regularly disassemble close to fission sites. Treatment with oligomycin strongly reduces &quot;wobbling&quot; activity.
Specialized substance abuse treatment for parenting women is thought to improve outcomes, but long-term impacts and how they occur are poorly understood. Utilizing a sample of 789 California mothers followed for 10 years after admission to women-only (WO) or mixed-gender (MG) drug treatment, we examine the relationship between WO treatment and outcomes and whether it is mediated by post-treatment exposures to criminal justice and health services systems. At follow-up, 48% of mothers had a successful outcome (i.e., no use of illicit drugs, not involved with the criminal justice system, alive). Controlling for patient characteristics, WO (vs. MG) treatment increased the odds of successful outcome by 44%. In the structural equation model WO treatment was associated with fewer post-treatment arrests, which was associated with better outcomes. Women-only substance abuse treatment has long-term benefits for drug-dependent mothers, a relationship that may be partially explained by post-treatment exposure to the criminal justice system. Findings underscore additional leverage points for relapse prevention and recovery-supportive efforts for drug-dependent mothers.

Among brain tumors, glioblastoma multiforme appears as one of the most aggressive forms of cancer with poor prognosis and no curative treatment available. Recently, a new kind of radio-chemotherapy has been developed using synchrotron irradiation for the photoactivation of molecules with high-Z elements such as cisplatin (PAT-Plat). This protocol showed a cure of 33% of rats bearing the F98 glioma but the efficiency of the treatment was only measured in terms of overall survival. Here, characterization of the effects of the PAT-Plat on tumor volume and tumor blood perfusion are proposed. Changes in these parameters may predict the overall survival. Firstly, changes in tumor growth of the F98 glioma implanted in the hindlimb of nude mice after the PAT-Plat treatment and its different modalities have been characterized. Secondly, the effects of the treatment on tumor blood perfusion have been observed by intravital two-photon microscopy. Cisplatin alone had no detectable effect on the tumor volume. A reduction of tumor growth was measured after a 15Gy synchrotron irradiation, but the whole therapy (15Gy irradiation + cisplatin) showed the largest decrease in tumor growth, indicating a synergistic effect of both synchrotron irradiation and cisplatin treatment. A high number of unperfused vessels (52%) were observed in the peritumoral area in comparison with untreated controls. In the PAT-Plat protocol the transient tumor growth reduction may be due to synergistic interactions of tumor-cell-killing effects and reduction of the tumor blood perfusion.
As levels of immigration and ethnic diversity continue to rise in most Western societies, the social demography of schools is changing rapidly. Although schools represent a prominent developmental context, relatively little is known about the extent to which the racial/ethnic composition of schools influences mental health outcomes in students. The objective of the present study is to examine the association between immigrant and racial/ethnic congruence in school-the numerical representation of a student's immigrant generational status and race/ethnicity in the student body-and levels of emotional and behavioral problems. This study also examines the extent to which the association between congruence and emotional-behavioral problems differs across racial/ethnic immigrant sub-groups and is accounted for by individual perceptions of school belonging. Data come from the in-school survey of the Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health) conducted in the United States. The sample is nationally representative, and includes 128 schools and 77,150 adolescents in grades 7-12 (50 % female, M age = 14.9 years, SD = 1.78). After controlling for school and family socio-demographic characteristics, immigrant and racial/ethnic congruence in school exhibited a negative association with emotional and behavioral problems for most sub-groups examined. School belonging was associated negatively with emotional and behavioral problems, and partially accounted for the effects linked to congruence in schools. The immigrant and racial/ethnic composition of schools and perceptions of belonging have strong links with emotional and behavioral problems and may represent important targets for intervention.

The brain processes sensory information in neuronal networks that are shaped by experience, particularly during early life, to optimally represent the internal and external milieu. Recent surprising findings have revealed that antidepressant drugs reactivate a window of juvenile-like plasticity in the adult cortex. When antidepressant-induced plasticity was combined with appropriate rehabilitation, it brought about a functional recovery of abnormally wired neuronal networks. These observations suggest that antidepressants act permissively to facilitate environmental influence on neuronal network reorganization and so provide a plausible neurobiological explanation for the enhanced effect of combining antidepressant treatment with psychotherapy. The results emphasize that pharmacological and psychological treatments of mood disorders are closely entwined: the effect of antidepressant-induced plasticity is facilitated by rehabilitation, such as psychotherapy, that guides the plastic networks, and psychotherapy benefits from the enhanced plasticity provided by the drug treatment. Optimized combinations of pharmacological and psychological treatments might help make best use of existing antidepressant drugs and reduce the number of treatment-resistant patients. The network hypothesis of antidepressant action presented here proposes that recovery from depression and related mood disorders is a gradual process that develops slowly and is facilitated by structured guidance and rehabilitation.

The integration of metabolism and reproduction involves complex interactions of hypothalamic neuropeptides with metabolic hormones, fuels, and sex steroids. Of these, estrogen influences food intake, body weight, and the accumulation and distribution of adipose tissue. In this study, the effects of estrogen on food intake, serum leptin levels, and leptin mRNA expression were evaluated in ovariectomized rats. Seven-week-old female Wistar-Imamichi rats were ovariectomized and divided into three treatment groups: group 1 (the control group) received sesame oil, group 2 was given 17-estradiol benzoate, and group 3 received 17-estradiol benzoate plus progesterone. The body weight and food consumption of each rat were determined daily. Serum leptin levels and leptin mRNA expression were measured by ELISA and quantitative RT-PCR, respectively. Food consumption in the control group was significantly higher (P&lt;0.05) than that in groups 2 and 3, although body weight did not significantly differ among the three groups. The serum leptin concentration and leptin mRNA expression were significantly higher (P&lt;0.05) in groups 2 and 3 than in group 1, but no significant difference existed between groups 2 and 3. In conclusion, estrogen influenced food intake via the modulation of leptin signaling pathway in ovariectomized rats.



Pigeons learned a series of reversals of a simultaneous red-green discrimination with a 6-s delay of reinforcement. The signal properties during the 6-s reinforcement delay were varied across blocks of reversals, such that the delay was either unsignaled (intertrial interval conditions during the delay) or signaled by illumination of the center key. Four different signal conditions were presented: (1) signals only after S+ responses, (2) signals only after S- responses, (3) differential signals after S+ versus S- responding, and (4) the same nondifferential signals after S+ and S- responses. (A zero-delay control condition was also included.) Learning was at a high level in the S+-only and differential-signal conditions, and learning was at a low level during the unsignaled, nondifferentially signaled, and S- signal conditions. Thus, a differential stimulus contingent on correct choices was necessary for proficient learning-to-learn, even though within-reversal learning occurred in all conditions. During the S+ and differential-signal conditions, improvement in learning continued to occur even after more than 240 reversals (more than 38,000 trials).
Memory impairment is a common feature of conditions that involve changes in inflammatory signaling in the brain, including traumatic brain injury, infection, neurodegenerative disorders, and normal aging. However, the causal importance of inflammatory mediators in cognitive impairments in these conditions remains unclear. Here we show that specific immune proteins, members of the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC class I), are essential for normal hippocampus-dependent memory, and are specifically required for NMDAR-dependent forms of long-term depression (LTD) in the healthy adult hippocampus. In 2m(-/-)TAP(-/-)mice, which lack stable cell-surface expression of most MHC class I proteins, NMDAR-dependent LTD in area CA1 of adult hippocampus is abolished, while NMDAR-independent forms of potentiation, facilitation, and depression are unaffected. Altered NMDAR-dependent synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus of 2m(-/-)TAP(-/-)mice is accompanied by pervasive deficits in hippocampus-dependent memory, including contextual fear memory, object recognition memory, and social recognition memory. Thus normal MHC class I expression is essential for NMDAR-dependent hippocampal synaptic depression and hippocampus-dependent memory. These results suggest that changes in MHC class I expression could be an unexpected cause of disrupted synaptic plasticity and cognitive deficits in the aging, damaged, and diseased brain.
BDNF-induced signaling is essential for the development of the central nervous system and critical for plasticity in adults. Mature BDNF signals through TrkB, while its precursor proBDNF employs p75(NTR), resulting in activation of signaling cascades with opposite effects on neuronal survival, growth cone decisions, and synaptic plasticity. Accordingly, variations in the genes encoding BDNF and its receptors sometimes have opposing influences in psychiatric disorders, and despite the vast literature, consensus is lacking about the behavioral consequences of disrupting the activity of the BDNF system in mice. To dissect the behavioral traits affected by dysfunctional BDNF/TrkB vs. proBDNF/p75(NTR) activity, we studied Bdnf(+/-), Ntrk2(+/-), and Ngfr(-/-) mice in parallel with respect to exploratory behavior, anxiety, startle, and fear acquisition. Our data reveal that the effect of proBDNF/BDNF and its receptors on behavior is more complex than expected. Strikingly, receptor-deficient mice displayed increased risk-taking behavior in the open field and elevated plus maze, whereas lack of proBDNF/BDNF had the opposite effect on mouse behavior. On the other hand, although TrkB signaling is instrumental for acquisition of fear memory in an inhibitory avoidance experiment, lack of p75(NTR) or proBDNF/BDNF conferred increased memory in this task. Importantly, none of the genotypes displayed any deficits in startle reflex, indicating unimpaired response to shock. The combined data illustrate an apparent paradox in the role of the BDNF system in controlling complex behavior and suggest that the individual components may also engage independently in separate signaling pathways.
Echo-planar imaging is widely used in functional neuroimaging but suffers from its pronounced sensitivity to field inhomogeneities that cause geometric distortions and image blurring which both limit the effective in-plane resolution achievable. In this work, it is shown how inner-field-of-view techniques based on 2D-selective RF excitations (2DRF) can be applied to reduce the field-of-view in the phase-encoding direction without aliasing and increase the in-plane resolution accordingly. Free-induction-decay (FID) EPI and echo-train-shifted (T2*-weighted) and standard (T2-weighted) spin-echo (SE) EPI with in-plane resolutions of up to 0.51.0mm(2) (slice thickness 5mm) were acquired at 3T. Unwanted signal contributions of 2DRF side excitations were shifted out of the object (FID-EPI) or of the refocusing plane by tilting the excitation plane (SE-EPI). Brain activation in healthy volunteers was investigated with checkerboard and finger-tapping block-design paradigms. Brain activation could be detected with all sequences and contrasts, most reliably with FID-EPI due to its higher signal amplitude and the longer 2DRF excitation that are more sensitive to magnetic field inhomogeneities. In conclusion, inner-FOV EPI based on 2DRF excitations could help to improve the spatial resolution of fMRI of focal target regions, e.g., for applications in the spinal cord.
Hodgkin and Huxley (HH) discovered that voltages control ionic currents in nerve membranes. This led them to describe electrical activity in a neuronal membrane patch in terms of an electronic circuit whose characteristics were determined using empirical data. Due to the complexity of this model, a variety of heuristics, including relaxation oscillator circuits and integrate-and-fire models, have been used to investigate activity in neurons, and these simpler models have been successful in suggesting experiments and explaining observations. Connections between most of the simpler models had not been made clear until recently. Shown here are connections between these heuristics and the full HH model. In particular, we study a new model (Type III circuit): It includes the van der Pol-based models; it can be approximated by a simple integrate-and-fire model; and it creates voltages and currents that correspond, respectively, to the h and V components of the HH system.
Dyspnea is the highly threatening experience of breathlessness experienced by patients with diverse pathologies, including respiratory, cardiovascular, and neuromuscular diseases, cancer and panic disorder. This debilitating symptom is especially prominent in the elderly and the obese, two growing populations in the Western world. It has further been found that women suffer more strongly from dyspnea than men. Despite optimization of disease-specific treatments, dyspnea is often inadequately treated. The immense burden faced by patients, families and the healthcare system makes improving management of chronic dyspnea a priority. Dyspnea is a multidimensional sensation that encompasses an array of unpleasant respiratory sensations that vary according to underlying cause and patient characteristics. Biopsychological factors beyond disease pathology exacerbate the perception of dyspnea, increase symptom severity and reduce quality of life. Psychological state (especially comorbid anxiety and depression), hormone status, gender, body weight (obesity) and general fitness level are particularly important. Neuroimaging has started to uncover the neural mechanisms involved in the processing of sensory and affective components of dyspnea. Awareness of biopsychological factors beyond pathology is essential for diagnosis and treatment of dyspnea. Increasing understanding the interactions between biopsychological factors and dyspnea perception will enhance the development of symptomatic treatments that specifically address each patient's most pressing needs at a specific stage in life. Future neuroimaging research can provide objective markers to fully understand the role of biopsychological factors in the perception of dyspnea in the hope of uncovering target areas for pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic therapy.
It has been approximately 25 years since Dr. Rosenberg first brought attention to sarcopenia. To date, this aging-associated condition is recognized as a chronic loss of muscle mass and is usually accompanied by dynapenia. Despite its poly-etiological factors, sarcopenia has a strong neurogenic component underlying this chrono-degeneration of muscle mass, as shown in recent studies. As it seems plausible to explain the origin of sarcopenia through a motor neuron degeneration model, the focus of sarcopenia research should combine neuroscience with the study of the original myocyte and satellite cells. Although a complete mechanism underlying the development of sarcopenia has yet to be elucidated, we propose that the primary trigger of sarcopenia could be gliogenic in origin based on the close relationship between the glia, neurons and non-neural cells, for example, the motor unit and its associated glia in both the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). In addition to muscle cells, both of the neural cells are affected by aging.
During electrocutaneous stimulations, variation in skin properties across locations can lead to differences in neural activation. However, little focus has been given to the effect of different skin thicknesses on neural activation. Electrical stimulation was applied to six sites across the sole of the foot. The intensities used were two and four times perception threshold. The subjects (n = 8) rated the perception quality and intensity using the McGill Pain Questionnaire and a visual analog scale (VAS). A finite element model was developed and combined with the activation function (AF) to estimate neural activation. Electrical stimulation was perceived as significantly less sharp at the heel compared to all other sites, except one site in the forefoot (logistic regression, p &lt; 0.05). The VAS scores were significantly higher in the arch than at the heel (RM ANOVA, p &lt; 0.05). The model showed that the AF was between 91 and 231 % higher at the five other sites than at the heel. The differences in perception across the sole of the foot indicated that the CNS received different inputs depending on the stimulus site. The lower AF at the heel indicated that the skin thicknesses could contribute to the perceived differences.
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is an often-debilitating condition of unknown origin. There is a general consensus among CFS researchers that the symptoms seem to reflect an ongoing immune response, perhaps due to viral infection. Thus, most CFS research has focused upon trying to uncover that putative immune system dysfunction or specific pathogenic agent. However, no single causative agent has been found. In this speculative article, I describe a new hypothesis for the etiology of CFS: infection of the vagus nerve. When immune cells of otherwise healthy individuals detect any peripheral infection, they release proinflammatory cytokines. Chemoreceptors of the sensory vagus nerve detect these localized proinflammatory cytokines, and send a signal to the brain to initiate sickness behavior. Sickness behavior is an involuntary response that includes fatigue, fever, myalgia, depression, and other symptoms that overlap with CFS. The vagus nerve infection hypothesis of CFS contends that CFS symptoms are a pathologically exaggerated version of normal sickness behavior that can occur when sensory vagal ganglia or paraganglia are themselves infected with any virus or bacteria. Drawing upon relevant findings from the neuropathic pain literature, I explain how pathogen-activated glial cells can bombard the sensory vagus nerve with proinflammatory cytokines and other neuroexcitatory substances, initiating an exaggerated and intractable sickness behavior signal. According to this hypothesis, any pathogenic infection of the vagus nerve can cause CFS, which resolves the ongoing controversy about finding a single pathogen. The vagus nerve infection hypothesis offers testable hypotheses for researchers, animal models, and specific treatment strategies.
In this paper, I will examine some legal and ethical issues that arise in relation to neuroscience research involving older persons in Canada. Such research includes research relating to dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. Dementias such as Alzheimer's are organic diseases affecting mainly older persons. They adversely affect mental acuity. There is still much that is unknown about such illnesses, making research on these diseases particularly necessary. In this paper, I will identify and focus on particular concerns with respect to the participation of older persons in research. These concerns are: Inclusion in and Access to Research; Informed Consent; Incidental Findings; and Advance Directives. I will discuss each of these concerns in the context of Canadian research ethics policy and law. The aim of this paper is not to provide an exhaustive discussion of these issues, each of which may rightfully demand a full paper. The aim of this paper is to identify and paint a canvass of these particularly relevant issues, discuss the policy and law on them, identify any existing gaps and propose some solutions to remedy these gaps and protect older persons who participate in research.
The purpose is to evaluate white matter (WM) abnormalities in Wilson's disease (WD) using the technique of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). The prospective case-control study comprised of 15 drug-nave patients with WD and 15 controls. The phenotype of subjects was evaluated. The DTI/conventional MRI was acquired (3T MRI): Fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD) values were extracted from regions of interest placed in pons, midbrain, bilateral frontal and occipital cerebral white matter, bilateral internal capsules (IC), middle cerebellar peduncles (MCP) and corpus callosum (CC). Six patients showed lobar WM signal changes on T(2)-Weighted (T2W)/Fluid attenuation inversion recovery (FLAIR) images while remaining had normal appearing WM. MD was significantly increased in the lobar WM, bilateral IC and midbrain of WD patients. FA was decreased in the frontal and occipital WM, bilateral IC, midbrain and pons. Normal-appearing white matter on FLAIR images showed significantly increased MD and decreased FA values in both frontal and occipital lobar WM and IC compared with those in controls. Correlation of clinical scores and DTI metrics revealed positive correlation between neurological symptom score (NSS) and MD of anterior limb of right internal capsule, Chu stage and MD of frontal and occipital WM. Negative correlation was observed between the Modified Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living (MSEADL) score and MD of bilateral frontal and occipital WM and IC. This is the probably the first study to reveal widespread alterations in WM by DTI metrics in drug nave WD. DTI analysis revealed lobar WM abnormalities which is less frequently noted on conventional MRI and suggests widespread WM abnormalities in WD. It may be valuable in assessing the true extent of involvement and therefore the severity of the illness.
Glioblastoma is the most common aggressive, highly glycolytic, and lethal brain tumor. In fact, it is among the most commonly diagnosed lethal malignancies, with thousands of new cases reported in the United States each year. Glioblastoma's lethality is derived from a number of factors including highly active pro-mitotic and pro-metastatic pathways. Two factors increasingly associated with the intracellular signaling and transcriptional machinery required for such changes are anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) and the hepatocyte growth factor receptor (HGFR or, more commonly MET). Both receptors are members of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family, which has itself gained much attention for its role in modulating mitosis, migration, and survival in cancer cells. ALK was first described as a vital oncogene in lymphoma studies, but it has since been connected to many carcinomas, including non-small cell lung cancer and glioblastoma. As the receptor for HGF, MET has also been highly characterized and regulates numerous developmental and wound healing events which, when upregulated in cancer, can promote tumor progression. The wealth of information gathered over the last 30 years regarding these RTKs suggests three downstream cascades that depend upon activation of STAT3, Ras, and AKT. This review outlines the significance of ALK and MET as they relate to glioblastoma, explores the significance of STAT3, Ras, and AKT downstream of ALK/MET, and touches on the potential for new chemotherapeutics targeting ALK and MET to improve glioblastoma patient prognosis.
We have introduced a sensitive method for studying oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD)-induced mitochondrial alterations in homogenates of organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (slices) by high-resolution respirometry. Using this approach, we tested the neuroprotective potential of the novel non-immunosuppressive cyclosporin (CsA) derivative Cs9 in comparison with CsA, the immunosuppressive CsA analog [D-Ser](8)CsA, and MK 801, a N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. OGD/reperfusion reduced the glutamate/malate dependent (and protein-related) state 3 respiration to 30% of its value under control conditions. All of the above drugs reversed this effect, with an increase to &gt;88% of the value for control slices not exposed to OGD. We conclude that Cs9, [D-Ser](8)CsA, and MK 801, despite their different modes of action, protect mitochondria from OGD-induced damage.
The binding of neurotrophins to tropomyosin receptor kinase receptors initiates several signaling pathways, including the activation of phospholipase C-, which promotes the release of diacylglycerol and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)). In addition to recycling back to inositol, IP(3) serves as a precursor for the synthesis of higher phosphorylated inositols, such as inositol 1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate (IP(5)) and inositol hexakisphosphate (IP(6)). Previous studies on the effect of neurotrophins on inositol signaling were limited to the analysis of IP(3) and its dephosphorylation products. Here we demonstrate that nerve growth factor (NGF) regulates the levels of IP(5) and IP(6) during PC12 differentiation. Furthermore, both NGF and brain-derived neurotrophic factor alter IP(5) and IP(6) intracellular ratio in differentiated PC12 cells and primary neurons. Neurotrophins specifically regulate the expression of IP(5)-2 kinase (IP(5)-2K), which phosphorylates IP(5) into IP(6). IP(5)-2K is rapidly induced after NGF treatment, but its transcriptional levels sharply decrease in fully differentiated PC12 cells. Reduction of IP(5)-2K protein levels by small interfering RNA has an effect on the early stages of PC12 cell differentiation, whereas fully differentiated cells are not affected. Conversely, perturbation of IP(5)-2K levels by overexpression suggests that both differentiated PC12 cells and sympathetic neurons require low levels of the enzyme for survival. Therefore maintaining appropriate intracellular levels of inositol polyphosphates is necessary for neuronal survival and differentiation.
Sister chromatid separation depends on the activity of separase, which in turn requires the proteolysis of its inhibitor, securin. It has been speculated that securin also supports the activation of separase. In this study, we found that PTTG1 was the major securin isoform expressed in most normal and cancer cell lines. Remarkably, a highly homologous isoform called PTTG2 was unable to interact with separase. Using chimeras between PTTG1 and PTTG2 and other approaches, we pinpointed a single amino acid that accounted for the loss of securin function in PTTG2. Mutation of the homologous position in PTTG1 (H(134)) switched PTTG1 from an inhibitor into an activator of separase. In agreement with this, PTTG1 lacking H(134) was able to trigger premature sister chromatid separation. Conversely, introduction of H(134) into PTTG2 is sufficient to allow it to bind separase. These data demonstrate that while the motif containing H(134) has a strong affinity for separase and is involved in inhibiting it, another domain(s) is involved in activating separase and has a weaker affinity for it. Although PTTG2 lacks securin function, its differences from PTTG1 provide evidence of independent inhibitory and activating functions of PTTG1 on separase.
On retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) transmit light encoded information to the brain and receive excitatory input from On cone bipolar cells (CBPs). The synaptic CBP input onto On RGCs is mediated by AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) that include both those lacking a GluA2 subunit, and are therefore permeable to Ca(2+), and those that possess at least one GluA2 subunit and are Ca(2+)-impermeable. We have previously demonstrated in electrophysiological studies that periods of low synaptic activity, brought about by housing animals in darkness, enhance the proportion of GluA2-lacking AMPARs at the On CBP-On RGC synapse by mobilizing surface GluA2 containing receptors into a receptor pool that rapidly cycles in and out of the membrane. AMPAR cycling induction by reduced synaptic activity takes several hours. This delay suggests that changes in expression of proteins which regulate AMPAR trafficking may mediate the altered mobility of GluA2 AMPARs in RGCs. In this study, we test the hypothesis that AMPAR trafficking proteins couple synaptic activity to AMPAR cycling in RGCs. Immunocytochemical and biochemical analyses confirmed that darkness decreases surface GluA2 in RGCs and changed the expression levels of three proteins associated with GluA2 trafficking. GRIP was decreased, while PICK1 and Arc were increased. Knockdown of GRIP with siRNA elevated constitutive AMPAR cycling, mimicking effects of reduced synaptic activity, while knockdown of PICK1 and Arc blocked increases in constitutive GluA2 trafficking. Our results support a role for correlated, activity-driven changes in multiple AMPAR trafficking proteins that modulate GluA2 cycling which can in turn affect synaptic AMPAR composition in RGCs.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is caused by lack of expression of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), the product of the Fmr1 gene. In many cases FXS is associated with abnormalities in CNS myelination. Although FMRP is expressed in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells and immature oligodendrocytes (OLGs) previous studies have not detected it in mature, myelin-producing OLGs. FMRP represses translation of myelin basic protein (MBP) RNA in vitro and is believed to prevent premature MBP expression in immature OLGs. Lack of FMRP in FXS could lead to premature myelination and/or myelin abnormalities. Here we show that FMRP is expressed in mature, MBP-positive OLGs of rodents and in MBP-positive human OLGs. We confirm that FMRP is a translational repressor of MBP mRNA in vitro, but at concentrations likely too high to be physiologically relevant in vivo. We find MBP expression in cultured Fmr1 KO OLGs to be similar to wild type, and expression of MBP and other myelin proteins in brain homogenates of the Fmr1 KO mouse to be similar to wild type before, during, and after the period of active myelination. These results suggest that while FMRP is expressed in mature OLGs, myelin abnormalities caused by lack of FMRP expression in FXS are not recapitulated in rodents.
Depression is one of the most common disorders appearing following a stroke, and is also a major factor limiting recovery and rehabilitation in stroke patients. Antidepressants are the most common prescribed treatment for depression and have shown to have anti-inflammatory properties within the central nervous system (CNS). The major source of pro-inflammatory factors within the CNS is from activated microglia, the innate immune cells of the CNS. Antidepressants have been shown to promote midbrain and hippocampal neuronal survival following an ischemic insult and this survival is mediated through the anti-inflammatory effects on microglia, but the effects on cortical neuronal survival after this insult have yet to be investigated. The present study aimed to test and compare antidepressants from three distinct classes (tricyclics, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]) on the release of inflammatory factors and amino acids from activated microglia and whether altering this release could affect cortical neuronal viability after an ischemic insult. Primary microglia were treated with 1 g/ml LPS and/or 10 M antidepressants, and the various factors released into medium were assayed. Co-cultures consisting of microglia and primary cortical neurons were used to assess the effects of antidepressant-treated activated microglia on the viability of ischemic injured neurons. Of the antidepressants tested, most decreased the release of the proinflammatory factors nitric oxide, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin 1-beta from activated microglia. Fluoxetine and citalopram, the SSRIs, decreased the release of the amino acids glutamate and d-serine from LPS-activated microglia. oxygen-glucose deprived (OGD) cortical neurons cocultured with LPS-activated microglia pre-treated with fluoxetine and citalopram showed greater survival compared to injured neurons co-cultured with untreated activated microglia. Microglial release of glutamate and d-serine was shown to be the most important factor mediating neuronal survival following antagonism studies. To our knowledge, our results demonstrate for the first time that fluoxetine and citalopram decrease the release of glutamate and d-serine from LPS-activated microglia and this causes an increase in the survival of OGD-injured cortical neurons after co-culture.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, and is characterised by the progressive degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DA) system. Current treatments are symptomatic, and do not protect against the DA neuronal loss. One of the most promising treatment approaches is the application of neurotrophic factors to rescue the remaining population of nigrostriatal DA neurons. Therefore, the identification of new neurotrophic factors for midbrain DA neurons, and the subsequent elucidation of the molecular bases of their effects, are important. Two related members of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family, BMP2 and growth differentiation factor 5 (GDF5), have been shown to have neurotrophic effects on midbrain DA neurons both in vitro and in vivo. However, the molecular (signalling pathway(s)) and cellular (direct neuronal or indirect via glial cells) mechanisms of their effects remain to be elucidated. Using the SH-SH5Y human neuronal cell line, as a model of human midbrain DA neurons, we have shown that GDF5 and BMP2 induce neurite outgrowth via a direct mechanism. Furthermore, we demonstrate that these effects are dependent on BMP type I receptor activation of canonical Smad 1/5/8 signalling.
The Onecut (OC) family of transcription factors comprises three members in mammals, namely HNF-6 (or OC-1), OC-2 and OC-3. During embryonic development, these transcriptional activators control cell differentiation in pancreas, in liver and in the nervous system. Adult Hnf6 mutant mice exhibit locomotion defects characterized by hindlimb muscle weakness, abnormal gait and defective balance and coordination. Indeed, HNF-6 is required in spinal motor neurons for proper formation of the hindlimb neuromuscular junctions, which likely explain muscle weakness observed in corresponding mutant animals. The goal of the present study was to determine the cause of the balance and coordination defects in Hnf6 mutant mice. Coordination and balance deficits were quantified by rotarod and runway tests. Hnf6 mutant animals showed an increase in the fall frequency from the beam and were unable to stay on the rotarod even at low speed, indicating a severe balance and coordination deficit. To identify the origin of this abnormality, we assessed whether the development of the main CNS structure involved in the control of balance and coordination, namely the cerebellum, was affected by the absence of HNF-6. Firstly, we observed that Hnf6 was expressed transiently during the first week after birth in the Purkinje cells of wild type newborn mice. Secondly, we showed that, in Hnf6-/- mice, the organization of Purkinje cells became abnormal during a second phase of their development. Indeed, Purkinje cells were produced normally but part of them failed to reorganize as a regular continuous monolayer at the interface between the molecular and the granular layer of the cerebellum. Thus, the Onecut factor HNF-6 contributes to the reorganization of Purkinje cells during a late phase of cerebellar development.
In the adult rodent brain, subsets of neurons are surrounded by densely organised extracellular matrix called perineuronal nets (PNNs). PNNs consist of hyaluronan, tenascin-R, chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs), and the link proteins Crtl1 and Bral2. PNNs restrict plasticity at the end of critical periods and can be visualised with Wisteria floribunda agglutinin (WFA). Using a number of antibodies raised against the different regions of semaphorin3A (Sema3A) we demonstrate that this secreted chemorepulsive axon guidance protein is localised to WFA-positive PNNs around inhibitory interneurons in the cortex and several other PNN-bearing neurons throughout the brain and co-localises with aggrecan, versican, phosphacan and tenascin-R. Chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) was injected in the cortex to degrade glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) from the CSPGs, abolishing WFA staining of PNNs around the injection site. Sema3A-positive nets were no longer observed in the area devoid of WFA staining. In mice lacking the link protein Crtl1 in the CNS only vestigial PNNs are present, and in these mice there were no Sema3A-positive PNN structures. A biochemical analysis shows that Sema3A protein binds with high-affinity to CS-GAGs and aggrecan and versican extracted from PNNs in the adult rat brain, and a significant proportion of Sema3A is retrieved in brain extracts that are enriched in PNN-associated GAGs. The Sema3A receptor components PlexinA1 and A4 are selectively expressed by inhibitory interneurons in the cortex that are surrounded by Sema3A positive PNNs. We conclude that the chemorepulsive axon guidance molecule Sema3A is present in PNNs of the adult rodent brain, bound to the GAGs of the CSPGs. These observations suggest a novel concept namely that chemorepulsive axon guidance molecules like Sema3A may be important functional attributes of PNNs in the adult brain.
Accumulating evidence continues to underpin the role of the innate immune system in pathologies associated with neuroinflammation. Innate immunity is regulated by pattern recognition receptors that detect pathogens, and in the case of Gram-positive bacteria, binding of bacterial lipopeptides to toll-like receptor (TLR)2 is emerging as an important mechanism controlling glial cell activation. In the present study, we employed the use of the synthetic bacterial lipoprotein and a selective TLR2 agonist, Pam3CSK4, to induce inflammatory signaling in microglia and astrocytes. The adaptor proteins, downstream of kinase (Dok)1 and Dok2, are known to have a role in negatively regulating the Ras-ERK signaling cascade, with downstream consequences on pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. Data presented herein demonstrate that TLR2 enhanced the tyrosine phosphorylation of Dok1 and Dok2 in astrocytes and microglia, and that knockdown of these adaptors using small interfering RNA robustly elevated TLR2-induced ERK activation. Importantly, TLR2-induced NF-B activation, and IL-6 production was exacerbated in astrocytes transfected with Dok1 and Dok2 siRNA, indicating that both Dok proteins negatively regulate TLR2-induced inflammatory signaling in astrocytes. In contrast, Dok1 knockdown attenuated TLR2-induced NF-B activation and IL-6 production in microglia, while Dok2 siRNA failed to affect TLR2-induced NF-B activity and subsequent cytokine expression in this cell type. Overall, this indicates that Dok1 and Dok2 are novel adaptors for TLR2 in glial cells and importantly indicates that Dok1 and Dok2 differentially regulate TLR2-induced pro-inflammatory signaling in astrocytes and microglia.
The successful outcome of peripheral neuronal regeneration is attributed both to the growth permissive milieu and the intrinsic ability of the neuron to initiate appropriate cellular responses such as changes in gene expression and cytoskeletal rearrangements. Even though numerous studies have shown the importance of interactions between the neuron and the extracellular matrix (ECM) in axonal outgrowth, the molecular mechanisms underlying the contact between ECM receptors and the cellular cytoskeleton remain largely unknown. Unconventional myosins constitute an important group of cytoskeletal-associated motor proteins. One member of this family is the recently described myosin-X. This protein interacts with several members of the axon growth-associated ECM receptor family of integrins and could therefore be important in neuronal outgrowth. In this study, using radioactive in situ hybridization, we found that expression of myosin-X mRNA is upregulated in adult rat sensory neurons and spinal motoneurons after peripheral nerve injury, but not after central injury. Thus, myosin-X was upregulated after injuries that can be followed by axonal regeneration. We also found that the protein is localized to neuronal growth cones and that silencing of myosin-X using RNA interference impairs the integrin-mediated growth of neurites on laminin, but has no effect on non-integrin mediated growth on N-cadherin.
SYD-2/liprin- is a multi-domain protein that associates with and recruits multiple active zone molecules to form presynaptic specializations. Given SYD-2's critical role in synapse formation, its synaptogenic ability is likely tightly regulated. However, mechanisms that regulate SYD-2 function are poorly understood. In this study, we provide evidence that SYD-2's function may be regulated by interactions between its coiled-coil (CC) domains and sterile -motif (SAM) domains. We show that the N-terminal CC domains are necessary and sufficient to assemble functional synapses while C-terminal SAM domains are not, suggesting that the CC domains are responsible for the synaptogenic activity of SYD-2. Surprisingly, syd-2 alleles with single amino acid mutations in the SAM domain show strong loss of function phenotypes, suggesting that SAM domains also play an important role in SYD-2's function. A previously characterized syd-2 gain-of-function mutation within the CC domains is epistatic to the loss-of-function mutations in the SAM domain. In addition, yeast two-hybrid analysis showed interactions between the CC and SAM domains. Thus, the data is consistent with a model where the SAM domains regulate the CC domain-dependent synaptogenic activity of SYD-2. Taken together, our study provides new mechanistic insights into how SYD-2's activity may be modulated to regulate synapse formation during development.
Rates of synapse formation and elimination change over the course of postnatal development, but little is known of molecular mechanisms that mediate this developmental switch. Here, we report that the dendritic RNA-binding protein fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) bidirectionally and cell autonomously regulates excitatory synaptic function, which depends on developmental age as well as function of the activity-dependent transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2). The acute postsynaptic expression of FMRP in CA1 neurons of hippocampal slice cultures (during the first postnatal week, P6-P7) promotes synapse function and maturation. In contrast, the acute expression of FMRP or endogenous FMRP in more mature neurons (during the second postnatal week; P13-P16) suppresses synapse number. The ability of neuronal depolarization to stimulate MEF2 transcriptional activity increases over this same developmental period. Knockout of endogenous MEF2 isoforms causes acute postsynaptic FMRP expression to promote, instead of eliminate, synapses onto 2-week-old neurons. Conversely, the expression of active MEF2 in neonatal neurons results in a precocious FMRP-dependent synapse elimination. Our findings suggest that FMRP and MEF2 function together to fine tune synapse formation and elimination rates in response to neuronal activity levels over the course of postnatal development.
The complex interplay of post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms mediated by RNA-binding proteins (RBP) at different steps of RNA metabolism is pivotal for the development of the nervous system and the maintenance of adult brain activities. In this review, we will focus on the highly conserved ELAV gene family encoding for neuronal-specific RBPs which are necessary for proper neuronal differentiation and important for synaptic plasticity process. In the evolution from Drosophila to man, ELAV proteins seem to have changed their biological functions in relation to their different subcellular localization. While in Drosophila, they are localized in the nuclear compartment of neuronal cells and regulate splicing and polyadenylation, in mammals, the neuronal ELAV proteins are mainly present in the cytoplasm where they participate in regulating mRNA target stability, translation and transport into neurites. However, recent data indicate that the mammalian ELAV RBPs also have nuclear activities, similarly to their fly counterpart, being them able to continuously shuttle between the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Here, we will review and comment on all the biological functions associated with neuronal ELAV proteins along evolution and will show that the post-transcriptional regulatory network mediated by these RBPs in the brain is highly complex and only at an initial stage of being fully understood. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'RNA and splicing regulation in neurodegeneration'.
During injury to the central nervous system (CNS), astrocytes and microglia proliferate and migrate around the lesion sites. Recently, it has been reported that one of the water channels, aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is seemed to have a role in astroglial migration and glial scar formation caused by brain injury, although its molecular mechanism is largely unknown. In the present study, we examined the expression profiles in wild-type (WT) and AQP4-deficient (AQP4/KO) mice after a stab wound to the cerebral cortex. Three days after the stab wound, AQP4 expression was observed in activated microglia around the lesion site as well as in astrocytes. A microarray analysis revealed that 444 genes around the lesion site were upregulated 3 days after the wounding in WT mice. Surprisingly, most of these up-regulations were significantly attenuated in AQP4/KO mice. Real-time RT-PCR and immunofluorescence showed that osteopontin (OPN) expression around the lesion site was much lower in AQP4/KO mice than in WT mice. Moreover, the up-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines was significantly attenuated in AQP4/KO mice. Taken together, these results suggest that AQP4 plays an important role in immunological function in concert with OPN under pathological conditions in the CNS.
Cellular viability depends upon the well-orchestrated functions carried out by numerous protein-coding and non-coding RNAs, as well as RNA-binding proteins. During the last decade, it has become increasingly evident that abnormalities in RNA processing represent a common feature among many neurodegenerative diseases. In &quot;RNAopathies&quot;, which include diseases caused by non-coding repeat expansions, RNAs exert toxicity via diverse mechanisms: RNA foci formation, bidirectional transcription, and the production of toxic RNAs and proteins by repeat associated non-ATG translation. The mechanisms of toxicity in &quot;RNA-binding proteinopathies&quot;, diseases in which RNA-binding proteins like TDP-43 and FUS play a prominent role, have yet to be fully elucidated. Nonetheless, both loss of function of the RNA binding protein, and a toxic gain of function resulting from its aggregation, are thought to be involved in disease pathogenesis. As part of the special issue on RNA and Splicing Regulation in Neurodegeneration, this review intends to explore the diverse RNA-related mechanisms contributing to neurodegeneration, with a special emphasis on findings emerging from animal models.
In addition to the 7 transmembrane receptor (7TM)-conserved disulfide bridge between transmembrane (TM) helix 3 and extracellular loop (ECL)-2, chemokine receptors (CCR) contain a disulfide bridge between the N terminus and what previously was believed to be ECL-3. Recent crystal and NMR structures of the CXC chemokine receptors (CXCR) CXCR4 and CXCR1, combined with structural analysis of all endogenous chemokine receptors indicate that this chemokine receptor-conserved bridge in fact connects the N terminus to the top of TM-7. By employing chemokine ligands that mainly target extracellular receptor regions and small-molecule ligands that predominantly interact with residues in the main binding crevice, we show that the 7TM-conserved bridge is essential for all types of ligand-mediated activation, whereas the chemokine-conserved bridge is dispensable for small-molecule activation in CCR1. However, in striking contrast to previous studies in other chemokine receptors, high-affinity CCL3 chemokine binding was maintained in the absence of either bridge. In the highly related CCR5, a completely different dependency was observed as neither activation nor binding of the same chemokines was retained in the absence of either bridge. In contrast, both bridges were dispensable for activation by the same small molecules. This indicates that CCR5 activity is independent of extracellular regions, whereas in CCR1 the preserved folding of ECL-2 is necessary for activation. These results indicate that conserved structural features in a receptor subgroup do not necessarily provide specific traits for the whole subgroup but rather provide unique traits to the single receptors.
A decrease in dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) binding in the striatum is one of the most common findings in disorders that involve a dysregulation of motivation, including obesity, addiction and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. As disruption of D2R signaling in the ventral striatum--including the nucleus accumbens (NAc)--impairs motivation, we sought to determine whether potentiating postsynaptic D2R-dependent signaling in the NAc would improve motivation. In this study, we used a viral vector strategy to overexpress postsynaptic D2Rs in either the NAc or the dorsal striatum. We investigated the effects of D2R overexpression on instrumental learning, willingness to work, use of reward value representations and modulation of motivation by reward associated cues. Overexpression of postsynaptic D2R in the NAc selectively increased motivation without altering consummatory behavior, the representation of the value of the reinforcer, or the capacity to use reward associated cues in flexible ways. In contrast, D2R overexpression in the dorsal striatum did not alter performance on any of the tasks. Thus, consistent with numerous studies showing that reduced D2R signaling impairs motivated behavior, our data show that postsynaptic D2R overexpression in the NAc specifically increases an animal's willingness to expend effort to obtain a goal. Taken together, these results provide insight into the potential impact of future therapeutic strategies that enhance D2R signaling in the NAc.
This article is based on a public lecture hosted by the Monash University Centre for Human Bioethics in Melbourne, Australia on 11 April 2013. The lecture recording was transcribed by Vicky Ryan; and, the original transcript has been edited--for clarity and brevity--by Vicky Ryan, Michael Selgelid and Jonathan Moreno.




Variation in the genetic risk(s) of developing Parkinson's disease (PD) undoubtedly contributes to the subsequent phenotypic heterogeneity. Although patients with PD who undergo deep brain stimulation (DBS) are a skewed population, they represent a valuable resource for exploring the relationships between heterogeneous phenotypes and PD genetics. In this series, 94 patients who underwent DBS were screened for mutations in the most common genes associated with PD. The consequent genetic subgroups of patients were compared with respect to phenotype, levodopa (l-dopa), and DBS responsiveness. An unprecedented number (29%) of patients tested positive for at least 1 of the currently known PD genes. Patients with Parkin mutations presented at the youngest age but had many years of disease before needing DBS, whereas glucocerebrosidase (GBA) mutation carriers reached the threshold of needing DBS earlier, and developed earlier cognitive impairment after DBS. DBS cohorts include large numbers of gene positive PD patients and can be clinically instructive in the exploration of genotype-phenotype relationships.

Back arching was reported in one of the very first patients with neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation syndrome (NBIAs) published in 1936. However, recent reports have mainly focused on the genetic and imaging aspects of these disorders, and the phenotypic characterization of the dystonia has been lost. In evaluating patients with NBIAs in our centers, we have observed that action-induced dystonic opisthotonus is a common and characteristic feature of NBIAs. Here, we present a case series of patients with NBIAs presenting this feature demonstrated by videos. We suggest that dystonic opisthotonus could be a useful &quot;red flag&quot; for clinicians to suspect NBIAs, and we discuss the differential diagnosis of this feature. This would be particularly useful in identifying patients with NBIAs and no iron accumulation as yet on brain imaging (for example, as in phospholipase A2, group IV (cytosolic, calcium-independent) [PLA2G6]-related disorders), and it has management implications.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients have increased susceptibility to impulse control disorders. Recent studies have suggested that alterations in dopamine receptors in the midbrain underlie impulsive behaviors and that more impulsive individuals, including patients with PD, exhibit increased occupancy of their midbrain dopamine receptors. The cellular location of dopamine receptor subtypes and transporters within the human midbrain may therefore have important implications for the development of impulse control disorders in PD. The localization of the dopamine receptors (D1-D5) and dopamine transporter proteins in the upper brain stems of elderly adult humans (n = 8) was assessed using single immunoperoxidase and double immunofluorescence (with tyrosine hydroxylase to identify dopamine neurons). The relative amount of protein expressed in dopamine neurons from different regions was assessed by comparing their relative immunofluorescent intensities. The midbrain dopamine regions associated with impulsivity (medial nigra and ventral tegmental area [VTA]) expressed less dopamine transporter on their neurons than other midbrain dopamine regions. Medial nigral dopamine neurons expressed significantly greater amounts of D1 and D2 receptors and vesicular monoamine transporter than VTA dopamine neurons. The heterogeneous pattern of dopamine receptors and transporters in the human midbrain suggests that the effects of dopamine and dopamine agonists are likely to be nonuniform. The expression of excitatory D1 receptors on nigral dopamine neurons in midbrain regions associated with impulsivity, and their variable loss as seen in PD, may be of particular interest for impulse control.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system with an unknown etiology. The clinical disease course is variable, with the majority of patients experiencing reversible episodes of neurological disability in the third or fourth decade of life, eventually followed by a state of irreversible progression. Continuous axonal and neuronal loss is thought to be the major cause of this progression. Over the last decade, extensive research has targeted the gray matter and its role in MS pathogenesis. While pathological and imaging studies have begun to reveal important clues about the role of cortical pathology, gene expression studies in MS cortex are still emerging. Microarray-based comparative gene expression profiling provides a snapshot of genes underlying a particular condition and has been performed using brain tissues from patients with progressive MS. In this review, we summarize existing data from gene expression changes in cortical tissues from MS brains and how they may provide clues to the pathogenesis.


Identifying the neuronal ensembles that respond to specific stimuli and mapping their projection patterns in living animals are fundamental challenges in neuroscience. To this end, we engineered a synthetic promoter, the enhanced synaptic activity-responsive element (E-SARE), that drives neuronal activity-dependent gene expression more potently than other existing immediate-early gene promoters. Expression of a drug-inducible Cre recombinase downstream of E-SARE enabled imaging of neuronal populations that respond to monocular visual stimulation and tracking of their long-distance thalamocortical projections in living mice. Targeted cell-attached recordings and calcium imaging of neurons in sensory cortices revealed that E-SARE reporter expression correlates with sensory-evoked neuronal activity at the single-cell level and is highly specific to the type of stimuli presented to the animals. This activity-dependent promoter can expand the repertoire of genetic approaches for high-resolution anatomical and functional analysis of neural circuits.
Persistent neural activity in the absence of a stimulus has been identified as a neural correlate of working memory, but how such activity is maintained by neocortical circuits remains unknown. We used a computational approach to show that the inhibitory and excitatory microcircuitry of neocortical memory-storing regions is sufficient to implement a corrective feedback mechanism that enables persistent activity to be maintained stably for prolonged durations. When recurrent excitatory and inhibitory inputs to memory neurons were balanced in strength and offset in time, drifts in activity triggered a corrective signal that counteracted memory decay. Circuits containing this mechanism temporally integrated their inputs, generated the irregular neural firing observed during persistent activity and were robust against common perturbations that severely disrupted previous models of short-term memory storage. These results reveal a mechanism for the accumulation and storage of memories in neocortical circuits based on principles of corrective negative feedback that are widely used in engineering applications.
Compelling evidence indicates that two autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease genes, PINK1 (PARK6) and Parkin (PARK2), cooperate to mediate the autophagic clearance of damaged mitochondria (mitophagy). Mutations in the F-box domain-containing protein Fbxo7 (encoded by PARK15) also cause early-onset autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease, by an unknown mechanism. Here we show that Fbxo7 participates in mitochondrial maintenance through direct interaction with PINK1 and Parkin and acts in Parkin-mediated mitophagy. Cells with reduced Fbxo7 expression showed deficiencies in translocation of Parkin to mitochondria, ubiquitination of mitofusin 1 and mitophagy. In Drosophila, ectopic overexpression of Fbxo7 rescued loss of Parkin, supporting a functional relationship between the two proteins. Parkinson's disease-causing mutations in Fbxo7 interfered with this process, emphasizing the importance of mitochondrial dysfunction in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis.
Cortical neurons in thalamic recipient layers receive excitation from the thalamus and the cortex. The relative contribution of these two sources of excitation to sensory tuning is poorly understood. We optogenetically silenced the visual cortex of mice to isolate thalamic excitation onto layer 4 neurons during visual stimulation. Thalamic excitation contributed to a third of the total excitation and was organized in spatially offset, yet overlapping, ON and OFF receptive fields. This receptive field structure predicted the orientation tuning of thalamic excitation. Finally, both thalamic and total excitation were similarly tuned to orientation and direction and had the same temporal phase relationship to the visual stimulus. Our results indicate that tuning of thalamic excitation is unlikely to be imparted by direction- or orientation-selective thalamic neurons and that a principal role of cortical circuits is to amplify tuned thalamic excitation.
Hippocampal interneurons receive GABAergic input from the medial septum. Using two-photon Ca(2+) imaging of axonal boutons in hippocampal CA1 of behaving mice, we found that populations of septo-hippocampal GABAergic boutons were activated during locomotion and salient sensory events; sensory responses scaled with stimulus intensity and were abolished by anesthesia. We found similar activity patterns among boutons with common putative postsynaptic targets, with low-dimensional bouton population dynamics being driven primarily by presynaptic spiking.
How does long-term training and the development of motor skills modify the activity of the primary motor cortex (M1)? To address this issue, we trained monkeys for ~1-6 years to perform visually guided and internally generated sequences of reaching movements. Then, we used [(14)C]2-deoxyglucose (2DG) uptake and single-neuron recording to measure metabolic and neuron activity in M1. After extended practice, we observed a profound reduction of metabolic activity in M1 for the performance of internally generated compared to visually guided tasks. In contrast, measures of neuron firing displayed little difference during the two tasks. These findings suggest that the development of skill through extended practice results in a reduction in the synaptic activity required to produce internally generated, but not visually guided, sequences of movements. Thus, practice leading to skilled performance results in more efficient generation of neuronal activity in M1.
The dorsolateral striatum and cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1) signaling mediate habitual action learning, which is thought to require a balance of activity in the direct and indirect striatal output pathways. However, very little is known about how the high CB1-expressing striatal inhibitory microcircuitry might contribute to long-term plasticity capable of sculpting direct and indirect pathway output. Using optogenetic and molecular interrogation of striatal GABAergic microcircuits, we examined voltage-dependent long-term depression of inhibitory synapses (iLTD) onto mouse and rat medium spiny projection neurons (MSNs). The observed iLTD involved recruitment of different endocannabinoid types and showed both presynaptic and postsynaptic selectivity for MSN subtypes, ultimately resulting in a powerful disinhibition of direct pathway MSNs. These results suggest a new role for voltage states in gating circuit-specific forms of synaptic plasticity and illuminate possible circuit dynamics underlying action control.
Regulation of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) is crucial in normal synaptic function and neurological disease states. Although transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins (TARPs) such as stargazin (-2) modulate the properties of calcium-impermeable AMPARs (CI-AMPARs) and promote their synaptic targeting, the TARP-specific rules governing CP-AMPAR synaptic trafficking remain unclear. We used RNA interference to manipulate AMPAR-subunit and TARP expression in -2-lacking stargazer cerebellar granule cells--the classic model of TARP deficiency. We found that TARP -7 selectively enhanced the synaptic expression of CP-AMPARs and suppressed CI-AMPARs, identifying a pivotal role of -7 in regulating the prevalence of CP-AMPARs. In the absence of associated TARPs, both CP-AMPARs and CI-AMPARs were able to localize to synapses and mediate transmission, although their properties were altered. Our results also establish that TARPed synaptic receptors in granule cells require both -2 and -7 and reveal an unexpected basis for the loss of AMPAR-mediated transmission in stargazer mice.
Stress induced by the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a feature of specialized secretory cells and is also observed in many diseases, including cancer, diabetes, autoimmune conditions, liver disorders, obesity and neurodegenerative disorders. Cellular adaptation to ER stress is achieved by the activation of the unfolded protein response, which is an integrated signal transduction pathway that modulates many aspects of ER physiology. When these mechanisms of adaptation are insufficient to handle the unfolded protein load, cells undergo apoptosis. Here, we discuss recent advances in the design of novel compounds and therapeutic strategies to manipulate levels of ER stress in disease.
Diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin secretion from pancreatic  cells that is insufficient to maintain blood glucose homeostasis. Autoimmune destruction of  cells results in type 1 diabetes mellitus, whereas conditions that reduce insulin sensitivity and negatively affect -cell activities result in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Without proper management, patients with diabetes mellitus develop serious complications that reduce their quality of life and life expectancy. Biomarkers for early detection of the disease and identification of individuals at risk of developing complications would greatly improve the care of these patients. Small non-coding RNAs called microRNAs (miRNAs) control gene expression and participate in many physiopathological processes. Hundreds of miRNAs are actively or passively released in the circulation and can be used to evaluate health status and disease progression. Both type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus are associated with distinct modifications in the profile of miRNAs in the blood, which are sometimes detectable several years before the disease manifests. Moreover, circulating levels of certain miRNAs seem to be predictive of long-term complications. Technical and scientific obstacles still exist that need to be overcome, but circulating miRNAs might soon become part of the diagnostic arsenal to identify individuals at risk of developing diabetes mellitus and its devastating complications.
Systemic inflammation is common in liver failure and its acquisition is a predictor of hepatic encephalopathy severity. New studies provide convincing evidence for a role of neuroinflammation (inflammation of the brain per se) in liver failure; this evidence includes activation of microglia, together with increased synthesis in situ of the proinflammatory cytokines TNF, IL-1 and IL-6. Liver-brain signalling mechanisms in liver failure include: direct effects of systemic proinflammatory molecules, recruitment of monocytes after microglial activation, brain accumulation of ammonia, lactate and manganese, and altered permeability of the blood-brain barrier. Ammonia and cytokines might act synergistically. Existing strategies to reduce ammonia levels (including lactulose, rifaximin and probiotics) have the potential to dampen systemic inflammation, as does albumin dialysis, mild hypothermia and N-acetylcysteine, the latter two agents acting at both peripheral and central sites. Minocycline, an agent with potent central anti-inflammatory properties, reduces neuroinflammation, brain oedema and encephalopathy in liver failure, as does the anti-TNF agent etanercept.
Despite cash-strapped times for research, several ambitious collaborative neuroscience projects have attracted large amounts of funding and media attention. In Europe, the Human Brain Project aims to develop a large-scale computer simulation of the brain, whereas in the United States, the Brain Activity Map is working towards establishing a functional connectome of the entire brain, and the Allen Institute for Brain Science has embarked upon a 10-year project to understand the mouse visual cortex (the MindScope project). US President Barack Obama's announcement of the BRAIN Initiative (Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies Initiative) in April 2013 highlights the political commitment to neuroscience and is expected to further foster interdisciplinary collaborations, accelerate the development of new technologies and thus fuel much needed medical advances. In this Viewpoint article, five prominent neuroscientists explain the aims of the projects and how they are addressing some of the questions (and criticisms) that have arisen.
Mood disorders are common and debilitating conditions characterized in part by profound deficits in reward-related behavioural domains. A recent literature has identified important structural and functional alterations within the brain's reward circuitry--particularly in the ventral tegmental area-nucleus accumbens pathway--that are associated with symptoms such as anhedonia and aberrant reward-associated perception and memory. This Review synthesizes recent data from human and rodent studies from which emerges a circuit-level framework for understanding reward deficits in depression. We also discuss some of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of this framework, ranging from adaptations in glutamatergic synapses and neurotrophic factors to transcriptional and epigenetic mechanisms.
Synaptic activity initiates biochemical processes that have various outcomes, including the formation of memories, increases in neuronal survival and the development of chronic pain and addiction. Virtually all activity-induced, long-lasting adaptations of brain functions require a dialogue between synapses and the nucleus that results in changes in gene expression. Calcium signals that are induced by synaptic activity and propagate into the nucleus are a major route for synapse-to-nucleus communication. Recent findings indicate that diverse forms of neuroadaptation require calcium transients in the nucleus to switch on the necessary genomic programme. Deficits in nuclear calcium signalling as a result of a reduction in synaptic activity or increased extrasynaptic NMDA receptor signalling may underlie the aetiologies of various diseases, including neurodegeneration and cognitive dysfunction.
Although memory can be hazy at times, it is often assumed that memories of violent or otherwise stressful events are so well encoded that they are effectively indelible and that confidently retrieved memories are almost certainly accurate. However, findings from basic psychological research and neuroscience studies indicate that memory is a reconstructive process that is susceptible to distortion. In the courtroom, even minor memory distortions can have severe consequences that are partly driven by common misunderstandings about memory--for example, that memory is more veridical than it may actually be.
Desensitization is an important mechanism curtailing the activity of ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs). Although the structural basis of desensitization is not fully resolved, it is thought to be governed by physicochemical properties of bound ligands. Here, we show the importance of an allosteric cation-binding pocket in controlling transitions between activated and desensitized states of rat kainate-type (KAR) ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs). Tethering a positive charge to this pocket sustains KAR activation, preventing desensitization, whereas mutations that disrupt cation binding eliminate channel gating. These different outcomes explain the structural distinction between deactivation and desensitization. Deactivation occurs when the ligand unbinds before the cation, whereas desensitization proceeds if a ligand is bound without cation pocket occupancy. This sequence of events is absent from AMPA-type iGluRs; thus, cations are identified as gatekeepers of KAR gating, a role unique among even closely related LGICs.
Visual navigation requires the estimation of self-motion as well as the segmentation of objects from the background. We suggest a definition of local velocity gradients to compute types of self-motion, segment objects, and compute local properties of optical flow fields, such as divergence, curl, and shear. Such velocity gradients are computed as velocity differences measured locally tangent and normal to the direction of flow. Then these differences are rotated according to the local direction of flow to achieve independence of that direction. We propose a bio-inspired model for the computation of these velocity gradients for video sequences. Simulation results show that local gradients encode ordinal surface depth, assuming self-motion in a rigid scene or object motions in a nonrigid scene. For translational self-motion velocity, gradients can be used to distinguish between static and moving objects. The information about ordinal surface depth and self-motion can help steering control for visual navigation.
The last decade has seen the parallel emergence in computational neuroscience and machine learning of neural network structures which spread the input signal randomly to a higher dimensional space; perform a nonlinear activation; and then solve for a regression or classification output by means of a mathematical pseudoinverse operation. In the field of neuromorphic engineering, these methods are increasingly popular for synthesizing biologically plausible neural networks, but the &quot;learning method&quot;-computation of the pseudoinverse by singular value decomposition-is problematic both for biological plausibility and because it is not an online or an adaptive method. We present an online or incremental method of computing the pseudoinverse precisely, which we argue is biologically plausible as a learning method, and which can be made adaptable for non-stationary data streams. The method is significantly more memory-efficient than the conventional computation of pseudoinverses by singular value decomposition.
We designed Adaptive Neuromorphic Architecture (ANA) that self-adjusts its inherent parameters (for instance, the resonant frequency) naturally following the stimuli frequency. Such an architecture is required for brain-like engineered systems because some parameters of the stimuli (for instance, the stimuli frequency) are not known in advance. Such adaptivity comes from a circuit element with memory, namely mem-inductor or mem-capacitor (memristor's sisters), which is history-dependent in its behavior. As a hardware model of biological systems, ANA can be used to adaptively reproduce the observed biological phenomena in amoebae.
Mutations in PFN1, a gene encoding the actin monomer-binding protein profilin 1, were recently reported in 1% to 2% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. In vitro functional studies suggested that PFN1 mutations lead to ubiquitin-positive inclusions and impairment of cytoskeletal pathways. In the present study, mutation analysis of PFN1 was performed in an Australian cohort of 110 ALS families and 715 sporadic ALS patients. No PFN1 mutations were identified in familial ALS patients. Two rare non-synonymous variants (E117D and E117G) were found in sporadic ALS patients at similar incidences to that reported in public SNP databases. Immunostaining of PFN1 in sporadic ALS and familial ALS patients, including those with mutations in SOD1, FUS, UBQLN2 and C9ORF72, found no PFN1-positive inclusions in spinal motor neurons. Our data suggest that PFN1 mutations and pathology are not common in an Australian ALS cohort of predominantly European ancestry.
The nuclear protein fused in sarcoma (FUS) is found in cytoplasmic inclusions in a subset of patients with the neurodegenerative disorder frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD-FUS). FUS contains a methylated arginine-glycine-glycine domain that is required for transport into the nucleus. Recent findings have shown that this domain is hypomethylated in patients with FTLD-FUS. To determine whether the cause of hypomethylation is the result of mutations in protein N-arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs), we selected 3 candidate genes (PRMT1, PRMT3, and PRMT8) and performed complete sequencing analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction mRNA expression analysis in 20 FTLD-FUS cases. No mutations or statistically significant changes in expression were observed in our patient samples, suggesting that defects in PRMTs are not the cause of FTLD-FUS.
Cerebral small vessel disease (SVD), including white matter lesions (WML) and lacunar infarcts, is related to objective cognitive impairment but also to subjective cognitive failures (SCF). SCF have reported to be an early predictor of dementia. Cerebral microbleeds (MB) are another manifestation of SVD and have been related to cognitive impairment, but the role of MB in SCF has never been studied. We therefore investigated whether MB are related to SCF among non-demented elderly individuals with SVD, independent of coexisting WML and lacunar infarcts. The RUN DMC study is a prospective cohort study among 503 older persons with cerebral SVD between 50 and 85 years of age. All participants underwent FLAIR and T2* scanning. SCF, subjective memory failures (SMF), and subjective executive failures (SEF) were assessed. The relation between SCF and the presence, number and location of MB was assessed by linear regression analyses adjusted for age, sex, education, depressive symptoms, cognitive function, total brain volume, normalized hippocampal volume, territorial infarcts, WML, and lacunar infarcts. MB were present in 11%. We found a relation between the presence, total number and lobar located MB, and SCF, SMF, and SEF and the reported progression of these failures, especially in participants with good objective cognitive function. In conclusion, MB are related to SCF independent of co-existing WML and lacunar infarcts, especially in those with good objective cognitive performance. These results suggest that MB are associated with the earliest manifestations of cognitive impairment. MB may help us to understand the role of the ever-expanding spectrum of SVD in cognitive impairment.
Resting fluctuations in the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal have attracted considerable interest for their sensitivity to pathological brain processes. However, these analyses are susceptible to confound by nonneural physiological factors such as vasculature, breathing, and head movement which is a concern when investigating elderly or pathological groups. Here, we used simultaneous electroencephalogram (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) (EEG/fMRI) to constrain the analysis of resting state networks (RSNs) and identify aging differences. Four of 26 RSNs showed fMRI and EEG/fMRI group differences; anterior default-mode network, left frontal-parietal network, bilateral middle frontal, and postcentral gyri. Seven RSNs showed only EEG/fMRI differences suggesting the combination of these 2 methods might be more sensitive to age-related neural changes than fMRI alone. Five RSNs showed only fMRI differences and might reflect nonneural group differences. Activity within some EEG/fMRI RSNs was better explained by neuropsychological measures (Mini Mental State Examination and Stroop) than age. These results support previous studies suggesting that age-related changes in specific RSNs are neural in origin, and show that changes in some RSNs relate better to elderly cognition than age.
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is important in facilitating the transport of lipids (cholesterol, phospholipids, and sulfatides) and plays a fundamental role in normal lipid metabolism. High cholesterol levels increases the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we investigated the effects of a high-fat high cholesterol (HFHC) diet on brain lipid profiles in 95 young and aged APOE 3 and 4 knock-in mice to determine whether diet leads to altered brain levels of a number of glycerophospholipids, sphingolipids, cholesterol precursors, cholesterol, cholesterol oxidation products, and cholesterol esters. The results in this study revealed significant changes in lipid levels. The HFHC-enriched diet influenced the levels of cholesterol esters. A sharp increase in cholesterol ester levels, particularly in the aged APOE 4 diet-enriched group, might be suggestive of abnormal acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase 1 (ACAT) activity and/or levels. Age exerts appreciable effects on the brain lipidome, especially with regard to polar lipid species.
Different components of executive function such as working memory, attention, and cognitive flexibility can be dissociated behaviorally and mechanistically; however, the within-subject influences of normal aging on different aspects of executive function remain ill-defined. To better define these relationships, young adult and aged male F344 rats were cross-characterized on an attentional set-shifting task that assesses cognitive flexibility and a delayed response task that assesses working memory. Across tasks, aged rats were impaired relative to young; however, there was significant variability in individual performance within the aged cohort. Notably, performance on the set-shifting task and performance at long delays on the delayed response task were inversely related among aged rats. Additional experiments showed no relationship between aged rats' performance on the set-shifting task and performance on a hippocampal-dependent spatial reference memory task. These data indicate that normal aging can produce distinct manifestations of executive dysfunction, and support the need to better understand the unique mechanisms contributing to different forms of prefrontal cortical-supported executive decline across the lifespan.
Phosphorylated forms of microtubule-associated protein tau accumulate in neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease. To investigate the effects of specific phosphorylated tau residues on its function, wild type or phosphomutant tau was expressed in cells. Elevated tau phosphorylation decreased its microtubule binding and bundling, and increased the number of motile tau particles, without affecting axonal transport kinetics. In contrast, reducing tau phosphorylation enhanced the amount of tau bound to microtubules and inhibited axonal transport of tau. To determine whether differential tau clearance is responsible for the increase in phosphomimic tau, we inhibited autophagy in neurons which resulted in a 3-fold accumulation of phosphomimic tau compared with wild type tau, and endogenous tau was unaffected. In autophagy-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts, but not in neurons, proteasomal degradation of phosphomutant tau was also reduced compared with wild type tau. Therefore, autophagic and proteasomal pathways are involved in tau degradation, with autophagy appearing to be the primary route for clearing phosphorylated tau in neurons. Defective autophagy might contribute to the accumulaton of tau in neurodegenerative diseases.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease of motor neurons. Single-nucleotide polymorphism rs3849942 is associated with ALS, tagging a hexanucleotide repeat mutation in the C9orf72 gene. It is possible that there is more than 1 disease-causing genetic variation at this locus, in which case association might remain after removal of cases carrying the mutation. DNA from patients with ALS was therefore tested for the mutation. Genome-wide association testing was performed first using all samples, and then restricting the analysis to samples not carrying the mutation. rs3849942 and rs903603 were strongly associated with ALS when all samples were included (rs3849942, p = [3  2]  10(-6), rank 7/442,057; rs903603, p = [7  6]  10(-8), rank 2/442,057). Removal of the mutation-carrying cases resulted in loss of association for rs3849942 (p = [2  6]  10(-3), rank 1225/442,068), but had little effect on rs903603 (p = [1  9]  10(-5), rank 8/442,068). Those with a risk allele of rs903603 had an excess of apparent homozygosity for wild type repeat alleles, consistent with polymerase chain reaction failure of 1 allele because of massive repeat expansion. These results indicate residual association at the C9orf72 locus suggesting a second disease-causing repeat mutation.
The objective of this study was to quantitatively assess the relationship between apolipoprotein (APOE) genotype and electroencephalographic oscillatory brain dynamics in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and control subjects and its regional distribution. We obtained resting-state electroencephalographs of 320 AD patients and 246 control subjects, categorized into APOE 4 carriers and noncarriers. Peak frequency and relative power in 4 different frequency bands were calculated. We tested the associations between APOE genotype and relative power in 4 brain regions. Peak frequency was comparable in APOE 4 carrying and noncarrying control subjects, but lower in APOE 4 noncarrying AD patients. In control subjects, APOE 4 carriers had a different regional distribution of alpha power than noncarriers. We found no APOE effect in beta, delta, and theta bands. In AD, APOE 4 noncarriers had lower alpha and higher delta power than carriers. This difference was most pronounced in the parieto-occipital region. In the theta band, APOE 4 noncarriers had a different regional distribution of power compared with carriers. In conclusion, the most pronounced effect of genotype was seen in AD patients, and APOE 4 noncarriers showed slower activity, especially in parieto-occipital regions.
Elevated levels of amyloid beta (A) peptide, hyperphosphorylation of tau protein, and inflammation are pathological hallmarks in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Phosphodiesterase 7 (PDE7) regulates the inflammatory response through the cyclic adenosine monophosphate signaling cascade, and thus plays a central role in AD. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of an inhibitor of PDE7, named S14, in a mouse model of AD. We report that APP/Ps1 mice treated daily for 4 weeks with S14 show: (1) significant attenuation in behavioral impairment; (2) decreased brain A deposition; (3) enhanced astrocyte-mediated A degradation; and (4) decreased tau phosphorylation. These effects are mediated via the cyclic adenosine monophosphate/cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein signaling pathway, and inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)3. Our data support the use of PDE7 inhibitors, and specifically S14, as effective therapeutic agents for the prevention and treatment of AD.
Epigenetic dysregulation of gene expression is thought to be critically involved in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies indicate that DNA methylation and DNA hydroxymethylation are 2 important epigenetic mechanisms that regulate gene expression in the aging brain. However, very little is known about the levels of markers of DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation in the brains of patients with AD, the cell-type specificity of putative AD-related alterations in these markers, as well as the link between epigenetic alterations and the gross pathology of AD. The present quantitative immunohistochemical study investigated the levels of the 2 most important markers of DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation, that is, 5-methylcytidine (5-mC) and 5-hydroxymethylcytidine (5-hmC), in the hippocampus of AD patients (n = 10) and compared these to non-demented, age-matched controls (n = 10). In addition, the levels of 5-hmC in the hippocampus of a pair of monozygotic twins discordant for AD were assessed. The levels of 5-mC and 5-hmC were furthermore analyzed in a cell-type and hippocampal subregion-specific manner, and were correlated with amyloid plaque load and neurofibrillary tangle load. The results showed robust decreases in the hippocampal levels of 5-mC and 5-hmC in AD patients (19.6% and 20.2%, respectively). Similar results were obtained for the twin with AD when compared to the non-demented co-twin. Moreover, levels of 5-mC as well as the levels of 5-hmC showed a significant negative correlation with amyloid plaque load in the hippocampus (r(p) = -0.539, p = 0.021 for 5-mC and r(p) = -0.558, p = 0.016 for 5-hmC). These human postmortem results thus strengthen the notion that AD is associated with alterations in DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation, and provide a basis for further epigenetic studies identifying the exact genetic loci with aberrant epigenetic signatures.

Mental illness is the leading cause of disability worldwide. We are only just beginning to reveal and comprehend the complex interaction that exists between the genetic makeup of an organism and the potential modifying effect of the environment in which it lives, and how this translates into mediating susceptibility to neurological and psychiatric conditions. The capacity to address this issue experimentally has been facilitated by the availability of rodent models which allow the precise manipulation of genetic and environmental factors. In this review, we discuss the valuable nature of animal models in furthering our understanding of the relationship between genetic and environmental factors in affective illnesses, such as anxiety and depressive disorders. We first highlight the behavioral impairments exhibited by genetically targeted animal models of affective disorders, and then provide a discussion of the underlying neurobiology, focusing on animal models that involve exposure to stress. This is followed by a review of recent studies that report of beneficial effects of environmental manipulations such as environmental enrichment and enhanced physical activity and discuss the likely mechanisms that mediate those benefits.
The neurotrophin family of proteins are believed to mediate various forms of synaptic plasticity in the adult brain. Here we have assessed the roles of these proteins in object recognition memory in the rat, using icv infusions of function-blocking antibodies or the tyrosine kinase antagonist, tyrphostin AG879, to block Trk receptors. We report that tyrphostin AG879 impairs both short-term and long-term recognition memory, indicating a requirement for Trk receptor activation in both processes. The effect of inhibition of each of the neurotrophins with activity-blocking neutralising antibodies was also tested. Treatment with anti-BDNF, anti-NGF or anti-NT4 had no effect on short-term memory, but blocked long-term recognition memory. Treatment with anti-NT3 had no effect on either process. We also assessed changes in expression of neurotrophins and their respective receptors in the hippocampus, dentate gyrus and perirhinal cortex over a 24 h period following training in the object recognition task. We observed time-dependent changes in expression of the Trk receptors and their ligands in the dentate gyrus and perirhinal cortex. The data are consistent with a pivotal role for neurotrophic factors in the expression of recognition memory.
Previous studies have shown that stress-induced cortisol increases impair memory retrieval in young people. This effect has not been studied in older people; however, some findings suggest that age-related changes in the brain can affect the relationships between acute stress, cortisol and memory in older people. Our aim was to investigate the effects of acute stress on long-term memory retrieval in healthy older people. To this end, 76 participants from 56 to 76 years old (38 men and 38 women) were exposed to an acute psychosocial stressor or a control task. After the stress/control task, the recall of pictures, words and stories learned the previous day was assessed. There were no differences in memory retrieval between the stress and control groups on any of the memory tasks. In addition, stress-induced cortisol response was not associated with memory retrieval. An age-related decrease in cortisol receptors and functional changes in the amygdala and hippocampus could underlie the differences observed between the results from this study and those found in studies performed with young people.
Recovery effects which can frequently be observed after a seemingly successful extinction procedure indicate that extinction does not lead to an erasure of the memory trace. Investigating factors which modulate the retrieval of extinction memory is highly relevant for basic science and clinical applications alike. This study investigated the effect of stress on the retrieval of extinguished and unextinguished stimulus-outcome associations in a predictive learning task. In this task, participants had to imagine being the doctor of a patient who sometimes suffers from stomach trouble after meals in his favorite restaurants. They were presented with different food stimuli while having to predict the occurrence or non-occurrence of stomach trouble. As extinction memory is modulated by context, we manipulated contextual cues so that initial acquisition of critical associations occurred in context (restaurant frame) A on day one, whereas associations were reversed in context B (extinction, day two). On the third day, participants were either stressed (exposed to the socially evaluated cold pressor task (SECPT); n=21) or subjected to a control condition (n=21) shortly before extinction memory retrieval was tested (in contexts A and B). Salivary cortisol and blood pressure measures as well as subjective ratings indicated that stress induction was successful. When retrieval of extinguished associations was tested on day three, participants' predictions reflected a renewal effect, as indicated by stronger recovery of responding in the acquisition context compared to the extinction context. Compared to controls, stressed participants showed impaired retrieval of extinguished and unextinguished associations. Contextual cues abolished the stress-induced memory impairment for unextinguished but not for extinguished associations. These findings might help to explain why stress leads to the reoccurrence of symptoms in affective disorders.
Cytoplasmic polyadenylation binding protein 1 (CPEB1) is a RNA binding protein, which regulates translation of target mRNAs by regulating polyadenylation status. CPEB1 plays important roles in the regulation of germline cell development by modulating cell cycle progression through the polyadenylation of target mRNAs such as cyclin B1. Similar mechanism is reported in proliferating astrocytes by us, although CPEB1 is involved in the transport of target mRNAs as well as local translation at dendritic spines. In this study, we found the expression of CPEB1 in cultured rat primary neural progenitor cells (NPCs). EGF stimulation of cultured NPCs induced rapid phosphorylation of CPEB1, a hallmark of CPEB1-dependent translational control along with cyclin B1 polyadenylation and translation. EGF-induced activation of ERK1/2 and Aurora A kinase was responsible for CPEB1 phosphorylation. Pharmacological inhibition studies suggested that ERK1/2 is involved in the activation of Aurora A kinase and regulation of CPEB1 phosphorylation in cultured NPCs. Long-term incubation in EGF resulted in the down-regulation of CPEB1 expression, which further increased expression of cyclin B1 and cell cycle progression. When we down-regulated the expression of CPEB1 in NPCs by siRNA transfection, the proliferation of NPCs was increased. Increased NPCs proliferation by down-regulation of CPEB1 resulted in eventual up-regulation of neuronal differentiation with increase in both pre- and post-synaptic proteins. The results from the present study may suggest the importance of translational control in the regulation of neuronal development, an emerging concept in many neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders such as autism spectrum disorder.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi)-valproic acid (VPA) and trichostatin A (TSA) promote neurogenesis, neurite outgrowth, synaptic plasticity and neuroprotection. In this study, we investigated whether VPA and TSA promote post-ischemic neuroprotection and neuronal restoration in rat primary cortical neurons. On 6days in vitro (DIV), cortical neurons were exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation for 90min. Cells were returned to normoxic conditions and cultured for 1, 3, or 7days with or without VPA and TSA. Control cells were cultured in normoxic conditions only. On 7, 9, and 13 DIV, cells were measured neurite outgrowth using the Axiovision program and stained with Tunel staining kit. Microtubule associated protein-2 immunostaining and tunel staining showed significant recovery of neurite outgrowth and post-ischemic neuronal death by VPA or TSA treatment. We also determined levels of acetylated histone H3, PSD95, GAP 43 and synaptophysin. Significant increases in all three synaptic markers and acetylated histone H3 were observed relative to non-treated cells. Post-ischemic HDACi treatment also significantly raised levels of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression and secreted BDNF. Enhanced BDNF expression by HDACi treatment might have been involved in the post-ischemic neuroprotection and neuronal restorative effects. Our findings suggest that both VPA and TSA treatment during reoxygenation after ischemia may help post-ischemic neuroprotection and neuronal regeneration via increased BDNF expression and activation.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) measures the field generated by the brain's electrical currents noninvasively. MEG is currently used for localization of epileptiform activity sources and for presurgical functional brain mapping. Such mapping with MEG requires the patients to be cooperative and lie still on their back for as long as ten minutes at a time. Hence, acquiring successful MEG in very young children, developmentally delayed individuals, and patients with skeletal abnormalities proves to be a challenge. Over the past several years, our group has undertaken research aimed at the effective use of sedation during MEG to identify epileptogenic areas and perform functional brain mapping in very young or developmentally delayed individuals. We summarize our experience of MEG data acquisition with sedation and demonstrate that epileptogenic areas can be identified and functional brain mapping can be successfully performed under sedation with propofol.
The brain is organized into functionally specific networks as characterized by intrinsic functional relationships within discrete sets of brain regions. However, it is poorly understood whether such functional networks are dynamically organized according to specific task-states. The anterior insular cortex (aIC)-dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC)/medial frontal cortex (mFC) network has been proposed to play a central role in human cognitive abilities. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study aimed at testing whether functional interactions of the aIC-dACC/mFC network in terms of temporally correlated patterns of neural activity across brain regions are dynamically modulated by transitory, ongoing task demands. For this purpose, functional interactions of the aIC-dACC/mFC network are compared during two distinguishable fluid reasoning tasks, Visualization and Induction. The results show an increased functional coupling of bilateral aIC with visual cortices in the occipital lobe during the Visualization task, whereas coupling of mFC with right anterior frontal cortex was enhanced during the Induction task. These task-specific modulations of functional interactions likely reflect ability related neural processing. Furthermore, functional connectivity strength between right aIC and right dACC/mFC reliably predicts general task performance. The findings suggest that the analysis of long-range functional interactions may provide complementary information about brain-behavior relationships. On the basis of our results, it is proposed that the aIC-dACC/mFC network contributes to the integration of task-common and task-specific information based on its within-network as well as its between-network dynamic functional interactions.
The peak frequency of neuronal gamma-band synchronization has received much attention in recent years. Gamma peak frequency shifts to higher frequency values for higher contrast, faster moving, and attended stimuli. In monkey V1, gamma peak frequency for a drifting grating is higher for a parafoveal as compared to an eccentric stimulus (Lima et al., 2010). This effect might be due to the cortical magnification factor: the higher cortical magnification for parafoveal stimuli increases the velocity with which the cortical representations of the moving grating stripes move across the cortical surface. Since faster moving stimuli lead to higher gamma frequency, a faster moving cortical representation might do the same. This explanation predicts that the eccentricity effect on gamma peak frequency is absent for stationary stimuli. To test this, we investigated the effect of eccentricity on gamma peak frequency by recording magnetoencephalography in human subjects while they viewed moving or stationary gratings. We found that both the moving and the stationary stimuli induced lower peak frequencies for larger eccentricities, arguing against an explanation based on the cortical magnification factor. We further investigated whether this eccentricity effect was explained by differences in the size or the spatial frequency of the expected cortical activation. Neither of those explained the eccentricity effect. We propose that the different stimulus and top-down factors leading to higher gamma peak frequency all result in higher stimulus salience, that salience is translated into gamma peak frequency, and that gamma peak frequency might subserve the preferential processing of neuronal activity induced by salient stimuli.
Dopaminergic medications, used to treat neurochemical pathology and resultant symptoms in neuropsychiatric disorders, are of mixed efficacy and regularly associated with behavioural side effects. The possibility that dopamine exerts both linear and nonlinear ('inverted U-shaped') effects on cognitive neurocircuitry may explain this outcome variability. However, it has proven to be difficult to characterise neural manifestations of psychopharmacological effects in humans. We hypothesised that diverse effects of dopamine neuromodulation could be characterised using systems-level neuroimaging approaches. Using 'resting-state' functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI), combined with dopaminergic challenges, we examined the dopamine-dependent functional connectivity of brain 'resting-state networks' (RSNs). We compared RSN connectivity in 3 groups of healthy volunteers given dopamine antagonist (haloperidol; N=18) or agonistic (levodopa; N=16) drugs, or a placebo (N=15). As RSNs have been shown to be relevant for numerous psychological functions and dysfunctions, we investigated both linear and nonlinear effects on RSN connectivity of manipulating dopamine neurotransmission pharmacologically. A basal ganglia RSN displayed both linear and nonlinear effects of dopamine manipulation on functional connectivity, respectively, with lateral frontoparietal and medial frontal neocortical areas. Conversely, a cognitive 'default mode' network showed only linear dopaminergic effects on connectivity with lateral frontal and parietal cortices. Our findings highlight diverse functional effects of dopamine neuromodulations on systems-level neural interactions. The observation that dopamine modulates distinct large-scale network connectivity patterns differentially, in both linear and nonlinear fashions, provides support for the objective utility of RSN metrics in classifying the effects and efficacy of psychopharmacological medications.
Prior evidence has suggested a link between caudate dopaminergic functioning and cognition in Parkinson's disease (PD). In this dual tracer study we analyzed the relationship between nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction and the expression of the previously validated PD cognition-related metabolic pattern (PDCP). In this study, 17 non-demented PD patients underwent positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose to measure PDCP expression, and [(18)F]-fluoropropyl--CIT (FPCIT) to measure dopamine transporter (DAT) binding. Automated voxel-by-voxel searches of the FPCIT PET volumes were performed to identify regions in which DAT binding significantly correlated with PDCP expression values. The findings were validated using prespecified anatomical regions-of-interest (ROIs). Voxel-wise interrogation of the FPCIT PET scans revealed a single significant cluster in which DAT binding correlated with PDCP expression (p&lt;0.05, corrected). This cluster was localized to the left caudate nucleus; an analogous correlation (r=-0.63, p&lt;0.01) was also present in the &quot;mirror&quot; region of the right hemisphere. These findings were confirmed by the presence of a significant correlation (r=-0.67, p&lt;0.005) between PDCP expression and DAT binding in caudate ROIs, which survived adjustment for age, disease duration, and clinical severity ratings. Correlation between caudate DAT binding and subject expression of the PD motor-related metabolic pattern was not significant (p&gt;0.21). In summary, this study demonstrates a significant relationship between loss of dopaminergic input to the caudate nucleus and the expression of a cognition-related disease network in unmedicated PD patients. These baseline measures likely function in concert to determine the cognitive effects of dopaminergic therapy in PD.




The role of endocrine systems in chronic pain mechanisms is slowly getting increasing experimental and clinical consideration. Many painful conditions appear to be directly and/or indirectly induced, reduced or, in some cases, modulated by hormones. We have done much work in trying to understand the relationship between hormones and pain, with particular attention to the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis. To expand our knowledge of this field, we have directed our attention to another axis, the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid (HPT). The literature on thyroid functions is vast but very few studies have focused on the HPT axis and pain. The few available data are considered in the present review to stimulate interest in the possible interactions between the HPT axis and pain.
The issue of whether arithmetic knowledge is invariably spared or impaired in semantic dementia is still under debate. The corpus of data mainly relies on single case-report descriptions. Relative to this issue, only one paper, by Julien et al. (Neuropsychologia 44(10): 2732-2744, 2008) explored in a systematic way arithmetic knowledge in an SD patient group. The present study is aimed to explore calculation in a group of eight patients affected by early semantic dementia (SD) using a neuropsychological battery devised to examine arithmetic knowledge (arithmetic signs recognition, arithmetic facts and written and mental calculation). These SD patients showed problems in recognition of arithmetic signs, difficulty in arithmetic facts and procedural errors in calculation. Still, the pattern of answers that the SD patients showed was not completely homogeneous and some individual variations were present. In contrast with most literature, the present study provides evidence for impairment of arithmetic knowledge in patients with early semantic dementia and contributes to the recent evidence that arithmetic knowledge cannot be considered an independent domain within the semantic system.



Functional and ultrastructural investigations support the concept that altered brain connectivity, exhausted neural plasticity, and synaptic loss are the strongest correlates of cognitive decline in age-related neurodegenerative dementia of Alzheimer's type. We have previously demonstrated that in transgenic mice, expressing amyloid- precursor protein-Swedish mutation active caspase-3 accumulates in hippocampal postsynaptic compartments leading to altered postsynaptic density (PSD) composition, increased long-term depression (LTD), and dendritic spine loss. Furthermore, we found strong evidence that dendritic spine alteration is mediated by calcineurin activation, a calcium-dependent phosphatase involved in synapse signaling. In the present work, we analyzed the molecular mechanism linking alteration of synaptic plasticity to the increase of calcineurin activity. We found that acute treatment of young and plaque-free transgenic mice with the calcineurin inhibitor FK506 leads to a complete rescue of LTD and PSD composition. Our findings are in agreement with other results reporting that calcineurin inhibition improves memory function and restores dendritic spine density, confirming that calcineurin inhibition may be explored as a neuroprotective treatment to stop or slowdown synaptic alterations in Alzheimer's disease.
Behavioral sensitization (B.S.) is a pathophysiological animal model for stimulant-induced psychosis and addiction. Accumulated evidence indicates that inflammatory processes are involved in psychostimulants effects in the CNS. Cannabinoids like WIN55,212-2 act as potential activators of PPAR- and affects the inflammatory status of the CNS. The purpose of this study is to determine PPAR- role in induction and expression of B.S. and the coincident inflammatory responses developed by WIN55,212-2 (WIN). Using open-field test, locomotor activity was monitored in animals treated with intraperitoneal low-dose WIN single or repeated injections. Concurrent striatal COX-2 and TNF- levels and PPAR- activity were determined by immunoblotting assay. Effects of concomitant chronic or acute PPAR- pharmacological inhibition (with GW9662) were then investigated on behavioral and biochemical variables. WIN enhanced locomotor activity and while administered chronically augmented cytosolic COX-2 and TNF- and also PPAR- nuclear levels. GW9662 co-administration completely prevented the induction of sensitizing effects of chronic WIN and altered the inflammatory responses. However, the expression of B.S. was intensified with GW9662 as assessed by increased locomotion after WIN challenge following 48 h withdrawal. Neuroinflammation and locomotor excitability in animals received just a single-dose WIN were also escalated with GW9662. Our findings conclude that PPAR- could play different key roles during B.S. development by WIN. Although PPAR- is mostly known for neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects, our data indicate that it mediates the B.S. induction by chronic WIN. However, while the B.S. was induced, PPAR- could play a homeostatic role opposing the expressed B.S. escalation.
The tripeptide glycine-proline-glutamate analogue NNZ-2566 (Neuren Pharmaceuticals) demonstrates neuroprotective efficacy in models of traumatic brain injury. In penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI), it significantly decreases injury-induced upregulation of inflammatory cytokines including TNF-, IFN-, and IL-6. However, the mechanism by which NNZ-2566 acts has yet to be determined. The activating transcription factor-3 (ATF3) is known to repress expression of these inflammatory cytokines and was increased at the mRNA and protein level 24-h post-PBBI. This study investigated whether 12 h of NNZ-2566 treatment following PBBI alters atf3 expression. PBBI alone significantly increased atf3 mRNA levels by 13-fold at 12 h and these levels were increased by an additional fourfold with NNZ-2566 treatment. To confirm that changes in mRNA translated to changes in protein expression, ATF3 expression levels were determined in vivo in microglia/macrophages, T cells, natural killer cells (NKCs), astrocytes, and neurons. PBBI alone significantly increased ATF3 in microglia/macrophages (820%), NKCs (58%), and astrocytes (51%), but decreased levels in T cells (48%). NNZ-2566 treatment further increased ATF3 protein expression in microglia/macrophages (102%), NKCs (308%), and astrocytes (13%), while reversing ATF3 decreases in T cells. Finally, PBBI increased ATF3 levels by 55% in neurons and NNZ-2566 treatment further increased these levels an additional 33%. Since increased ATF3 may be an innate protective mechanism to limit inflammation following injury, these results demonstrating that the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective drug NNZ-2566 increase both mRNA and protein levels of ATF3 in multiple cell types provide a cellular mechanism for NNZ-2566 modulation of neuroinflammation following PBBI.
To understand the role of the key copper-regulating gene, ATP7B, in copper dyshomeostasis associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), we analyzed the serum levels of copper, ceruloplasmin and 'free' (i.e., non-ceruloplasmin bound) copper in 399 patients with AD and 303 elderly healthy controls. We also performed analyses of informative variants of ATP7B. AD patients had higher levels of copper and free copper than controls. Individuals with free copper levels higher than 1.6 mol/L (the upper value of the normal reference range) were more frequent among cases (p &lt; 0.001). Among these individuals, those who were carriers of the ATP7B variants accounted for a large proportion of the free copper levels, specifically in the AD group (p &lt; 0.01). Our results suggest the existence of a 'copper dysfunction' phenotype of sporadic AD which has a genetic basis. They also suggest that free copper is a risk factor for this disorder, modulating additional pathways leading to the disease cascade.
Tapentadol is a novel centrally acting drug that combines mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonism and noradrenaline reuptake inhibition (NRI), producing analgesic effects in various painful conditions. We investigated the acute effects of tapentadol in the locus coeruleus (LC), a central nucleus regulated by the noradrenergic and opioid systems that is critical in pain modulation. In single-unit extracellular recordings of LC neurons from anaesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats, tapentadol clearly inhibited the spontaneous electrophysiological activity of LC neurons in a dose-dependent manner (ED50 = 0.8 mg/kg). This inhibitory effect was reversed by RX821002 (an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist) and naloxone (a mu-opioid receptor antagonist) by 96.7% and 28.2%, respectively. Pretreatment with RX821002, N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1-2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ, an irreversible alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist) or naloxone shifted the tapentadol dose-effect curve to the right (ED50 = 2.2 mg/kg, 2.0 mg/kg and 2.1 mg/kg, respectively). Furthermore, tapentadol inhibited the LC response to mechanical stimulation of the hindpaw in a dose-dependent manner. In summary, we demonstrate that acute administration of tapentadol inhibits LC neurons in vivo, mainly due to the activation of alpha2-adrenoceptors. These data suggest that both the noradrenergic and opioid systems participate in the inhibitory effect of tapentadol on LC neurons, albeit to different extents, which may account for its potent analgesic effect and mild opioidergic side-effects.
Glutamate transmission and synaptic plasticity in the amygdala are essential for the learning and expression of conditioned fear. Glutamate activates both ionotropic glutamate receptors and eight subtypes of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu1-8). In the present study, we investigated the roles of mGlu7 and mGlu8 in amygdala-dependent behavior and synaptic plasticity. We show that ablation of mGlu7 but not mGlu8 attenuates long-term potentiation (LTP) at thalamo-lateral amygdala (LA) synapses where a strong association between LTP and learning has been demonstrated. mGlu7-deficient mice express a general deficit in conditioned fear whereas mGlu8-deficient mice show a dramatic reduction in contextual fear. The mGlu7 agonist AMN082 reduced thalamo-LA LTP and intra-amygdala administration blocked conditioned fear learning. In contrast, the mGlu8 agonist DCPG decreased synaptic transmission but not LTP at thalamo-LA synapses. Intra-amygdala DCPG selectively reduced the expression of contextual fear but did not affect the acquisition and expression of cued fear. Taken together, these data revealed very different roles for mGlu7 and mGlu8 in amygdala synaptic transmission, fear learning and its expression. These receptors seem promising targets for treating anxiety disorders with different underlying pathologies with exaggerated fear learning (mGlu7) or contextual fear (mGlu8).
The ribosomal protein S6 (rpS6) is a component of the small 40S ribosomal subunit, involved in multiple physiological functions. Here, we examined the effects produced by haloperidol, a typical antipsychotic drug, on the phosphorylation of rpS6 at Ser240/244 in the striatum, a brain region involved in neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders. We found that administration of haloperidol increased Ser240/244 phosphorylation in a subpopulation of GABA-ergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs), which preferentially express dopamine D2 receptors (D2Rs). This effect was abolished by rapamycin, an inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), or by PF470867, a selective inhibitor of the p70 ribosomal S6 kinase 1 (S6K1). We also found that the effect of haloperidol on Ser240/244 phosphorylation was prevented by functional inactivation of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32), an endogenous inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1 (PP-1). In line with this observation, incubation of striatal slices with okadaic acid and calyculin A, two inhibitors of PP-1, increased Ser240/244 phosphorylation. These results show that haloperidol promotes mTORC1- and S6K1-dependent phosphorylation of rpS6 at Ser240/244, in a subpopulation of striatal MSNs expressing D2Rs. They also indicate that this effect is exerted by suppressing dephosphorylation at Ser240/244, through PKA-dependent activation of DARPP-32 and inhibition of PP-1.
Methamphetamine (Meth) is a widely abused psychostimulant that causes long-term dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) depletions. Stress and Meth abuse are comorbid events in society and stress exacerbates Meth-induced monoaminergic terminal damage. Stress is also known to produce neuroinflammation. This study examined the role of the neuroinflammatory mediator, cyclooxygenase (COX), in the depletions of monoamines caused by serial exposure to chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) and Meth. CUS produced an increase in COX-2 protein expression and enhanced Meth-induced monoaminergic depletions in the striatum and hippocampus. The enhanced DA and 5-HT depletions in the striatum, but not the hippocampus, were prevented by pretreatment with COX inhibitor, ketoprofen, during stress or during Meth; however, ketoprofen did not attenuate the monoaminergic damage caused by Meth alone. The COX-dependent enhancement by stress of Meth-induced monoaminergic depletions was independent of hyperthermia, as ketoprofen did not attenuate Meth-induced hyperthermia. In addition, the EP1 receptor antagonist, SC-51089, did not attenuate DA or 5-HT depletions caused by stress and Meth. These findings illustrate that COX activity, but not activation of the EP1 receptor, is responsible for the potentiation of Meth-induced damage to striatal monoamine terminals by stress and suggests the use of anti-inflammatory drugs for mitigating the neurotoxic effects associated with the combination of stress and Meth.
Inhibition of central 42 nAChRs by antidepressants, proposed to contribute to their clinical efficacy, was assessed for monoamine reuptake inhibitors (amitriptyline, nortriptyline, fluoxetine, sertraline, paroxetine, citalopram) by comparing projected human unbound brain drug concentrations (Cu,b) at therapeutic doses with concentrations that inhibit human 42 nAChRs in vitro. Inhibitory concentrations (IC50) were determined by patch clamp and ranged from 0.8-3.2 M, except for nortriptyline (IC50 = 100 nM). Cu,b values were calculated from human unbound plasma drug concentrations (Cu,p) and rat-derived brain-to-plasma and extracellular fluid-to-plasma ratios for the unbound drug, which are near unity, due to much higher brain tissue binding than plasma protein binding of these drugs. Accordingly in humans, antidepressant Cu,b are projected to essentially equal Cu,p, with average values from 3-87 nM, which are 30-to-250-fold below their IC50 concentrations. Based on our model, monoaminergic antidepressants minimally inhibit central nAChRs and it is unlikely that 42 nAChR antagonism contributes to their antidepressant activity. Nortriptyline is an exception with a Cu,b that is 2-fold below its IC50, which is comparable to the nAChR antagonist ()-mecamylamine, for which Cu,b is 4-fold below its IC50; both drugs will inhibit a substantial fraction of 42 nAChRs. The Cu,b of the 42 nAChR partial agonist varenicline, which has antidepressant-like activity in a murine model, is higher than its IC50 and varenicline is projected to cause ~70% inhibition of 42 nAChRs. Taken together these data may help explain the negative outcome of recent antidepressant augmentation trials with mecamylamine and the partial agonist CP-601927.
The thalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVT), reported to participate in arousal and motivated behaviors, contains abundant receptors for thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), a neuropeptide also known to modulate arousal and mood. To test the hypothesis that TRH could influence the excitability of PVT neurons, whole cell patch-clamp recordings obtained in rat brain slice preparations were evaluated during bath applied TRH. In the majority of neurons tested, TRH induced reversible TTX-resistant membrane depolarization. Under voltage-clamp, TRH induced a concentration-dependent G protein- mediated inward current. The mean net TRH-induced current exhibited a decrease in membrane conductance. Further analyses identified two concurrent conductances contributing to the TRH-induced response. One conductance featured a Na(+)-independent and K(+)-dependent net current that displayed rectification and was suppressed by micromolar concentrations of Ba(2+) and two GIRK antagonists, tertiapin Q and SCH 23390. The second conductance featured a Na(+)-dependent net inward current with an I-V relationship that exhibited double rectification with a negative slope conductance below -40 mV. This conductance was suppressed by nonselective TRPC channel blockers 2-APB, flufenamic acid and ML204, enhanced by La(3+) in a subpopulation of cells, and unchanged by the TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine or a Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger blocker KB-R7943. TRH also enhanced hyperpolarization-activated low threshold spikes, a feature that was sensitive to pretreatment with either 2-APB or ML204. Collectively, the data imply that TRH enhances excitability in PVT neurons via concurrently decreasing a G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying K(+) conductance and activating a cationic conductance with characteristics reminiscent of TRPC-like channels, possibly involving TRPC4/C5 subunits.
Our knowledge regarding the molecular pathophysiology underlying anxiety disorders remains incomplete. Increasing evidence points to a role of glutamate in anxiety. The group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu4, mGlu6, mGlu7 and mGlu8 receptors) remain the least investigated glutamate receptor subtypes partially due to a delay in the development of specific pharmacological tools. Early work using knockout animals and pharmacological tools aimed at investigating the role of mGlu7 receptor in the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders has yielded exciting yet not always consistent results. To further investigate the role this receptor plays in anxiety-like behaviour, we knocked down mGlu7 receptor mRNA levels in the adult mouse brain using siRNA delivered via an osmotic minipump. This reduced anxiety-like behaviour in the light-dark box coupled with an attenuation of stress-induced hyperthermia (SIH) and a reduction of the acoustic startle response (ASRs) in the fear-potentiated startle paradigm (FPS). These effects on anxiety-like behaviour were independent of any impairment of locomotor activity and surprisingly, no behavioural changes were observed in the forced swim test (FST), which is in contrast to mGlu7 receptor knockout animals. Furthermore, the previously reported epilepsy-prone phenotype seen in mGlu7 receptor knockout animals was not observed following siRNA-induced knockdown of the receptor. These data suggest targeting mGlu7 receptors with selective antagonist drugs may be an effective and safe strategy for the treatment of anxiety disorders.
In this fMRI study, we examined the cerebral processing associated with second language (L2) reading in different writing systems in late L2 learners. To examine the impacts of cross-linguistic differences between the first language (L1) and L2 on learning to read in L2, we employed a bidirectional approach and compared brain activation during single word processing in two groups of late L2 readers: (1) L2 readers of English whose L1 was Japanese (Japanese-L1/English-L2) and (2) L2 readers of Japanese (of syllabic Kana only) whose L1 was English (English-L1/Japanese-L2). During English reading, the L2 readers of English (Japanese-L1/English-L2) exhibited stronger activation in the left superior parietal lobule/supramarginal gyrus, relative to the L1 readers of English (English-L1/Japanese-L2). This is a region considered to be involved in phonological processing. The increased activation in the Japanese-L1/English-L2 group likely reflects the increased cognitive load associated with L2 English reading, possibly because L1 readers of Kana, which has an extremely regular orthography, may need to adjust to the greater phonological demands of the irregular L2 English orthography. In contrast, during Kana reading, the L2 readers of Japanese Kana (English-L1/Japanese-L2) exhibited stronger activation in the lingual gyrus in both the left and right hemispheres compared to the L1 readers of Kana (Japaese-L1/English-L2). This additional activation is likely to reflect the lower level of visual familiarity to the L2 symbols in the English-L1/Japanese-L2 group; Kana symbols are uniquely used only in Japan, whereas Roman alphabetic symbols are seen nearly everywhere. These findings, bolstered by significant relationships between the activation of the identified regions and cognitive competence, suggest that the cerebral mechanisms for L2 reading in late learners depends both on which language is their L1 and which language is to be learnt as their L2. Educational implications of these results are discussed.
Insight into the neural architecture of multitasking is crucial when investigating the pathophysiology of multitasking deficits in clinical populations. Presently, little is known about how the brain combines dual-tasking with a concurrent short-term memory task, despite the relevance of this mental operation in daily life and the frequency of complaints related to this process, in disease. In this study we aimed to examine how the brain responds when a memory task is added to dual-tasking. Thirty-three right-handed healthy volunteers (20 females, mean age 39.9  5.8) were examined with functional brain imaging (fMRI). The paradigm consisted of two cross-modal single tasks (a visual and auditory temporal same-different task with short delay), a dual-task combining both single tasks simultaneously and a multi-task condition, combining the dual-task with an additional short-term memory task (temporal same-different visual task with long delay). Dual-tasking compared to both individual visual and auditory single tasks activated a predominantly right-sided fronto-parietal network and the cerebellum. When adding the additional short-term memory task, a larger and more bilateral frontoparietal network was recruited. We found enhanced activity during multitasking in components of the network that were already involved in dual-tasking, suggesting increased working memory demands, as well as recruitment of multitask-specific components including areas that are likely to be involved in online holding of visual stimuli in short-term memory such as occipito-temporal cortex. These results confirm concurrent neural processing of a visual short-term memory task during dual-tasking and provide evidence for an effective fMRI multitasking paradigm.
Predictive coding frameworks of perception propose that neural networks form predictions of expected input and generate prediction errors when the external input does not match expectation. We therefore investigated the processing of unexpected sounds and silence in the auditory cortex using fMRI. Unexpected sounds, when compared to expected sounds, evoked greater activation in large areas of the left temporal and insular cortices. Additionally the left middle temporal gyrus exhibited greater activation to unexpected events in general, whether sounds or silence, when compared to the corresponding expected events. These findings support predictive coding models of perception, which suggest that regions of the temporal cortex function to integrate sensory information with predictive signals during auditory perception.
Memory dysfunction in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's pathology is primarily associated with episodic memory deficits linked to deterioration of the medial temporal lobes (MTLs). Currently, there is a call to discover novel biomarkers of MCI in order to improve research criteria. Functional activation differences in MCI during episodic memory-task performance are often evidenced in the MTLs, and frontal and parietal lobes, but it has been suggested that examination of working memory (WM) differences may be more useful in detecting MCI. In the current study, MCI and control participants performed a complex WM span (CWMS) task while functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data were acquired. Results indicated hyper-activation of the lateral temporal lobes, MTLs, and frontal and parietal regions during encoding and maintenance, and hyper-activation of the lateral temporal, frontal, and parietal lobes during CWMS recall for the MCI participants. Medial and lateral temporal differences during encoding and maintenance are consistent with previous findings, but lateral temporal differences are often not elaborated upon. Hyper-activation of the lateral temporal lobes during WM encoding and maintenance, and also during recall, suggests that this region may provide valuable information regarding WM impairment in MCI and Alzheimer's. Given that whole-brain functional imaging of the MTLs is often limited due to artifact and partial voluming of sub-fields, examination of lateral temporal differences may provide a novel biomarker related to WM impairment in MCI.
Previous studies have shown that appetitive motivation enhances episodic memory formation via a network including the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA), striatum and hippocampus. This functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study now contrasted the impact of aversive and appetitive motivation on episodic long-term memory. Cue pictures predicted monetary reward or punishment in alternating experimental blocks. One day later, episodic memory for the cue pictures was tested. We also investigated how the neural processing of appetitive and aversive motivation and episodic memory were modulated by dopaminergic mechanisms. To that end, participants were selected on the basis of their genotype for a variable number of tandem repeat polymorphism of the dopamine transporter (DAT) gene. The resulting groups were carefully matched for the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism of the serotonin transporter gene. Recognition memory for cues from both motivational categories was enhanced in participants homozygous for the 10-repeat allele of the DAT, the functional effects of which are not known yet, but not in heterozygous subjects. In comparison with heterozygous participants, 10-repeat homozygous participants also showed increased striatal activity for anticipation of motivational outcomes compared to neutral outcomes. In a subsequent memory analysis, encoding activity in striatum and hippocampus was found to be higher for later recognized items in 10-repeat homozygotes compared to 9/10-repeat heterozygotes. These findings suggest that processing of appetitive and aversive motivation in the human striatum involve the dopaminergic system and that dopamine plays a role in memory for both types of motivational information. In accordance with animal studies, these data support the idea that encoding of motivational events depends on dopaminergic processes in the hippocampus.
In human cognition, most relevant stimuli, such as faces, are processed in central vision. However, it is widely believed that recognition of relevant stimuli (e.g. threatening animal faces) at peripheral locations is also important due to their survival value. Moreover, task instructions have been shown to modulate brain regions involved in threat recognition (e.g. the amygdala). In this respect it is also controversial whether tasks requiring explicit focus on stimulus threat content vs. implicit processing differently engage primitive subcortical structures involved in emotional appraisal. Here we have addressed the role of central vs. peripheral processing in the human amygdala using animal threatening vs. non-threatening face stimuli. First, a simple animal face recognition task with threatening and non-threatening animal faces, as well as non-face control stimuli, was employed in nave subjects (implicit task). A subsequent task was then performed with the same stimulus categories (but different stimuli) in which subjects were told to explicitly detect threat signals. We found lateralized amygdala responses both to the spatial location of stimuli and to the threatening content of faces depending on the task performed: the right amygdala showed increased responses to central compared to left presented stimuli specifically during the threat detection task, while the left amygdala was better prone to discriminate threatening faces from non-facial displays during the animal face recognition task. Additionally, the right amygdala responded to faces during the threat detection task but only when centrally presented. Moreover, we have found no evidence for superior responses of the amygdala to peripheral stimuli. Importantly, we have found that striatal regions activate differentially depending on peripheral vs. central processing of threatening faces. Accordingly, peripheral processing of these stimuli activated more strongly the putaminal region, while central processing engaged mainly the caudate nucleus. We conclude that the human amygdala has a central bias for face stimuli, and that visual processing recruits different striatal regions, putaminal or caudate based, depending on the task and on whether peripheral or central visual processing is involved.
Neural activation of slow acoustic variations that are important for syllable identification is more lateralized to the right hemisphere than activation of fast acoustic changes that are important for phoneme identification. It has been suggested that this complementary function at different hemispheres is rooted in a different degree of white matter myelination in the left versus right hemisphere. The present study will investigate this structure-function relationship with Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) and Auditory Steady-State Responses (ASSR), respectively. With DTI we examined white matter lateralization in the cortical auditory and language regions (i.e. posterior region of the superior temporal gyrus and the arcuate fasciculus) and white matter integrity in the splenium of the corpus callosum. With ASSR we examined interhemispheric coherence to slow, syllabic-rate (i.e. 4 Hz) and fast, phonemic-rate (i.e. 20 Hz) modulations. These structural and functional techniques were applied in a group of normal reading adults and a group of dyslexic adults for whom previously reduced functional interhemispheric connectivity at 20 Hz has been reported (Poelmans et al. (2012). Ear and Hearing, 33, 134-143). This sample was chosen since it is hypothesized that in dyslexic readers insufficient hemispheric asymmetry in myelination might relate to their auditory and phonological problems. Results demonstrate reduced white matter lateralization in the posterior superior temporal gyrus and the arcuate fasciculus in the dyslexic readers. Additionally, white matter lateralization in the posterior superior temporal gyrus and white matter integrity in the splenium of the corpus callosum related to interhemispheric coherence to phonemic-rate modulations (i.e. 20 Hz). Interestingly, this correlation pattern was opposite in normal versus dyslexic readers. These results might imply that less pronounced left white matter dominance in dyslexic adults might relate to their problems to process phonemic-rate acoustic information and to integrate them into the phonological system.
Quantifiers such as frequency adverbs (e.g., &quot;always&quot;, &quot;never&quot;) and quantity pronouns (e.g., &quot;many&quot;, &quot;none&quot;) convey quantity information. Whether quantifiers are processed as numbers or as general semantics has been a matter of much debate. Some neuropsychological and fMRI studies have found that the processing of quantifiers depends on the numerical magnitude comprehension system, but others have found that quantifier processing is associated with semantic representation. The selective impairment of language in semantic dementia patients provides a way to examine the above controversy. We administered a series of neuropsychological tests (i.e., language processing, numerical processing and semantic distance judgment) to two patients with different levels of severity in semantic dementia (mild vs. severe). The results showed that the two patients had intact numerical knowledge, but impairments in semantic processing. Moreover, the patient with severe/late semantic dementia showed more impairment in quantifier and semantic processing than the patient with mild/early semantic dementia. We concluded that quantifier processing is associated with general semantic processing, not with numerical processing.

Impulsivity shares high comorbidity with substance abuse in humans, and high impulsivity (HI) in rats has been identified as a predictive factor for cocaine addiction-like behavior. Despite the evidence that high impulsivity is associated with altered function of corticostriatal networks, the specific neural substrates underlying the increased vulnerability of impulsive individuals to develop cocaine addiction remain unknown. We therefore investigated specific neural correlates of HI within the corticostriatal circuitry and determined how they interact with a protracted history of cocaine self-administration. We used in situ hybridization to map brain expression of two major genes implicated in impulsivity, encoding the dopamine D2 receptor (DA D2R) and the 5-HT2c receptor (5-HT2cR), and an immediate early gene associated with neuronal plasticity, zif268, in groups of rats selected for HI and low impulsivity (LI) on a 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT) immediately after 5-CSRTT training, and following 10 or 50 days of cocaine self-administration. HI rats exhibited decreased DA D2R mRNA in the mesolimbic pathway, and increased 5-HT2cR mRNA in the orbitofrontal cortex compared with LI rats. HI rats also showed decreased zif268 mRNA in the ventral and dorsomedial striatum. Cocaine exposure decreased striatal D2R mRNA in both HI and LI rats, decreased 5-HT2cR mRNA differentially in striatal and prefrontal areas between HI and LI rats, and selectively decreased zif268 mRNA in the orbitofrontal and infralimbic cortices of HI animals. These findings implicate novel markers underlying the vulnerability of impulsive rats to cocaine addiction that localize to the OFC, infralimbic cortex, and striatum.
The glutamatergic neurotransmission system and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) have been implicated in smoking and alcohol consumption behavior. Preclinical studies have demonstrated that nicotine and ethanol influence NMDAR functionality, which may have a role in tendencies to consume these substances. Nonetheless, little is known about concentrations of NMDAR coagonists in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma of individuals who smoke or consume alcohol. Glycine and L- and D-stereoisomers of alanine, serine, and proline were therefore measured using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry in 403 healthy subjects. Nicotine and alcohol consumption were quantified using questionnaires. Possible differences in NMDAR coagonist concentrations in plasma and CSF were investigated using ANCOVA with age, body mass index, and storage duration as covariates. The significance threshold was Bonferroni corrected (=0.00625). Compared with non-smokers, smokers displayed lower levels of D-proline in plasma (p=0.0027, Cohen's d=-0.41) and D-proline in CSF (p=0.0026, Cohen's d=-0.43). D-Serine in CSF was higher in smokers than in non-smokers (p=0.0052, Cohen's d=0.41). After subdividing participants based on smoking quantity, dose-dependent decreases were demonstrated in smokers for D-proline in plasma (F=5.65, p=0.0039) and D-proline in CSF (F=5.20, p=0.0060). No differences in NMDAR coagonist levels between alcohol consumption groups were detected. To our knowledge, this is the first report to implicate D-amino acids in smoking behavior of humans. Whether such concentration differences lie at the root of or result from smoking habits may be addressed in prospective studies.
Alcohol dependence is associated with impaired control over emotionally motivated actions, possibly associated with abnormalities in the frontoparietal executive control network and midbrain nodes of the reward network associated with automatic attention. To identify differences in the neural response to alcohol-related word stimuli, 26 chronic alcoholics (ALC) and 26 healthy controls (CTL) performed an alcohol-emotion Stroop Match-to-Sample task during functional MR imaging. Stroop contrasts were modeled for color-word incongruency (eg, word RED printed in green) and for alcohol (eg, BEER), positive (eg, HAPPY) and negative (eg, MAD) emotional word content relative to congruent word conditions (eg, word RED printed in red). During color-Stroop processing, ALC and CTL showed similar left dorsolateral prefrontal activation, and CTL, but not ALC, deactivated posterior cingulate cortex/cuneus. An interaction revealed a dissociation between alcohol-word and color-word Stroop processing: ALC activated midbrain and parahippocampal regions more than CTL when processing alcohol-word relative to color-word conditions. In ALC, the midbrain region was also invoked by negative emotional Stroop words thereby showing significant overlap of this midbrain activation for alcohol-related and negative emotional processing. Enhanced midbrain activation to alcohol-related words suggests neuroadaptation of dopaminergic midbrain systems. We speculate that such tuning is normally associated with behavioral conditioning to optimize responses but here contributed to automatic bias to alcohol-related stimuli.
Schizophrenia is believed to arise from an interaction of genetic predisposition and adverse environmental factors, with stress being a primary variable. We propose that alleviating anxiety produced in response to stress during a sensitive developmental period may circumvent the dopamine (DA) system alterations that may correspond to psychosis in adults. This was tested in a developmental rat model of schizophrenia based on prenatal administration of the mitotoxin methyl azoxymethanol acetate (MAM). MAM administration leads to a hyperdopaminergic state consisting of an increase in the number of DA neurons firing spontaneously, which correlates with an increased behavioral response to amphetamine. MAM-treated rats exhibited a heightened level of anxiety during adolescence. Peripubertal administration of the antianxiety agent diazepam was found to prevent the increase in DA neuron activity and blunt the behavioral hyperresponsivity to amphetamine in these rats. These data suggest that the pathophysiological factors leading to the onset of psychosis in early adulthood may be circumvented by controlling the response to stress during the peripubertal period.
A neurocognitive endophenotype has been proposed for stimulant dependence, based on behavioral measures of inhibitory response control associated with white matter changes in the frontal cortex. This study investigated the functional neuroimaging correlates of inhibitory response control, as functional activity serves as a more dynamic measure than brain structure, allowing refinement of the suggested endophenotype. Stimulant-dependent individuals (SDIs), their unaffected siblings (SIBs), and healthy controls (CTs) performed the stop-signal task, including stop-signal reaction time (SSRT) as a measure of response inhibition, while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging. SDIs had impaired response inhibition accompanied by hypoactivation in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC). In addition, they demonstrated hypoactivation in the anterior cingulate when failing to stop. In contrast, no hypoactivations were noted in their unaffected SIBs. Rather, they exhibited increased activation in the dorsomedial PFC relative to controls, together with inhibitory performance that was intermediate between that of the stimulant group and the healthy CT group. Such hyperactivations within the neurocircuitry underlying response inhibition and control are suggestive of compensatory mechanisms that could be protective in nature or could reflect coping with a pre-existing vulnerability, thus expressing potential aspects of resilience. The functional activation associated with response inhibition and error monitoring showed differential patterns of results between SDIs and their unaffected first-degree relatives, suggesting that the proposed endophenotype does not generalize to functional brain activity.
AMPAR (-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate glutamate receptor) stimulation in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is critical in cocaine seeking. Here, we investigate the functional interaction between D1 dopamine receptors (D1DR) and AMPARs in the NAc, and explore how A1 adenosine receptor (A1AR) stimulation may reduce dopamine-induced facilitation of AMPARs and cocaine seeking. All animals were trained to self-administer cocaine and were tested for reinstatement of cocaine seeking following extinction procedures. The role of AMPARs in both AMPA- and D1DR-induced cocaine seeking was assessed using viral-mediated gene transfer to bi-directionally modulate AMPAR activity in the NAc core. The ability of pharmacological AMPAR blockade to modulate D1DR-induced cocaine seeking also was tested. Immunoblotting was used to determine whether stimulating D1DR altered synaptic AMPA GluA1 phosphorylation (pGluA1). Finally, the ability of an A1AR agonist to modulate D1DR-induced cocaine seeking and synaptic GluA1 receptor subunit phosphorylation was explored. Decreasing AMPAR function inhibited both AMPA- and D1DR-induced cocaine seeking. D1DR stimulation increased AMPA pGluA1(S845). Administration of the A1AR agonist alone decreased synaptic GluA1 expression, whereas coadministration of the A1AR agonist inhibited both cocaine- and D1DR-induced cocaine seeking and reversed D1DR-induced AMPA pGluA1(S845). These findings suggest that D1DR stimulation facilitates AMPAR function to initiate cocaine seeking in D1DR-containing direct pathway NAc neurons. A1AR stimulation inhibits both the facilitation of AMPAR function and subsequent cocaine seeking, suggesting that reducing AMPA glutamate neurotransmission in direct pathway neurons may restore inhibitory control and reduce cocaine relapse.
Social play behavior is a characteristic, vigorous form of social interaction in young mammals. It is highly rewarding and thought to be of major importance for social and cognitive development. The neural substrates of social play are incompletely understood, but there is evidence to support a role for the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and striatum in this behavior. Using pharmacological inactivation methods, ie, infusions of GABA receptor agonists (baclofen and muscimol; B&amp;M) or the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3(1H,4H)-dione (DNQX), we investigated the involvement of several subregions of the medial PFC and striatum in social play. Inactivation of the prelimbic cortex, infralimbic cortex, and medial/ventral orbitofrontal cortex using B&amp;M markedly reduced frequency and duration of social play behavior. Local administration of DNQX into the dorsomedial striatum increased the frequency and duration of social play, whereas infusion of B&amp;M tended to have the same effect. Inactivation of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) core using B&amp;M increased duration but not frequency of social play, whereas B&amp;M infusion into the NAcc shell did not influence social play behavior. Thus, functional integrity of the medial PFC is important for the expression of social play behavior. Glutamatergic inputs into the dorsomedial striatum exert an inhibitory influence on social play, and functional activity in the NAcc core acts to limit the length of playful interactions. These results highlight the importance of prefrontal and striatal circuits implicated in cognitive control, decision making, behavioral inhibition, and reward-associated processes in social play behavior.
Evidence indicates that the prefrontal cortex and its regulation by afferent inputs are disrupted in schizophrenia. Using a validated rat model of schizophrenia based on prenatal administration of the mitotoxin methyl azoxymethanol acetate (MAM), we examined the convergent projections from the ventral hippocampus (vHipp) and the basolateral amygdala (BLA) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In vivo extracellular recordings were done in anesthetized rats to assess how prior stimulation of the BLA or vHipp input to the mPFC affected mPFC responses to subsequent stimulation of these regions. The interstimulus interval (ISI) of the BLA and vHipp pulse stimulation was varied randomly between 0 and 130ms, and the probability of evoked spike response in the mPFC measured. We found that BLA input increased vHipp-evoked spike probability at ISIs 40-130ms, but decreased spike probability at ISIs 10-20ms. This would be consistent with activation of inhibitory interneurons at shorter ISIs by BLA stimulation. In contrast, in MAM-treated rats BLA stimulation increased vHipp-evoked spike probability in mPFC at all ISIs tested. Given that interneurons are driven primarily by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) channel activation, the effects of the NMDA channel blocker, phencyclidine (PCP), were tested. PCP was found to completely attenuate the inhibitory effect of BLA input on vHipp-evoked responses in mPFC at shorter ISIs, causing the response in control rats treated with PCP to resemble that observed in the MAM rat. In contrast to the effects of BLA stimulation on vHipp-mPFC-evoked responses, there was no inhibitory period when examining the effects of vHipp stimulation on BLA-mPFC-evoked responses in control rats, but in MAM-treated rats there was a significant inhibition at short intervals. Thus, both affective input arising from the BLA and context-dependent input from the vHipp exert a modulatory effect on mPFC neural activity in response to these inputs. Whereas the BLA potentiated vHipp input to the mPFC at long intervals, there was a short-interval inhibitory period that appeared to be mediated by an NMDA-dependent drive of interneurons. This inhibitory modulation was absent in the model of schizophrenia and following PCP, which is consistent with an interneuron disruption in this disorder.



Neural mechanisms that detect changes in the auditory environment appear to rely on processes that predict sensory state. Here we propose that in tinnitus there is a disparity between what the brain predicts it should be hearing (this prediction based on aberrant neural activity occurring in cortical frequency regions affected by hearing loss and underlying the tinnitus percept) and the acoustic information that is delivered to the brain by the damaged cochlea. The disparity between the predicted and delivered inputs activates a system for auditory attention that facilitates through subcortical neuromodulatory systems neuroplastic changes that contribute to the generation of tinnitus. We review behavioral and functional brain imaging evidence for persisting auditory attention in tinnitus and present a qualitative model for how attention operates in normal hearing and may be triggered in tinnitus accompanied by hearing loss. The viewpoint has implications for the role of cochlear pathology in tinnitus, for neural plasticity and the contribution of forebrain neuromodulatory systems in tinnitus, and for tinnitus management and treatment.
Recent studies using diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) have provided evidence of abnormal white matter microstructure in adults with substance use disorders (SUDs). While there is a growing body of research using DW-MRI to examine the impact of heavy substance use during adolescence, this literature has not been systematically reviewed. Online databases were searched for DW-MRI studies of adolescent substance users, and 10 studies fulfilled the inclusion and exclusion criteria. We identified consistent evidence for abnormal white matter microstructure in neocortical association pathways as well as in projection and thalamic pathways. Dose-dependent relationships between DW-MRI measures and patterns of substance use were also observed. The consistency of these findings with DW-MRI research in adults suggests that white matter microstructure is impacted in the early stages of heavy substance use. However, given the largely cross-sectional nature of the available data, important questions remain regarding the extent to which white matter abnormalities are a consequence of adolescent exposure to alcohol and other drugs of abuse or reflect pre-existing differences that increase risk for SUDs.
Non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS) is a method for the study of cognitive function that is quickly gaining popularity. It bypasses the correlative approaches of other imaging techniques, making it possible to establish a causal relationship between cognitive processes and the functioning of specific brain areas. Like lesion studies, NIBS can provide information about where a particular process occurs. However, NIBS offers the opportunity to study brain mechanisms beyond process localisation, providing information about when activity in a given brain region is involved in a cognitive process, and even how it is involved. When using NIBS to explore cognitive processes, it is important to understand not only how NIBS functions but also the functioning of the neural structures themselves. We know that NIBS techniques have the potential to transiently influence behaviour by altering neuronal activity, which may have facilitatory or inhibitory behavioural effects, and these alterations can be used to understand how the brain works. Given that NIBS necessarily involves the relatively indiscriminate activation of large numbers of neurons, its impact on a neural system can be easily understood as modulation of neural activity that changes the relation between noise and signal. In this review, we describe the mutual interactions between NIBS and brain activity and provide an updated and precise perspective on the theoretical frameworks of NIBS and their impact on cognitive neuroscience. By transitioning our discussion from one aspect (NIBS) to the other (cognition), we aim to provide insights to guide future research.
The main problem with sensory processing is the difficulty in relating sensory input to physiological responses and perception. This is especially problematic at higher levels of processing, where complex cues elicit highly specific responses. In olfaction, this relationship is particularly obfuscated by the difficulty of characterizing stimulus statistics and perception. The core questions in olfaction are hence the so-called stimulus problem, which refers to the understanding of the stimulus, and the structure-activity and structure-odor relationships, which refer to the molecular basis of smell. It is widely accepted that the recognition of odorants by receptors is governed by the detection of physico-chemical properties and that the physical space is highly complex. Not surprisingly, ideas differ about how odor stimuli should be classified and about the very nature of information that the brain extracts from odors. Even though there are many measures for smell, there is none that accurately describes all aspects of it. Here, we summarize recent developments in the understanding of olfaction. We argue that an approach to olfactory function where information processing is emphasized could contribute to a high degree to our understanding of smell as a perceptual phenomenon emerging from neural computations. Further, we argue that combined analysis of the stimulus, biology, physiology, and behavior and perception can provide new insights into olfactory function. We hope that the reader can use this review as a competent guide and overview of research activities in olfactory physiology, psychophysics, computation, and psychology. We propose avenues for research, particularly in the systematic characterization of receptive fields and of perception.
We reviewed the evidence for the use of cardiovascular exercise to improve memory and explored potential mechanisms. Data from 29 and 21 studies including acute and long-term cardiovascular interventions were retrieved. Meta-analyses revealed that acute exercise had moderate (SMD=0.26; 95% CI=0.03, 0.49; p=0.03; N=22) whereas long-term had small (SMD=0.15; 95% CI=0.02, 0.27; p=0.02; N=37) effects on short-term memory. In contrast, acute exercise showed moderate to large (SMD=0.52; 95% CI=0.28, 0.75; p&lt;0.0001; N=20) whereas long-term exercise had insignificant effects (SMD=0.07; 95% CI=-0.13, 0.26; p=0.51; N=22) on long-term memory. We argue that acute and long-term cardiovascular exercise represent two distinct but complementary strategies to improve memory. Acute exercise improves memory in a time-dependent fashion by priming the molecular processes involved in the encoding and consolidation of newly acquired information. Long-term exercise, in contrast, has negligible effects on memory but provides the necessary stimuli to optimize the responses of the molecular machinery responsible for memory processing. Strategically combined, acute and long-term interventions could maximize the benefits of cardiovascular exercise on memory.
Racism and in-group favoritism is prevalent in our society and has been studied in Social Psychology for a long time. Recently it has become possible to investigate the neural mechanisms that underlie these in-group biases, and hence this review will give an overview of recent developments on the topic. Rather than relying on a single brain region or network, it seems that subtle changes in neural activation across the brain, depending on the modalities involved, underlie how we divide the world into 'us' versus 'them'. These insights have important implications for our understanding of how in-group biases develop and could potentially lead to new insights on how to reduce them.
In macaque monkey, area 8B is cytoarchitectonically considered a transitional area between the granular Brodmann area 9, rostrally, and the rostral part of the dorsal agranular Brodmann area 6, caudally. As for electrophysiological data, microstimulation of area 8B evokes ear and/or eye movements; unit activity recording shows neurons encoding different auditory environmental stimuli and ear and/or eye movements. Moreover, visual attentive fixation modulates the discharge of auditory environmental neurons and auditory-motor neurons. As for anatomical data, area 8B is connected with auditory cortical areas, superior colliculus and cerebellum. Current functional and anatomical evidences support that area 8B is a specific Premotor Ear-Eye Field (PEEF) involved in auditory stimuli recognition and in orienting processes. In conclusion, we suggest that PEEF could play an important role in engaging the auditory spatial attention for the purpose of orienting eye and ear towards the sound source.
Neuroticism is a robust personality trait that constitutes a risk factor for mood disorders. Neuroimaging findings related to neuroticism have been inconsistent across studies and hardly integrated in order to construct a model of the underlying neural correlates of neuroticism. The aim of the current meta-analysis was to provide a quantitative summary of the literature, using a parametric coordinate-based meta-analysis (PCM) approach. Data were pooled for emotion processing tasks investigating the contrasts (negative&gt;neutral) and (positive&gt;neutral) to identify brain regions that are consistently associated with neuroticism across studies. Significant negative and positive correlations with neuroticism were found only for the contrast (negative&gt;neutral) after multiple comparisons correction. Differences in brain activation were found to be associated with neuroticism during fear learning, anticipation of aversive stimuli and the processing and regulation of emotion. The relationship between neuroticism and these three psychological processes and their corresponding neural correlates is discussed. Furthermore, the meta-analytic findings are incorporated into a general model of emotion processing in neuroticism.
Empathy allows individuals to share the affective states of others, predict others' actions, and stimulate prosocial behavior. Whilst the proximate mechanisms of empathy, modulated in part by neuropeptides such as oxytocin, control the ways we interact with our social environment, the ultimate causes seem to have arisen along with the mechanisms involved in mammalian parental care. The conceptual boundaries of empathy, however, have been blurred by definitional inaccuracies of mechanisms that can be regarded as phylogenetic precursors or physiological prerequisites for empathy, including mimicry and emotion contagion. Contextual factors such as early experiences with primary care-givers (attachment), current mood states and other environmental contingencies are capable of modulating empathy. Moreover, evidence suggests that there is also a &quot;dark side&quot; of empathy, namely envy and schadenfreude (gloating) that are elicited by social comparison, competition and ingroup-outgroup distinction. This review aims at clarifying some of the open definitional questions related to empathy, and emphasizing the need for considering contextual factors in the study of empathy in both normal and abnormal psychology.
Diagnoses and assessments of cognitive function in disorders of consciousness (DOC) are notoriously prone to error due to their reliance on behavioural measures. As a result, researchers have turned to functional neuroimaging and electrophysiological techniques with the goal of developing more effective methods of detecting awareness and assessing cognition in these patients. This article reviews functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroenchphalography (EEG)-based studies of cognition and consciousness in DOC, including assessment of basic sensory, perceptual, language, and emotional processing; studies for detection of conscious awareness; paradigms for the establishment of communication in the absence of behaviour; and functional connectivity studies. The advantages and limitations of fMRI and EEG-based measures are examined as research and clinical tools in this population and an explanation offered for the rediscovery of the unique advantages of EEG in the study of DOC.
Depression is characterised by high prevalence and complex, heterogeneous psychopathology. At the level of aetio-pathology, considerable research effort has been invested to identify specific gene polymorphisms associated with increased depression prevalence. Genome-wide association studies have not identified any risk polymorphisms, and candidate gene case-control studies have identified a small number of risk polymorphisms. It is increasingly recognised that interaction between genotype and environmental factors (GE), notably stressful life events, is the more realistic unit of depression aetio-pathology, with GE evidence described for a small number of risk polymorphisms. An important complementary approach has been to describe genes exhibiting brain region-specific expression changes in depression. Mouse models of depression informed by the human evidence allow for the study of causality, but to-date have also yielded limited insights into depression aetio-pathology. This review of the translational evidence integrates human and mouse research approaches and evidence. It also makes specific recommendations in terms of how future research in human and mouse should be designed in order to deliver evidence for depression aetio-pathology and thereby to inform the development of novel and improved antidepressant treatments.
Concurrent eye and hand movements toward a common visual target require different motor programs based on identical visual input. We used event-related brain potentials (ERP) to determine if and when the processing of the visual target differs for the two motor systems. The N2, an index for target evaluation, was more negative for the target of a hand than of an eye movement in two experiments. A possible interpretation for this finding is different visual target processing. Targets for hand movements require a different weighting of visual information, for example concerning features such as surface structure which are important for hand but not for eye movements. In experiment 2, the early C1-component, which had an average maximum at 67 ms following target onset, was significantly more negative when subjects pointed at the stimuli. Traditionally, the C1 has been regarded as a sensory component, but recent studies have linked it to higher order processing, such as attention and expectations. Thus, the present data indicate that target processing for eye or hand movements is already context-specific during early visual information processing. We suggest that differences in a target's relevance for upcoming movements modify target processing as well as sensory expectations.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) patients with antibodies against muscle specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK+) typically present focal fatigue and atrophy of the facial and bulbar muscles, including the masseter muscle, whereas leg muscles often are clinically spared. This study addresses the regulation of the mTOR signaling pathway in the masseter muscle versus the leg muscle tibialis anterior (TA). We analyzed muscle morphology, protein levels of mTOR components as well as atrogenes and mitochondrial markers in these muscles of healthy control mice and mice with different clinical severity grades of MuSK+ experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG). Protein levels of mTOR components were reduced in the atrophic masseter muscle of MuSK+ EAMG mice, whereas enhanced accumulation of mTOR components was observed in the TA muscles. Two other muscles: omohyoid and soleus showed intermediate spectra. In conclusion, the anabolic mTOR signaling pathway is differentially regulated even in muscles with the same activity pattern in the same neuromuscular disease. This could in part explain the clinical phenotype in MuSK+ EAMG as well as in muscular dystrophies.
Mitochondrial ferritin (FtMt) is a novel protein encoded by an intronless gene mapped to chromosome 5q23.1. Ferritin is ubiquitously expressed; however, FtMt expression is restricted to specific tissues such as the testis and the brain. The distribution pattern of FtMt suggests a functional role for this protein in the brain; however, data concerning the roles of FtMt in neurodegenerative diseases remain scarce. In the human cerebral cortex, FtMt expression was increased in Alzheimer's disease patients compared to control cases. Cultured neuroblastoma cells showed low-level expression of FtMt, which was increased by H2O2 treatment. FtMt overexpression showed a neuroprotective effect against H2O2-induced oxidative stress and A-induced neurotoxicity in neuroblastoma cells. FtMt expression was also detected in dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and was increased in patients with restless legs syndrome, while FtMt had a protective effect against cell death in a neuroblastoma cell line model of Parkinson's disease. FtMt is involved in other neurodegenerative diseases such as age-related macular degeneration (AMD), with an FtMt gene mutation identified in AMD patients, and Friedreich's ataxia, which is caused by a deficiency in frataxin. FtMt overexpression in frataxin-deficient cells increased cell resistance to H2O2 damage. These results implicate a neuroprotective role of FtMt in neurodegenerative diseases.


Early nicotine exposure has been associated with many long-term consequences that include neuroanatomical alterations, as well as behavioral and cognitive deficits. To describe the effects of early nicotine exposure in Caenorhabditis elegans, the current study observed spontaneous locomotor activity (i.e., reversals) either in the presence or absence of nicotine. Expression of acr-16 (a nicotinic receptor subunit) and a -like GABA(A) receptor subunit, gab-1, were also examined with RT-PCR. Worms were exposed to nicotine (30 M) throughout &quot;zygote formation&quot; (period that includes oocyte maturation, ovulation and fertilization), from hatching to adulthood (&quot;larval development&quot;) or across both zygote and larval development. Adult larval-exposed worms only showed an increase in spontaneous behavior when tested on nicotine (p&lt;0.001) but levels of activity similar to controls when tested on plain plates (p&gt;0.30). Larval-exposed worms also showed control levels of acr-16 nicotinic receptor expression (p&gt;0.10) but increased gab-1 expression relative to controls (p&lt;0.01). In contrast, zygote-exposed and zygote- plus larval-exposed worms showed a similar increase in spontaneous behavior on plain plates (p&lt;0.001 and p=0.001, respectively) but control levels of responding when tested on nicotine (p&gt;0.90 for each). However, expression of acr-16 and gab-1 was downregulated in zygote-exposed (p&lt;0.01 and p&lt;0.05, respectively) and significantly upregulated in the zygote- plus larval-exposed worms (p&lt;0.000 for each); most surprising was the over five-fold increase in gab-1 expression. These results suggest that spontaneous motor behavior and receptor expression are differentially modulated by nicotine exposure during larval development and/or zygote formation. As well, these findings demonstrate that C. elegans, as a model system, is also sensitive to nicotine exposure during early development and provides the basis for future research to uncover specific mechanisms by which early nicotine exposure modifies neuronal signaling and alters behavior.
Exposure to nerve agents induces intense seizures (status epilepticus, SE), which cause brain damage or death. Identification of the brain regions that are critical for seizure initiation after nerve agent exposure, along with knowledge of the physiology of these regions, can facilitate the development of pretreatments and treatments that will successfully prevent or limit the development of seizures and brain damage. It is well-established that seizure initiation is due to excessive cholinergic activity triggered by the nerve agent-induced irreversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Therefore, the reason that when animals are exposed to lethal doses of a nerve agent, a small proportion of these animals do not develop seizures, may have to do with failure of the nerve agent to inhibit AChE in brain areas that play a key role in seizure initiation and propagation. In the present study, we compared AChE activity in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), hippocampus, and piriform cortex of rats that developed SE (SE rats) after administration of the nerve agent soman (154g/kg) to AChE activity in these brain regions of rats that received the same dose of soman but did not develop SE (no-SE rats). The levels of AChE activity were measured at the onset of SE in SE rats, 30min after soman administration in no-SE rats, as well as in controls which received saline in place of soman. In the control group, AChE activity was significantly higher in the BLA compared to the hippocampus and piriform cortex. Compared to controls, AChE activity was dramatically lower in the hippocampus and the piriform cortex of both the SE rats and the no-SE rats, but AChE activity in the BLA was reduced only in the SE rats. Consistent with the notion that soman-induced neuropathology is due to intense seizures, rather than due to a direct neurotoxic effect of soman, no-SE rats did not present any neuronal loss or degeneration, 7 days after exposure. The results suggest that inhibition of AChE activity in the BLA is necessary for the generation of seizures after nerve agent exposure, and provide strong support to the view that the amygdala is a key brain region for the induction of seizures by nerve agents.
Voltage-gated sodium channels are critical for electrical signaling in the nervous system. Pyrethroid insecticides exert their toxic action by modifying the gating of sodium channels. A valine to methionine mutation in the transmembrane segment 6 of domain I (IS6) of sodium channels from tobacco budworms (Heliothis virescens) has been shown to alter channel gating and reduce insect sodium channel sensitivity to pyrethroids. A valine to leucine substitution was subsequently reported in pyrethroid-resistant bedbug populations. Intriguingly, pyrethroid-resistant mammalian sodium channels possess an isoleucine at the corresponding position. To determine whether different substitutions at this position alter channel gating and confer pyrethroid resistance, we made valine to methionine, isoleucine or leucine substitutions at the corresponding position, V409, in a cockroach sodium channel and examined the gating properties and pyrethroid sensitivity of the three mutants in Xenopus oocytes. All three mutations reduced the channel sensitivity to three pyrethroids (permethrin, cismethrin and deltamethrin). V409M, but not V409I or V409L, caused 6-7mV depolarizing shifts in the voltage dependences of both activation and inactivation. V409M and V409L slowed channel activation kinetics and accelerated open-state deactivation kinetics, but V409I did not. Furthermore, the substitution of isoleucine with valine, but not with methionine nor leucine, at the corresponding position in a rat skeletal muscle sodium channel, rNav1.4, enhanced channel sensitivity to deltamethrin. Collectively, our study highlights an important role of residues at 409 in regulating not only sodium channel gating, but also the differential sensitivities of insect and mammalian sodium channels to pyrethroids.
Only a small proportion of the 18 million Americans who could benefit from alcohol treatment actually receive it. Disseminating information on the neurobiological base of alcohol disorders may be useful in removing the prevailing barriers to accepting a referral to alcohol treatment. Nurses, guided by a set of clinical strategies known as screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment, can be instrumental in closing this treatment gap.




Spinal nociception can be facilitated by 5-HT2 receptors in neuropathic pain. We investigated the involvement of glutamate receptors in dorsal neuron hyperexcitation that is promoted by 5-HT2B receptor (5-HT2BR) after spinal nerve ligation (SNL) in the rat. Augmentation of C-fiber-evoked potentials by spinal superfusion with 5-HT2BR agonist BW 723C86 in nerve-ligated rats was impeded by co-administration of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) antagonist D-AP5, but not by mGluR1/5 antagonist AIDA or mGluR2/3 antagonist LY 341495. Evoked potentials were increased by cis-ACPD in nerve-injured rats, irrespective of simultaneous 5-HT2BR blockade by SB204741. In uninjured rats, NMDAR agonist cis-ACPD enhanced evoked potentials in the presence of BW 723C86 but not if administered alone or during exposure to protein kinase C  (PKC) inhibitor peptide. Triple immunofluorescence labelings revealed co-localization of NMDAR and 5-HT2BR in PKC-expressing perikarya in lamina II neurons. As a result of SNL, PKC was transiently and bilaterally up-regulated in synaptic fraction from dorsal horn homogenates, peaking at day 2 and returning to basal levels by day 9. Chronic blockade of 5-HT2BR with selective antagonist SB 204741 after SNL bilaterally decreased the following: (i) PKC up-regulation in synaptic fraction, (ii) phosphorylation of NMDAR subunit NR1 (serine 889) in synaptic fraction, and (iii) co-localization of both PKC and phosphorylated NR1 with postsynaptic marker PSD-95. Chronic delivery of SB 204741 bilaterally attenuated thermal and mechanical allodynia occurring after SNL, particularly at day 2 post injury. These findings suggest that transient activation of the PKC/NMDAR pathway is critically involved in 5-HT2BR-mediated facilitation in the SNL model of neuropathic pain.
This study aimed to investigate the modulating effects of emotional context on pain perception in 16 patients with fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) and 16 healthy control (HC) subjects. An infrared laser was used to apply individually adapted painful stimuli to the dorsum of the left hand. The emotional background of the painful stimuli was modulated by concurrent presentations of negative, neutral, and positive picture stimuli selected from the International Affective Picture System. As control conditions, painful stimuli and the pictures were also presented by themselves. During each of the 5 laser-picture trials, subjects received 10 painful stimuli and were asked to rate the average intensity and unpleasantness of the experienced pain. Functional magnetic resonance images were obtained, using a T2() sensitive echo planar sequence. HC subjects showed a linear increase in pain intensity and unpleasantness ratings when painful stimuli were presented during positive, neutral, and negative pictures. In contrast, FMS patients showed a quadratic trend for pain intensity ratings indicating a lack of pain reduction by the positive pictures. In addition, the FMS patients showed less activation in secondary somatosensory cortex, insula, orbitofrontal cortex, and anterior cingulate cortex during the positive picture pain trials. Our results suggest that fibromyalgia patients are less efficient in modulating pain by positive affect and may benefit less from appetitive events than healthy control subjects.
Children born very preterm ( 32 weeks gestation) exhibit greater internalizing (anxious/depressed) behaviors compared to term-born peers as early as 2 years corrected age (CA); however, the role of early stress in the etiology of internalizing problems in preterm children remains unknown. Therefore, we examined the relationship between neonatal pain and internalizing behavior at 18 months CA in children born very preterm and examined whether parent behavior and stress moderated this relationship. Participants were 145 children (96 very preterm, 49 full term) assessed at 18 months CA. Neonatal data were obtained from medical and nursing chart review. Neonatal pain was defined as the number of skin-breaking procedures. Cognitive ability was measured with the Bayley Scales of Infant Development II. Parents completed the Parenting Stress Index III, Child Behavior Checklist 1.5-5, and participated in a videotaped play session with their child, which was coded using the Emotional Availability Scale IV. Very preterm children displayed greater Internalizing behaviors compared to full-term control children (P=.02). Parent Sensitivity and Nonhostility moderated the relationship between neonatal pain and Internalizing behavior (all P&lt;.05); higher parent education (P&lt;.03), lower Parenting Stress (P=.001), and fewer children in the home (P&lt;.01) were associated with lower Internalizing behavior in very preterm children, after adjusting for neonatal medical confounders, gender, and child cognitive ability (all P&gt;.05). Parent Emotional Availability and stress were not associated with Internalizing behaviors in full-term control children. Positive parent interaction and lower stress appears to ameliorate negative effects of neonatal pain on stress-sensitive behaviors in this vulnerable population.
Attention can profoundly shape the experience of pain. However, little is known about the neural mechanisms that support directed attention to nociceptive information. In the present study, subjects were cued to attend to either the spatial location or the intensity of sequentially presented pairs of painful heat stimuli during a delayed match-to-sample discrimination task. We hypothesized that attention-related brain activation would be initiated after the presentation of the attentional cue and would be sustained through the discrimination task. Conjunction analysis confirmed that bilateral portions of the posterior parietal cortex (intraparietal sulcus [IPS] and superior parietal lobule) exhibited this sustained activity during attention to spatial but not intensity features of pain. Analyses contrasting activation during spatial and intensity attention tasks revealed that the right IPS region of the posterior parietal cortex was consistently more activated across multiple phases of the spatial task. However, attention to either feature of the noxious stimulus was associated with activation of frontoparietal areas (IPS and frontal eye fields) as well as priming of the primary somatosensory cortex. Taken together, these results delineate the neural substrates that support selective amplification of different features of noxious stimuli for utilization in discriminative processes.
In this study, we examined whether blocking spinal cord injury (SCI)-induced increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS) by a ROS scavenger would attenuate below-level central neuropathic pain and promote recovery of locomotion. Rats with T10 SCI developed mechanical allodynia in both hind paws and overproduction of ROS, as assayed by Dhet intensity, in neurons in the lumbar 4/5 dorsal horn (()P&lt;0.05). To scavenge ROS, phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN, a ROS scavenger) was administered immediately after SCI and for 7 consecutive days (early treatment) by either intrathecal (it; 1 and 3mg) or systemic (ip; 10, 50 and 100mg) injections. In addition, the high doses of it (3mg) or ip (100mg) injections were performed at 35 days (delayed treatment) after SCI. High doses of PBN (ip, 100mg, and it, 3mg) significantly attenuated mechanical allodynia in both hind paws at both early and delayed treatments, respectively (()P&lt;0.05). The abnormal hyperexcitability of wide dynamic range neurons after SCI was significantly attenuated by both early and delayed PBN treatment (()P&lt;0.05). Early PBN treatment (100mg, ip, and 3mg, it) attenuated overproduction of ROS in neurons in the lumbar 4/5 dorsal horn. In addition, it and ip t-BOOH (ROS donor) treatment dose-dependently produced mechanical allodynia in both hind paws (()P&lt;0.05). Both SCI and t-BOOH treatment groups showed significantly increased phospho-CamKII (pCamKII) expression in neurons and KN-93 (an inhibitor of pCamKII) significantly attenuated mechanical allodynia (()P&lt;0.05). In addition, high doses of PBN significantly promoted the recovery of locomotion (()P&lt;0.05). In conclusion, the present data suggest that overproduction of ROS contribute to sensory and motor abnormalities in remote segments below the lesion after thoracic SCI.
Brain responses to the activation of C-fibres are obtained only if the co-activation of A-fibres is avoided. Methods to activate C-fibres selectively have been proposed, but are unreliable or difficult to implement. Here, we propose an approach combining a new laser stimulator to generate constant-temperature heat pulses with an adaptive paradigm to maintain stimulus temperature above the threshold of C-fibres but below that of A-fibres, and examine whether this approach can be used to record reliable C-fibre laser-evoked brain potentials. Brief CO2 laser stimuli were delivered to the hand and foot dorsum of 10 healthy subjects. The stimuli were generated using a closed-loop control of laser power by an online monitoring of target skin temperature. The adaptive algorithm, using reaction times to distinguish between late detections indicating selective activation of unmyelinated C-fibres and early detections indicating co-activation of myelinated A-fibres, allowed increasing the likelihood of selectively activating C-fibres. Reliable individual-level electroencephalogram (EEG) responses were identified, both in the time domain (hand: N2: 704  179 ms, P2: 984  149 ms; foot: N2: 1314  171 ms, P2: 1716  171 ms) and the time-frequency (TF) domain. Using a control dataset in which no stimuli were delivered, a Receiver Operating Characteristics analysis showed that the magnitude of the phase-locked EEG response corresponding to the N2-P2, objectively quantified in the TF domain, discriminated between absence vs presence of C-fibre responses with a high sensitivity (hand: 85%, foot: 80%) and specificity (hand: 90%, foot: 75%). This approach could thus be particularly useful for the diagnostic workup of small-fibre neuropathies and neuropathic pain.
Primary and metastatic cancers that affect bone are frequently associated with severe and intractable pain. The mechanisms underlying the development of bone cancer pain are largely unknown. In this study, we first demonstrated that a functional upregulation of P2X3 receptors in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons is closely associated with the neuronal hyperexcitability and the cancer-induced bone pain in MRMT-1 tumor cell-inoculated rats. Second, we revealed that visinin-like protein 1 (VILIP-1), a member of visinin-like proteins that belong to the family of neuronal calcium sensor proteins is responsible for the observed upregulation of P2X3 receptors in DRG neurons. The interaction between the amino terminus of VLIP-1 and the carboxyl terminus of the P2X3 receptor is critical for the surface expression and functional enhancement of the receptor. Finally, overexpression of VILIP-1 increases the expression of functional P2X3 receptors and enhances the neuronal excitability in naive rat DRG neurons. In contrast, knockdown of VILIP-1 inhibits the development of bone cancer pain via downregulation of P2X3 receptors and repression of DRG excitability in MRMT-1 rats. Taken together, these results suggest that functional upregulation of P2X3 receptors by VILIP-1 in DRG neurons contributes to the development of cancer-induced bone pain in MRMT-1 rats. Hence, P2X3 receptors and VILIP-1 could serve as potential targets for therapeutic interventions in cancer patients for pain management. Pharmacological blockade of P2X3 receptors or knockdown of VILIP-1 in DRGs would be used as innovative strategies for the treatment of bone cancer pain.






Agmatine and neuropeptide Y (NPY) are widely distributed in central nervous system and critically involved in modulation of depressive behavior in experimental animals. However their mutual interaction, if any, in regulation of depression remain largely unexplored. In the present study we explored the possible interaction between agmatine and neuropeptide Y in regulation of depression like behavior in forced swim test. We found that acute intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of agmatine (20-40g/rat), NPY (5 and 10g/rat) and NPY Y1 receptor agonist, [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY (0.4 and 0.8ng/rat) dose dependently decreased immobility time in forced swim test indicating their antidepressant like effects. In combination studies, the antidepressant like effect of agmatine (10g/rat) was significantly potentiated by NPY (1 and 5g/rat, icv) or [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY (0.2 and 0.4ng/rat, icv) pretreatment. Conversely, pretreatment of animals with NPY Y1 receptor antagonist, BIBP3226 (0.1ng/rat, i.c.v.) completely blocked the antidepressant like effect of agmatine (20-40g/rat) and its synergistic effect with NPY (1g/rat, icv) or [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY (0.2ng/rat, icv). The results of the present study showed that, agmatine exerts antidepressant like effects via NPYergic system possibly mediated by the NPY Y1 receptor subtypes and suggest that interaction between agmatine and neuropeptide Y may be relevant to generate the therapeutic strategies for the treatment of depression.
Skin keratinocytes fulfil important signalling and protective functions. Immunocytochemical experiments revealed the unexpected presence of immunoreactivity for the M-type potassium channel subunit Kv7.2 in the keratinocyte layer of intact rat paw skin and in keratinocytes isolated from the skin of 1-day-old rats and cultured in vitro for 3-10 days. Application of the M-channel enhancer retigabine (3-10 M) to isolated cultured rat keratinocytes: (a) increased outward membrane currents recorded under voltage clamp, (b) produced ~3 mV hyperpolarization at rest, (c) enhanced ~3-fold the release of ATP induced by the TRPV3 agonist carvacrol (1 mM) and (d) increased the amplitude of the carvacrol-induced intracellular Ca(2+) transient measured with Fura-2. The effect of retigabine on ATP release was prevented by the M-channel blocking agent XE991. We conclude that rat skin keratinocytes possess M-channels that, when activated, can modify their physiological properties, with potential significance for their sensory and other biological functions.
The parafascicular nucleus (Pf) is an ascending target of the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) and is part of the &quot;non-specific&quot; intralaminar thalamus. The PPN, part of the reticular activating system, is mainly involved in waking and rapid eye movement sleep. Gamma oscillations are evident in all Pf neurons and mediated by high threshold voltage-dependent N- and P/Q-type calcium channels. We tested the hypothesis that high-speed calcium imaging would reveal calcium-mediated oscillations in synchrony with patch clamp recorded oscillations during depolarizing current ramps. Patch-clamped 9 to 19-day-old rat Pf neurons (n=148, dye filled n=61, control n=87) were filled with Fura 2, Bis Fura, or Oregon Green BAPTA-1. Calcium transients were generated during depolarizing current ramps and visualized with a high-speed, wide-field fluorescence imaging system. Cells manifested calcium transients with oscillations in both somatic and proximal dendrite fluorescence recordings. Fluorescent calcium transients were blocked with the nonspecific calcium channel blocker, cadmium, or the combination of -Agatoxin-IVA (AgA), a specific P/Q-type calcium channel blocker and -conotoxin-GVIA (CgTx), a specific N-type calcium channel blocker. We developed a viable methodology for studying high-speed oscillations without the use of multi-photon imaging systems.
Although TNF antagonists are efficacious in treating a range of autoimmune conditions, they exacerbate or even promote multiple sclerosis (MS)--a clinical finding that has been a conundrum for over a decade and has been a source of debate regarding the role of these drugs and of TNF signaling in the development of demyelinating disease. Recent work investigating the functional consequences of MS-associated genetic variation in the gene encoding TNFR1 has demonstrated that genetic risk drives the production of a novel, endogenous TNF antagonist. This mirrors the clinical experience with the drugs and indicates that the net effect of TNF function in MS development is a protective one, warranting a re-evaluation of the studies that have contributed to our understanding of TNF signaling in inflammation, immunoregulation and neuroprotection, to determine how future research can be directed towards targeting this pathway for therapeutic benefit.
Zoletil is an equal amount combination of the NMDA receptor antagonist, tiletamine, and the benzodiazepine, zolazepam, usually used as a veterinary anesthetic. Previous studies have shown that pre-exposure to Zoletil and other psychoactive drugs (e.g. ketamine, diazepam) plays a significant role in the abuse liability of the compound. However, these studies were only focused on illicit psychoactive drugs and not on the more widely used licit psychoactive substances. Thus, the goal of the present work is to investigate whether pre-exposure to the three most commonly used licit psychoactive substances (caffeine, nicotine, and ethanol) affects the rewarding and reinforcing effects of Zoletil. Rats were pretreated with caffeine (1.25 or 2.5 mg/kg), nicotine (125 or 250 g/kg), ethanol (0.5, 2, or 4 g/kg), or saline (1 ml/kg) for 14 days, and evaluated for subsequent Zoletil place preference (2.5 mg/kg) and self-administration (250 g/kg). Zoletil produced neither place preference nor self-administration in saline-pretreated rats. Pre-exposure to caffeine or nicotine does not have significant effects on Zoletil's abuse potential. However, pretreatment of ethanol significantly produced Zoletil place preference and self-administration. These results suggest that individuals who are exposed to ethanol may have a high propensity to use/abuse Zoletil. More importantly, the present result advocates the careful monitoring on the use and dispensation of Zoletil or related substances.
Sugar and fat appetites are influenced by unlearned and learned responses to orosensory and post-ingestive properties which are mediated by dopamine (DA) and opioid transmitter systems. In BALB and SWR mice, acquisition and expression of sucrose conditioned flavor preferences (CFP) are differentially affected by systemic DA D1 (SCH23390: SCH) and opioid (naltrexone: NTX) antagonism. The present study examined whether fat-CFP occurred in these strains using preferred (5%) and less preferred (0.5%) Intralipid solutions, and how SCH and NTX altered its expression and acquisition. Food-restricted mice drank flavored (CS+, e.g., cherry) 5% and flavored (CS-, e.g., grape) 0.5% Intralipid solutions in alternate 1 h/day sessions. Six two-bottle tests with both CS flavors presented in 0.5% Intralipid occurred. Robust and comparable fat-CFP was observed in both strains. In Experiment 2, vehicle (Veh), SCH (50-800 nmol/kg) or NTX (1-5 mg/kg) were administered prior to two-bottle testing in an identical paradigm. Expression of fat-CFP was significantly reduced by SCH and NTX in BALB mice, and only by SCH in SWR mice. NTX produced significantly greater inhibition of fat-CFP expression in BALB versus SWR mice. In Experiment 3, separate groups of BALB and SWR mice received Veh, SCH (50 nmol/kg) or NTX (1 mg/kg) injections prior to daily one-bottle CS+ and CS- training sessions to assess acquisition effects. Six two-bottle CS+ vs. CS- choice tests were then conducted. Fat-CFP acquisition was significantly reduced in SWR mice by SCH, but not NTX, and was only mildly affected by both antagonists in BALB mice. SCH produced significantly greater inhibition of fat-CFP acquisition in SWR versus BALB mice. The pattern of SCH effects upon the expression and acquisition of fat-CFP in BALB and SWR mice was quite similar to that observed for sucrose-CFP, suggesting similar DA D1 receptor involvement in sugar- and fat-CFP in these mouse strains.
Accumulating evidence suggests that soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) plays a key role in controlling levels of lipid signaling molecules, and that the potent sEH inhibitors may be potential therapeutic drugs for a number of diseases associated with metabolism of epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs). This study was undertaken to examine whether the potent sEH inhibitor AS2586114 could attenuate behavioral abnormalities (e.g., hyperlocomotion and prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits) in male ddY mice after a single administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). A single oral administration of AS2586114 (10, 30, or 100 mg/kg) attenuated the hyperlocomotion in mice after the administration of PCP (3.0 mg/kg, s.c.), in a dose dependent manner. Furthermore, a single oral administration of AS2586114 (10, 30, or 100 mg/kg) improved the PPI deficits in mice after the administration of PCP (3.0 mg/kg, s.c.), in a dose dependent manner. In addition, the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine (10 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly attenuated hyperlocomotion and PPI deficits after the administration of PCP (3.0 mg/kg, s.c.). In conclusion, this study suggests that AS2586114 may have antipsychotic activity in PCP models of schizophrenia. Therefore, it is likely that the sEH inhibitors may be potential therapeutic drugs for neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia.
Acetylcholine (ACh) has not been tested for a role in the development of sexual exhaustion in males. However, male hamsters receiving infusions into the medial preoptic area (MPOA) of the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine (OXO) or antagonist scopolamine (SCO) show changes in the postejaculatory interval, one of the measures that changes most consistently as exhaustion approaches. In addition, central SCO treatments cause changes in the patterning of intromissions that resemble those signaling exhaustion. To extend these observations and more thoroughly test the dependence of sexual exhaustion on ACh, male hamsters received MPOA treatments of OXO, SCO or the combination of the two before mating to exhaustion. Relative to placebo, OXO infusions caused small but consistent increases in ejaculation frequency and long intromission latency, delaying the appearance of exhaustion. Scopolamine treatments did the reverse, dramatically accelerating the development of exhaustion. Consistent with and possibly responsible for these changes were effects on the quality of performance prior to exhaustion. These included differences in overall copulatory efficiency (e.g., ejaculations/intromission), which was increased by OXO and decreased by SCO. They also extended to several standard measures of copulatory behavior, including intromission frequency, ejaculation latency and the postejaculatory interval: Most of these were increased by SCO and decreased by OXO. Finally, whereas most or all effects of OXO were counteracted by SCO, most or all of the responses to SCO resisted change by added OXO. This asymmetry in the responses to combined treatment raises the possibility that the effects of these drugs on sexual exhaustion and other elements of male behavior are mediated by distinct muscarinic receptors.
This study was designed to investigate the beneficial effect of catechin in a model of Parkinson's disease. Unilateral, intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats were pretreated with catechin (10 and 30 mg/kg) by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection 2h before surgery and for 14 days afterwards. After treatments, apomorphine-induced rotations, locomotor activity, working memory and early and late aversive memories were evaluated. The mesencephalon was used to determine the levels of monoamines and measurement of glutathione (GSH). Immunohistochemical staining was also used to evaluate the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in mesencephalic and striatal tissues. Catechin administration attenuated the increase in rotational behavior and the decrease in locomotor activity observed in lesioned rats. Although catechin did not rescue the impairment of late aversive memory, it protected the animals against 6-OHDA-induced working memory deficits. Furthermore, catechin treatment restored GSH levels, and significantly increased dopamine and DOPAC content, and TH-immunoreactivity in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. Catechin protected 6-OHDA-lesioned rats due to its antioxidant action, indicating that it could be useful as an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The development and construction of a tapered-tip fibre-optic fluorescence based oxygen sensor is described. The sensor is suitable for fast and real-time monitoring of human breathing. The sensitivity and response time of the oxygen sensor were evaluated in vitro with a gas pressure chamber system, where oxygen partial pressure was rapidly changed between 5 and 15 kPa, and then in vivo in five healthy adult participants who synchronized their breathing to a metronome set at 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, and 60 breaths min(-1). A Datex Ultima medical gas analyser was used to monitor breathing rate as a comparator. The sensor's response time in vitro was less than 150ms, which allows accurate continuous measurement of inspired and expired oxygen pressure. Measurements of breathing rate by means of our oxygen sensor and of the Datex Ultima were in strong agreement. The results demonstrate that the device can reliably resolve breathing rates up to 60 breaths min(-1), and that it is a suitable cost-effective alternative for monitoring breathing rates and end-tidal oxygen partial pressure in the clinical setting. The rapid response time of the sensor may allow its use for monitoring rapid breathing rates as occur in children and the newborn.

A computational approach to functional specialization suggests that brain systems can be characterized in terms of the types of computations they perform, rather than their sensory or behavioral domains. We contrasted the neural systems associated with two computationally distinct forms of predictive model: a reinforcement-learning model of the environment obtained through experience with discrete events, and continuous dynamic forward modeling. By manipulating the precision with which each type of prediction could be used, we caused participants to shift computational strategies within a single spatial prediction task. Hence (using fMRI) we showed that activity in two brain systems (typically associated with reward learning and motor control) could be dissociated in terms of the forms of computations that were performed there, even when both systems were used to make parallel predictions of the same event. A region in parietal cortex, which was sensitive to the divergence between the predictions of the models and anatomically connected to both computational networks, is proposed to mediate integration of the two predictive modes to produce a single behavioral output.

Biological processes are often compared to computation and modeled on the Universal Turing Machine. While many systems or aspects of systems can be well described in this manner, Turing computation can only compute what it has been programmed for. It has no ability to learn or adapt to new situations. Yet, adaptation, choice and learning are all hallmarks of living organisms. This suggests that there must be a different form of computation capable of this sort of calculation. It also suggests that there are current computational models of biological systems that may be fundamentally incorrect. We argue that the Super-Turing model is both capable of modeling adaptive computation, and furthermore, a possible answer to the computational model searched for by Turing himself.
In many circumstances alternative courses of action and thoughts have to be inhibited to allow the emergence of goal-directed behavior. However, this has not been the accepted view in the past and only recently has inhibition earned its own place in the neurosciences as a fundamental cognitive function. In this review we first introduce the concept of inhibition from early psychological speculations based on philosophical theories of the human mind. The broad construct of inhibition is then reduced to its most readily observable component which necessarily is its behavioral manifestation. The study of 'response inhibition' has the advantage of dealing with a relatively simple and straightforward process, the overriding of a planned or already initiated action. Deficient inhibitory processes profoundly affect everyday life, causing impulsive conduct which is generally detrimental for the individual. Impulsivity has been consistently linked to several types of addiction, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, mania and other psychiatric conditions. Our discussion of the behavioral assessment of impulsivity will focus on objective laboratory tasks of response inhibition that have been implemented in parallel for humans and other species with relatively few qualitative differences. The translational potential of these measures has greatly improved our knowledge of the neurobiological basis of behavioral inhibition and impulsivity. We will then review the current models of behavioral inhibition along with their expression via underlying brain regions, including those involved in the activation of the brain's emergency 'brake' operation, those engaged in more controlled and sustained inhibitory processes and other ancillary executive functions.
Evidence is reviewed from a wide range of studies relevant to the evolution of vertebrate photoreceptors and phototransduction, in order to permit the synthesis of a scenario for the major steps that occurred during the evolution of cones, rods and the vertebrate retina. The ancestral opsin originated more than 700Mya (million years ago) and duplicated to form three branches before cnidarians diverged from our own lineage. During chordate evolution, ciliary opsins (C-opsins) underwent multiple stages of improvement, giving rise to the 'bleaching' opsins that characterise cones and rods. Prior to the '2R' rounds of whole genome duplication near the base of the vertebrate lineage, 'cone' photoreceptors already existed; they possessed a transduction cascade essentially the same as in modern cones, along with two classes of opsin: SWS and LWS (short- and long-wave-sensitive). These cones appear to have made synaptic contact directly onto ganglion cells, in a two-layered retina that resembled the pineal organ of extant non-mammalian vertebrates. Interestingly, those ganglion cells appear to be descendants of microvillar photoreceptor cells. No lens was associated with this two-layered retina, and it is likely to have mediated circadian timing rather than spatial vision. Subsequently, retinal bipolar cells evolved, as variants of ciliary photoreceptors, and greatly increased the computational power of the retina. With the advent of a lens and extraocular muscles, spatial imaging information became available for central processing, and gave rise to vision in vertebrates more than 500Mya. The '2R' genome duplications permitted the refinement of cascade components suitable for both rods and cones, and also led to the emergence of five visual opsins. The exact timing of the emergence of 'true rods' is not yet clear, but it may not have occurred until after the divergence of jawed and jawless vertebrates.
The phospholipase A2 (PLA2) enzymes have been implicated in several neuropsychiatry disorders and activity alterations have been described in brain and platelet. Since brain tissue is not readily available for the measurement of PLA2 activity, it would be of interest to test directly whether PLA2 activities in both tissues are correlated. We performed this task assessing PLA2 activity in platelets and hippocampus collected simultaneously from 19 patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for treatment of refractory epilepsy. Our findings suggest that total PLA2 activity in platelets may reflect the total activity of the enzyme in the brain (rs=0.59, p=0.008). However in our sample no correlations were found between the subgroups of the enzyme in brain and in platelets. This lack of correlations may be due to different effects of drug treatment on the PLA2 subtypes. In face of the difficulty to obtain brain tissues from living patients, further studies with larger drug-free samples are warranted to clarify whether the use of platelets is a reliable strategy to reflect the subtypes of PLA2 activity in the brain.
Awareness of the impact of disasters globally on mental health is increasing. Known difficulties in preparing communities for disasters and a lack of focus on relationship building and organizational capacity in preparedness and response have led to a greater policy focus on community resiliency as a key public health approach to disaster response. In this article, the authors describe how an approach to community engagement for improving mental health services, disaster recovery, and preparedness from a community resiliency perspective emerged from their work in applying a partnered, participatory research framework, iteratively, in Los Angeles County and the City of New Orleans.

Contemporary psychiatry is looking at affective sciences to understand human behavior, cognition and the mind in health and disease. Since it has been recognized that emotions have a pivotal role for the human mind, an ever increasing number of laboratories and research centers are interested in affective sciences, affective neuroscience, affective psychology and affective psychopathology. Therefore, this paper presents multidisciplinary research results of Laboratory for Interactive Simulation System at Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb in the stress resilience. Patient's distortion in emotional processing of multimodal input stimuli is predominantly consequence of his/her cognitive deficit which is result of their individual mental health disorders. These emotional distortions in patient's multimodal physiological, facial, acoustic, and linguistic features related to presented stimulation can be used as indicator of patient's mental illness. Real-time processing and analysis of patient's multimodal response related to annotated input stimuli is based on appropriate machine learning methods from computer science. Comprehensive longitudinal multimodal analysis of patient's emotion, mood, feelings, attention, motivation, decision-making, and working memory in synchronization with multimodal stimuli provides extremely valuable big database for data mining, machine learning and machine reasoning. Presented multimedia stimuli sequence includes personalized images, movies and sounds, as well as semantically congruent narratives. Simultaneously, with stimuli presentation patient provides subjective emotional ratings of presented stimuli in terms of subjective units of discomfort/distress, discrete emotions, or valence and arousal. These subjective emotional ratings of input stimuli and corresponding physiological, speech, and facial output features provides enough information for evaluation of patient's cognitive appraisal deficit. Aggregated real-time visualization of this information provides valuable assistance in patient mental state diagnostics enabling therapist deeper and broader insights into dynamics and progress of the psychotherapy.
Although individuals with schizophrenia show a lifetime prevalence of 50% for suffering from a comorbid substance use disorder, substance abuse usually represents an exclusion criterion for studies on schizophrenia. This implies that surprisingly little is known about a large group of patients who are particularly difficult to treat. The aim of the present work is to provide a brief and non-exhaustive overview of the current knowledgebase about neurobiological and cognitive underpinnings for dual diagnosis schizophrenia patients. Studies published within the last 20 years were considered using computerized search engines. The focus was on nicotine, caffeine, alcohol, cannabis and cocaine being among the most common substances of abuse. All drugs of abuse target dopaminergic, glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission which are also involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Current literature suggests that neurocognitive function might beless disrupted in substance-abusing compared to non-abusing schizophrenia patients, but in particular the neuroimaging database on this topic is sparse. Detrimental effects on brain structure and function were shown for patients for whom alcohol is the main substance of abuse. It is as yet unclear whether this finding might be an artifact of age differences of patient subgroups with different substance abuse patterns. More research is warranted on the specific neurocognitive underpinnings of schizophrenia patients abusing distinct psychoactive substances. Treatment programs might either benefit from preserved cognitive function as a resource or specifically target cognitive impairment in different subgroups of addicted schizophrenia patients.

The current study used concurrent acquisition of motion capture and event-related potential (ERP) data to test the prediction that response reprogramming relies on context-updating processes, and that age differences in conflicting-response performance are related to context-updating deficits in the elderly. Participants performed a motor sequencing task that included prepotent pairs of key presses, and conflicting pairs that started with the same first key press of the prepotent pair, but ended in an unexpected alternate response. ERP analyses were used to measure the P3b component as an electrophysiological correlate of context updating. The results revealed an age-related reduction in the ability to reprogram a response as younger, but not older, adults exhibited a negative correlation between planning and execution time for conflicting responses, such that shortened execution time led to better performance by the younger group. Both age groups demonstrated a large P3b component following conflicting, but not prepotent stimuli. The peak of this P3b was delayed, and its amplitude reduced in the older, compared with younger, adults. Noteworthy was that conflicting responses with faster execution time were associated with a larger P3b component than responses with slower execution time in younger, but not older, adults, suggesting that better context updating led to more efficient response reprogramming. These findings are novel in showing that context updating is associated with adjustments in response execution, and that older adults were less able to use these context-updating processes to support successful movement reprogramming.
Working memory declines with normal aging, but the nature of this impairment is debated. Studies based on detecting changes to arrays of visual objects have identified two possible components to age-related decline: a reduction in the number of items that can be stored, or a deficit in maintaining the associations (bindings) between individual object features. However, some investigations have reported intact binding with aging, and specific deficits arising only in Alzheimer's disease. Here, using a recently developed continuous measure of recall fidelity, we tested the precision with which adults of different ages could reproduce from memory the orientation and color of a probed array item. The results reveal a further component of cognitive decline: an age-related decrease in the resolution with which visual information can be maintained in working memory. This increase in recall variability with age was strongest under conditions of greater memory load. Moreover, analysis of the distribution of errors revealed that older participants were more likely to incorrectly report one of the unprobed items in memory, consistent with an age-related increase in misbinding. These results indicate a systematic decline with age in working memory resources that can be recruited to store visual information. The paradigm presented here provides a sensitive index of both memory resolution and feature binding, with the potential for assessing their modulation by interventions. The findings have implications for understanding the mechanisms underpinning working memory deficits in both health and disease.
Older adults' deficits in memory for context and memory for inter-item associations are often assumed to be related, yet typically are examined in separate experiments. The present study combined associative recognition and list discrimination into a single task with conditions that varied in terms of item, pair, and context information, and independently manipulated context salience and encoding strategy between subjects in order to examine their effects on memory for associative information in young and older adults. Older adults' memory for pairs was found to be less affected than that of young adults by manipulations of context and associative information, but the age difference in context effects on pair memory was influenced by an interaction of encoding strategy and context salience. The results provide novel evidence that older adults' deficits in associative memory involve interactions between context and inter-item associations.
The Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales (ANPS) were developed to measure behavioral traits related to 6 affective neurobiological systems (play, seek, care, fear, anger, and sadness). However, the ANPS has a number of problems, including an ill-defined factor structure, overly long scales, and items that are poorly worded, ambiguous, and of questionable content validity. To address these issues, we constructed an improved short form of the ANPS--the Brief ANPS (BANPS). Three studies demonstrated that the 33-item BANPS has a clear and coherent factor structure, relatively high reliabilities (for short scales), and theoretically meaningful correlations with a wide range of external criteria, supporting its convergent and discriminant validity. Unlike typical short-form scales, the BANPS improves upon the psychometric properties of the long form, and we recommend its use in all research contexts.



The present study investigates a possible memory advantage for solutions that were reached through insightful problem solving. We hypothesized that insight solutions (with Aha! experience) would be remembered better than noninsight solutions (without Aha! experience). 34 video clips of magic tricks were presented to 50 participants as a novel problem-solving task, asking them to find out how the trick was achieved. Upon discovering the solution, participants had to indicate whether they had experienced insight during the solving process. After a delay of 14days, a recall of solutions was conducted. Overall, 55% of previously solved tricks were recalled correctly. Comparing insight and noninsight solutions, 64.4% of all insight solutions were recalled correctly, whereas only 52.4% of all noninsight solutions were recalled correctly. We interpret this finding as a facilitating effect of previous insight experiences on the recall of solutions.
Current theories of the locus of inter-trial priming effects in efficient visual search posit an early perceptual component that reflects the short-term influence of a memory trace for low-level stimulus attributes. Despite the fact that this memory trace is hypothesized to be short term, and should therefore have a diminishing influence on performance over time, there has been relatively little study of the effect of time alone on singleton priming effects. The present series of experiments addresses this issue by systematically examining the effect of time on the priming of pop-out (PoP) effect. In Experiment 1, we show that the PoP effect does indeed diminish with increases in the RSI between trials, and does so in accord with a power-law function. In Experiment 2, we show that temporal discriminability of trial n-1 from the trial that precedes it does not contribute to PoP effects. The results of Experiment 3 revealed two key results: (1) the PoP effect survives an equivalent number of intervening trials across very different RSI conditions; and (2) the cumulative target repetition benefit does depend on the RSI between trials. Together, the results favor neither a simple passive decay nor a strong episodic retrieval account of the PoP effect.
Identifying the processes by which people remember to execute an intention at an appropriate moment (prospective memory) remains a fundamental theoretical challenge. According to one account, top-down attentional control is required to maintain activation of the intention, initiate intention retrieval, or support monitoring. A diverging account suggests that bottom-up, spontaneous retrieval can be triggered by cues that have been associated with the intention and that sustained attentional processes are not required. We used a specialized experimental design and functional MRI methods to selectively marshal and identify each process. Results revealed a clear dissociation. One prospective-memory task recruited sustained activity in attentional-control areas, such as the anterior prefrontal cortex; the other engaged purely transient activity in parietal and ventral brain regions associated with attentional capture, target detection, and episodic retrieval. These patterns provide critical evidence that there are two neural routes to prospective memory, with each route emerging under different circumstances.
Simple decisions require the processing and evaluation of perceptual and cognitive information, the formation of a decision, and often the execution of a motor response. This process involves the accumulation of evidence over time until a particular choice reaches a decision threshold. Using a random-dot-motion stimulus, we showed that simply delaying responses after the stimulus offset can almost double accuracy, even in the absence of new incoming visual information. However, under conditions in which the otherwise blank interval was filled with a sensory mask or concurrent working memory load was high, performance gains were lost. Further, memory and perception showed equivalent rates of evidence accumulation, suggesting a high-capacity memory store. We propose an account of continued evidence accumulation by sequential sampling from a simultaneously decaying memory trace. Memories typically decay with time, hence immediate inquiry trumps later recall from memory. However, the results we report here show the inverse: Inspecting a memory trumps viewing the actual object.
This paper provides a summary of relevant issues covered in the conference, &quot;The Use of Biomarkers in the Military: Theory to Practice&quot; held at the New York Academy of Science on September 14, 2012. The conference covered the state of the science in identification of PTSD biomarkers, including, the definition of different classes of biomarkers pertaining to PTSD. The aim of the satellite conference was to bring together researchers who have been supported by the Department of Defense, Veterans Administration, National Institutes of Health, and other agencies around the world, who are interested in the identification of biomarkers for PTSD risk, diagnosis, symptom severity and treatment response, for a discussion of salient issues regarding biomarker development for PTSD, as well as special considerations for the use of biomarkers in the military.

In the past decade, the growing field of telomere science has opened exciting new avenues for understanding the cellular and molecular substrates of stress and stress-related aging processes over the lifespan. Shorter telomere length is associated with advancing chronological age and also increased disease morbidity and mortality. Emerging studies suggest that stress accelerates the erosion of telomeres from very early in life and possibly even influences the initial (newborn) setting of telomere length. In this review, we highlight recent empirical evidence linking stress and mental illnesses at various times across the lifespan with telomere erosion. We first present findings in the developmental programming of telomere biology linking prenatal stress to newborn and adult telomere length. We then present findings linking exposure to childhood trauma and to certain mental disorders with telomere shortening. Last, we review studies that characterize the relationship between related health-risk behaviors with telomere shortening over the lifespan, and how this process may further buffer the negative effects of stress on telomeres. A better understanding of the mechanisms that govern and regulate telomere biology throughout the lifespan may inform our understanding of etiology and the long-term consequences of stress and mental illnesses on aging processes in diverse populations and settings.

Intranasal oxytocin (IN-OT) modulates social perception and cognition in humans and could be an effective pharmacotherapy for treating social impairments associated with neuropsychiatric disorders, like autism. However, it is unknown how IN-OT modulates social cognition, its effect after repeated use, or its impact on the developing brain. Animal models are urgently needed. This study examined the effect of IN-OT on social perception in monkeys using tasks that reveal some of the social impairments seen in autism. Six rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta, 4 males) received a 48 IU dose of OT or saline placebo using a pediatric nebulizer. An hour later, they performed a computerized task (the dot-probe task) to measure their attentional bias to social, emotional, and nonsocial images. Results showed that IN-OT significantly reduced monkeys' attention to negative facial expressions, but not neutral faces or clip art images and, additionally, showed a trend to enhance monkeys' attention to direct vs. averted gaze faces. This study is the first to demonstrate an effect of IN-OT on social perception in monkeys, IN-OT selectively reduced monkey's attention to negative facial expressions, but not neutral social or nonsocial images. These findings complement several reports in humans showing that IN-OT reduces the aversive quality of social images suggesting that, like humans, monkey social perception is mediated by the oxytocinergic system. Importantly, these results in monkeys suggest that IN-OT does not dampen the emotional salience of social stimuli, but rather acts to affect the evaluation of emotional images during the early stages of information processing.

Prenatal exposure to androgens has been shown to modulate brain development, resulting in changed behavioral attitudes, sexual orientation and cognitive functions, including processing of spatial information. Whether later changes in gonadotropic hormones during puberty induce further organizational effects within the brain is still insufficiently understood. The purpose of this study was to assess development of spatial orientation before and after the time of normal pubertal development, in an ovine model where half of the animals did not undergo typical reproductive maturation due to the pharmacological blockade of gonadotropin releasing hormone receptor (GnRHR) signaling. The study formed part of a larger trial and utilized 46 pairs of same sex Scottish Mule Texel Cross twins (22 female and 24 male). One twin remained untreated throughout (control) while the other received a subcutaneous GnRH agonist (GnRHa: Goserelin-Acetate) implant every fourth week. GnRHa treatment began at eight and 28 weeks of age, in males and females respectively, because the timing of the pubertal transition is sexually differentiated in sheep as it is in humans. Spatial orientation was assessed at three different time points: eight weeks of age, before puberty and treatment in both sexes; 28 weeks of age, after 20 weeks GnRHa treatment in males and before puberty and GnRHa treatment in females; and at 48 weeks of age, which is after the normal time of the pubertal transition in both sexes. Spatial orientation was tested in a spatial maze with traverse time as the main outcome measure. GnRHa treatment did not affect spatial maze performance as no significant differences in traverse time between treated and untreated animals were observed at any time-point. Adolescent females (48 weeks of age) traversed the maze significantly faster than adolescent males, whereas no sex differences in traverse time were seen at earlier developmental stages (eight and 28 weeks). Development of sex differences in spatial orientation was independent of exposure to pubertal hormones since puberty-blocked and control animals both showed the same pattern of spatial maze performance. This result demonstrates the prenatal nature of spatial orientation development. Furthermore, the unexpected finding that female animals outperformed males in the spatial orientation task, underscores the importance of the testing context in spatial orientation experiments.
Oxytocin (OT) promotes social and reproductive behaviors in mammals, and OT deficits may be linked to disordered social behaviors like autism and severe anxiety. Male rat sexual behavior is an excellent model for OT regulation of behavior, as its pattern and neural substrates are well characterized. We previously reported that OT microinjected into the medial preoptic area (MPOA), a major integrative site for male sexual behavior, facilitates copulation in sexually experienced male rats, whereas intra-MPOA injection of an OT antagonist (OTA) inhibits copulation. In the present studies, copulation on the day of sacrifice stimulated OTR mRNA expression in the MPOA, irrespective of previous sexual experience, with the highest levels observed in first-time copulators. In addition, sexually experienced males had higher levels of OTR protein in the MPOA than sexually nave males and first-time copulators. Finally, intra-MPOA injection of OT facilitated mating in sexually naive males. Others have reported a positive correlation between OT mRNA levels and male sexual behavior. Our studies show that OT in the MPOA facilitates mating in both sexually naive and experienced males, some of the behavioral effects of OT are mediated by the OTR, and sexual experience is associated with increased OTR expression in the MPOA. Taken together, these data suggest a reciprocal interaction between central OT and behavior, in which OT facilitates copulation and copulation stimulates the OT/OTR system in the brain.
Acute sleep loss increases food intake in adults. However, little is known about the influence of acute sleep loss on portion size choice, and whether this depends on both hunger state and the type of food (snack or meal item) offered to an individual. The aim of the current study was to compare portion size choice after a night of sleep and a period of nocturnal wakefulness (a condition experienced by night-shift workers, e.g. physicians and nurses). Sixteen men (age: 23  0.9 years, BMI: 23.6  0.6 kg/m(2)) participated in a randomized within-subject design with two conditions, 8-h of sleep and total sleep deprivation (TSD). In the morning following sleep interventions, portion size, comprising meal and snack items, was measured using a computer-based task, in both fasted and sated state. In addition, hunger as well as plasma levels of ghrelin were measured. In the morning after TSD, subjects had increased plasma ghrelin levels (13%, p=0.04), and chose larger portions (14%, p=0.02), irrespective of the type of food, as compared to the sleep condition. Self-reported hunger was also enhanced (p&lt;0.01). Following breakfast, sleep-deprived subjects chose larger portions of snacks (16%, p=0.02), whereas the selection of meal items did not differ between the sleep interventions (6%, p=0.13). Our results suggest that overeating in the morning after sleep loss is driven by both homeostatic and hedonic factors. Further, they show that portion size choice after sleep loss depend on both an individual's hunger status, and the type of food offered.

Depression during pregnancy and postpartum is a significant health problem and affects up to 20% of women. While selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) medications are the drug of choice for treatment of maternal depression, the combined effect of maternal depression and perinatal SSRI exposure on offspring development is poorly investigated. Our aim was to determine the role of exposure to fluoxetine during development on sexual behavior and sexually dimorphic brain structures in male offspring using a rodent model of maternal adversity. Sprague-Dawley rat dams were stressed during gestation and were chronically treated throughout lactation with either fluoxetine or vehicle beginning on postnatal day 1. Four groups of offspring were used: (1) Control+Vehicle, (2) Control+Fluoxetine, (3) Prenatal Stress+Vehicle, and (4) Prenatal Stress+Fluoxetine. We show here that developmental fluoxetine treatment decreases the anogenital distance in juvenile male offspring. In adult male offspring, maternal fluoxetine treatment results in a decrease in the number of intromissions, a longer latency to the first intromission, and a longer latency to the first ejaculation. Furthermore, developmental fluoxetine and/or prenatal stress decrease the area of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA). Prenatal stress, but not exposure to developmental fluoxetine, decreases the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells in anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPv) and the volume of the posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (pBST) in male offspring. These results provide important evidence for the long-term impact of maternal adversity and maternal fluoxetine use on the development of primary endocrinology systems in juvenile and adult male offspring.
Decisions are rarely made in social isolation. One phenomenon often observed in social interactions is altruistic punishment, i.e. the punishment of unfair behavior by others at a personal cost. The tendency for altruistic punishment is altered by affective states including those induced by stress exposure. Stress is thought to exert bi-directional effects on behavior: immediately after stress, reflex-like and habitual behavior is promoted while later on more far-sighted, flexible and goal-directed behavior is enhanced. We hypothesized that such time-dependent effects of stress would also be present in the context of altruistic punishment behavior. Healthy male participants (N=80) were exposed to either a grouped stress test or a control condition. Participants were tested in prosocial decision making tasks either directly after stress or 75 min later. Altruistic punishment was assessed using the Ultimatum Game. General altruism was assessed with a one-shot version of the Dictator Game in which an anonymous donation could be offered to a charitable organization. We found that stress caused a bi-directional effect on altruistic punishment, with decreased rejection rates in the late aftermath of stress in response to ambiguous 30% offers. In the Dictator Game, stressed participants were less generous than controls, but no time-dependent effect was observed, indicating that the general reward sensitivity remained unchanged at various time-points after stress. Overall, during the late aftermath after acute stress exposure (i.e. 75 min later), participants acted more consistent with their own material self-interest, and had a lower propensity for altruistic punishment, possibly through upregulation of cognitive self-control mechanisms. Thus, our findings underscore the importance of time as a factor in simple, real-life economic decisions in a stressful social context.

Release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) is essential for acute drug reward. The present study was designed to trace the reinforcing effect of dopamine release by measuring the functional connectivity (FC) between the NAcc and brain regions involved in a limbic cortical-subcortical circuit during a dopaminergic challenge. Twenty healthy volunteers received single doses of methylphenidate (40 mg) and placebo on separate test days according to a double-blind, cross-over study design. Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was measured between 1.5 and 2 h postdosing. FC between regions of interest (ROI) in the NAcc, the medial dorsal nucleus (MDN) of the thalamus and remote areas within the limbic circuit was explored. Methylphenidate significantly reduced FC between the NAcc and the basal ganglia (i.e., subthalamic nucleus and ventral pallidum (VP)), relative to placebo. Methylphenidate also decreased FC between the NAcc and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) as well as the temporal cortex. Methylphenidate did not affect FC between MDN and the limbic circuit. It is concluded that methylphenidate directly affects the limbic reward circuit. Drug-induced changes in FC of the NAcc may serve as a useful marker of drug activity in in the brain reward circuit.




By comparing faces with Chinese characters, the category-sensitive and orientation-sensitive N170 adaptation effects were examined when the stimuli were adapted by category (within vs. between) and orientation (same vs. different). The category-sensitive N170 adaptation was present for both faces and characters, supporting the assertion that the perception of faces and characters recruits domain-specific processing rather than general processing of visual expertise. In addition, the orientation-sensitive N170 adaptation was present only for faces but not for characters, suggesting that only faces recruit orientation-specific processing. More importantly, the orientation-sensitive N170 adaptation was not only present for inverted faces but also for upright faces, indicating that there are distinct neuron populations respectively sensitive to upright and inverted faces.
Socioeconomic disadvantage confers risk for ill health. Historically, the pathways by which socioeconomic disadvantage may affect health have been viewed from epidemiological perspectives emphasizing environmental, behavioral, and biopsychosocial risk factors. Such perspectives, however, have yet to integrate findings from emerging neuroscience studies demonstrating that indicators of socioeconomic disadvantage relate to patterns of brain morphology and functionality that have been associated with aspects of mental, physical, and cognitive health over the lifecourse. This commentary considers findings from one such study appearing in the current issue of Psychosomatic Medicine. It reports that an area-level indicator of socioeconomic disadvantage relates to cortical morphology in brain regions important for language, executive control, and other cognitive and behavioral functions-possibly via a systemic inflammatory pathway. These findings are put into context by discussing broader questions and challenges that need to be addressed in order for neuroscience approaches to a) become better integrated with existing epidemiological perspectives and b) more fully advance our understanding of the pathways by which socioeconomic disadvantage becomes embodied by the brain in relation to health.

Astrocytes play a key role in modulating synaptic transmission by controlling extracellular gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels via GAT-1 and GAT-3 GABA transporters (GATs). Using primary cultures of rat astrocytes, we show here that a further level of regulation of GABA uptake occurs via modulation of the GATs by the adenosine A1 (A1R) and A2A (A2AR) receptors. This regulation occurs through A1R-A2AR heteromers that signal via two different G proteins, Gs and Gi/0, and either enhances (A2AR) or inhibits (A1R) GABA uptake. These results provide novel mechanistic insight into how GPCR heteromers signal. Furthermore, we uncover a previously unknown mechanism where adenosine, in a concentration-dependent manner, acts via a heterocomplex of adenosine receptors in astrocytes to significantly contribute to neurotransmission at the tripartite (neuron-glia-neuron) synapse.
The pancreas is an organ with a central role in nutrient breakdown, nutrient sensing and release of hormones regulating whole body nutrient homeostasis. In diabetes mellitus, the balance is broken-cells can be starving in the midst of plenty. There are indications that the incidence of diabetes type 1 and 2, and possibly pancreatogenic diabetes, is rising globally. Events leading to insulin secretion and action are complex, but there is emerging evidence that intracellular nucleotides and nucleotides are not only important as intracellular energy molecules but also as extracellular signalling molecules in purinergic signalling cascades. This signalling takes place at the level of the pancreas, where the close apposition of various cells-endocrine, exocrine, stromal and immune cells-contributes to the integrated function. Following an introduction to diabetes, the pancreas and purinergic signalling, we will focus on the role of purinergic signalling and its changes associated with diabetes in the pancreas and selected tissues/organ systems affected by hyperglycaemia and other stress molecules of diabetes. Since this is the first review of this kind, a comprehensive historical angle is taken, and common and divergent roles of receptors for nucleotides and nucleosides in different organ systems will be given. This integrated picture will aid our understanding of the challenges of the potential and currently used drugs targeted to specific organ/cells or disorders associated with diabetes.
Within 20 years, experimental selection of quantified &quot;not too aggressive, not too fearful&quot; behavior to human approach was shown in silver foxes (Vulpes vulpes) to produce a neotenic package of traits in adults: ability to seek, induce, and sustain contact (called friendly or rapport behavior); relatively short limbs and foreshortened skull/face; and light pigmentation areas. Earlier sexual maturation, prolonged receptivity, and larger litters were also noted. The increased estradiol supporting these changes was apparently also responsible for faster skeletal maturation, including earlier fusion of the basicranium causing tooth crowding, but also paedomorphic craniofacial proportions that we find attractive in our own and other species. In this paper, these important findings of the farm fox experiment are juxtaposed with insights from social psychology, physical anthropology, and neuroscience about facial beauty and reaction to it. Since many unrelated species show some or all of the neotenic package or domestication profile when they have achieved rapport past the juvenile stage, craniofacial proportions considered attractive are discussed as genetically and hormonally linked to the evolution of rapport--social contact, trust, and cooperation--whether by natural, intuitive, intentional, or mixed paths of selection.

Hemorrhage during parturition can lower blood pressure beyond the lower limit of cerebral blood flow (CBF) autoregulation that can cause ischemic brain injury. However, the impact of pregnancy on the lower limit of CBF autoregulation is unknown. We measured myogenic vasodilation, a major contributor of CBF autoregulation, in isolated posterior cerebral arteries (PCAs) from nonpregnant and late-pregnant rats (n = 10/group) while the effect of pregnancy on the lower limit of CBF autoregulation was studied in the posterior cerebral cortex during controlled hemorrhage (n = 8). Pregnancy enhanced myogenic vasodilation in PCA and shifted the lower limit of CBF autoregulation to lower pressures. Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) prevented the enhanced myogenic vasodilation during pregnancy but did not affect the lower limit of CBF autoregulation. The shift in the autoregulatory curve to lower pressures during pregnancy is likely protective of ischemic injury during hemorrhage and appears to be independent of NOS.
Children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy (HCP) exhibit long-term functional deficits. One of the most debilitating is the loss of prehension since this may impair functional independence. This loss of prehension could be partly due to sensory deficits. Identifying the underlying causes of prehension deficits and their potential link with sensory disorders is important to better adapt neurorehabilitation. Here we provide an overview of precision grip and sensory impairments in individuals with HCP, and the relation between them, in order to determine whether the sensory impairments influence the type and magnitude of deficits as measured by studies of prehensile force control. Pubmed and Scopus databases were used to search studies from 1990 to 2012, using combinations of the following keywords: fingertip force; grip force; precision grip; sensory deficit; sensory impairment; tactile discrimination; with cerebral palsy. Of the 190 studies detected through the systematic search; 38 were finally included in the systematic part of this review. This review shows that sensory deficits are common and are likely underestimated using standard clinical assessments in HCP. Some studies suggest these deficits are the basis of predictive motor control impairments in these individuals. However, children with HCP retain some ability to use predictive control, even if it is impaired in the more affected hand. Intensive practice and initial use of the less affected hand, which has only subtle sensory deficits, has been shown to remediate impairments in anticipatory motor control during subsequent use of the more affected hand. Implications for motor and sensory rehabilitation of individuals with HCP are discussed.
Research has shown that physical exercise enhances cognitive performance in individuals with intact cognition as well as in individuals diagnosed with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Although well identified in the field of health (for example, the transient hypofrontality theory), the underlying neurocognitive processes in intellectual and developmental disabilities remain widely unclear and thus characterize the primary aim of this research. Eleven adolescents with intellectual and developmental disabilities performed moderate cycling exercise and common relaxation. Cross-over designed, both 10-min meetings were randomly allocated at the same time of day with 24-h time lags in between. Conditions were embedded in ability-modified cognitive performance (decision-making processes). Participants' reaction times and their equivalent neurophysiological parameters were recorded using standard EEG and analyzed (spatial activity, N2). Exercise revealed a decrease in frontal electrocortical activity, most pronounced in the medial frontal gyrus (10%). To that effect, reaction time (p&lt;0.01) was decreased and mirrored in decreased N2 latency (p&lt;0.01) after exercise. In contrast, relaxation revealed no significant changes. Results of this research suggest exercise temporarily enhances neuronal activity in relation to cognitive performance for adolescents with intellectual and developmental disabilities; further research is needed to explore possible future effects on enhancing neurocognitive development.
Tinnitus is a common symptom, affecting nearly 10% of the adult population. Even if most of the patients support it, it can be particularly disabling in some cases. Recent advances in neuroscience have greatly improved the understanding of its pathophysiology, resulting in development of new therapeutic strategies. The management of tinnitus requires a systematic and rational approach to avoid incomplete diagnosis procedures and unnecessary exams. The diagnostic approach will be held to identify the causal pathology. Etiological treatment, if it is possible, will be the first therapeutic step. Various symptomatic treatments, such as tinnitus retraining therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, or neuromodulation will promote habituation to the tinnitus, to ensure that the latter won't cause discomfort anymore.
This article examines the advances made by neuroscience in the attempt to find an answer to the question regarding the origin and foundation of moral judgements and of human behaviour in compliance with them. The conception of the brain as something dynamic and capable of adapting to the social and cultural surroundings is seen to be an important point for philosophy. At the same time, the complexity of ethical issues that cannot be reduced to observations based strictly on neurons alone also becomes quite apparent. Nevertheless, scientists and philosophers should get together and communicate with one another so as to be able to pose their questions with greater rigour and take advantage of each other's respective knowledge.
Activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) enzymes in nociceptive plasticity has been extensively studied. P38 MAPK enzyme, which can be activated by cytokines, acts as a crucial intracellular regulator of environmental changes. The aim of this study was to elucidate the cellular events during arthritis-induced hyperalgesia that are mediated by interleukin-6 and p38 MAPK, and their effects on the expression of spinal mu-opioid receptors (MORs), in different stages of arthritis in male Wistar rats. Complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced arthritis (AA) was caused by subcutaneous injection of CFA into the rats' hindpaw. Anti-IL-6 antibody and p38 MAPK phosphorylation inhibitor were administered during 21 days of study. Spinal MOR, p38, and phosphorylated-p38 (pp38) proteins expressions were detected by Western blotting. Daily treatment with anti-IL-6 antibody and p38 MAPK phosphorylation inhibitor, SB203580, significantly decreased paw edema in AA group. Daily anti-IL-6 and SB203580 administration caused a significant reduction in hyperalgesia in the first week of the study, but increased hyperalgesia in the next 2 weeks in experimental groups compared to the AA control group. Expression of pp38 MAPK protein significantly decreased on the 3, 7, 14, and 21 days in AA+SB203580 and AA+anti-IL6 groups compared to AA group. Additionally, daily treatment with anti-IL6 antibody and SB203580 in AA group caused significantly decrease in spinal MOR expression compared to AA control group. The results of our study can confirm that activated spinal p38 MAPK enzyme may play an important role in cellular IL-6 signaling pathways in hyperalgesia variation during different stages of AA inflammation. Also, it can be suggested that at least a part of p38 MAPK effects on hyperalgesia is mediated by spinal MOR expression variation.
Auditory-verbal hallucinations (AVHs) are frequently associated with activation of the left superior temporal gyrus (including Wernicke's area), left inferior frontal gyrus (including Broca's area), and the right hemisphere homologs of both areas. It has been hypothesized that disconnectivity of both interhemispheric transfer and frontal and temporal areas may underlie hallucinations in schizophrenia. We investigated reduced information flow in this circuit for the first time using dynamic causal modeling, which allows for directional inference. A group of healthy subjects and 2 groups of schizophrenia patients-with and without AVH-performed a task requiring inner speech processing during functional brain scanning. We employed connectivity models between left hemispheric speech-processing areas and their right hemispheric homologs. Bayesian model averaging was used to estimate the connectivity strengths and evaluate group differences. Patients with AVH showed significantly reduced connectivity from Wernicke's to Broca's area (97% certainty) and a trend toward a reduction in connectivity from homologs of Broca's and Wernicke's areas to Broca's area (93% and 94% certainty). The connectivity magnitude in patients without hallucinations was found to be intermediate. Our results point toward a reduced input from temporal to frontal language areas in schizophrenia patients with AVH, suggesting that Broca's activity may be less constrained by perceptual information received from the temporal cortex. In addition, a lack of synchronization between Broca and its homolog may lead to the erroneous interpretation of emotional speech activity from the right hemisphere as coming from an external source.
Automatic classification of individuals at increased risk for schizophrenia can become an important screening method that allows for early intervention based on disease markers, if proven to be sufficiently accurate. Conventional classification methods typically consider information from single subjects, thereby ignoring (heritable) features of the person's relatives. In this paper we show that the inclusion of these features can lead to an increase in classification accuracy from 0.54 to 0.72 using a support vector machine model. This inclusion of contextual information is especially useful in diseases where the classification features carry a heritable component.
The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between subjective well-being and prefrontal function during a cognitive task in schizophrenia. Twenty-four patients with clinically stable schizophrenia participated in the study. We measured the change in hemoglobin concentration in the prefrontal region during a verbal fluency task (VFT) by using 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). The subjective well-being of participants was assessed using the Subjective Well-being under Neuroleptic drug treatment Short form (SWNS). A significant positive relationship was observed between the SWNS score and frontopolar, left ventrolateral, and bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal function during the VFT. These results suggest that the frontopolar and left ventrolateral and bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortical regions are associated with the subjective well-being of clinically stable patients with schizophrenia and that NIRS may be an efficient medical tool for monitoring these characteristics.

Schizophrenia is associated with auditory processing impairments that could arise as a result of primary auditory cortex excitatory circuit pathology. We have previously reported a deficit in dendritic spine density in deep layer 3 of primary auditory cortex in subjects with schizophrenia. As boutons and spines can be structurally and functionally co-regulated, we asked whether the densities of intracortical excitatory or thalamocortical presynaptic boutons are also reduced. We studied 2 cohorts of subjects with schizophrenia and matched controls, comprising 27 subject pairs, and assessed the density, number, and within-bouton vesicular glutamate transporter (VGluT) protein level of intracortical excitatory (VGluT1-immunoreactive) and thalamocortical (VGluT2-immunoreactive) boutons in deep layer 3 of primary auditory cortex using quantitative confocal microscopy and stereologic sampling methods. We found that VGluT1- and VGluT2-immunoreactive puncta densities and numbers were not altered in deep layer 3 of primary auditory cortex of subjects with schizophrenia. Our results indicate that reduced dendritic spine density in primary auditory cortex of subjects with schizophrenia is not matched by a corresponding reduction in excitatory bouton density. This suggests excitatory boutons in primary auditory cortex in schizophrenia may synapse with structures other than spines, such as dendritic shafts, with greater frequency. The discrepancy between dendritic spine reduction and excitatory bouton preservation may contribute to functional impairments of the primary auditory cortex in subjects with schizophrenia.
Using a rapid serial visual presentation paradigm, we previously showed that the average amplitudes of six event-related potential (ERP) components were affected by different categories of emotional faces. In the current study, we investigated the six discriminating components on a single-trial level to clarify whether the amplitude difference between experimental conditions results from a difference in the real variability of single-trial amplitudes or from latency jitter across trials. It is found that there were consistent amplitude differences in the single-trial P1, N170, VPP, N3, and P3 components, demonstrating that a substantial proportion of the average amplitude differences can be explained by the pure variability in amplitudes on a single-trial basis between experimental conditions. These single-trial results verified the three-stage scheme of facial expression processing beyond multitrial ERP averaging, and showed the three processing stages of &quot;fear popup&quot;, &quot;emotional/unemotional discrimination&quot;, and &quot;complete separation&quot; based on the single-trial ERP dynamics.
The BRAIN project recently announced by the president Obama is the reflection of unrelenting human quest for cracking the brain code, the patterns of neuronal activity that define who we are and what we are. While the Brain Activity Mapping proposal has rightly emphasized on the need to develop new technologies for measuring every spike from every neuron, it might be helpful to consider both the theoretical and experimental aspects that would accelerate our search for the organizing principles of the brain code. Here we share several insights and lessons from the similar proposal, namely, Brain Decoding Project that we initiated since 2007. We provide a specific example in our initial mapping of real-time memory traces from one part of the memory circuit, namely, the CA1 region of the mouse hippocampus. We show how innovative behavioral tasks and appropriate mathematical analyses of large datasets can play equally, if not more, important roles in uncovering the specific-to-general feature-coding cell assembly mechanism by which episodic memory, semantic knowledge, and imagination are generated and organized. Our own experiences suggest that the bottleneck of the Brain Project is not only at merely developing additional new technologies, but also the lack of efficient avenues to disseminate cutting edge platforms and decoding expertise to neuroscience community. Therefore, we propose that in order to harness unique insights and extensive knowledge from various investigators working in diverse neuroscience subfields, ranging from perception and emotion to memory and social behaviors, the BRAIN project should create a set of International and National Brain Decoding Centers at which cutting-edge recording technologies and expertise on analyzing large datasets analyses can be made readily available to the entire community of neuroscientists who can apply and schedule to perform cutting-edge research.


A cardinal property of neural stem cells (NSCs) is their ability to adopt multiple fates upon differentiation. The epigenome is widely seen as a read-out of cellular potential and a manifestation of this can be seen in embryonic stem cells (ESCs), where promoters of many lineage-specific regulators are marked by a bivalent epigenetic signature comprising trimethylation of both lysine 4 and lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K4me3 and H3K27me3, respectively). Bivalency has subsequently emerged as a powerful epigenetic indicator of stem cell potential. Here, we have interrogated the epigenome during differentiation of ESC-derived NSCs to immature GABAergic interneurons. We show that developmental transitions are accompanied by loss of bivalency at many promoters in line with their increasing developmental restriction from pluripotent ESC through multipotent NSC to committed GABAergic interneuron. At the NSC stage, the promoters of genes encoding many transcriptional regulators required for differentiation of multiple neuronal subtypes and neural crest appear to be bivalent, consistent with the broad developmental potential of NSCs. Upon differentiation to GABAergic neurons, all non-GABAergic promoters resolve to H3K27me3 monovalency, whereas GABAergic promoters resolve to H3K4me3 monovalency or retain bivalency. Importantly, many of these epigenetic changes occur before any corresponding changes in gene expression. Intriguingly, another group of gene promoters gain bivalency as NSCs differentiate toward neurons, the majority of which are associated with functions connected with maturation and establishment and maintenance of connectivity. These data show that bivalency provides a dynamic epigenetic signature of developmental potential in both NSCs and in early neurons.
Even though there are indications that stress influences body temperature in humans, no study has systematically investigated the effects of stress on core and peripheral body temperature. The present study therefore aimed to investigate the effects of acute psychosocial stress on body temperature using different readout measurements. In two independent studies, male and female participants were exposed to a standardized laboratory stress task (the Trier Social Stress Test, TSST) or a non-stressful control task. Core temperature (intestinal and temporal artery) and peripheral temperature (facial and body skin temperature) were measured. Compared to the control condition, stress exposure decreased intestinal temperature but did not affect temporal artery temperature. Stress exposure resulted in changes in skin temperature that followed a gradient-like pattern, with decreases at distal skin locations such as the fingertip and finger base and unchanged skin temperature at proximal regions such as the infra-clavicular area. Stress-induced effects on facial temperature displayed a sex-specific pattern, with decreased nasal skin temperature in females and increased cheek temperature in males. In conclusion, the amplitude and direction of stress-induced temperature changes depend on the site of temperature measurement in humans. This precludes a direct translation of the preclinical stress-induced hyperthermia paradigm, in which core temperature uniformly rises in response to stress to the human situation. Nevertheless, the effects of stress result in consistent temperature changes. Therefore, the present study supports the inclusion of body temperature as a physiological readout parameter of stress in future studies.
Perturbations in the perinatal environment have been shown to significantly alter mesolimbic dopamine (DA) and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) responses to stressors in adulthood. We have previously demonstrated that adult offspring exposed to high fat during the last week of gestation and throughout lactation display permanent alterations in mesolimbic DA function and behavior. The goal of the present study was to investigate nucleus accumbens (NAc) DA and HPA responses to acute and repeated stress in high fat exposed (HFD, 30% fat) and control (CD, 5% fat) offspring. Using microdialysis to monitor extracellular DA, we report that adult HFD offspring show an enhanced NAc DA response to acute tail-pinch compared to CD offspring. With repeated tail-pinch, the response of the HFD animals remains unchanged while CD offspring exhibit a sensitized DA response. The pattern of the DA response to both acute and repeated stress is also significantly altered by early diet exposure with an earlier peak and faster return to baseline levels in CD compared with HFD offspring. Similarly, neuroendocrine adaptations to repeated tail-pinch are observed in CD animals, but not in HFD animals. While controls display a habituated adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) response to repeated tail-pinch, and an exacerbated ACTH response to a novel stressor, this effect was not observed in the HFD offspring. Together, our data demonstrate that exposure to high fat during early development impairs adaptations in NAc DA and HPA responses usually observed with repeated stress.
Stressful life events elicit hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation, which may alter psychological states or behavioral routines. Therefore, the current study focused on the HPA axis response to better understand such manifestations in female prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster). In Experiment 1, females were stressed for 1 h via one of the four stressors: exposure to a novel environment, immobilization (&quot;plastic mesh&quot;), brief social defeat, or prolonged social defeat. Following a 30-min recovery, the females received a 5-min elevated plus maze (EPM) test and, subsequently, blood was collected to measure plasma corticosterone concentrations. Only immobilization stress induced an anxiety-like behavioral response in the EPM test and elevated plasma corticosterone levels compared to the control groups. Corticosterone concentrations were also significantly elevated following exposure to prolonged social defeat compared to the control conditions, but not after novel environment stress or short social defeat. In Experiment 2, females were exposed to immobilization stress over 1, 3, or 7 days in a daily (predictable; pIMO) or irregular (unpredictable; uIMO) schedule. The biobehavioral stress response in females exposed to pIMO for 3 or 7 days did not differ significantly from controls, suggesting these females habituated. By comparison, females exposed to uIMO over 3 or 7 days did not habituate behaviorally or physiologically, even producing augmented corticosterone levels. In both experiments, positive correlations were found between corticosterone levels and anxiety-like behaviors in the EPM test. Together, our data suggest that the stress response by female prairie voles is dependent on stress intensity, source, previous experience, and predictability. Furthermore, the HPA axis response, as evident by corticosterone levels, is associated with the impact that these factors have on behavioral routine.






Recently, the question of adolescent culpability has been brought before the Supreme Court of the United States for reconsideration. Neuroscience, adolescent advocates claim, is teaching us that young people cannot be found fully responsible for their actions. The reason: their brains are not fully formed. Here I consider the history of the use of scientific evidence in the courtroom, a number of adolescent murder cases, and the data now emerging from neuroscience, and argue that when it comes to brains, judges, just like the rest of us, are unnecessarily impressed. Ultimately, how we determine culpability should rest on normative and ethical considerations rather than on scientific ones.
The inclusion of spirituality in addictions recovery began with the 12-steps program of Alcoholics Anonymous. Cofounded by Bill Wilson, the 12-steps' spiritual orientation is based on Wilson's own recovery from alcoholism that was associated with a spiritual experience. His correspondence with Carl Jung, who verified the importance of Wilson's experience, empowered Wilson to make spirituality central to the 12 steps. Spirituality remains a source of misunderstanding between the scientific, empirically informed mental health community, and the 12-step recovery movement. This article offers an outline of spiritual development, based on neuroscience, which the professional can utilize in the spiritual aspect of a patient's recovery.


Here, we tried to elucidate the possible role of autophagy against H2O2 and Amyloid beta (A) induced neurotoxicity using retinoic acid differentiated SH-SY5Y cells. We found that H2O2 disrupted neurite outgrowth concomitant with production of A. Furthermore, we showed that H2O2 could increase the apoptotic factors such as Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, caspase-3 level, and PARP activity in a time course manner. These findings were confirmed by acridine orange/ethidium bromide and Hoechst staining. In addition, we observed that H2O2 led to conversion of LC3 protein from LC3I to LC3II and an increase in autophagy flux. Autophagy factors including LC3B, Atg7, and Atg12 increased and reached their highest level after 2h of insulting and then dropped to a lower level. Our results showed that autophagy could internalize and degrade intra- and extracellular A after 3h treatment with H2O2. However, the remaining amount of A accelerated morphological atrophy and, as a result, increased neuronal death (apoptosis). Inhibition of autophagy influx, using 3-methyl-adenine, increased intra- and extracellular levels of A, providing more proof for a protective role of autophagy against oxidative stress. Further studies can shed light on the important role of autophagy by finding new pathways involved in A degeneration.
In-utero exposure to valproic acid (VPA) has been known as a potent inducer of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), not only in humans, but also in animals. In addition to the defects in communication and social interaction as well as repetitive behaviors, ASD patients usually suffer from gastrointestinal (GI) problems. However, the exact mechanism underlying these disorders is not known. In this study, we examined the gross GI tract structure and GI motility in a VPA animal model of ASD. On embryonic day 12 (E12), 4 pregnant Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were subcutaneously injected with VPA (400 mg/kg) in the treatment group, and with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) in the control group; the resulting male offspring were analyzed at 4 weeks of age. VPA exposure decreased the thickness of tunica mucosa and tunica muscularis in the stomach and ileum. Other regions such as duodenum, jejunum, and colon did not show a significant difference. In high-resolution microscopic observation, atrophy of the parietal and chief cells in the stomach and absorptive cells in the ileum was observed. In addition, decreased staining of the epithelial cells was observed in the hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E)-stained ileum section. Furthermore, decreased motility in GI tract was also observed in rat offspring prenatally exposed to VPA. However, the mechanism underlying GI tract defects in VPA animal model as well as the association between abnormal GI structure and function with ASD is yet to be clearly understood. Nevertheless, the results from the present study suggest that this VPA ASD model undergoes abnormal changes in the GI structure and function, which in turn could provide beneficial clues pertaining to the pathophysiological relevance of GI complications and ASD phenotypes.
Botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT/A) is used clinically to treat several neurological and metabolic diseases. However, the mechanisms that underlie the clinical use of the toxin remain still to be elusive. BoNT/A inhibits acetylcholine (ACh) release at the motor nerve terminals (MNT) and causes neuroparalysis. The toxic effects of BoNT/A at the MNT occur in sub-pico molar range, and it is invaluable to determine the half-life and the persistence of catalytic activity of the toxin to develop therapeutics against BoNT/A intoxication. However, the use of extremely low concentrations of BoNT/A in cellular, or animal models due to high toxicity makes it difficult to determine new cellular mechanisms and binding or interacting partners of BoNT/A. In order to address this, a catalytically deactivated, non-toxic version of BoNT/A, designated as DrBoNT/A, was characterized. DrBoNT/A lacks endoprotease activity (SNAP-25 cleavage) at concentrations as high as 46,875-fold, compared to wild-type BoNT/A. Unlike BoNT/A injection (3.2 pg), injection of the recombinant product (150 ng or 3.2 pg) into mouse hind limbs failed to cause neuroparalysis as exhibited by the lack of inhibition of toe spread reflex (ability of the mouse to spread its hindlimb toes), and inhibit ACh release at the MNT. The in vitro experiments also demonstrate that DrBoNT/A uptake (at concentrations equivalent to BoNT/A), internalization and localization at the MNT remained unaltered. In addition, modeling studies support that DrBoNT/A lacked the zinc binding ability, and the ability to directly participate in the hydrolysis of SNAP-25 substrate. Collectively, we demonstrate that DrBoNT/A is non-toxic to the MNT and can be used as a surrogate tool to understand the mechanism by which BoNT/A modulates signal transduction mechanisms.
Rab27, a member of the small GTPase Rab family, is widely conserved in metazoan, and two Rab27 isoforms, Rab27A and Rab27B, are present in vertebrates. Rab27A was the first Rab protein whose dysfunction was found to cause a human hereditary disease, type 2 Griscelli syndrome, which is characterized by silvery hair and immunodeficiency. The discovery in the 21st century of three distinct types of mammalian Rab27A effectors [synaptotagmin-like protein (Slp), Slp homologue lacking C2 domains (Slac2), and Munc13-4] that specifically bind active Rab27A has greatly accelerated our understanding not only of the molecular mechanisms of Rab27A-mediated membrane traffic (e.g. melanosome transport and regulated secretion) but of the symptoms of Griscelli syndrome patients at the molecular level. Because Rab27B is widely expressed in various tissues together with Rab27A and has been found to have the ability to bind all of the Rab27A effectors that have been tested, Rab27A and Rab27B were initially thought to function redundantly by sharing common Rab27 effectors. However, recent evidence has indicated that by interacting with different Rab27 effectors Rab27A and Rab27B play different roles in special types of secretion (e.g. exosome secretion and mast cell secretion) even within the same cell type. In this review article, I describe the current state of our understanding of the functions of Rab27 effectors in secretory pathways.



During the past decades, direct electrical stimulation (DES) has been a key method not only in determining the organization of brain networks mediating movement, language, and cognition but also in establishing many central concepts of modern neuroscience, such as the electrical nature of neural transmission, the localization of brain functions, and the homuncular arrangement of sensorimotor areas. However, recent criticisms have questioned the utility of DES and argued that data collected with this technique may be flawed and unreliable. As with every other neuroscientific method, DES does have limitations. However, existing evidence argues strongly for its validity and usefulness by demonstrating that DES produces highly specific outcomes at well-defined anatomical sites and significantly minimizes postoperative deficits in brain-damaged patients.
Seeing seems effortless, despite the need to segregate and integrate visual information that varies in quality, quantity, and location. The extent to which seeing passively recapitulates the external world is challenged by phenomena such as illusory contours, an example of visual completion whereby borders are perceived despite their physical absence in the image. Instead, visual completion and seeing are increasingly conceived as active processes, dependent on information exchange across neural populations. How this is instantiated in the brain remains controversial. Divergent models emanate from single-unit and population-level electrophysiology, neuroimaging, and neurostimulation studies. We reconcile discrepant findings from different methods and disciplines, and underscore the importance of taking into account spatiotemporal brain dynamics in generating models of brain function and perception.
For several decades, the dopamine precursor levodopa has been the primary therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, not all of the motor and non-motor features of PD can be attributed solely to dopaminergic dysfunction. Recent clinical and preclinical advances provide a basis for the identification of additional innovative therapeutic options to improve the management of the disease. Novel pharmacological strategies must be optimized for PD by: (i) targeting disturbances of the serotonergic, noradrenergic, glutamatergic, GABAergic, and cholinergic systems in addition to the dopaminergic system, and (ii) characterizing alterations in the levels of neurotransmitter receptors and transporters that are associated with the various manifestations of the disease.
In recent years, a greater understanding has emerged of the role epigenetic mechanisms play in the brain, not only during development, but also in mature neurons involved in long-term memory. The identification of spatially and temporally tuned epigenetic modification of genetic loci during memory storage has revealed the remarkably input-responsive, target-specific, and long-term nature of epigenetic regulation, but the underlying mechanisms have remained elusive. New insight into these mechanisms has come from the study of small RNAs, which have emerged as regulators that can confer sequence specificity to DNA- and chromatin-modifying processes. We discuss advances in the elucidation of the epigenetic mechanisms involved in long-term memory, focusing on the role of small RNAs, and in particular piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), in the epigenetic regulation underlying memory storage.
The hippocampus is thought to automatically encode all experience, yet the vast majority of our experiences are not remembered later. Although psychological theories have postulated the existence of decay processes for declarative memory, the corresponding neurobiological mechanisms are unknown. Here we develop the hypothesis that ongoing hippocampal neurogenesis represents a decay process that continually clears memories from the hippocampus. As newborn granule cells integrate into established hippocampal circuits, they form new input and output connections over the course of several weeks. Because successful memory retrieval relies on reinvoking patterns of activity that occurred at the time of encoding (pattern completion), neurogenesis-induced remodeling of hippocampal circuits incrementally reduces the likelihood that a given retrieval cue will reinvoke a previously stored pattern.
Drugs are often used in combination and, for pharmacologists, the manner of their interactions can cast light on drug mechanisms and biological processes. Here we provide simplified descriptions of commonly used analytical methods for analysing drug combinations and describe a new and practical experimental solution to address the mechanistic question: 'Do two channel-blocking drugs bind at the same site?' We define two simple mathematical models that describe the effects of two channel blockers acting simultaneously at either the same (Syntopic Model) or different (Allotopic Model) binding sites within a channel pore. We find that the optimum concentrations of two drugs for distinguishing between the two models are related to the mathematical Golden Ratio.
The objective of this study was to identify, for practical use, ultrasonographic reference values for nerve sizes at multiple sites, including entrapment and non-entrapment sites along the median and ulnar nerves and among the cervical nerve roots. We verified reliable sites and site-based differences between the reference values. In addition, we found associations between the reference nerve sizes and several physical characteristics (gender, dominant hand, age, height, weight, body mass index [BMI] and wrist circumference). Nerves were measured bilaterally at 26 sites or levels in 60 healthy Japanese adults (29 males; age, 35.4  9.7 y; BMI, 22.3  3.6 kg/m(2); wrist circumference, 16.0  1.3 cm on the right side and 15.9  1.2 cm on the left side). The mean reference nerve sizes were 5.6-9.1 mm(2) along the median nerve, 4.1-6.7 mm(2) along the ulnar nerve and 2.14-3.39 mm among the cervical nerve roots. Multifactorial regression analyses revealed that the physical characteristics most strongly associated with nerve size were age, BMI and wrist circumference at the entrapment sites (F= 7.6, p &lt; 0.01, at the pisiform bone level of the carpal tunnel; F= 15.1, p &lt; 0.001, at the level of Guyon's canal), as well as wrist circumference and gender at the non-entrapment sites (F= 70.6, p &lt; 0.001, along the median nerve; F= 24.7, p &lt; 0.001, along the ulnar nerve). Our results suggest that the factors with the greatest influence on nerve size differed between entrapment and non-entrapment sites. Site-based differences in nerve size were determined using one-way analyses of variance (p &lt; 0.001). Intra- and inter-observer reliability was highest for the median nerve, at both the distal wrist crease and mid-humerus; at the arterial split along the ulnar nerve; and at the fifth cervical nerve root level. No systematic error was indicated by Bland-Altman analysis; the coefficients of variation were 5.5%-9.2% for intra-observer reliability and 7.1%-8.7% for inter-observer reliability.
Since the beginning of recorded history, humans have sought a physical means of altering disordered behavior and consciousness. This quest has spawned numerous innovations in neurosurgery and the neurosciences, from the earliest prehistoric attempts at trepanation to the electrocortical and anatomic localization of cerebral function that emerged in the 19th century. At the start of the 20th century, the overwhelming social impact of psychiatric illness intersected with the novel but imperfect understanding of frontal lobe function, establishing a decades-long venture into the modern origin of psychosurgery, the prefrontal lobotomy. The subsequent social and ethical ramifications of the widespread overuse of transorbital lobotomies drove psychosurgery to near extinction. However, as the pharmacologic treatment of psychiatric illness was established, numerous concomitant technical and neuroscientific innovations permitted the incremental development of a new paradigm of treating the disordered mind. In this article, we retrospectively examine these early origins of psychosurgery and then look to the recent past, present, and future for emerging trends in surgery of the psyche. Recent decades have seen a revolution in minimalism, noninvasive imaging, and functional manipulation of the human cerebrum that have created new opportunities and treatment modalities for disorders of the human mind and mood. Early contemporary efforts were directed at focal lesioning of abnormal pathways, but deep-brain stimulation now aims to reversibly alter and modulate those neurologic activities responsible for not only psychiatric disorders, but also to modulate and even to augment consciousness, memory, and other elements of cerebral function. As new tools become available, the social and medical impact of psychosurgery promises to revolutionize not only neurosurgery, but also humans' capability for positively impacting life and society.




Because of its reversibility and adaptability, deep brain stimulation (DBS) has recently gained interest in psychiatric disorders, such as obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCD) and depression. In OCD, DBS is now an alternative procedure to lesions of fascicles such as the anterior capsule, which links the orbitofrontal cortex, the cingulum, and the thalamus, and has been applied to new target such as the nucleus accumbens, with promising results. However, a recent interest has been developed toward the subthalamic nucleus (STN), a key structure of the basal ganglia that connects the motor, limbic, and associative systems. It is known from patients with Parkinson disease that STN-DBS can have significant effects on mood and cognition. Those transient effects are usually seen as &quot;side effects&quot; in Parkinson disease, but are clues to the underappreciated role that STN plays in the limbic circuitry, a role whose precise details are as yet unknown and under active investigation. We present the rationale supporting the use of nonmotor STN as a therapeutic target to treat OCD. In particular, we discuss the recent experience and preliminary results of our group after 6 months of nonmotor STN-DBS in patients with severe OCD.
An investigation on the molecular mechanism of depression state, less attention was focused on changes at the intracellular messenger level. In this study the effects of reserpine, a monoamine depletor, and imipramine, an antidepressant, on serotonin-2 (5-HT2) receptor binding and its second messenger system of rat cerebral cortex were studied. The level of inositol 4-monophosphate (IP1) accumulation elicited by 100 microM 5-HT via activation of the 5-HT2 receptor on cerebral cortical slices at twelve hours after a single dose of reserpine (2 mg/kg, i.p.) was significantly higher in treated rats, when compared to that of saline-treated rats; this significant level lasted for at least four days. The level of IP1 accumulation in rat cerebral cortical slices elicited by 100 microM serotonin was higher in the group pretreated with reserpine (0.25 mg/kg/day) sub-chronically for seven days than the group pretreated with normal saline. In the receptor binding study, the maximum binding (B(max)) of 5-HT2 receptor binding was increased, when compared to the corresponding controls; whereas, the dissociation equilibrium constant (K(d)) value of the 5-HT2 receptor was found unchanged in the reserpine treated group. Increases in the sensitivity of phosphoinositol (PI) turnover coupled with the 5-HT2 receptor were also found in the long-term (21 days) low dose (0.1 mg/kg/day) administration of reserpine. However, a long-term administration of imipramine (10 mg/kg/day) reduced the function of the PI turnover coupled with the 5-HT2 receptor. Results obtained from the combined use of reserpine and imipramine demonstrated that this combination was able to antagonize the super-sensitivity of the second messenger responses in 5-HT2 receptor induced by long-term treatment with reserpine. Long-term treatment with reserpine but not imipramine also caused an increase in the B(max) of the 5-HT2 receptor. This up-regulation of the 5-HT2 receptor by reserpine could be antagonized by imipramine, if a combined treatment was employed. However, this combination of imipramine with an additional phospholipid liposome did not enhance or decrease the imipramine's effect on the 5-HT2 receptor, or on its coupled second messenger level. In summary, reserpine induced up-regulation of the postsynaptic monoamine receptor and its coupled second messenger responses (such as IP1 formation). Imipramine was capable of antagonizing these same events in a depression animal model with reserpine. This study demonstrated the dynamic changes and adaptability of the receptor system, followed by changes in PI turnover. The results provide an explanation at the molecular level for the bases of depression and the role of antidepressant drugs effects on those pathological linking elements.



The vesicular neurotransmitter transporters (VNTs) are small proteins responsible for packing synaptic vesicles with neurotransmitters thereby determining the amount of neurotransmitter released per vesicle through fusion in both neurons and glial cells. Each transporter subtype was classically seen as a specific neuronal marker of the respective nerve cells containing that particular neurotransmitter or structurally related neurotransmitters. More recently, however, it has become apparent that common neurotransmitters can also act as co-transmitters, adding complexity to neurotransmitter release and suggesting intriguing roles for VNTs therein. We will first describe the current knowledge on vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT1/2/3), the vesicular excitatory amino acid transporter (VEAT), the vesicular nucleotide transporter (VNUT), vesicular monoamine transporters (VMAT1/2), the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and the vesicular -aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter (VGAT) in the brain. We will focus on evidence regarding transgenic mice with disruptions in VNTs in different models of seizures and epilepsy. We will also describe the known alterations and reorganizations in the expression levels of these VNTs in rodent models for temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and in human tissue resected for epilepsy surgery. Finally, we will discuss perspectives on opportunities and challenges for VNTs as targets for possible future epilepsy therapies.


Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins play essential roles in the regulation of signaling via G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). With hundreds of GPCRs and dozens of G proteins, it is important to understand how RGS regulates selective GPCR-G protein signaling. In neurons of the striatum, two RGS proteins, RGS7 and RGS9-2, regulate signaling by -opioid receptor (MOR) and dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) and are implicated in drug addiction, movement disorders, and nociception. Both proteins form trimeric complexes with the atypical G protein  subunit G5 and a membrane anchor, R7BP. In this study, we examined GTPase-accelerating protein (GAP) activity as well as G and GPCR selectivity of RGS7 and RGS9-2 complexes in live cells using a bioluminescence resonance energy transfer-based assay that monitors dissociation of G protein subunits. We showed that RGS9-2/G5 regulated both Gi and Go with a bias toward Go, but RGS7/G5 could serve as a GAP only for Go. Interestingly, R7BP enhanced GAP activity of RGS7 and RGS9-2 toward Go and Gi and enabled RGS7 to regulate Gi signaling. Neither RGS7 nor RGS9-2 had any activity toward Gz, Gs, or Gq in the absence or presence of R7BP. We also observed no effect of GPCRs (MOR and D2R) on the G protein bias of R7 RGS proteins. However, the GAP activity of RGS9-2 showed a strong receptor preference for D2R over MOR. Finally, RGS7 displayed an four times greater GAP activity relative to RGS9-2. These findings illustrate the principles involved in establishing G protein and GPCR selectivity of striatal RGS proteins.
Conditioned responses to cues associated with drug taking play a pivotal role in a number of theories of drug addiction. This study examined whether attentional biases towards drug-related cues exist in recreational drug users who predominantly used ecstasy (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine). Experiment 1 compared 30 ecstasy users, 25 cannabis users, and 30 controls in an attentional distraction task in which neutral, evocative, and ecstasy-related pictures were presented within a coloured border, requiring participants to respond as quickly as possible to the border colour. Experiment 2 employed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and the attentional distraction task and tested 20 ecstasy users and 20 controls. Experiment 1 revealed significant response speed interference by the ecstasy-related pictures in the ecstasy users only. Experiment 2 revealed increased prefrontal and occipital activity in ecstasy users in all conditions. Activations in response to the ecstasy stimuli in these regions showed an apparent antagonism whereby ecstasy users, relative to controls, showed increased occipital but decreased right prefrontal activation. These results are interpreted to reflect increased visual processing of, and decreased prefrontal control over, the irrelevant but salient ecstasy-related stimuli. These results suggest that right inferior frontal cortex may play an important role in controlling drug-related attentional biases and may thus play an important role in mediating control over drug usage.
This article introduces the freely available Bochum Emotional Stimulus Set (BESST), which contains pictures of bodies and faces depicting either a neutral expression or one of the six basic emotions (happiness, sadness, fear, anger, disgust, and surprise), presented from two different perspectives (0 frontal view vs. camera averted by 45 to the left). The set comprises 565 frontal view and 564 averted view pictures of real-life bodies with masked facial expressions and 560 frontal and 560 averted view faces which were synthetically created using the FaceGen 3.5 Modeller. All stimuli were validated in terms of categorization accuracy and the perceived naturalness of the expression. Additionally, each facial stimulus was morphed into three age versions (20/40/60 years). The results show high recognition of the intended facial expressions, even under speeded forced-choice conditions, as corresponds to common experimental settings. The average naturalness ratings for the stimuli range between medium and high.
The lateral habenula (LHb) has recently emerged as a key brain region in the pathophysiology of depression. However, the molecular mechanism by which LHb becomes hyperactive in depression remains unknown. Through a quantitative proteomic screen, we found that expression of the  form of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II (CaM) was significantly up-regulated in the LHb of animal models of depression and down-regulated by antidepressants. Increasing -, but not -, CaMKII in the LHb strongly enhanced the synaptic efficacy and spike output of LHb neurons and was sufficient to produce profound depressive symptoms, including anhedonia and behavioral despair. Down-regulation of CaMKII levels, blocking its activity or its target molecule the glutamate receptor GluR1 reversed the depressive symptoms. These results identify CaMKII as a powerful regulator of LHb neuron function and a key molecular determinant of depression.
Ambiguous figures reverse their appearance during prolonged viewing and can be perceived in two (or more) available interpretations. Both physical stimulus manipulations and cognitive control influence the perception of ambiguous figures, but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. In the current study, the perception of an ambiguous figure was manipulated by adaptation to unambiguous figures and/or placing the ambiguous figure into a context of unambiguous figures. Our results indicate that both adaptation and context can effectively modulate perception of the ambiguous figure. When manipulated together, adaptation and context processes showed additive effects upon the perception of the ambiguous figure implying the independent mechanisms. Thus, top-down and bottom-up processes seem to influence the perception of the ambiguous figures independently and neither seems to be uniquely responsible for the generation of perceptual changes.

Retinal photoreceptors entrain the circadian system to the solar day. This photic resetting involves cAMP response element binding protein (CREB)-mediated upregulation of Per genes within individual cells of the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). Our detailed understanding of this pathway is poor, and it remains unclear why entrainment to a new time zone takes several days. By analyzing the light-regulated transcriptome of the SCN, we have identified a key role for salt inducible kinase 1 (SIK1) and CREB-regulated transcription coactivator 1 (CRTC1) in clock re-setting. An entrainment stimulus causes CRTC1 to coactivate CREB, inducing the expression of Per1 and Sik1. SIK1 then inhibits further shifts of the clock by phosphorylation and deactivation of CRTC1. Knockdown of Sik1 within the SCN results in increased behavioral phase shifts and rapid re-entrainment following experimental jet lag. Thus SIK1 provides negative feedback, acting to suppress the effects of light on the clock. This pathway provides a potential target for the regulation of circadian rhythms.
Demyelinating disorders such as leukodystrophies and multiple sclerosis are neurodegenerative diseases characterized by the progressive loss of myelin that may lead toward a chronic demyelination of the brain's white matter, impairing normal axonal conduction velocity and ultimately causing neurodegeneration. Current treatments modifying the pathological mechanisms are capable of ameliorating the disease; however, frequently, these therapies are not sufficient to repress the progressive demyelination into a chronic condition and permanent loss of function. To this end, we analyzed the effect that bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cell (BM-MSC) grafts exert in a chronically demyelinated mouse brain. As a result, oligodendrocyte progenitors were recruited surrounding the graft due to the expression of various trophic signals by the grafted MSCs. Although there was no significant reaction in the non-grafted side, in the grafted regions oligodendrocyte progenitors were detected. These progenitors were derived from the nearby tissue as well as from the neurogenic niches, including the subependymal zone and dentate gyrus. Once near the graft site, the cells matured to myelinating oligodendrocytes. Finally, electrophysiological studies demonstrated that axonal conduction velocity was significantly increased in the grafted side of the fimbria. In conclusion, we demonstrate here that in chronic demyelinated white matter, BM-MSC transplantation activates oligodendrocyte progenitors and induces remyelination in the tissue surrounding the stem cell graft.


This Focused Review expands upon our original paper (You can't kid a kidder&quot;: Interaction between production and detection of deception in an interactive deception task. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, 6:87). In that paper we introduced a new socially interactive, laboratory-based task, the Deceptive Interaction Task (DeceIT), and used it to measure individuals' ability to lie, their ability to detect the lies of others, and potential individual difference measures contributing to these abilities. We showed that the two skills were correlated; better liars made better lie detectors (a &quot;deception general&quot; ability) and this ability seemed to be independent of cognitive (IQ) and emotional (EQ) intelligence. Here, following the Focused Review format, we outline the method and results of the original paper and comment more on the value of lab-based experimental studies of deception, which have attracted criticism in recent years. While acknowledging that experimental paradigms may fail to recreate the full complexity and potential seriousness of real-world deceptive behavior, we suggest that lab-based deception paradigms can offer valuable insight into ecologically-valid deceptive behavior. The use of the DeceIT procedure enabled deception to be studied in an interactive setting, with motivated participants, and importantly allowed the study of both the liar and the lie detector within the same deceptive interaction. It is our thesis that by addressing deception more holistically-by bringing the liar into the &quot;spotlight&quot; which is typically trained exclusively on the lie detector-we may further enhance our understanding of deception.
Recent studies have implicated potentially significant roles for astrocytes in the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders. Astrocytes undergo a dramatic maturation process following early differentiation from which typical morphology and important functions are acquired. Despite significant progress in understanding their early differentiation, very little is known about how astrocytes become functionally mature. In addition, whether functional maturation of astrocytes is disrupted in neurodevelopmental disorders and the consequences of this disruption remains essentially unknown. In this review, we discuss our perspectives about how astrocyte developmental maturation is regulated, and how disruption of the astrocyte functional maturation process, especially alterations in their ability to regulate glutamate homeostasis, may alter synaptic physiology and contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders.
Eye motion, even during fixation, results in constant motion of the image of the world on our retinas. Vision scientists have long sought to understand the process by which we perceive the stable parts of the world as unmoving despite this instability and perceive the moving parts with realistic motion. We used an instrument capable of delivering visual stimuli with controlled motion relative to the retina at cone-level precision while capturing the subjects' percepts of stimulus motion with a matching task. We found that the percept of stimulus motion is more complex than conventionally thought. Retinal stimuli that move in a direction that is consistent with eye motion (i.e., opposite eye motion) appear stable even if the magnitude of that motion is amplified. The apparent stabilization diminishes for stimulus motions increasingly inconsistent with eye motion direction. Remarkably, we found that this perceived direction-contingent stabilization occurs separately for each separately moving pattern on the retina rather than for the image as a whole. One consequence is that multiple patterns that move at different rates relative to each other in the visual input are perceived as immobile with respect to each other, thereby disrupting our hyperacute sensitivity to target motion against a frame of reference. This illusion of relative stability has profound implications regarding the underlying visual mechanisms. Functionally, the system compensates retinal slip induced by eye motion without requiring an extremely precise optomotor signal and, at the same time, retains an exquisite sensitivity to an object's true motion in the world.


The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is an important brain region for motivation, reinforcement, and reward. Afferents to the NAc can be divided into two anatomically segregated neurochemical phenotypes: dopaminergic inputs, primarily from the midbrain ventral tegmental area (VTA) and glutamatergic inputs from several cortical and sub-cortical structures. A population of glutamatergic neurons exists within the VTA and evidence from rats and mice suggests that these VTA axons may co-release dopamine and glutamate into the NAc. Our laboratory has used sexual experience in Syrian hamsters as a model of experience-dependent plasticity within the NAc. Given that both dopamine and glutamate are involved in this plasticity, it is important to determine whether these neurotransmitters are co-expressed within the mesolimbic pathway of hamsters. We therefore used immunofluorescent staining to investigate the possible co-localization of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a dopaminergic marker, and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2), a glutamatergic marker, within the mesolimbic pathway. PCR analyses identified VGLUT2 gene expression in the VTA. No co-localization of TH and VGLUT2 protein was detected in NAc fibers, nor was there a difference in immunolabeling between males and females. Further studies are needed to resolve this absence of anatomical co-localization of TH and VGLUT2 in hamster striatal afferents with reports of functional co-release in other rodents.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, whose survival and function are affected by neurotrophins and their receptors. The impaired signaling pathway of brain-derived neurotrophic factor/tropomyosin-related kinase B (BDNF/TrkB) is considered to play an important role in AD pathogenesis. To explore the association of polymorphisms within the NTRK2 gene (encoding TrkB) and sporadic AD (sAD), a case-control study was conducted in a Chinese Han cohort including 216 sAD patients and 244 control participants. Five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), with four of them within the promoter region and one in intron, were selected and genotyped with a polymerase chain reaction-ligase detection reaction (PCR-LDR) method. No association was revealed between these SNPs or the haplotypes containing four promoter SNPs and the risk of sAD. The results of this study indicate that polymorphisms in the selected regions of the NTRK2 gene are unlikely to confer the susceptibility of sAD in the Chinese Han population.
The vestibular system has widespread interactions with other sensory modalities. Here we investigate whether vestibular stimulation modulates somatosensory function, by assessing the ability to detect faint tactile stimuli to the fingertips of the left and right hand with or without galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS). We found that left anodal and right cathodal GVS, significantly enhanced sensitivity to mild shocks on either hand, without affecting response bias. There was no such effect with either right anodal and left cathodal GVS or sham stimulation. Further, the enhancement of somatosensory sensitivity following GVS does not strongly depend on the duration of GVS, or the interval between GVS and tactile stimulation. Vestibular inputs reach the somatosensory cortex, increasing the sensitivity of perceptual circuitry.
There are a limited number of biological indices for assessing pro-emetic states in laboratory rodents as they do not possess the vomiting response. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that in rats, pro-emetic intervention would affect the respiratory pattern. To this end, using whole-body plethysmography, in adult male Wistar rats we recorded respiration after i.p. administration of either the emetic agent LiCl or Ringer. Quantification of respiratory signals (from 5 to 35 min post-injection) revealed that post-LiCl, mean respiratory rate was significantly lower (126  9 vs. 178  10 cpm, p &lt; 0.005) and less variable (Kvar 59  8% vs. 73  3%; p&lt;0.05) compared to the post-Ringer condition. Furthermore, while mode values of respiratory rate histograms did not differ between the treatments (indicating that the dominant respiratory frequency remained unchanged), LiCl reduced the fraction of time spent at high respiratory rate (&gt;200 cpm) from 25  3% to 9  2% (p = 0.004). Thus, reduction of the mean respiratory rate by LiCl was predominantly due to reduced contribution of high-frequency breathing that is normally associated with motor activity and/or arousal. Non-linear multifractal analysis of respiratory signals revealed that post-LiCl, respiration becomes less random and more orderly. 5-HT3 antagonist ondansetron prevented respiratory changes elicited by LiCl. We conclude that the observed changes likely reflect effects of LiCl on animals' motion, and that this effect is mediated via 5-HT3 receptors. Providing that the effects observed in our study were quite robust, we suggest that simple and non-invasive respiratory monitoring may be a promising approach for studying emesis in rodents.
The notion that blockade of constitutive protein synthesis underlies the effect of protein synthesis inhibitors (PSIs) on long-term potentiation (LTP) stabilization was examined using the rat hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapse. Using a biochemical assay we found protein synthesis rate largely recovered 1h after wash-out of cycloheximide (CHX). Nonetheless, a 4-h CHX application followed by wash-out 1h prior to LTP resulted in a significant decrement of LTP stabilization. Wash-out initiated just prior to LTP, thus extending protein synthesis inhibition well into the post-LTP period, resulted in no further effect on LTP. However, short pre- and continuous post-tetanization application of PSIs failed to influence LTP persistence for up to 7 h. Addition of hydrogen peroxide (HO) 5-25 min following LTP induction resulted in parallel depression of potentiated and non-potentiated inputs, leaving LTP seemingly unaltered. However, in the presence of cyxloheximide the HO application resulted in a significant reduction of LTP. In conclusion: LTP stabilization was impaired by pre-LTP application of protein synthesis inhibition but not by post-LTP application unless the slices were exposed to oxidative stress. We submit that these results favor the notion that constitutive rather than triggered protein synthesis is important for LTP stabilization.
The noradrenergic system of the brain is thought to facilitate neuronal processes that promote behavioral activation, alertness, and attention. It is known that norepinephrine (NE) can be significantly elevated in the prefrontal cortex under normal conditions such as arousal and attention, and following the administration of psychostimulants and various other drugs prescribed for psychiatric disorders. However, how NE modulates neuronal activity and synapses in the local prefrontal circuitry remains elusive. In this study, we characterized the actions of NE on individual monosynaptic connections among layer V pyramidal neurons (P) and fast-spiking (FS) GABAergic interneurons in the juvenile (postnatal days 20-23) rat prefrontal local circuitry. We found that NE selectively depresses excitatory synaptic transmission in P-FS connections but has no detectable effect on the excitatory synapses in P-P connections and the inhibitory synapses in FS-P connections. NE apparently exerts distinctly different modulatory actions on identified synapses that target GABAergic interneurons but has no effect on those in the pyramidal neurons in this specific developmental period. These results indicate that, depending on the postsynaptic targets, the effects of NE in prefrontal cortex are synapse-specific, at least in the juvenile animals.
Planarians possess a rudimentary brain with many features in common with vertebrate brains. They also display a remarkable capacity for tissue regeneration including the complete regeneration of the nervous system. Using the induction of planarian seizure-like movements (pSLMs) as a behavioral endpoint, we demonstrate that an intact nervous system is necessary for this organism to react to cocaine exposure, but not necessary to react to nicotine administration. Decapitated planarians (Girardia tigrina) display pSLMs indistinguishable from intact worms when exposed to nicotine, but cocaine-induced pSLMs are reduced by about 95% upon decapitation. Decapitated worms recover their normal sensitivity to cocaine within 5 days after head amputation. In worms where half of the brain was removed or partially dissected, the expression of cocaine-induced pSLMs was reduced by approximately 75%. Similar amputations at the level of the tail did not show a significant decrease to cocaine exposure. To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first report that explores how regenerating planarians react to the exposure of cocaine.
The intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) is classically known as the area of the Thalamic Lateral Geniculate Complex providing the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) non-photic information. In the present study we investigated whether this information might be related to the metabolic state of the animal. The following groups of male Wistar rats were used for analysis of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and c-Fos in the IGL and SCN. (1) Fed ad libitum. (2) Fasted for 48 h. (3) Fasted for 48 h followed by refeeding for 3 h. (4) Monosodium glutamate-lesioned and 48 h fasted. (5) Electrolytic lesion in the IGL and 48 h fasted. The results were quantified by optical densitometry. Neuronal tracers were injected in two brain areas that receive metabolic information from the periphery, the arcuate nucleus (ARC) and Nucleus of the Tractus Solitarius to investigate whether there is an anatomical relationship with the IGL. Lesion studies showed the IGL, and not the ARC, as origin of most NPY projections to the SCN. Fasting induced important changes in the NPY expression in the IGL, coinciding with similar changes of NPY/glutamate decarboxylase projections of the IGL to the SCN. These changes revealed that the IGL is involved in the transmission of metabolic information to the SCN. In fasted animals IGL lesion resulted in a significant increase of c-Fos in the SCN as compared to intact fasted animals demonstrating the inhibitory influence of the IGL to the SCN in fasting conditions. When the animal after fasting was refed, an increase of c-Fos in the SCN indicated a removal of this inhibitory input. Together these observations show that in addition to increased inhibitory IGL input during fasting, the negative metabolic condition also results in increased excitatory input to the SCN via other pathways. Consequently the present observations show that at least part of the non-photic input to the SCN, arising from the IGL contains information about metabolic conditions.
When our movement is perturbed by environmental forces, the Long Latency Stretch Reflex (LLSR), generated by a transcortical loop through the primary motor cortex (M1), is the fastest reaction adapted according to our prior intent. We investigated the involvement of the caudal part of the Supplementary Motor Area (SMAp) in this intention-related LLSR modulation. Subjects were instructed either to not react (i.e. to 'let-go') or to resist a mechanical perturbation extending the wrist and Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) was used to transiently inactivate SMAp, either at the time of the LLSR generation (TMS was applied 50 ms before the perturbation), or at the end of the preparation period (TMS was applied 150 ms before the perturbation). The effect of SMAp transient inactivation on the LLSR modulation was compared to the effect of transient inactivation of M1 or of a Control area. Compared to the Control condition, the intention-related LLSR modulation decreased when TMS was applied either over SMAp or over M1 50 ms before perturbation occurrence, suggesting that SMAp, as M1, is involved in the LLSR modulation. Moreover, the LLSR modulation also decreased when TMS was applied over SMAp 150 ms before the perturbation, indicating that anticipatory processes taking place in SMAp participate to the LLSR modulation. In addition, TMS applied over SMAp elicited Motor-Evoked Potentials (MEPs) whose latency and shape were similar to MEPs evoked by TMS over M1, suggesting that they are due to direct corticospinal projections from SMAp. Interestingly, the SMAp MEPs amplitude was modulated depending on the subject's intention to resist or to let-go. Taken together these results strongly favor the idea that, during the expectation of a perturbation, SMAp is the seat of anticipatory processes that are specific to the subject's intent and that preset M1 in order to adapt the LLSR to this intention.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive and devastating neurodegenerative disease caused by selective degeneration and death of motor neurons. So far very limited therapeutic options have emerged to treat this fatal disease. Homocysteine (Hcy) lowering drugs have been suggested to be a palliative therapy of this disease. Folate, Vitamin B12 (VitB12) and Vitamin B6 (VitB6) are important elements involved in the Hcy metabolism and we proposed that medications which could promote the absorption of folate, VitB12 and VitB6 might have benefit for ALS. Galactooligosaccharides (GOS) is a prebiotic which could significantly improve the absorption and syntheses of B Vitamins. To investigate whether GOS could provide neuroprotective effect in ALS, we applied GOS and GOS-rich prebiotic yogurt in SOD1(G93A) mice and assessed their effects on the disease progression of ALS. Our results showed that GOS and prebiotics yogurt administration significantly delayed the disease onset and prolonged the lifespan in SOD1(G93A) mice. Also, these products increased the concentration of folate, VitB12 and reduced the level of Hcy. Moreover, we found that both GOS and prebiotics yogurt attenuated motor neurons loss, improved the atrophy and mitochondrial activity in myocyte. Furthermore, we demonstrated that GOS and GOS-rich prebiotic treatment suppressed the activation of astrocytes and microglia and regulated several inflammatory- and apoptosis-related factors. Our findings suggested that GOS might have therapeutic potential for ALS, and GOS-rich prebiotic yogurt might be considered as a nutritional therapy for this disease.
The executive clock drawing task (CLOX) is one of the widely used clock drawing tests (CDTs) and is composed of CLOX1, an unprompted CDT, and CLOX2, a simple copying CDT. Although it is conceptually believed that CLOX1 is sensitive to both executive function and constructional ability while CLOX2 reflects only constructional ability, there are still lack of studies on the functional neuroanatomical substrates of CLOX1 and 2 performances. This study aimed to identify the functional brain correlates of CLOX1 and 2 performances in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). CLOX was administered to 139 AD patients and 50 normal controls, and regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMglc) was measured by (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography. Correlations between CLOX scores and rCMglc were examined on a voxel-by-voxel basis in AD patients. For the overall AD group, significant positive correlations between CLOX1 and rCMglc were found in the bilateral temporo-parietal and left middle frontal regions, while CLOX2 was correlated with rCMglc of the bilateral temporo-parietal regions. Additional subgroup analysis showed that CLOX1 was associated with the left temporal metabolism in less severe AD, and with the right temporo-parietal metabolism in more severe AD. In contrast, CLOX2 was correlated with rCMglc of the diffuse right fronto-temporo-parietal regions in more severe AD, but not with any rCMglc in less severe AD. This is the first neuroimaging study on the functional neuroanatomical correlates of CLOX performances in AD. Given the relationships between specific cognitive performances and regional brain functions, the findings probably support the notion that CLOX1 demands not merely visuospatial functions but also executive control, while CLOX2 depends mainly on visuospatial ability. Our results also indicate that each CLOX performance depends on very different functional brain regions according to AD clinical stages.
Previous research demonstrated that rotenone (RT) induces neuronal injury partially by increasing intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)]i), and inducing oxidative stress, leading to a neurodegenerative disorder. However, the mechanism of RT-induced injury remains elusive. Recent work revealed that Ca(2+) signaling is important for RT-induced senescence in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. In the present study, we found that in SH-SY5Y cells, RT increased [Ca(2+)]i, senescence associated -galactosidase activity, aggregation of lipofuscin, production of reactive oxygen species, G1/G0 cell cycle arrest, and activation of p53/p21 signaling proteins. In addition, RT decreased the expression of the signaling proteins for cell proliferation and survival, Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), cyclin D1, and Akt. Pretreatment of SH-SY5Y cells with isradipine, an L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, or EGTA antagonized these effects of RT. These results suggested that application of isradipine might be a novel approach to prevent RT-induced neurodegenerative disorder such as Parkinson's disease.
Fragile X Syndrome (FXS) is the most common single-gene inherited form of intellectual disability with behaviors characteristic of autism. People with FXS display childhood seizures, hyperactivity, anxiety, developmental delay, attention deficits, and visual-spatial memory impairment, as well as a propensity for obsessive-compulsive disorder. Several of these aberrant behaviors and FXS-associated synaptic irregularities also occur in &quot;fragile X mental retardation gene&quot; knock-out (Fmr1 KO) mice. We previously reported that minocycline promotes the maturation of dendritic spines - postsynaptic sites for excitatory synapses - in the developing hippocampus of Fmr1 KO mice, which may underlie the beneficial effects of minocycline on anxiolytic behavior in young Fmr1 KO mice. In this study, we compared the effectiveness of minocycline treatment in young and adult Fmr1 KO mice, and determined the dependence of behavioral improvements on short-term versus long-term minocycline administration. We found that 4- and 8-week-long treatments significantly reduced locomotor activity in both young and adult Fmr1 KO mice. Some behavioral improvements persisted in young mice post-treatment, but in adults the beneficial effects were lost soon after minocycline treatment was stopped. We also show, for the first time, that minocycline treatment partially attenuates the number and severity of audiogenic seizures in Fmr1 KO mice. This report provides further evidence that minocycline treatment has immediate and long-lasting benefits on FXS-associated behaviors in the Fmr1 KO mouse model.
Chronic stress exacerbates and can induce symptoms of depression and anxiety disorders. Chronic stress causes amygdala hyperactivity, which may contribute to these detrimental effects. One potential mechanism for amygdala hyperactivity is an increase of excitatory drive after stress. Excitatory inputs to the amygdala predominantly synapse upon dendritic spines, and repeated stress has been demonstrated to increase dendritic spines in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). However, the BLA is comprised of several nuclei, including the lateral nucleus (LAT) and the basal nucleus (BA), which exert functionally distinct roles in amygdala-dependent behaviors. Furthermore, while an increase of dendritic spines can impart significant functional ramifications, a shift of spine distribution can also exert significant impact. However, differences in the effects of repeated stress on LAT and BA have not been examined, nor differential effects on spine distribution. This study examined the effects of repeated restraint stress on dendritic structure of principal neurons from the LAT and BA in Golgi-stained tissue. This study found that repeated stress increased spine number in LAT and BA, but in very distinct patterns, with proximal increases in LAT neurons and non-proximal increases in BA neurons. Furthermore, repeated stress increased dendritic length in the BA, but not the LAT, leading to a global change of spine density in BA, but a focal change in LAT. These distinct effects of repeated stress in the LAT and BA may exert significant functional effects on fear behavior, and may underlie differences in the effects of repeated stress on acquisition, contextual modulation and extinction of fear behavior.

The feedback connections from the cortical middle temporal (MT) motion area, to layer 6 of the primary visual cortex (V1), have the capacity to drive a cascaded feedback influence from the layer 6 cortico-geniculate cells back to the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) relay cells. This introduces the possibility of a re-entrant motion signal affecting the relay of the retinal input through the LGN to the visual cortex. The question is whether the response of LGN cells to moving stimuli involves a component derived from this feedback. By producing a reversible focal pharmacological block of the activity of an MT direction column we show the presence of such an influence from MT on the responses of magno, parvo and koniocellular cells in the macaque LGN. The pattern of effect in the LGN reflects the direction bias of the MT location inactivated. This suggests a moving stimulus is captured by iterative interactions in the circuit formed by visual cortical areas and visual thalamus.
Propofol (2,6-diisopropylphenol) has been shown to attenuate neuronal injury under a number of experimental conditions; however, the mechanisms involved in its neuroprotective effects remain unclear. We therefore investigated whether inhibition of p53 induction by propofol contributes to the neuroprotection of cerebral ischemic cell death through both autophagic and apoptotic mechanisms. A transient global cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) model was produced with a 10-min, 2-vessel occlusion. The change in target genes including damage-regulated autophagy modulator (DRAM), microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3), Beclin 1, cathepsin D, cathepsin B, p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA), Bax and Bcl-2 upon p53 inhibition was assessed with the co-administration of the intravenous anesthetic propofol and 3-methyladenine (3-MA), Pifithrin-alpha (PFT-) or SN50. The I/R-induced increases of protein levels of p53 and LC3-II were significantly inhibited by treatment with propofol, 3-MA or PFT-. The I/R-induced increases of protein levels of DRAM, Beclin 1, active cathepsin D and cathepsin B were significantly inhibited by treatment with propofol, PFT- or SN50. The negative effects of the I/R-induced up-regulation of PUMA and Bax and the down-regulation of Bcl-2 in the rat hippocampus were all blocked by treatment with propofol, PFT- or SN50. Our results suggest that cerebral I/R can induce nuclear factor-kappa B-dependent expression of p53. The autophagic and apoptotic mechanisms participate in programed cell death by regulating the p53-mediated pathway. Our results are the first to show that propofol, at clinically relevant concentrations, attenuated cell death through both autophagic and apoptotic mechanisms in the rat hippocampus after a cerebral I/R insult.
Our prior research has shown that the transcription of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress transcription factors activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) and ATF4 are induced by amphetamine and restraint stress in rat striatum. However, presently the full extent of ER stress responses to psychological stress or cocaine, and which of the three ER stress pathways is activated is unknown. The current study examines transcriptional responses of key ER stress target genes subsequent to psychological stress or cocaine. Rats were subjected to acute or repeated restraint stress or cocaine treatment and mRNA was isolated from dorsal striatum, medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens brain tissue. ER stress gene mRNA expression was measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and RNA sequencing. Restraint stress and cocaine-induced transcription of the classic ER stress-induced genes (BIP, CHOP, ATF3 and GADD34) and of two other ER stress components x-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) and ATF6. In addition, rats living in an enriched environment (large group cage with novel toys changed daily) exhibited rapid induction of GADD34 and ATF3 after 30 min of exploring novel toys, suggesting these genes are also involved in normal non-pathological signaling. However, environmental enrichment, a paradigm that produces protective addiction and depression phenotypes in rats, attenuated the rapid induction of ATF3 and GADD34 after restraint stress. These experiments provide a sensitive measure of ER stress and, more importantly, these results offer good evidence of the activation of ER stress mechanisms from psychological stress, cocaine and natural reward. Thus, ER stress genes may be targets for novel therapeutic targets for depression and addiction.
Chronic stress has been shown to impair memory, however, the extent to which memory can be impaired is often variable across individuals. Predisposed differences in particular traits, such as anxiety, may reveal underlying neurobiological mechanisms that could be driving individual differences in sensitivity to stress and, thus, stress resiliency. Such pre-morbid characteristics may serve as early indicators of susceptibility to stress. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and enkephalin (ENK) are neurochemical messengers of interest implicated in modulating anxiety and motivation circuitry; however, little is known about how these neuropeptides interact with stress resiliency and memory. In this experiment, adult male rats were appetitively trained to locate sugar rewards in a motivation-based spatial memory task before undergoing repeated immobilization stress and then being tested for memory retention. Anxiety-related behaviors, among other characteristics, were monitored longitudinally. Results indicated that stressed animals which showed little to no impairments in memory post-stress (i.e., the more stress-resilient individuals) exhibited lower anxiety levels prior to stress when compared to stressed animals that showed large deficits in memory (i.e., the more stress-susceptible individuals). Interestingly, all stressed animals, regardless of memory change, showed reduced body weight gain as well as thymic involution, suggesting that the effects of stress on metabolism and the immune system were dissociated from the effects of stress on higher cognition, and that stress resiliency seems to be domain-specific rather than a global characteristic within an individual. Neurochemical analyses revealed that NPY in the hypothalamus and amygdala and ENK in the nucleus accumbens were modulated differentially between stress-resilient and stress-susceptible individuals, with elevated expression of these neuropeptides fostering anxiolytic and pro-motivation function, thus driving cognitive resiliency in a domain-specific manner. Findings suggest that such neurochemical markers may be novel targets for pharmacological interventions that can serve to prevent or ameliorate the negative effects of stress on memory.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are densely expressed in the brain with ASIC1a and ASIC2 channels being the predominant subtypes. These channels are enriched at synaptic sites and are central for the regulation of normal synaptic transmission. Moreover, increasing evidence links ASICs to the pathogenesis of various neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders. In this study, we explore the putative role of ASIC1a and ASIC2 in the regulation of behavioral sensitivity to the psychostimulant cocaine by utilizing ASIC1a or ASIC2 knockout mice. Acute cocaine injection induced a typical dose-dependent increase in locomotor activities in wild-type (WT) mice. However, in ASIC1a and ASIC2 mutant mice, different motor responses to cocaine were observed. In ASIC1a(-/-) mice, cocaine induced a significantly less motor response at all doses (5, 10, 20, and 30 mg/kg), while in ASIC2(-/-) mice, cocaine (5-20 mg/kg) stimulated locomotor activity to an extent comparable to WT mice. Only at 30 mg/kg, the cocaine-stimulated motor activity was reduced in ASIC2(-/-) mice. In a chronic cocaine administration model (20mg/kg, once daily for 5 days), a challenge injection of cocaine (10mg/kg, after 2-week withdrawal) caused an evident behavioral sensitization in the cocaine-pretreated WT mice. This behavioral sensitization to challenge cocaine was also displayed in ASIC1a(-/-) and ASIC2(-/-) mice. However, ASIC2(-/-) mice showed less sensitization to challenge cocaine when compared to WT and ASIC1a(-/-) mice. Our results demonstrate the important role of ASIC1a and ASIC2 channels in the modulation of behavioral sensitivity to cocaine. The two synapse-enriched ASIC subtypes are believed to play distinguishable roles in the regulation of behavioral responses to acute and chronic cocaine administration.
Mounting evidence indicates that inflammatory cytokines contribute to the development of depression in both medically ill and medically healthy individuals. Cytokines are important for development and normal brain function, and have the ability to influence neurocircuitry and neurotransmitter systems to produce behavioral alterations. Acutely, inflammatory cytokine administration or activation of the innate immune system produces adaptive behavioral responses that promote conservation of energy to combat infection or recovery from injury. However, chronic exposure to elevated inflammatory cytokines and persistent alterations in neurotransmitter systems can lead to neuropsychiatric disorders and depression. Mechanisms of cytokine behavioral effects involve activation of inflammatory signaling pathways in the brain that results in changes in monoamine, glutamate, and neuropeptide systems, and decreases in growth factors, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Furthermore, inflammatory cytokines may serve as mediators of both environmental (e.g. childhood trauma, obesity, stress, and poor sleep) and genetic (functional gene polymorphisms) factors that contribute to depression's development. This review explores the idea that specific gene polymorphisms and neurotransmitter systems can confer protection from or vulnerability to specific symptom dimensions of cytokine-related depression. Additionally, potential therapeutic strategies that target inflammatory cytokine signaling or the consequences of cytokines on neurotransmitter systems in the brain to prevent or reverse cytokine effects on behavior are discussed.
A number of imaging studies have reported neuroanatomical correlates of human intelligence with various morphological characteristics of the cerebral cortex. However, it is not yet clear whether these morphological properties of the cerebral cortex account for human intelligence. We assumed that the complex structure of the cerebral cortex could be explained effectively considering cortical thickness, surface area, sulcal depth and absolute mean curvature together. In 78 young healthy adults (age range: 17-27, male/female: 39/39), we used the full-scale intelligence quotient (FSIQ) and the cortical measurements calculated in native space from each subject to determine how much combining various cortical measures explained human intelligence. Since each cortical measure is thought to be not independent but highly inter-related, we applied partial least square (PLS) regression, which is one of the most promising multivariate analysis approaches, to overcome multicollinearity among cortical measures. Our results showed that 30% of FSIQ was explained by the first latent variable extracted from PLS regression analysis. Although it is difficult to relate the first derived latent variable with specific anatomy, we found that cortical thickness measures had a substantial impact on the PLS model supporting the most significant factor accounting for FSIQ. Our results presented here strongly suggest that the new predictor combining different morphometric properties of complex cortical structure is well suited for predicting human intelligence.
Enhanced light sensitivity is a common feature of many neuro-ophthalmic conditions and some chronic headaches. Previously we reported that the bright light-evoked increases in trigeminal brainstem neural activity and lacrimation depended on a neurovascular link within the eye (Okamoto et al., 2012). However, the supraspinal pathways necessary for these light-evoked responses are not well defined. To assess the contribution of the posterior hypothalamic area (PH), a brain region closely associated with control of autonomic outflow, we injected bicuculline methiodide (BMI), a GABAa receptor antagonist, into the PH and determined its effect on the encoding properties of ocular neurons at the ventrolateral trigeminal interpolaris/caudalis transition (Vi/Vc) and caudalis/upper cervical cord junction (Vc/C1) regions and on reflex lacrimation in male rats under isoflurane anesthesia. BMI markedly reduced light-evoked (&gt;80%) responses of Vi/Vc and Vc/C1 neurons at 10 min with partial recovery by 50 min after injection. BMI also reduced (&gt;35%) the convergent cutaneous receptive field area of Vi/Vc and Vc/C1 ocular neurons indicating that both intra-ocular and periorbital cutaneous inputs were affected by changes in PH outflow. Light-evoked lacrimation was reduced by &gt;35% at 10 min after BMI, while resting mean arterial pressure increased promptly and remained elevated (&gt;20 mmHg) throughout the 50-min post-injection period. These results suggested that PH stimulation, acting in part through increased sympathetic activity, significantly inhibited light- and facial skin-evoked activity of ocular neurons at the Vi/Vc and Vc/C1 region. These data provide further support for the hypothesis that autonomic outflow plays a critical role in mediating light-evoked trigeminal brainstem neural activity and reflex lacrimation.
The somatic marker hypothesis asserts that decision-making can be guided by feedback of bodily states to the brain. In line with this hypothesis, the present study tested whether sympathetic activity shows an association with a tonic dimension of decision-making, exploratory tendency represented by entropy in information theory, and further examined the neural mechanisms of the association. Twenty participants performed a stochastic reversal learning task that required decision-making in an unstable and uncertain situation. Regional cerebral blood flow was evaluated using (15)O-water positron emission tomography (PET), and cardiovascular indices and concentrations of catecholamine in peripheral blood were also measured, during the task. In reversal learning, increased epinephrine during the task positively correlated with larger entropy, indicating a greater tendency for exploration in decision-making. The increase of epinephrine also correlated with brain activity revealed by PET in the somatosensory cortices, anterior insula, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, and the dorsal pons. This result is consistent with previously reported brain matrixes of representation of bodily states and interoception. In addition, activity of the anterior insula specifically correlated with entropy, suggesting possible mediation of this brain region between peripheral sympathetic arousal and exploration in decision-making. These findings shed a new light about a role of bodily states in decision-making and underlying neural mechanisms.
Vestibulo-ocular reflexes are the fastest compensatory reflex systems. One of these is the translational vestibulo-ocular reflex (TVOR) which stabilizes the gaze at a given fixation point during whole body translations. For a proper response of the TVOR the eyes have to counter rotate in the head with a velocity that is inversely scaled to viewing distance of the target. It is generally assumed that scaling of the TVOR is automatically coupled to vergence angle at the brainstem level. However, different lines of evidence also argue that in humans scaling of the TVOR also depends on a mechanism that pre-sets gain on a priori knowledge of target distance. To discriminate between these two possibilities we used a real target paradigm with vergence angle coupled to distance and a virtual target paradigm with vergence angle dissociated from target distance. We compared TVOR responses in six subjects who underwent lateral sinusoidal whole-body translations at 1 and 2 Hz. Real targets varied between distance of 50 and 22.4 cm in front of the subjects, whereas the virtual targets consisting of a green and red light emitting diode (LED) were physically located at 50 cm from the subject. Red and green LED's were dichoptically viewed. By shifting the red LED relative to the green LED we created a range of virtual viewing distances where vergence angle changed but the ideal kinematic eye velocity was always the same. Eye velocity data recorded with virtual targets were compared to eye velocity data recorded with real targets. We also used flashing targets (flash frequency 1 Hz, duration 5 ms). During the real, continuous visible targets condition scaling of compensatory eye velocity with vergence angle was nearly perfect. During viewing of virtual targets, and with flashed targets compensatory eye velocity only weakly correlated to vergence angle, indicating that vergence angle is only partially coupled to compensatory eye velocity during translation. Our data suggest that in humans vergence angle as a measure of target distance estimation has only limited use for automatic TVOR scaling.
There is high comorbidity between stress-related psychiatric disorders and addiction, suggesting they may share one or more common neurobiological mechanisms. Because of its role in both depressive and addictive behaviors, the galanin system is a strong candidate for such a mechanism. In this study, we tested if galanin and its receptors are involved in stress-associated behaviors and drug addiction. Mice were exposed to 21 days of chronic restraint stress (CRS); subsequently, mRNA levels of galanin, galanin receptors (GalRs), the rate-limiting enzymes for the synthesis of monoamines, and monoamine autoreceptors were measured in the nucleus accumbens by a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Moreover, we tested the effects of this stress on morphine-induced addictive behaviors. We found that CRS induced anxiety and depression-like behaviors, impaired the formation and facilitated the extinction process in morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), and also blocked morphine-induced behavioral sensitization. These behavioral results were accompanied by a CRS-dependent increase in the mRNA expression of galanin, GalR1, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), tryptophan hydroxylase 2, and 5-HT1B receptor. Interestingly, treatment with a commonly used antidepressant, fluoxetine, normalized the CRS-induced behavioral changes based on reversing the higher expression of galanin and TH while increasing the expression of GalR2 and 2A-adrenceptor. These results indicate that activating the galanin system, with corresponding changes to noradrenergic systems, following chronic stress may modulate stress-associated behaviors and opiate addiction. Our findings suggest that galanin and GalRs are worthy of further exploration as potential therapeutic targets to treat stress-related disorders and drug addiction.
It is well established that social recognition memory is mediated, in part, by arginine vasopressin (AVP). AVP cells within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) and medial amygdala (MeA) send AVP-ergic projections to the lateral septum (LS). We have demonstrated that progesterone treatment decreases AVP immunoreactivity within the BST, the MeA and the LS, and that progesterone treatment impairs social recognition. These data suggested that progesterone may impair social recognition memory by decreasing AVP. In the present experiment, we hypothesized that infusions of AVP into the LS would rescue the progesterone-induced impairment in social recognition within adult male rats. One week after adult male rats underwent cannula surgery, they were given systemic injections of either a physiological dose of progesterone or oil control for 3 days. Four hours after the last injection, we tested social recognition memory using the social discrimination paradigm, a two-trial test that is based on the natural propensity for rats to be highly motivated to investigate novel conspecifics. Immediately after the first exposure to a juvenile, each animal received bilateral infusions of either AVP or artificial cerebrospinal fluid into the LS. Our results show that, as expected, control animals exhibited normal social discrimination. In corroboration with our previous results, animals given progesterone have impaired social discrimination. Interestingly, animals treated with progesterone and AVP exhibited normal social discrimination, suggesting that AVP treatment rescued the impairment in social recognition caused by progesterone. These data also further support a role for progesterone in modulating vasopressin-dependent behavior within the male brain.
Previous research indicates that distinct subregions of the cerebellum are involved in the processing of different primary emotions. How this is achieved in terms of connectional specificity with other brain areas still needs to be elucidated. We employed functional magnetic resonance imaging in order to investigate cerebellar activation and connectivity relevant for the processing of two basic emotions. Thirty-four healthy women were presented with pictures that specifically elicited happiness and disgust with the instruction to rate the intensity of the experienced feelings. The contrasting of both affective conditions showed that disgust evoked activation of the vermis and the cerebellar hemispheres, whereas happiness-associated activation was restricted to the posterior cerebellum. Both emotions provoked increased connectivity of the cerebellum with limbic regions. The observed extended connectivity patterns can explain why cerebellar lesions are able to produce pronounced changes of affective experience in the afflicted patients.
Osmotic swelling of retinal neurons and glial cells is an important pathogenic factor of retinal edema formation. Here, we show that the neuroprotective factor osteopontin (OPN), which is released from retinal glial (Mller) cells after stimulation of the cells with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (Del Ro et al., 2011, Glia 59:821-832), inhibits the swelling of rat Mller cells induced by hypoosmotic exposure of retinal slices in the presence of barium ions and HO, respectively, and in slices of postischemic retinas. OPN did not inhibit the hypoosmotic swelling of bipolar cells in slices of control and postischemic retinas. The inhibitory effect of OPN on Mller cell swelling was dose-dependent, with a half-maximal effect at 0.6 ng/ml. The effect of OPN was abrogated in the presence of pharmacological blockers of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-2, metabotropic glutamate receptors, and purinergic receptors (P2Y, adenosine A1 receptors), as well as of a neutralizing anti-VEGF antibody. The data suggest that OPN induces the release of VEGF, glutamate, ATP, and adenosine from Mller cells. The effect of OPN was also prevented by blockers of voltage-gated sodium channels (tetrodotoxin), T-type voltage-gated calcium channels (kurtoxin), potassium channels (clofilium), and chloride channels 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)benzoic acid (NPPB). The swelling-inhibitory effect of OPN was dependent on intracellular calcium signaling, activation of phospholipase C and protein kinase C, and vesicular exocytosis of glutamate. In retinal slices, Mller glial cells display immunoreactivity of OPN. The data suggest that Mller cell-derived OPN has (in addition to the effects on photoreceptors and retinal neurons) autocrine effects. The neuroprotective effects of OPN may be in part mediated by the prevention of cytotoxic Mller cell swelling and the release of VEGF and adenosine from Mller cells.
Chronic stress induces dendritic atrophy in the rat primary auditory cortex (A1), a key brain area for auditory attention. The aim of this study was to determine whether repeated restraint stress affects auditory attention and synaptic transmission in A1. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained in a two-alternative choice task (2-ACT), a behavioral paradigm to study auditory attention in rats. Trained animals that reached a performance over 80% of correct trials in the 2-ACT were randomly assigned to control and restraint stress experimental groups. To analyze the effects of restraint stress on the auditory attention, trained rats of both groups were subjected to 50 2-ACT trials one day before and one day after of the stress period. A difference score was determined by subtracting the number of correct trials after from those before the stress protocol. Another set of rats was used to study the synaptic transmission in A1. Restraint stress decreased the number of correct trials by 28% compared to the performance of control animals (p &lt; 0.001). Furthermore, stress reduced the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSC) and miniature IPSC in A1, whereas glutamatergic efficacy was not affected. Our results demonstrate that restraint stress decreased auditory attention and GABAergic synaptic efficacy in A1.
Physical exercise during pregnancy has been considered beneficial to mother and child. Recent studies showed that maternal swimming improves memory in the offspring, increases hippocampal neurogenesis and levels of neurotrophic factors. The objective of this work was to investigate the effect of maternal swimming during pregnancy on redox status and mitochondrial parameters in brain structures from the offspring. Adult female Wistar rats were submitted to five swimming sessions (30 min/day) prior to mating with adult male Wistar rats, and then trained during the pregnancy (five sessions of 30-min swimming/week). The litter was sacrificed when 7 days old, when cerebellum, parietal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum were dissected. We evaluated the production of reactive species and antioxidant status, measuring the activities of superoxide-dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione-peroxidase (GPx), as well as non-enzymatic antioxidants. We also investigated a potential mitochondrial biogenesis regarding mitochondrion mass and membrane potential, through cytometric approaches. Our results showed that maternal swimming exercise promoted an increase in reactive species levels in cerebellum, parietal cortex, and hippocampus, demonstrated by an increase in dichlorofluorescein oxidation. Mitochondrial superoxide was reduced in cerebellum and parietal cortex, while nitrite levels were increased in cerebellum, parietal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. Antioxidant status was improved in cerebellum, parietal cortex, and hippocampus. SOD activity was increased in parietal cortex, and was not altered in the remaining brain structures. CAT and GPx activities, as well as non-enzymatic antioxidant potential, were increased in cerebellum, parietal cortex, and hippocampus of rats whose mothers were exercised. Finally, we observed an increased mitochondrial mass and membrane potential, suggesting mitochondriogenesis, in cerebellum and parietal cortex of pups subjected to maternal swimming. In conclusion, maternal swimming exercise induced neurometabolic programing in the offspring that could be of benefit to the rats against future cerebral insults.
Neural mechanisms underlying the capacity of memory to be rich in sensory detail are largely unknown. A candidate mechanism is learning-induced plasticity that remodels the adult sensory cortex. Here, expansion in the primary auditory cortical (A1) tonotopic map of rats was induced by pairing a 3.66-kHz tone with activation of the nucleus basalis, mimicking the effects of natural associative learning. Remodeling of A1 produced de novo specific behavioral memory, but neither memory nor plasticity was consistently at the frequency of the paired tone, which typically decreased in A1 representation. Rather, there was a specific match between individual subjects' area of expansion and the tone that was strongest in each animal's memory, as determined by post-training frequency generalization gradients. These findings provide the first demonstration of a match between the artificial induction of specific neural representational plasticity and artificial induction of behavioral memory. As such, together with prior and present findings for detection, correlation and mimicry of plasticity with the acquisition of memory, they satisfy a key criterion for neural substrates of memory. This demonstrates that directly remodeling sensory cortical maps is sufficient for the specificity of memory formation.
The primary aim of this study was to investigate the effect of different training types and secondary to test gender differences on the training-related cortical plasticity induced by three different tongue-training paradigms: (1) therapeutic tongue exercises (TTE), (2) playing computer games with the tongue using the Tongue Drive System (TDS) and (3) tongue-protrusion task (TPT). Forty-eight participants were randomized into three groups with 1h of TTE, TDS, or TPT. Stimulus-response curves of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and motor cortex mapping for tongue muscles and first dorsal interosseous (FDI) (control) were established using transcranial magnetic stimulation at three time-points: (1) before tongue-training, (2) immediately after training, (3) 1h after training. Subject-based reports of motivation, fun, pain and fatigue were evaluated on 0-10 numerical rating scales after training. The resting motor thresholds of tongue MEPs were lowered by training with TDS and TPT (P&lt;0.011) but not by TTE (P=0.167). Tongue MEP amplitudes increased after training with TDS and TPT (P&lt;0.030) but not with TTE (P=0.302). Men had higher MEPs than women in the TDS group (P&lt;0.045) at all time-points. No significant effect of tongue-training on FDI MEPs was observed (P&gt;0.335). The tongue cortical motor map areas were not significantly increased by training (P&gt;0.142). Training with TDS was most motivating and fun (P&lt;0.001) and TTE was rated the most painful (P&lt;0.001). Fatigue level was not different between groups (P&gt;0.071). These findings suggest a differential effect of tongue-training paradigms on training-induced cortical plasticity and subject-based scores of fun, motivation and pain in healthy participants.
The accessory nerve (nervus accessorius) displays a unique organization in that its axons ascend along the rostrocaudal axis after exiting the cervical spinal cord and medulla oblongata and thereafter project ventrally into the periphery at the first somite level. Little is known about how this organization is achieved. We have investigated the role of somites in the guidance of motor axons of the accessory nerve using heterotopic transplantations of somites in avian embryos. The formation of not only accessory nerve but also the vagal nerve was affected, when a more caudal occipital somite (somites 2-4) was grafted to the position of the first occipital somite. Our study reveals that only the first occipital somite permits the development of ventral projection of accessory axons, a process that is inhibited by more caudal occipital somites.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the largest unmet medical concerns of our society. Around 25 million patients worldwide together with their families are still waiting for an effective treatment. We have recently initiated a re-evaluation of our knowledge of the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying sporadic AD. Based on the existing literature, we have proposed a mechanistic explanation of how the late-onset form of the disease may evolve on the cellular level. Here, we expand this hypothesis by addressing the pathophysiological changes underlying the early and almost invariant appearance of the neurofibrillary tangles, the only reliable correlate of the cognitive status, in distinct brain areas and their consistent &quot;spread&quot; along interconnected neurons as the disease advances. In this review we present and discuss novel evidence that the extracellular signaling protein Reelin, expressed along the olfactory and limbic pathways in the adult brain, might hold a key to understand the earliest steps of the disease, highlighting the olfactory pathway as the brain's Achilles heel involved in the initiation of the pathophysiological characteristic of late-onset AD.
Pseudoephedrine (PSE) salts (hydrochloride and sulfate) are commonly used as nasal and paranasal decongestants by scuba divers. Anecdotal reports from the Divers Alert Network suggest that taking PSE prior to diving while breathing pure O increases the risk for CNS oxygen toxicity (CNS-OT), which manifests as seizures. We hypothesized that high doses of PSE reduce the latency time to seizure (LS) in unanesthetized rats breathing 5 atmospheres absolute (ATA) of hyperbaric oxygen. Sixty-three male rats were implanted with radio-transmitters that recorded electroencephalogram activity and body temperature. After 7-day recovery, and 2 h before &quot;diving&quot;, each rat was administered either saline solution (control) or PSE hydrochloride intragastrically at the following doses (mg PSE/kg): 0, 40, 80, 100, 120, 160, and 320. Rats breathed pure O and were dived to 5ATA until the onset of behavioral seizures coincident with neurological seizures. LS was the time elapsed between reaching 5ATA and exhibiting seizures. We observed a significant dose-dependent decrease in the LS at doses of 100-320 mg/kg, whereas no significant differences in LS from control value were observed at doses 80 mg/kg. Our findings showed that high doses of PSE accelerate the onset of CNS-OT seizures in unanesthetized rats breathing 5ATA of poikilocapnic hyperoxia. Extrapolating our findings to humans, we conclude that the recommended daily dose of PSE should not be abused prior to diving with oxygen-enriched gas mixes or pure O.
When a consolidated memory is reactivated, it can become labile and prone to enhancement or disruption, a process known as reconsolidation. The reconsolidation hypothesis has challenged the traditional view that memories after consolidation are fixed and unchangeable. Recent studies suggest that the mechanisms mediating memory retrieval and the mechanisms that underlie the behavioral expression of memory can be dissociated, offering a new promise for the understanding of human memory persistence. Although reconsolidation studies typically use amnesic agents, it has also been shown that memory can be enhanced by pharmacological agents and real-life events during reconsolidation. Recently, we demonstrated that a mild stressor, cold pressor stress (CPS), can enhance human declarative memory during reconsolidation in a cued-recall test. Here we evaluate whether the recollection of 7- or 20-day-old long-term memories can be improved by exposure to two different neuromodulators: a mild stressor and glucose during reconsolidation. As expected, poor and very poor memory performance was found at the time of memory reactivation (days 6 and 20 after training). CPS during reconsolidation improved the long-term expression of a declarative memory 6 -but not 20-days after training. However, the administration of an oral source of glucose (juice), but not a diet juice, can enhance memory during reconsolidation even 20 days after training. Interestingly, when a recognition test was applied instead of a cued-recall test, memory performance was still robust at both 1 and 3 weeks after training. Here we show that the period in which this memory can be reactivated and become labile largely exceeds the period in which that memory is recalled, proving evidence that conscious access is not needed for reconsolidation. Present results are consistent with dissociation between the mechanisms mediating memory labilization and the mechanisms that underlie the behavioral expression of memory.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder primarily affecting the dopaminergic neurons in the nigrastriatal pathway resulting in debilitating motor impairment in both familial and sporadic cases. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have been recently implicated as a therapeutic candidate because of their ability to correct the disrupted HDAC activity in PD and other neurodegenerative diseases. Sodium butyrate (SB), an HDAC inhibitor, reduces degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in a mutant alpha-synuclein Drosophila transgenic model of familial PD. Chronic exposure to the pesticide rotenone also causes selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and causes locomotor impairment and early mortality in a Drosophila model of chemically induced PD. This study investigated the effects of sodium butyrate on locomotor impairment and early mortality in a rotenone-induced PD model. We show that treatment with 10mM SB-supplemented food rescued the rotenone-induced locomotor impairment and early mortality in flies. Additionally, flies with the genetic knockdown of HDAC activity through Sin3A loss-of-function mutation (Sin3A(lof)) were resistant to rotenone-induced locomotor impairment and early mortality. Furthermore, SB-supplemented Sin3A(lof) flies had a modest additive effect for improving locomotor impairment. We also show SB-mediated improvement of rotenone-induced locomotor impairment was associated with elevated dopamine levels in the brain. However, the possibility of SB-mediated protective role through mechanisms independent from dopamine system is also discussed. These findings demonstrate that HDAC inhibitors like SB can ameliorate locomotor impairment in a rotenone-induced PD model.
Chronic stress or glucocorticoid exposure simplifies hippocampal Cornu Ammonis region 3 (CA3) apical dendritic arbors in male rats. In contrast to males, chronic stress either reduces CA3 basal branching or exerts no observable morphological effects in gonadally intact female rats. Under conditions that females display stress-induced CA3 dendritic retraction, such as that following ovariectomy, chronic exposure to 17-estradiol or cholesterol can negate these changes. Whether glucocorticoids produce CA3 dendritic retraction in ovariectomized females and whether neuroprotection from 17-estradiol or cholesterol is sex-specific remains unknown. The current study examined the effects of chronic glucocorticoid exposure, in conjunction with 17-estradiol or cholesterol administration, on hippocampal CA3 dendritic complexity. Adult male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were gonadectomized and implanted with 25% 17-estradiol in cholesterol, 100% cholesterol, or blank Silastic capsules. Rats were then assigned to either a 21-day corticosterone (CORT) drink (400g/ml CORT, 2.4% ethanol in tap water) or tap water (Tap, 2.4% ethanol in tap water) treatment. Brains were processed for Golgi staining, and hippocampal CA3 dendritic architecture was quantified. Results showed 21-day CORT administration reduced hippocampal CA3 apical dendritic branch points, CA3 apical dendritic length, body weight gain, and adrenal weights compared to male and female control counterparts. Furthermore, male and female rats implanted with Silastic capsules containing cholesterol or 25% 17-estradiol in cholesterol were protected from CORT-induced CA3 apical dendritic branch reduction. No effects were observed in the CA3 basal dendritic arbors. The present results demonstrate that CORT produces hippocampal CA3 dendritic retraction in gonadectomized male and female rats and that cholesterol and 25% 17-estradiol in cholesterol prevent this dendritic simplification.
Little is known on how the CNS would select its movement options when a person faces a novel or recurring perturbation of two opposing types (slip or trip) while walking. The purposes of this study were (1) to determine whether young adults' adaptation to repeated slips would interfere with their recovery from a novel trip, and (2) to investigate the generalized strategies after they were exposed to a mixed training with both types of perturbation. Thirty-two young adults were assigned to either the training group, which first underwent repeated-slip training before encountering a novel, unannounced trip while walking, or to the control group, which only experienced the same novel, unannounced trip. The former group would then experience a mix of repeated trips and slips. The results indicated that prior adaptation to slips had only limited interference during the initial phase of trip recovery. In fact, the prior repeated-slip exposure had primed their reaction, which mitigated any error resulting from early interference. As a result, they did not have to take a longer compensatory step for trip recovery than did the controls. After the mixed training, subjects were able to converge effectively the motion state of their center of mass (in its position and velocity space) to a stable and generalized &quot;middle ground&quot; steady-state. Such movement strategies not only further strengthened their robust reactive control of stability, but also reduced the CNS' overall reliance on accurate context prediction and on feedback correction of perturbation-induced movement error.
Many epidemiological reports stated a strong association between maternal infection and development of cerebral palsy, which is a major cause of cognitive impairment. The pathophysiological mechanism of intrauterine inflammation is complex. Recently, it was demonstrated that inflammation has a modulating effect on adult neurogenesis. In this study, we discovered the effect of maternal infection to hippocampal neuronal apoptosis, proliferation and differentiation, and cognitive development in the developing brains of neonatal rats. Morris water maze test was used to assess learning and memory. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling assay was used to determine neuronal apoptosis, immunostaining was conducted to assess neurogenesis, and Western blot for extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), cyclic AMP responsive element-binding protein (CREB) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the hippocampus. Results demonstrated that maternal infection increased neuronal apoptosis and significantly impaired spatial learning and memory ability. Maternal infection significantly increased cell proliferation, accompanied by an increased expression of ERK (P3-P7), CREB (P3-P7) and BDNF (P3). On P28, there was no significant difference of cell survival and differentiation in two groups. These results suggest that variation in ERK activity and subsequent expression of its downstream targets, including CREB and BDNF might contribute, at least partially, to modulation of inflammation related cell proliferation, survival and differentiation. Maternal infection increased hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and affected cell proliferation and differentiation in neonatal rats, which may be regarded as an etiological factor in cognitive development impairment.
The amygdaloid complex, or amygdala, has been implicated in assigning emotional significance to sensory information and producing appropriate behavioral responses to external stimuli. The lateral and basal nuclei (lateral and basal amygdala), which are termed together as basolateral amygdala, play a critical role in emotional and motivational learning and memory. It has been established that the basolateral amygdala activation by behavioral manipulations or direct electrical stimulation can modulate hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a putative cellular mechanism of memory. However, the specific functional role of each subnucleus in the modulation of hippocampal LTP has not been studied yet, even though studies have shown cytoarchitectural differences between the basal and lateral amygdala and differences in the connections of each one of them to other brain areas. In this study we have tested the effects of lateral or basal amygdala pre-stimulation on hippocampal dentate gyrus LTP, induced by theta burst stimulation of the perforant path, in anesthetized rats. We found that while priming stimulation of the lateral amygdala did not affect LTP of the dentate gyrus, priming stimulation of the basal amygdala enhanced the LTP response when the priming stimulation was relatively weak, but impaired it when it was relatively strong. These results show that the basal and lateral nuclei of the amygdala, which have been already shown to differ in their anatomy and connectivity, may also have different functional roles. These findings raise the possibility that the lateral and basal amygdala differentially modulate memory processes in the hippocampus under emotional and motivational situations.
The medullary raph (MR) of the medulla oblongata contains chemosensitive neurons that respond to increases in arterial [CO], by altering firing rate, with increases being associated with serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine [5HT]) neurons and decreases, with GABAergic neurons. Both types of neurons contribute to increased alveolar ventilation. Decreases in intracellular pH are thought to link the rise in [CO] to increased ventilation. Because electroneutral Na(+)-coupled HCO(-) transporters (nNCBTs), which help protect cells from intracellular acidosis, are expressed robustly in the neurons of the central nervous system, a key question is whether these transporters are present in chemosensitive neurons. Therefore, we used an immunocytochemistry approach to identify neurons (using a microtubule associated protein-2 monoclonal antibody) and specifically 5HT neurons (TPH monoclonal antibody) or GABAergic neurons (GAD2 monoclonal antibody) in freshly dissociated cells from the mouse MR. We also co-labeled with polyclonal antibodies against the three nNCBTs: NBCn1, NDCBE, and NBCn2. We exploited ePet-EYFP (enhanced yellow fluorescent protein) mice (with EYFP-labeled 5HT neurons) as well as mice genetically deficient in each of the three nNCBTs. Quantitative image analysis distinguished positively stained cells from background signals. We found that &gt;80% of GAD2(+) cells also were positive for NDCBE, and &gt;90% of the TPH(+) and GAD2(+) cells were positive for the other nNCBTs. Assuming that the transporters are independently distributed among neurons, we can conclude that virtually all chemosensitive MR neurons contain at least one nNCBT.
The present study examined the dose related effects of low levels of the toxin, LiCl, on the ingestion of a palatable sucrose plus salt solution. Over five days (acquisition phase) rats were presented with a 0.3M sucrose solution containing one of the following salt combinations: 0.12 M NaCl (n=10 negative control group); 0.005 M LiCl+0.115 NaCl (n=10); 0.01 M LiCl+0.11 NaCl (n=10); 0.015 M LiCl+0.105 M NaCl (n=10); 0.02 M LiCl+0.10 M NaCl (n=10); and 0.12 M LiCl (n=8 positive control group). During an extinction phase (5 days), all rats were presented with 0.3M Sucrose+0.12 M NaCl solution. Fluid intake levels and number of licks were quantified on each day. At low LiCl concentration levels rats exhibited a dose related reduction in amount consumed and number of licks of the sucrose plus salt solutions. This toxin related suppression of fluid intake and licking rapidly dissipated during the extinction phase. The present findings support the hypothesis that rats use a behavioral tolerance mechanism to regulate their intake of foods containing low levels of toxins.
Diethylene glycol (DEG) is a solvent used in consumer products allowing the increased risk for consumer exposure. DEG metabolism produces two primary metabolites, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (2-HEAA) and diglycolic acid (DGA). DGA has been shown to be the toxic metabolite responsible for the proximal tubule cell necrosis seen in DEG poisoning. The mechanism of DGA toxicity in the proximal tubule cell is not yet known. The chemical structure of DGA is very similar to citric acid cycle intermediates. Studies were designed to assess whether its mechanism of toxicity involves disruption of cellular metabolic pathways resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction. First, DGA preferentially inhibited succinate dehydrogenase, including human kidney cell enzyme, but had no effect on other citric acid cycle enzyme activities. DGA produces a cellular ATP depletion that precedes cell death. Human proximal tubule (HPT) cells, pre-treated with increasing DGA concentrations, showed significantly decreased oxygen consumption. DGA did not increase lactate levels, indicating no effect on glycolytic activity. DGA increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in HPT cells in a concentration and time dependent manner. These results indicate that DGA produced proximal tubule cell dysfunction by specific inhibition of succinate dehydrogenase and oxygen consumption. Disruption of these processes results in decreased energy production and proximal tubule cell death.




A 75-year-old woman with unremarkable medical history, consulted for a 5-month history of involuntary shaking of left upper limb. Clinical examination revealed polyminimyoclonus of the upper limbs with cogwheel-like rigidity, hyperreflexia, bradykinesia, inconstant spastic-like rigidity in the lower limbs and a stiff and cautious gait. These symptoms, together with the memory impairment found on neuropsychological assessment yielded suspicion for a subacute encephalopathy probably due to a non-conventional infectious agent. There was no 14-3-3 protein found in the cerebrospinal fluid and no periodic sharp wave complexes on EEG. These findings made the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) rather unlikely according to the current WHO diagnostic criteria. However, typical isolated cortical hyperintensity of right temporal, parietal and occipital lobes on MRI suggested a probable CJD and prompted cerebral biopsy which confirmed the diagnosis. This article emphasises the need to update the current WHO criteria by including radiological findings.

The family of EF-hand calcium binding proteins is composed of more than 250 members. In search for other neuronal markers, we studied the expression pattern of Necab-1, -2 and -3 in the Ammons horn of adult mice at the gene- and protein levels using in-situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The genes for the three Necab's were expressed in specific, non-overlapping areas of the hippocampus. A minority of the Necab-positive interneurons were GABA-ergic, and they virtually never coexpressed one of the classical calcium binding proteins (calretinin, calbindin D-28k and parvalbumin). Necab's are promising new neuronal markers in the brain.
In these experiments we define an effective means of pulsed magnetic stimulation of the facial nerve for the purpose of increasing cerebral blood flow (CBF). In normal anesthetized dog and sheep, a focal magnetic field was directed toward the facial nerve within the temporal bone by placing a 6.5 cm figure-8 stimulation coil over the ear. In an initial set of experiments, CBF was measured by laser Doppler flowmetry and the cerebral vasculature was visualized by angiography. The effect of facial nerve stimulation was found to be dependent on stimulation power, frequency, and the precise positioning of the stimulation coil. Furthermore, an increase in CBF was not observed after direct electrical stimulation in the middle ear space, indicating that non-specific stimulation of the tympanic plexus, an intervening neural structure with vasoactive effects, was not responsible for the increase in CBF after pulsed magnetic stimulation. Subsequent experiments using perfusion MRI demonstrated reproducible increases in CBF throughout the forebrain that manifested bilaterally, albeit with an ipsilateral predominance. These experiments support the development of a non-invasive pulsed magnetic facial nerve stimulator that will increase CBF as a treatment of ischemic stroke.
Mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) channel is responsible for Ruthenium Red-sensitive mitochondrial calcium uptake. Here, we demonstrate MCU oligomerization by immunoprecipitation and Frster resonance energy transfer (FRET) and characterize a novel protein (MCUb) with two predicted transmembrane domains, 50% sequence similarity and a different expression profile from MCU. Based on computational modelling, MCUb includes critical amino-acid substitutions in the pore region and indeed MCUb does not form a calcium-permeable channel in planar lipid bilayers. In HeLa cells, MCUb is inserted into the oligomer and exerts a dominant-negative effect, reducing the [Ca(2+)]mt increases evoked by agonist stimulation. Accordingly, in vitro co-expression of MCUb with MCU drastically reduces the probability of observing channel activity in planar lipid bilayer experiments. These data unveil the structural complexity of MCU and demonstrate a novel regulatory mechanism, based on the inclusion of dominant-negative subunits in a multimeric channel, that underlies the fine control of the physiologically and pathologically relevant process of mitochondrial calcium homeostasis.
Saccadic eye movements facilitate rapid and efficient exploration of visual scenes, but also pose serious challenges to establishing reliable spatial representations. This process presumably depends on extraretinal information about eye position, but it is still unclear whether afferent or efferent signals are implicated and how these signals are combined with the visual input. Using a novel gaze-contingent search paradigm with highly controlled retinal stimulation, we examined the performance of human observers in locating a previously fixated target after a variable number of saccades, a task that generates contrasting predictions for different updating mechanisms. We show that while localization accuracy is unaffected by saccades, localization precision deteriorates nonlinearly, revealing a statistically optimal combination of retinal and extraretinal signals. These results provide direct evidence for optimal multimodal integration in the updating of spatial representations and elucidate the contributions of corollary discharge signals and eye proprioception.
The defensive peripersonal space represents a &quot;safety margin&quot; advantageous for survival. Its spatial extension and the possible relationship with personality traits have never been investigated. Here, in a population of 15 healthy human participants, we show that the defensive peripersonal space has a sharp boundary, located between 20 and 40 cm from the face, and that within such space there is a thin, &quot;highest-risk area&quot; closest to the face (i.e., an &quot;ultra-near&quot; defensive space). Single-subject analysis revealed clear interindividual differences in the extension of such peripersonal space. These differences are positively related to individual variability in trait anxiety. These findings point to the potential for measuring a range of defensive behaviors in relation to individual levels of anxiety. Such measures will allow developing procedures to test risk assessment abilities, particularly in professions that require reacting quickly to aversive stimuli near the body, such as firemen, policemen, and military officers. This may also lead to possible interventions to improve their performance under pressure.
Vibrissae-related sensorimotor cortex controls whisking movements indirectly via modulation of lower-level sensorimotor loops and a brainstem central pattern generator (CPG). Two different whisker representations in primary motor cortex (vM1) affect whisker movements in different ways. Prolonged microstimulation in RF, a larger anterior subregion of vM1, gives rise to complex face movements and whisker retraction while the same stimulation evokes large-amplitude rhythmic whisker movement in a small caudo-medial area (RW). To characterize the motor cortex representation of explorative whisking movements, here we recorded RW units in head-fixed rats trained to contact a moving object with one whisker. RW single units were found to encode two aspects of whisker movement independently, albeit on slow time scales (hundreds of milliseconds). The first is whisker position. The second consists of speed (absolute velocity), intensity (instantaneous power), and frequency (spectral centroid). The coding for the latter three parameters was tightly correlated and realized by a continuum of RW responses-ranging from a preference of movement to a preference of rest. Information theory analysis indicated that RW spikes carry most information about position and frequency, while intensity and speed are less well represented. Further, investigating multiple and single RW units, we found a lack of phase locking, movement anticipation, and contact-related tactile responses. These findings suggest that RW neither programs detailed whisker trajectories nor initiates them. Nor does it play a role in processing object touch. Its relationship to whisking is thus indirect and may be related to movement monitoring, perhaps using feedback from the CPG.
The synaptic toxicity of soluble amyloid- (A) oligomers plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we report that overexpressed 1-takusan, which we previously identified as a protein that enhances synaptic activity via interaction with PSD-95, mitigates oligomeric A-induced synaptic loss. In contrast, takusan knockdown results in enhanced synaptic damage. 1-Takusan interacts with tau either directly or indirectly, and prevents A-induced tau hyperphosphorylation and mitochondrial fragmentation. Deletion analysis identified the second domain (D2) within the takusan protein that is required for PSD-95 clustering and synaptic protection from A. A 51 aa sequence linking D2 to the PDZ-binding C terminus was found to be as effective as full-length takusan in protecting synapses from A-induced damage. Moreover, a sequence containing the D2 from the human protein discs large homolog 5, when linked to a C-terminal PDZ-binding motif, can also increase the clustering of PSD-95 in cortical dendrites. In summary, 1-takusan protects synapses from A-induced insult via interaction with PSD-95 and tau. Thus, takusan-based protein sequences from either mouse or human may be of potential therapeutic benefit in AD.
Synesthesia is a condition in which normal stimuli can trigger anomalous associations. In this study, we exploit synesthesia to understand how the synesthetic experience can be explained by subtle changes in network properties. Of the many forms of synesthesia, we focus on colored sequence synesthesia, a form in which colors are associated with overlearned sequences, such as numbers and letters (graphemes). Previous studies have characterized synesthesia using resting-state connectivity or stimulus-driven analyses, but it remains unclear how network properties change as synesthetes move from one condition to another. To address this gap, we used functional MRI in humans to identify grapheme-specific brain regions, thereby constructing a functional &quot;synesthetic&quot; network. We then explored functional connectivity of color and grapheme regions during a synesthesia-inducing fMRI paradigm involving rest, auditory grapheme stimulation, and audiovisual grapheme stimulation. Using Markov networks to represent direct relationships between regions, we found that synesthetes had more connections during rest and auditory conditions. We then expanded the network space to include 90 anatomical regions, revealing that synesthetes tightly cluster in visual regions, whereas controls cluster in parietal and frontal regions. Together, these results suggest that synesthetes have increased connectivity between grapheme and color regions, and that synesthetes use visual regions to a greater extent than controls when presented with dynamic grapheme stimulation. These data suggest that synesthesia is better characterized by studying global network dynamics than by individual properties of a single brain region.
Idiopathic small-fiber neuropathy (I-SFN), clinically characterized by burning pain in distal extremities and autonomic dysfunction, is a disorder of small-caliber nerve fibers of unknown etiology with limited treatment options. Functional variants of voltage-gated sodium channel Nav1.7, encoded by SCN9A, have been identified in approximately one-third of I-SFN patients. These variants render dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons hyperexcitable. Sodium channel Nav1.8, encoded by SCN10A, is preferentially expressed in small-diameter DRG neurons, and produces most of the current underlying the upstroke of action potentials in these neurons. We previously demonstrated two functional variants of Nav1.8 that either enhance ramp current or shift activation in a hyperpolarizing direction, and render DRG neurons hyperexcitable, in I-SFN patients with no mutations of SCN9A. We have now evaluated additional I-SFN patients with no mutations in SCN9A, and report a novel I-SFN-related Nav1.8 mutation I1706V in a patient with painful I-SFN. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in small DRG neurons demonstrate that the mutation hyperpolarizes activation and the response to slow ramp depolarizations. However, it decreases fractional channels resistant to fast inactivation and reduces persistent currents. Current-clamp studies reveal that mutant channels decrease current threshold and increase the firing frequency of evoked action potentials within small DRG neurons. These observations suggest that the effects of this mutation on activation and ramp current are dominant over the reduced persistent current, and show that these pro-excitatory gating changes confer hyperexcitability on peripheral sensory neurons, which may contribute to pain in this individual with I-SFN.
Mapping the flow of activity through neocortical microcircuits provides key insights into the underlying circuit architecture. Using a comparative analysis we determined the extent to which the dynamics of microcircuits in mouse primary somatosensory barrel field (S1BF) and auditory (A1) neocortex generalize. We imaged the simultaneous dynamics of up to 1126 neurons spanning multiple columns and layers using high-speed multiphoton imaging. The temporal progression and reliability of reactivation of circuit events in both regions suggested common underlying cortical design features. We used circuit activity flow to generate functional connectivity maps, or graphs, to test the microcircuit hypothesis within a functional framework. S1BF and A1 present a useful test of the postulate as both regions map sensory input anatomically, but each area appears organized according to different design principles. We projected the functional topologies into anatomical space and found benchmarks of organization that had been previously described using physiology and anatomical methods, consistent with a close mapping between anatomy and functional dynamics. By comparing graphs representing activity flow we found that each region is similarly organized as highlighted by hallmarks of small world, scale free, and hierarchical modular topologies. Models of prototypical functional circuits from each area of cortex were sufficient to recapitulate experimentally observed circuit activity. Convergence to common behavior by these models was accomplished using preferential attachment to scale from an auditory up to a somatosensory circuit. These functional data imply that the microcircuit hypothesis be framed as scalable principles of neocortical circuit design.
Serotonin (5-HT) modulates neural responses to socioaffective cues and can bias approach or avoidance behavioral decisions, yet the cellular mechanisms underlying its contribution to the regulation of social experiences remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that GABAergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) may participate in socioaffective regulation by controlling serotonergic tone during social interaction. We tested this hypothesis using whole-cell recording techniques in genetically identified DRN GABA and 5-HT neurons in mice exposed to social defeat, a model that induces long-lasting avoidance behaviors in a subset of mice responsive to serotonergic antidepressants. Our results revealed that social defeat engaged DRN GABA neurons and drove GABAergic sensitization that strengthened inhibition of 5-HT neurons in mice that were susceptible, but not resilient to social defeat. Furthermore, optogenetic silencing of DRN GABA neurons disinhibited neighboring 5-HT neurons and prevented the acquisition of social avoidance in mice exposed to a social threat, but did not affect a previously acquired avoidance phenotype. We provide the first characterization of GABA neurons in the DRN that monosynaptically inhibit 5-HT neurons and reveal their key role in neuroplastic processes underlying the development of social avoidance.

Adaptation is an automatic neural mechanism supporting the optimization of visual processing on the basis of previous experiences. While the short-term effects of adaptation on behaviour and physiology have been studied extensively, perceptual long-term changes associated with adaptation are still poorly understood. Here, we show that the integration of adaptation-dependent long-term shifts in neural function is facilitated by sleep. Perceptual shifts induced by adaptation to a distorted image of a famous person were larger in a group of participants who had slept (experiment 1) or merely napped for 90 min (experiment 2) during the interval between adaptation and test compared with controls who stayed awake. Participants' individual rapid eye movement sleep duration predicted the size of post-sleep behavioural adaptation effects. Our data suggest that sleep prevented decay of adaptation in a way that is qualitatively different from the effects of reduced visual interference known as 'storage'. In the light of the well-established link between sleep and memory consolidation, our findings link the perceptual mechanisms of sensory adaptation--which are usually not considered to play a relevant role in mnemonic processes--with learning and memory, and at the same time reveal a new function of sleep in cognition.
To distinguish age-related memory loss more explicitly from Alzheimer's disease (AD), we have explored its molecular underpinning in the dentate gyrus (DG), a subregion of the hippocampal formation thought to be targeted by aging. We carried out a gene expression study in human postmortem tissue harvested from both DG and entorhinal cortex (EC), a neighboring subregion unaffected by aging and known to be the site of onset of AD. Using expression in the EC for normalization, we identified 17 genes that manifested reliable age-related changes in the DG. The most significant change was an age-related decline in RbAp48, a histone-binding protein that modifies histone acetylation. To test whether the RbAp48 decline could be responsible for age-related memory loss, we turned to mice and found that, consistent with humans, RbAp48 was less abundant in the DG of old than in young mice. We next generated a transgenic mouse that expressed a dominant-negative inhibitor of RbAp48 in the adult forebrain. Inhibition of RbAp48 in young mice caused hippocampus-dependent memory deficits similar to those associated with aging, as measured by novel object recognition and Morris water maze tests. Functional magnetic resonance imaging studies showed that within the hippocampal formation, dysfunction was selectively observed in the DG, and this corresponded to a regionally selective decrease in histone acetylation. Up-regulation of RbAp48 in the DG of aged wild-type mice ameliorated age-related hippocampus-based memory loss and age-related abnormalities in histone acetylation. Together, these findings show that the DG is a hippocampal subregion targeted by aging, and identify molecular mechanisms of cognitive aging that could serve as valid targets for therapeutic intervention.






The circadian system regulates daily rhythms in lipid metabolism and adipose tissue function. Although disruption of circadian clock function is associated with negative cardiometabolic end points, very little is known about interindividual variation in circadian-regulated metabolic pathways. Here, we used targeted lipidomics-based approaches to profile the time course of 263 lipids in blood plasma in 20 healthy individuals. Over a span of 28 h, blood was collected every 4 h and plasma lipids were analyzed by HPLC/MS. Across subjects, about 13% of lipid metabolites showed circadian variation. Rhythmicity spanned all metabolite classes examined, suggesting widespread circadian control of lipid-mediated energy storage, transport, and signaling. Intersubject agreement for lipids identified as rhythmic was only about 20%, however, and the timing of lipid rhythms ranged up to 12 h apart between individuals. Healthy subjects therefore showed substantial variation in the timing and strength of rhythms across different lipid species. Strong interindividual differences were also observed for rhythms of blood glucose and insulin, but not cortisol. Using consensus clustering with iterative feature selection, subjects clustered into different groups based on strength of rhythmicity for a subset of triglycerides and phosphatidylcholines, suggesting that there are different circadian metabolic phenotypes in the general population. These results have potential implications for lipid metabolism disorders linked to circadian clock disruption.
Dendritic spines are the primary sites of excitatory synaptic transmission in the vertebrate brain, and the morphology of these actin-rich structures correlates with synaptic function. Here we demonstrate a unique method for inducing spine enlargement and synaptic potentiation in dispersed hippocampal neurons, and use this technique to identify a coordinator of these processes; Ras-specific guanine nucleotide releasing factor 2 (RasGRF2). RasGRF2 is a dual Ras/Rac guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that is known to be necessary for long-term potentiation in situ. Contrary to the prevailing assumption, we find RasGRF2's Rac-GEF activity to be essential for synaptic potentiation by using a molecular replacement strategy designed to dissociate Rac- from Ras-GEF activities. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Rac1 activity itself is sufficient to rapidly modulate postsynaptic strength by using a photoactivatable derivative of this small GTPase. Because Rac1 is a major actin regulator, our results support a model where the initial phase of long-term potentiation is driven by the cytoskeleton.
NMDA receptor activation promotes endocytosis of AMPA receptors, which is an important mechanism underlying long-term synaptic depression. The pH-sensitive GFP variant pHluorin fused to the N terminus of GluA2 (pH-GluA2) has been used to assay NMDA-mediated AMPA receptor endocytosis and recycling. Here, we demonstrate that in somatic and dendritic regions of hippocampal neurons a large fraction of the fluorescent signal originates from intracellular pH-GluA2, and that the decline in fluorescence in response to NMDA and AMPA primarily describes an intracellular acidification, which quenches the pHluorin signal from intracellular receptor pools. Neurons expressing an endoplasmic reticulum-retained mutant of GluA2 (pH-GluA2 C49) displayed a larger response to NMDA than neurons expressing wild-type pH-GluA2. A similar NMDA-elicited decline in pHluorin signal was observed by expressing cytosolic pHluorin alone without fusion to GluA2 (cyto-pHluorin). Intracellular acidification in response to NMDA was further confirmed by using the ratiometric pH indicator carboxy-SNARF-1. The NMDA-induced decline was followed by rapid recovery of the fluorescent signal from both cyto-pHluorin and pH-GluA2. The recovery was sodium-dependent and sensitive to Na(+)/H(+)-exchanger (NHE) inhibitors. Moreover, recovery was more rapid after shRNA-mediated knockdown of the GluA2 binding PDZ domain-containing protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1). Interestingly, the accelerating effect of PICK1 knockdown on the fluorescence recovery was eliminated in the presence of the NHE1 inhibitor zoniporide. Our results indicate that the pH-GluA2 recycling assay is an unreliable assay for studying AMPA receptor trafficking and also suggest a role for PICK1 in regulating intracellular pH via modulation of NHE activity.
Rodents can discriminate odors in one breath, and mammalian olfaction research has thus focused on the first breath. However, sensory representations dynamically change during and after stimuli. To investigate these dynamics, we recorded spike trains from the olfactory bulb of awake, head-fixed mice and found that some mitral cells' odor representations changed following the first breath and others continued after odor cessation. Population analysis revealed that these postodor responses contained odor- and concentration-specific information--an odor afterimage. Using calcium imaging, we found that most olfactory glomerular activity was restricted to the odor presentation, implying that the afterimage is not primarily peripheral. The odor afterimage was not dependent on odorant physicochemical properties. To artificially induce aftereffects, we photostimulated mitral cells using channelrhodopsin and recorded centrally maintained persistent activity. The strength and persistence of the afterimage was dependent on the duration of both artificial and natural stimulation. In summary, we show that the odor representation evolves after the first breath and that there is a centrally maintained odor afterimage, similar to other sensory systems. These dynamics may help identify novel odorants in complex environments.
We investigated a unique microzone of the cerebellum located in folium-p (fp) of rabbit flocculus. In fp, Purkinje cells were potently excited by stimulation of the hypothalamus or mesencephalic periaqueductal gray, which induced defense reactions. Using multiple neuroscience techniques, we determined that this excitation was mediated via beaded axons of orexinergic hypothalamic neurons passing collaterals through the mesencephalic periaqueductal gray. Axonal tracing studies using DiI and biotinylated dextran amine evidenced the projection of fp Purkinje cells to the ventrolateral corner of the ipsilateral parabrachial nucleus (PBN). Because, in defense reactions, arterial blood flow has been known to redistribute from visceral organs to active muscles, we hypothesized that, via PBN, fp adaptively controls arterial blood flow redistribution under orexin-mediated neuromodulation that could occur in defense behavior. This hypothesis was supported by our finding that climbing fiber signals to fp Purkinje cells were elicited by stimulation of the aortic nerve, a high arterial blood pressure, or a high potassium concentration in muscles, all implying errors in the control of arterial blood flow. We further examined the arterial blood flow redistribution elicited by electric foot shock stimuli in awake, behaving rabbits. We found that systemic administration of an orexin antagonist attenuated the redistribution and that lesioning of fp caused an imbalance in the redistribution between active muscles and visceral organs. Lesioning of fp also diminished foot shock-induced increases in the mean arterial blood pressure. These results collectively support the hypothesis that the fp microcomplex adaptively controls defense reactions under orexin-mediated neuromodulation.

The ubiquitously expressed iron storage protein ferritin plays a central role in maintaining cellular iron homeostasis. Cytosolic ferritins are composed of heavy (H) and light (L) subunits that co-assemble into a hollow spherical shell with an internal cavity where iron is stored. The ferroxidase activity of the ferritin H chain is critical to store iron in its Fe3+ oxidation state, while the L chain shows iron nucleation properties. We describe a unique case of a 23-yr-old female patient affected by a homozygous loss of function mutation in the L-ferritin gene, idiopathic generalized seizures, and atypical restless leg syndrome (RLS). We show that L chain ferritin is undetectable in primary fibroblasts from the patient, and thus ferritin consists only of H chains. Increased iron incorporation into the FtH homopolymer leads to reduced cellular iron availability, diminished levels of cytosolic catalase, SOD1 protein levels, enhanced ROS production and higher levels of oxidized proteins. Importantly, key phenotypic features observed in fibroblasts are also mirrored in reprogrammed neurons from the patient's fibroblasts. Our results demonstrate for the first time the pathophysiological consequences of L-ferritin deficiency in a human and help to define the concept for a new disease entity hallmarked by idiopathic generalized seizure and atypical RLS.
Brain serotonin (5-HT) systems modulate emotional, motivational and cognitive processes. Mutations in the serotonin transporter (SERT) gene have been associated with susceptibility towards the development of several psychiatric disorders, both in humans and animal models. Present approach exploited a bilateral intra-hippocampus stereotaxic inoculation of lentiviruses, for enduring in vivo silencing of SERT. Control rats were bilaterally inoculated with heat-inactivated lentiviruses. These Lenti-SERT vectors were intended to eventually manipulate the neurotransmitter reuptake at synaptic level, thus enhancing tonic 5-HT transmission. We investigated whether such manipulation could induce behavioural alterations relevant to the modelling of ADHD, in particular symptoms of hyperactivity and impulsivity. Wistar rats were monitored for spontaneous home-cage locomotor activity and studied for impulsivity (Intolerance-to-Delay task). Results show that rats inoculated with Lenti-SERT vectors exhibited less pronounced circadian peaks of activity than controls. Moreover, Lenti-SERT compared to control rats exhibited a transient increase in choice for a delayed-larger reward over an immediate-small reward. This suggests that enhanced hippocampal serotonergic transmission produced a profile of restfulness and a decrease in cognitive impulsivity. This phenotype is consistent with available data both on 5-HT manipulations and hippocampal lesions. In conclusion, present findings may possibly disclose novel avenues towards the development of innovative therapeutical approaches for behavioural symptoms relevant to ADHD.
Contactin associated protein (Caspr), an adhesion molecule, plays roles in formation of paranodal junctions in myelinated axons, neurite outgrowth, synaptic plasticity in nervous system. Here we have shown a novel function of Caspr in pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Caspr distributes around amyloid plaques in APP/PS1 mice. Levels of Caspr increase in the cerebral cortex of 7-month-old APP/PS1 mice comparing to wild-type littermates. Caspr decreased protein levels of APP in both HEK-293 cells stably transfected with Indiana mutant APP (V717F; HEK-APP) and CHO cells which express endogenous APP, while it did not alter mRNA levels of APP. Furthermore, Caspr co-localizes and interacts with APP. Amyloid- (A) 40 and A42 generation were also reduced in HEK-APP cells by Caspr overexpression.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is primarily caused by overproduction/deposition of -amyloid (A) in the brain. Dysregulation of iron in the brain also contributes to AD. Although iron affects -amyloid precursor protein (APP) expression and A deposition, detailed role of iron in AD requires further elucidation. A is produced by sequential proteolytic cleavages of APP by -secretase and -secretase. The -secretase complex comprises presenilins (PS1 or PS2), nicastrin, APH-1, and PEN-2. Herein, we find that PEN-2 can interact with ferritin light chain (FTL), an important component of the iron storage protein ferritin. In addition, we show that overexpression of FTL increases the protein levels of PEN-2 and PS1 amino-terminal fragment (NTF) and promotes -secretase activity for more production of A and notch intracellular domain (NICD). Furthermore, iron treatments increase the levels of FTL, PEN-2 and PS1 NTF and promote -secretase-mediated NICD production. Moreover, downregulation of FTL decreases the levels of PEN-2 and PS1 NTF. Together, our results suggest that iron can increase -secretase activity through promoting the level of FTL that interacts with and stabilizes PEN-2, providing a new molecular link between iron, PEN-2/-secretase and A generation in AD.
The zinc finger-containing gene Nolz-1/Zfp503 is a developmentally regulated striatum-enriched gene. In the present study, we characterized the cell type-selective expression pattern of Nolz-1 protein in the developing mouse striatum. Nolz-1 immunoreactivity was present in Isl-1-positive ventral LGE (vLGE, striatal primordia), but absent in Pax6-positive dorsal LGE (dLGE, non-striatal primordia). In the vLGE, Nolz-1 immunoreactivity was detected in early differentiating TuJ1-positive neurons, but not in Ki67-positive proliferating progenitor cells. Moreover, many Nolz-1-immunoreactive cells co-expressed Foxp1 or Foxp2, markers for striatal projection neurons. To further characterize Nolz-1 expression with respect to D1R-containing striatonigral and D2R-containing striatopallidal projection neurons, we used the Drd1-EGFP and Drd2-EGFP transgenic mice. Nolz-1 and EGFP double labeled neurons were found in the developing striatum of Drd1-EGFP and Drd2-EGFP mice, indicating Nolz-1 expression in both populations of striatal projection neurons. Notably, Nolz-1 protein was not expressed in Nkx2.1-positive interneuron progenitors, Lhx8-positive cholinergic interneuron progenitors, nNOS and calretinin-positive interneurons in E18.5 striatum. In the developing nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercles of ventral striatum, many Nolz-1-positive cells co-expressed Sox1, an important transcriptional regulator for ventral striatum, suggesting a role of Nolz-1 in regulating development of the ventral striatum. Finally, in contrast to postnatal down-regulation of Nolz-1 in the dorsal striatum, Nolz-1 protein was persistently expressed in the olfactory tubercle from E15.5 to adulthood. Taken together, our study suggests that Nolz-1 serves as a marker for early differentiating striatal projection neurons and that Nolz-1 may regulate development of striatal projection neurons.




In acute and chronic neurodegeneration, Ca(2+) mishandling and disruption of the cytoskeleton compromise neuronal integrity, yet abnormalities in the signaling roles of cytoskeletal proteins remain largely unexplored. We now report that the microtubule-associated protein p600 (also known as UBR4) promotes neuronal survival. Following depletion of p600, glutamate-induced Ca(2+) influx through NMDA receptors, but not AMPA receptors, initiates a degenerative process characterized by endoplasmic reticulum fragmentation and endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) release via inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors. Downstream of NMDA receptors, p600 associates with the calmodulincalmodulin-dependent protein kinase II complex. A direct and atypical p600/calmodulin interaction is required for neuronal survival. Thus, p600 counteracts specific Ca(2+)-induced death pathways through regulation of Ca(2+) homeostasis and signaling.
Voltage-gated sodium channel (NaV) trafficking is incompletely understood. Post-translational modifications of NaVs and/or auxiliary subunits and protein-protein interactions have been posited as NaV-trafficking mechanisms. Here, we tested if modification of the axonal collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2) by a small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) could affect NaV trafficking; CRMP2 alters the extent of NaV slow inactivation conferred by the anti-epileptic (R)-lacosamide, implying NaV-CRMP2 functional coupling. Expression of a CRMP2 SUMOylation-incompetent mutant (CRMP2-K374A) in neuronal model catecholamine A differentiated (CAD) cells did not alter lacosamide-induced NaV slow inactivation compared with CAD cells expressing wild type CRMP2. Like wild type CRMP2, CRMP2-K374A expressed robustly in CAD cells. Neurite outgrowth, a canonical CRMP2 function, was moderately reduced by the mutation but was still significantly higher than enhanced GFP-transfected cortical neurons. Notably, huwentoxin-IV-sensitive NaV1.7 currents, which predominate in CAD cells, were significantly reduced in CAD cells expressing CRMP2-K374A. Increasing deSUMOylation with sentrin/SUMO-specific protease SENP1 or SENP2 in wild type CRMP2-expressing CAD cells decreased NaV1.7 currents. Consistent with a reduction in current density, biotinylation revealed a significant reduction in surface NaV1.7 levels in CAD cells expressing CRMP2-K374A; surface NaV1.7 expression was also decreased by SENP1 + SENP2 overexpression. Currents in HEK293 cells stably expressing NaV1.7 were reduced by CRMP2-K374A in a manner dependent on the E2-conjugating enzyme Ubc9. No decrement in current density was observed in HEK293 cells co-expressing CRMP2-K374A and NaV1.1 or NaV1.3. Diminution of sodium currents, largely NaV1.7, was recapitulated in sensory neurons expressing CRMP2-K374A. Our study elucidates a novel regulatory mechanism that utilizes CRMP2 SUMOylation to choreograph NaV1.7 trafficking.








To examine the scaffolding properties of PSD-95, we have taken advantage of established ligand/PDZ domain interactions and developed a cell-based assay for investigating protein complex formation. This assay enables quantitative analysis of PDZ domain-mediated protein clustering using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). Two nonfluorescent halves of EYFP were fused to C-terminal PDZ ligand sequences to generate probes that sense for PDZ domain binding grooves of adjacent (interacting) molecules. When these probes are brought into proximity by the PDZ domains of a multiprotein scaffold, a functional fluorescent EYFP molecule can be detected. We have used this system to examine the properties of selected PSD-95 variants and thereby delineated regions of importance for PSD-95 complex formation. Further analysis led to the finding that PSD-95 multimerization is PDZ domain-mediated and promoted by ligand binding.




Among different classes of psychotropic drugs, hallucinogenic agents exert one of the most prominent effects on human and animal behaviors, markedly altering sensory, motor, affective, and cognitive responses. The growing clinical and preclinical interest in psychedelic, dissociative, and deliriant hallucinogens necessitates novel translational, sensitive, and high-throughput in vivo models and screens. Primate and rodent models have been traditionally used to study cellular mechanisms and neural circuits of hallucinogenic drugs' action. The utility of zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) in neuroscience research is rapidly growing due to their high physiological and genetic homology to humans, ease of genetic manipulation, robust behaviors, and cost effectiveness. Possessing a fully characterized genome, both adult and larval zebrafish are currently widely used for in vivo screening of various psychotropic compounds, including hallucinogens and related drugs. Recognizing the growing importance of hallucinogens in biological psychiatry, here we discuss hallucinogenic-induced phenotypes in zebrafish and evaluate their potential as efficient preclinical models of drug-induced states in humans.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays a central role in preparatory and anticipatory attentional processes. To investigate whether subregions of the PFC play differential roles in these processes we investigated the effect of focal lesions to either lateral prefrontal (lateral PFC; n=11) or orbitofrontal cortex (OFC; n=13) on the contingent negative variation (CNV), an electrophysiological index of preparatory brain processes. The CNV was studied using a Go/NoGo delayed response task where an auditory S1 signaled whether or not an upcoming visual S2 was a Go or a NoGo stimulus. Neither early (500-1000 ms) nor late (3200-3700 ms) phase Go trial CNV amplitude was reduced for any of the patient groups in comparison to controls. However, the lateral PFC group showed enhanced Go trial early CNV and reduced late CNV Go/NoGo differentiation. These data suggests that normal orienting and evaluation as reflected by the CNV is intact after OFC lesions. The enhanced early CNV after lateral PFC damage may be due to failure in inhibition and the reduced late CNV difference wave confirms a deficit in preparatory attention after damage to this frontal subregion.
Atypical antipsychotic drugs such as Olanzapine (Olan) induce weight gain and metabolic changes associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. The mechanisms underlying these undesired side-effects are currently unknown. It has been shown that peripheral injections of Olan activate neurons in the lateral hypothalamus/perifornical area and that a large part of these neurons are orexin (Ox) A-positive. We investigated further the possible involvement of the central Ox system in the metabolic side-effects of Olan by comparing the hyperglycaemic effects of an intragastric (IG) Olan infusion between animals treated intracerebroventricularly (ICV) with an Ox-1 receptor antagonist (SB-408124) or vehicle. As observed in previous studies IG Olan caused an increase in blood glucose, endogenous glucose production and plasma glucagon levels. ICV pre-treatment with the Ox-1 receptor antagonist did not affect the Olan-induced hyperglycaemia or increased plasma glucagon concentrations, but the increased endogenous glucose production was blunted by the ICV SB-408124 treatment. From these results we conclude that the metabolic side-effects of Olan are partly mediated by the hypothalamic Ox system.
Brain monoamines play a key role in the regulation of behavior. Reserpine depletes monoamines, and causes depression and hypoactivity in humans and rodents. In contrast, d-amphetamine increases brain monoamines' levels, and evokes hyperactivity and anxiety. However, the effects of these agents on behavior and in relation to monoamine levels remain poorly understood, necessitating further experimental studies to understand their psychotropic action. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are rapidly emerging as a promising model organism for drug screening and translational neuroscience research. Here, we have examined the acute and long-term effects of reserpine and d-amphetamine on zebrafish behavior in the novel tank test. Overall, d-amphetamine (5 and 10mg/L) evokes anxiogenic-like effects in zebrafish acutely, but not 7 days later. In contrast, reserpine (20 and 40 mg/L) did not evoke overt acute behavioral effects, but markedly reduced activity 7 days later, resembling motor retardation observed in depression and/or Parkinson's disease. Three-dimensional 'temporal' (X, Y, time) reconstructions of zebrafish locomotion further supports these findings, confirming the utility of 3D-based video-tracking analyses in zebrafish models of drug action. Our results show that zebrafish are highly sensitive to drugs bi-directionally modulating brain monoamines, generally paralleling rodent and clinical findings. Collectively, this emphasizes the potential of zebrafish tests to model complex brain disorders associated with monoamine dysregulation.
Regional homogeneity (ReHo), a processed data from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging, provides information about spontaneous brain activity in focal areas. Altered ReHo in brain regions has been reported in Parkinson's disease (PD). We compared ReHo of 22 patients with PD in their off-medication state to 25 healthy controls. We observed decreased ReHo in the right primary sensory cortex, the right primary motor cortex and the right middle frontal gyrus in PD patients. Conversely, ReHo was increased in the left inferior parietal lobule, the angular gyrus, the supramarginal gyrus, the middle occipital gyrus and the parahippocampal gyrus. In the right primary sensory cortex, ReHo showed a positive association with disease duration which proposed the low level of ReHo in the early phase of PD. ReHo was decreased in the seven de novo PD patients with disease duration less than 1 year as compared to the control which corresponded to the prediction. In both the off-medication and de novo PD patients, ReHo decreased in the right primary sensory cortex and increased in the angular gyrus as compared to the control. Potential regression of ReHo extrapolated backwards to PD-onset may provide a clue for 'premotor diagnosis'.
Although protracted prefrontal gray matter development is associated with concomitant executive function (EF) development in adolescents, few studies have explored the relationship between white matter and EF. This study examined the relationship between white matter microstructure and two aspects of EF, inhibition and task-switching, in a sample of 84 adolescents using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Tract-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS) were used to examine fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD). Adolescents completed the Color-Word Interference task from the Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System, a clinical version of the Stroop task. Inhibition and task-switching performance were group normalized and measured using both reaction time and errors. Performance and the interaction of age and performance were regressed on FA and MD white matter skeletons, controlling for age and IQ, separately for inhibition and task-switching. Follow up analyses examined the relative contributions of axial and radial diffusivities. Greater FA in the anterior corona radiata (ACR) was associated with better inhibition, independent of age. Greater FA in the SCR and precentral gyrus white matter were associated with better task-switching, regardless of age, whereas an association between FA in the ACR and task-switching was dependent on age. There were no significant associations between MD and performance. Results suggest better inhibition and task-switching are associated with greater integrity of white matter microstructure in regions supporting cross-cortical and cortical-subcortical connections stemming from the prefrontal cortex. These findings are consistent with functional studies of cognitive control and models of EF that propose separate, yet related, latent factors.

Intranasal trigeminal sensory input, often perceived as a burning, tingling, or stinging sensation, is well known to affect odor perception. While both anatomical and functional imaging data suggest that the influence of trigeminal stimuli on odor information processing may occur within the olfactory cortex, direct electrophysiological evidence for the encoding of trigeminal information at this level of processing is unavailable. Here, in agreement with human functional imaging studies, we found that 26% of neurons in the mouse piriform cortex (PCX) display modulation in firing to carbon dioxide (CO2), an odorless stimulant with known trigeminal capacity. Interestingly, CO2 was represented within the PCX by distinct temporal dynamics, differing from those evoked by odor. Experiments with ascending concentrations of isopentyl acetate, an odorant known to elicit both olfactory and trigeminal sensations, resulted in morphing of the temporal dynamics of stimulus-evoked responses. Whereas low concentrations of odorant evoked responses upon stimulus onset, high concentrations of odorant and/or CO2 often evoked responses structured to stimulus offset. These physiological experiments in mice suggest that PCX neurons possess the capacity to encode for stimulus modality (olfactory vs trigeminal) by differential patterns of firing. These data provide mechanistic insights into the influences of trigeminal information on odor processing and place constraints on models of olfactory-trigeminal sensory integration.
Social stress is associated with altered immunity and higher incidence of anxiety-related disorders. Repeated social defeat (RSD) is a murine stressor that primes peripheral myeloid cells, activates microglia, and induces anxiety-like behavior. Here we show that RSD-induced anxiety-like behavior corresponded with an exposure-dependent increase in circulating monocytes (CD11b(+)/SSC(lo)/Ly6C(hi)) and brain macrophages (CD11b(+)/SSC(lo)/CD45(hi)). Moreover, RSD-induced anxiety-like behavior corresponded with brain region-dependent cytokine and chemokine responses involved with myeloid cell recruitment. Next, LysM-GFP(+) and GFP(+) bone marrow (BM)-chimeric mice were used to determine the neuroanatomical distribution of peripheral myeloid cells recruited to the brain during RSD. LysM-GFP(+) mice showed that RSD increased recruitment of GFP(+) macrophages to the brain and increased their presence within the perivascular space (PVS). In addition, RSD promoted recruitment of GFP(+) macrophages into the PVS and parenchyma of the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus of GFP(+) BM-chimeric mice. Furthermore, mice deficient in chemokine receptors associated with monocyte trafficking [chemokine receptor-2 knockout (CCR2(KO)) or fractalkine receptor knockout (CX3CR1(KO))] failed to recruit macrophages to the brain and did not develop anxiety-like behavior following RSD. Last, RSD-induced macrophage trafficking was prevented in BM-chimeric mice generated with CCR2(KO) or CX3CR1(KO) donor cells. These findings indicate that monocyte recruitment to the brain in response to social stress represents a novel cellular mechanism that contributes to the development of anxiety.
Major histocompatibility complex class I (MHCI) molecules negatively regulate cortical connections and are implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia. However, the mechanisms that mediate these effects are unknown. Here, we report a novel MHCI signaling pathway that requires the myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) transcription factors. In young rat cortical neurons, MHCI regulates MEF2 in an activity-dependent manner and requires calcineurin-mediated activation of MEF2 to limit synapse density. Manipulating MEF2 alone alters synaptic strength and GluA1 content, but not synapse density, implicating activity-dependent MEF2 activation as critical for MHCI signaling. The MHCI-MEF2 pathway identified here also mediates the effects of a mouse model of maternal immune activation (MIA) on connectivity in offspring. MHCI and MEF2 levels are higher, and synapse density is lower, on neurons from MIA offspring. Most important, dysregulation of MHCI and MEF2 is required for the MIA-induced reduction in neural connectivity. These results identify a previously unknown MHCI-calcineurin-MEF2 signaling pathway that regulates the establishment of cortical connections and mediates synaptic defects caused by MIA, a risk factor for autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia.
Nocebo hyperalgesia is an increase in subjective pain perception after a patient or subject underwent an inert treatment without any active ingredient. For example, verbal suggestion of increased pain can enhance both pain experience and responses in pain-related cortical brain areas. However, changes in cortical pain responses may be secondary to earlier amplification of incoming pain signals within the spinal cord. To test for a potential early enhancement of pain signals in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, we combined a nocebo heat pain paradigm with spinal functional magnetic resonance imaging in healthy volunteers. We found that local application of an inert nocebo cream on the forearm increased pain ratings compared with a control cream, and also reduced pain thresholds on the nocebo-treated skin patch. On the neurobiological level, pain stimulation induced a strong activation in the spinal cord at the level of the stimulated dermatomes C5/C6. Comparing pain stimulation under nocebo to a control pain stimulation of the same physical intensity revealed enhanced pain-related activity in the ipsilateral dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Importantly, the activation of the main effect of pain and the nocebo effect spatially overlapped. The current study thus provides direct evidence for a pain-facilitating mechanism in the human spinal cord before cortical processing, which can be activated by cognitive manipulations such as nocebo treatments.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) are retrograde lipid messengers that, by targeting presynaptic type 1 cannabinoid receptors (CB1Rs), mediate short- and long-term synaptic depression of neurotransmitter release throughout the brain. Short-term depression is typically triggered by postsynaptic, depolarization-induced calcium rises, whereas long-term depression is induced by synaptic activation of Gq/11 protein-coupled receptors. Here we report that a physiologically relevant pattern of postsynaptic activity, in the form of theta-burst firing (TBF) of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, can trigger long-term depression of inhibitory transmission (iLTD) in rat hippocampal slices. Paired recordings between CA1 interneurons and pyramidal cells, followed by post hoc morphological reconstructions of the interneurons' axon, revealed that somatic and dendritic inhibitory synaptic inputs equally expressed TBF-induced iLTD. Simultaneous recordings from neighboring pyramidal cells demonstrated that eCB signaling triggered by TBF was highly restricted to only a single, active cell. Furthermore, pairing submaximal endogenous activation of metabotropic glutamate or muscarinic acetylcholine receptors with submaximal TBF unmasked associative iLTD. Although CB1Rs are also expressed at Schaffer-collateral excitatory terminals, long-term plasticity under various recording conditions was spared at these synapses. Consistent with this observation, TBF also shifted the balance of excitation and inhibition in favor of excitatory throughput, thereby altering information flow through the CA1 circuit. Given the near ubiquity of burst-firing activity patterns and CB1R expression in the brain, the properties described here may be a general means by which neurons fine tune the strength of their inputs in a cell-wide and cell-specific manner.
In the auditory cortex, synaptic inhibition is known to be involved in shaping receptive fields, enhancing temporal precision, and regulating gain. Cortical inhibition is provided by local GABAergic interneurons, which comprise 10-20% of the cortical population and can be separated into numerous subclasses. The morphological and physiological diversity of interneurons suggests that these different subclasses have unique roles in sound processing; however, these roles are yet unknown. Understanding the receptive field properties of distinct inhibitory cell types will be critical to elucidating their computational function in cortical circuits. Here we characterized the tuning and response properties of parvalbumin-positive (PV+) interneurons, the largest inhibitory subclass. We used channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) as an optogenetic tag to identify PV+ and PV- neurons in vivo in transgenic mice. In contrast to PV+ neurons in mouse visual cortex, which are broadly tuned for orientation, we found that auditory cortical PV+ neurons were well tuned for frequency, although very tightly tuned PV+ cells were uncommon. This suggests that PV+ neurons play a minor role in shaping frequency tuning, and is consistent with the idea that PV+ neurons nonselectively pool input from the local network. PV+ interneurons had shallower response gain and were less intensity-tuned than PV- neurons, suggesting that PV+ neurons provide dynamic gain control and shape intensity tuning in auditory cortex. PV+ neurons also had markedly faster response latencies than PV- neurons, consistent with a computational role in enhancing the temporal precision of cortical responses.
It remains unsettled whether human language relies exclusively on innately privileged brain structure in the left hemisphere or is more flexibly shaped through experiences, which induce neuroplastic changes in potentially relevant neural circuits. Here we show that learning of second language (L2) vocabulary and its cessation can induce bidirectional changes in the mirror-reverse of the traditional language areas. A cross-sectional study identified that gray matter volume in the inferior frontal gyrus pars opercularis (IFGop) and connectivity of the IFGop with the caudate nucleus and the superior temporal gyrus/supramarginal (STG/SMG), predominantly in the right hemisphere, were positively correlated with L2 vocabulary competence. We then implemented a cohort study involving 16 weeks of L2 training in university students. Brain structure before training did not predict the later gain in L2 ability. However, training intervention did increase IFGop volume and reorganization of white matter including the IFGop-caudate and IFGop-STG/SMG pathways in the right hemisphere. These &quot;positive&quot; plastic changes were correlated with the gain in L2 ability in the trained group but were not observed in the control group. We propose that the right hemispheric network can be reorganized into language-related areas through use-dependent plasticity in young adults, reflecting a repertoire of flexible reorganization of the neural substrates responding to linguistic experiences.
The core subcompartment of the nucleus accumbens (NAcore) contributes significantly to behavioral responses following motivationally relevant stimuli, including drug-induced, stress-induced, and cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Projections from NAcore that could carry information necessary to initiate reinstated cocaine seeking include outputs via the indirect pathway to the dorsolateral subcompartment of the ventral pallidum (dlVP) and through the direct pathway to the medial substantia nigra (SN). Here we used an optogenetic strategy to determine whether the dlVP or nigral projections from the NAcore are necessary for cocaine seeking initiated by a cocaine and conditioned cue combination in rats extinguished from cocaine self-administration. Rats were pretreated in the NAcore with an adeno-associated virus expressing the inhibitory opsin archaerhodopsin, and fiber-optic cannulae were implanted above the indirect pathway axon terminal field in the dlVP, or the direct pathway terminal field in the SN. Inhibiting the indirect pathway to the dlVP, but not the direct pathway to the SN, prevented cocaine-plus-cue-induced reinstatement. We also examined projections back to the NAcore from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and dlVP. Inhibiting the dlVP to NAcore projection did not alter, while inhibiting VTA afferents abolished reinstated cocaine seeking. Localization of green fluorescent protein reporter expression and whole-cell patch electrophysiology were used to verify opsin expression. These data reveal a circuit involving activation of VTA inputs to the NAcore and NAcore projections through the indirect pathway to the dlVP as critical for cocaine-plus-cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking.
In many cortical neurons, HCN1 channels are the major contributors to Ih, the hyperpolarization-activated current, which regulates the intrinsic properties of neurons and shapes their integration of synaptic inputs, paces rhythmic activity, and regulates synaptic plasticity. Here, we examine the physiological role of Ih in deep layer pyramidal neurons in mouse prefrontal cortex (PFC), focusing on persistent activity, a form of sustained firing thought to be important for the behavioral function of the PFC during working memory tasks. We find that HCN1 contributes to the intrinsic persistent firing that is induced by a brief depolarizing current stimulus in the presence of muscarinic agonists. Deletion of HCN1 or acute pharmacological blockade of Ih decreases the fraction of neurons capable of generating persistent firing. The reduction in persistent firing is caused by the membrane hyperpolarization that results from the deletion of HCN1 or Ih blockade, rather than a specific role of the hyperpolarization-activated current in generating persistent activity. In vivo recordings show that deletion of HCN1 has no effect on up states, periods of enhanced synaptic network activity. Parallel behavioral studies demonstrate that HCN1 contributes to the PFC-dependent resolution of proactive interference during working memory. These results thus provide genetic evidence demonstrating the importance of HCN1 to intrinsic persistent firing and the behavioral output of the PFC. The causal role of intrinsic persistent firing in PFC-mediated behavior remains an open question.

Perceptual decision making is a computationally demanding process that requires the brain to interpret incoming sensory information in the context of goals, expectations, preferences, and other factors. These integrative processes engage much of cortex but also require contributions from subcortical structures to affect behavior. Here we summarize recent evidence supporting specific computational roles of the basal ganglia in perceptual decision making. These roles probably share common mechanisms with the basal ganglia's other, more well-established functions in motor control, learning, and other aspects of cognition and thus can provide insights into the general roles of this important subcortical network in higher brain function.
The somatosensory system decodes a wide range of tactile stimuli and thus endows us with a remarkable capacity for object recognition, texture discrimination, sensory-motor feedback and social exchange. The first step leading to perception of innocuous touch is activation of cutaneous sensory neurons called low-threshold mechanoreceptors (LTMRs). Here, we review the properties and functions of LTMRs, emphasizing the unique tuning properties of LTMR subtypes and the organizational logic of their peripheral and central axonal projections. We discuss the spinal cord neurophysiological representation of complex mechanical forces acting upon the skin and current views of how tactile information is processed and conveyed from the spinal cord to the brain. An integrative model in which ensembles of impulses arising from physiologically distinct LTMRs are integrated and processed in somatotopically aligned mechanosensory columns of the spinal cord dorsal horn underlies the nervous system's enormous capacity for perceiving the richness of the tactile world.
Sweet and bitter taste distinguishes good food sources from potential toxins, but what happens when these tastants are mixed? In this issue of Neuron, Jeong etal. (2013) show that in Drosophila, bitter compounds act through an extracellular odorant-binding protein to inhibit sweet-responsive neurons and block the response to sweet taste.
Spontaneous fMRI fluctuations are organized in large-scale spatiotemporal structures, or resting-state networks (RSN). However, it is unknown how task performance affects RSN dynamics. We use MEG to measure slow (0.1Hz) coherent fluctuations of band-limited power (BLP), a robust correlate of RSN, during rest and movie observation and compare them to fMRI-RSN. BLP correlation, especially in band, dropped in multiple RSN during movie although overall topography was maintained. Variability of power correlation increased in visual occipital cortex, and transient decrements corresponded to scenes perceived as &quot;event boundaries.&quot; Additionally, stronger task-dependent interactions developed between vision and language networks in  and  bands, and default and language networks in  band. The topography of fMRI connectivity and relative changes induced by the movie were well matched to MEG. We conclude that resting-state and task network interactions are clearly different in the frequency domain despite maintenance of underlying network topography.
Monoaminergic neurotransmitter 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), also known as serotonin, plays important roles in modulating the function of the olfactory system. However, thus far, the knowledge about 5-HT and its receptors in olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) and their physiological role have not been fully characterized. In the present study, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed the presence of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) receptor subtypes in mouse olfactory epithelium at the mRNA level. With subtype selective antibodies and standard immunohistochemical techniques, both receptor subtypes were found to be positively labeled. To further elucidate the molecular mechanisms of 5-HT act on the peripheral olfactory transduction, the whole-cell patch clamp techniques were used on freshly isolated ORNs. We found that 5-HT decreased the magnitude of outward K(+) current in a dose-dependent manner and these inhibitory effects were markedly attenuated by the 5-HT(1A) receptor blocker WAY-100635 and the 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist GR55562. These data suggested that 5-HT may play a role in the modulation of peripheral olfactory signals by regulating outward potassium currents, both 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) receptors were involved in this regulation.











The present article presents an up-to-date account of the current media relations of scientists, based on a comprehensive analysis of relevant surveys. The evidence suggests that most scientists consider visibility in the media important and responding to journalists a professional duty--an attitude that is reinforced by universities and other science organizations. Scientific communities continue to regulate media contacts with their members by certain norms that compete with the motivating and regulating influences of public information departments. Most scientists assume a two-arena model with a gap between the arenas of internal scientific and public communication. They want to meet the public in the public arena, not in the arena of internal scientific communication. Despite obvious changes in science and in the media system, the orientations of scientists toward the media, as well as the patterns of interaction with journalists, have their roots in the early 1980s. Although there is more influence on public communication from the science organizations and more emphasis on strategic considerations today, the available data do not indicate abrupt changes in communication practices or in the relevant beliefs and attitudes of scientists in the past 30 y. Changes in the science-media interface may be expected from the ongoing structural transformation of the public communication system. However, as yet, there is little evidence of an erosion of the dominant orientation toward the public and public communication within the younger generation of scientists.
In the absence of external stimuli or task demands, correlations in spontaneous brain activity (functional connectivity) reflect patterns of anatomical connectivity. Hence, resting-state functional connectivity has been used as a proxy measure for structural connectivity and as a biomarker for brain changes in disease. To relate changes in functional connectivity to physiological changes in the brain, it is important to understand how correlations in functional connectivity depend on the physical integrity of brain tissue. The causal nature of this relationship has been called into question by patient data suggesting that decreased structural connectivity does not necessarily lead to decreased functional connectivity. Here we provide evidence for a causal but complex relationship between structural connectivity and functional connectivity: we tested interhemispheric functional connectivity before and after corpus callosum section in rhesus monkeys. We found that forebrain commissurotomy severely reduced interhemispheric functional connectivity, but surprisingly, this effect was greatly mitigated if the anterior commissure was left intact. Furthermore, intact structural connections increased their functional connectivity in line with the hypothesis that the inputs to each node are normalized. We conclude that functional connectivity is likely driven by corticocortical white matter connections but with complex network interactions such that a near-normal pattern of functional connectivity can be maintained by just a few indirect structural connections. These surprising results highlight the importance of network-level interactions in functional connectivity and may cast light on various paradoxical findings concerning changes in functional connectivity in disease states.
The dynamic trafficking of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) into and out of synapses is crucial for synaptic transmission, plasticity, learning, and memory. The protein interacting with C-kinase 1 (PICK1) directly interacts with GluA2/3 subunits of the AMPARs. Although the role of PICK1 in regulating AMPAR trafficking and multiple forms of synaptic plasticity is known, the exact molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain unclear. Here, we report a unique interaction between PICK1 and all three members of the protein kinase C and casein kinase II substrate in neurons (PACSIN) family and show that they form a complex with AMPARs. Our results reveal that knockdown of the neuronal-specific protein, PACSIN1, leads to a significant reduction in AMPAR internalization following the activation of NMDA receptors in hippocampal neurons. The interaction between PICK1 and PACSIN1 is regulated by PACSIN1 phosphorylation within the variable region and is required for AMPAR endocytosis. Similarly, the binding of PICK1 to the ubiquitously expressed PACSIN2 is also regulated by the homologous phosphorylation sites within the PACSIN2-variable region. Genetic deletion of PACSIN2, which is highly expressed in Purkinje cells, eliminates cerebellar long-term depression. This deficit can be fully rescued by overexpressing wild-type PACSIN2, but not by a PACSIN2 phosphomimetic mutant, which does not bind PICK1 efficiently. Taken together, our data demonstrate that the interaction of PICK1 and PACSIN is required for the activity-dependent internalization of AMPARs and for the expression of long-term depression in the cerebellum.








Light and darkness are the main time cues synchronising all biological clocks to the external environment. This little understood evolutionary phenomenon is called circadian entrainment. A new study illuminates our understanding of how modern light- and lifestyles compromise circadian entrainment and impact our biological clocks.
Entorhinal cortex is implicated in coding the location of spatial cues: a new study has found that distinct regions of entorhinal cortex respond differentially to distal versus local cues when these cues are rotated in conflict with one another.
In the standard model of central visual processing, orientation tuned responses in cortex are built from untuned thalamic inputs. But recent studies in the mouse show orientation selectivity in thalamic neurons, and address their potential source and possible roles in cortical computation.
Discrete populations of brainstem spinal projection neurons (SPNs) have been shown to exhibit behavior-specific responses during locomotion [1-9], suggesting that separate descending pathways, each dedicated to a specific behavior, control locomotion. In an alternative model, a large variety of motor outputs could be generated from different combinations of a small number of basic motor pathways. We examined this possibility by studying the precise role of ventromedially located hindbrain SPNs (vSPNs) in generating turning behaviors. We found that unilateral laser ablation of vSPNs reduces the tail deflection and cycle period specifically during the first undulation cycle of a swim bout, whereas later tail movements are unaffected. This holds true during phototaxic [10], optomotor [11], dark-flash-induced [12], and spontaneous turns [13], suggesting a universal role of these neurons in controlling turning behaviors. Importantly, we found that the ablation not only abolishes turns but also results in a dramatic increase in the number of forward swims, suggesting that these neurons transform forward swims into turns by introducing turning kinematics into a basic motor pattern of symmetric tail undulations. Finally, we show that vSPN activity is direction specific and graded by turning angle. Together, these results provide a clear example of how a specific motor pattern can be transformed into different behavioral events by the graded activation of a small set of SPNs.


The translational potential of novel treatments should be investigated in severe spinal cord injury (SCI) contusion models. A detailed methodology is described to obtain a consistent model of severe SCI. Use of a stereotactic frame and computer controlled impactor allows for creation of reproducible injury. Hypothermia and urinary tract infection pose significant challenges in the post-operative period. Careful monitoring of animals with daily weight recording and bladder expression allows for early detection of post-operative complications. The functional results of this contusion model are equivalent to transection models. The contusion model can be utilized to evaluate the efficacy of both neuroprotective and neuroregenerative approaches.



Advanced age is associated with a disproportionate prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Intrinsic alterations in the heart and the vasculature occurring over the life course render the cardiovascular system more vulnerable to various stressors in late life, ultimately favoring the development of CVD. Several lines of evidence indicate mitochondrial dysfunction as a major contributor to cardiovascular senescence. Besides being less bioenergetically efficient, damaged mitochondria also produce increased amounts of reactive oxygen species, with detrimental structural and functional consequences for the cardiovascular system. The age-related accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondrial likely results from the combination of impaired clearance of damaged organelles by autophagy and inadequate replenishment of the cellular mitochondrial pool by mitochondriogenesis. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge about relevant mechanisms and consequences of age-related mitochondrial decay and alterations in mitochondrial quality control in the cardiovascular system. The involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular conditions especially prevalent in late life and the emerging connections with neurodegeneration are also illustrated. Special emphasis is placed on recent discoveries on the role played by alterations in mitochondrial dynamics (fusion and fission), mitophagy, and their interconnections in the context of age-related CVD and endothelial dysfunction. Finally, we discuss pharmacological interventions targeting mitochondrial dysfunction to delay cardiovascular aging and manage CVD.
Oscillatory activity of the human brain has received growing interest as a key mechanism of large-scale integration across different brain regions. Besides a crucial role of oscillatory activity in the emergence of other neurological and psychiatric diseases, recent evidence indicates a key role in the pathophysiology of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). This review summarizes the current knowledge on pathological alterations of oscillatory brain activity in association with liver dysfunction and HE in the context of spontaneous brain activity, motor symptoms, sensory processing, and attention. The existing literature demonstrates a prominent slowing of the frequency of oscillatory activity as shown for spontaneous brain activity at rest, with respect to deficits of motor behavior and motor symptoms, and in the context of visual attention processes. The observed slowing extends across different subsystems of the brain and has been confirmed across different frequency bands, providing evidence for ubiquitous changes of oscillatory activity in HE. For example, the frequency of cortico-muscular coherence in HE patients appears at the frequency of the mini-asterixis (12Hz), while cirrhotics without overt signs of HE show coherence similar to healthy subjects, i.e. at 13-30Hz. Interestingly, the so-called critical flicker frequency (CFF) as a measure of the processing of an oscillating visual stimulus has emerged as a useful tool to quantify HE disease severity, correlating with behavioral and neurophysiological alterations. Moreover, the CFF reliably distinguishes patients with manifest HE from cirrhotics without any signs of HE and healthy controls using a cut-off frequency of 39Hz. In conclusion, oscillatory activity is globally slowed in HE in close association with HE symptoms and disease severity. Although the underlying causal mechanisms are not yet understood, these results indicate that pathological changes of oscillatory activity play an important role in the pathophysiology of HE.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE), a complex neuropsychiatric syndrome with symptoms ranging from subtle neuropsychiatric and motor disturbances to deep coma and death, is thought to be a clinical manifestation of a low-grade cerebral oedema associated with an altered neuron-astrocyte crosstalk and exacerbated by hyperammonemia and oxidative stress. These events are tightly coupled with alterations in neurotransmission, either in a causal or a causative manner, resulting in a net increase of inhibitory neurotransmission. Therefore, research focussed mainly on the potential role of -aminobutyric acid-(GABA) or glutamate-mediated neurotransmission in the pathophysiology of HE, though roles for other neurotransmitters (e.g. serotonin, dopamine, adenosine and histamine) or for neurosteroids or endogenous benzodiazepines have also been suggested. Therefore, we here review HE-related alterations in neurotransmission, focussing on changes in the levels of classical neurotransmitters and the neuromodulator adenosine, variations in the activity and/or concentrations of key enzymes involved in their metabolism, as well as in the densities of their receptors.

Autism is a behaviourally defined disorder including attenuated or abnormal social interaction and communication, as well as aberrant repetitive behaviour, with symptoms emerging early in childhood. Although the cause of autism has not been discovered, several data strongly support the role of genetic factors in autism aetiology. For this reason, preclinical research is now focusing on generating transgenic and knockout mice, and more recently also rats, with mutations in genes identified in autistic children, with the main aim of understanding the role of those genes in autism aetiology, discovering the biological mechanisms underlying autistic behaviours detected in these mutant lines and evaluating potential treatments. Over the last years, a huge number of behavioural phenotyping assays for rodent models of autism and related disorders have been designed. In the first part of our review, we focus on current standards, i.e. state-of-the-art behavioural phenotyping tasks to assess autism core symptoms in rodent models. The second part is devoted to some few, in our view, very promising examples of new developments, namely an autism severity score, scent marking behaviour as an additional, ethologically valid measure for communication, plus a number of new developments in the behavioural domains of social facilitation, observational learning, and empathy. Finally, we will highlight the huge potential impact of newly generated rat knockout models of autism.
Research has demonstrated the potential role of the brainstem in the pathobiology of autism. Previous studies have suggested reductions in brainstem volume and a relationship between this structure and sensory abnormalities. However, little is known regarding the developmental aspects of the brainstem across childhood and adolescence. The goal of this pilot study was to examine brainstem development via MRI volumetry using a longitudinal research design. Participants included 23 boys with autism and 23 matched controls (age range=8-17 years), all without intellectual disability. Participants underwent structural MRI scans once at baseline and again at two-year follow-up. Brainstem volumetric measurements were performed using the BRAINS2 software package. There were no significant group differences in age, gender, handedness, and total brain volume; however, full-scale IQ was higher in controls. Autism and control groups showed different patterns of growth in brainstem volume. While whole brainstem volume remained stable in controls over the two-year period, the autism group showed increases with age reaching volumes comparable to controls by age 15 years. This increase of whole brainstem volume was primarily driven by bilateral increases in gray matter volume. Findings from this preliminary study are suggestive of developmental brainstem abnormalities in autism primarily involving gray matter structures. These findings are consistent with autism being conceptualized as a neurodevelopmental disorder with alterations in brain-growth trajectories. More longitudinal MRI studies are needed integrating longitudinal cognitive/behavioral data to confirm and elucidate the clinical significance of these atypical growth patterns.
Several synaptic genes predisposing to autism-spectrum disorder (ASD) have been identified. Nonsense and missense mutations in the SYN1 gene encoding for Synapsin I have been identified in families segregating for idiopathic epilepsy and ASD and genetic mapping analyses have identified variations in the SYN2 gene as significantly contributing to epilepsy predisposition. Synapsins (Syn I/II/III) are a multigene family of synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins playing multiple roles in synaptic development, transmission and plasticity. Lack of SynI and/or SynII triggers a strong epileptic phenotype in mice associated with mild cognitive impairments that are also present in the non-epileptic SynIII(-/-) mice. SynII(-/-) and SynIII(-/-) mice also display schizophrenia-like traits, suggesting that Syns could be involved in the regulation of social behavior. Here, we studied social interaction and novelty, social recognition and social dominance, social transmission of food preference and social memory in groups of male SynI(-/-), SynII(-/-) and SynIII(-/-) mice before and after the appearance of the epileptic phenotype and compared their performances with control mice. We found that deletion of Syn isoforms widely impairs social behaviors and repetitive behaviors, resulting in ASD-related phenotypes. SynI or SynIII deletion altered social behavior, whereas SynII deletion extensively impaired various aspects of social behavior and memory, altered exploration of a novel environment and increased self-grooming. Social impairments of SynI(-/-) and SynII(-/-) mice were evident also before the onset of seizures. The results demonstrate an involvement of Syns in generation of the behavioral traits of ASD and identify Syn knockout mice as a useful experimental model of ASD and epilepsy.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by social and communication impairments and repetitive behaviours. The inbred BTBR T+ tf/J (BTBR) strain, a putative mouse model of autism, exhibits lower social interactions, higher repetitive self-grooming levels and unusual pattern of vocalizations as compared to C57BL/6J strain. First aim of the present study was to evaluate at adolescence (postnatal days 30-35) male BTBR and C57BL/6J performances in two different tasks involving either investigation of social cues (same strain partners) or non social ones (inanimate objects). In the social interaction test, BTBR mice showed a reduction of investigation of the social partner, due to a selective reduction of head sniffing, associated with a decrease in ultrasonic vocalizations. By contrast, no strain differences were detected in object investigations. Second aim of the study was to evaluate adult male BTBR and C57BL/6J performances in a fear conditioning task. Strain differences were evident during contextual retest: these strain differences primarily suggested a lack of behavioural flexibility in BTBR mice (i.e., realizing the occurrence of changes in the experimental paradigm). Subsequent electrophysiological analysis in hippocampal slices from adult BTBR and C57BL/6J mice revealed a significant reduction of Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF)-induced potentiation of synaptic transmission in BTBR mice. BDNF and tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) protein levels measured in the hippocampal region were also lower in BTBR as compared to C57BL/6J mice. These data confirm the presence of low levels of direct interaction with social stimuli in BTBR mice at adolescence, in the absence of any strain difference as for investigation of physical objects. At adulthood in BTBR mice clear signs of behavioural inflexibility were evident whereas both biochemical and electrophysiological data point to decreased BDNF signalling (likely due to a reduction in TrkB levels) in the hippocampus of this mouse strain.
Recent discoveries and advances in genetics and neuroscience have provided deeper understanding of the complex neurobiology of ASD. The development of novel treatments is strictly dependent on these findings in order to design new strategies in the pharmacotherapy of ASD. At this time, therapeutics are limited to treating associated core, symptoms. Studies of single gene disorders, such as Phelan-McDermid syndrome, Fragile X and Tuberous Sclerosis, might be of significant help since the neurobiology of these disorders is clearer and clinical trials are already underway for these conditions. The pathogenesis paradigm shift of ASD towards synaptic abnormalities has led to current research of the pathways to disease, which involves multiple dynamic systems. Interest in oxytocin is growing as it has been recognized to be implicated in social development and affiliative behaviours. In the future, progress is expected in possible new options for therapeutics in ASD. Children and adolescents with ASD and their families can provide vital information about their experiences with new treatments, which should be a priority for future research.
Autism is the short name of a complex and heterogeneous group of disorders (autism spectrum disorders, ASD) with several lead symptoms required for classification, including compromised social interaction, reduced verbal communication and stereotyped repetitive behaviors/restricted interests. The etiology of ASD is still unknown in most cases but monogenic heritable forms exist that have provided insights into ASD pathogenesis and have led to the notion of autism as a 'synapse disorder'. Among the most frequent monogenic causes of autism are loss-of-function mutations of the NLGN4X gene which encodes the synaptic cell adhesion protein neuroligin-4X (NLGN4X). We previously described autism-like behaviors in male Nlgn4 null mutant mice, including reduced social interaction and ultrasonic communication. Here, we extend the phenotypical characterization of Nlgn4 null mutant mice to both genders and add a series of additional autism-relevant behavioral readouts. We now report similar social interaction and ultrasonic communication deficits in females as in males. Furthermore, aggression, nest-building parameters, as well as self-grooming and circling as indicators of repetitive behaviors/stereotypies were explored in both genders. The construction of a gender-specific autism severity composite score for Nlgn4 mutant mice markedly diminishes population/sample heterogeneity typically obtained for single tests, resulting in p values of &lt;0.00001 and a genotype predictability of 100% for male and of &gt;83% for female mice. Taken together, these data underscore the similarity of phenotypical consequences of Nlgn4/NLGN4X loss-of-function in mouse and man, and emphasize the high relevance of Nlgn4 null mutant mice as an ASD model with both construct and face validity.
Mutations in neurexin and neuroligin genes have been associated with neurodevelopmental disabilities including autism. Autism spectrum disorder is diagnosed by aberrant reciprocal social interactions, deficits in social communication, and repetitive, stereotyped patterns of behaviors, along with narrow restricted interests. Mouse models have been successfully used to study physiological and behavioral outcomes of mutations in the trans-synaptic neurexin-neuroligin complex. To further understand the behavioral consequences of Neuroligin2 (NLGN2) mutations, we assessed several behavioral phenotypes relevant to autism in neuroligin2 null (Nlgn2(-/-)), heterozygote (Nlgn2(+/-)), and wildtype (Nlgn2(+/+)) littermate control mice. Reduced breeding efficiency and high reactivity to handling was observed in Nlgn2(-/-) mice, resulting in low numbers of adult mice available for behavioral assessment. Consistent with previous findings, Nlgn2(-/-) mice displayed normal social behaviors, concomitant with reduced exploratory activity, impaired rotarod performance, and delays on several developmental milestones. No spontaneous stereotypies or repetitive behaviors were detected. Acoustic, tactile, and olfactory sensory information processing as well as sensorimotor gating were not affected. Nlgn2(-/-) pups isolated from mother and littermates emitted fewer ultrasonic vocalizations and spent less time calling than Nlgn2(+/+) littermate controls. The present findings add to the growing literature on the role of neurexins and neuroligins in physiology and behavior relevant to neurodevelopmental disorders.
PC12-27, a PC12 clone characterized by high levels of the transcription repressor REST and by very low mTORC2 activity, had been shown to be unresponsive to NGF, possibly because of its lack of the specific TrkA receptor. The neurotrophin receptor repressed by high REST in PC12-27 cells, however, is shown now to be not TrkA, which is normal, but p75(NTR), whose expression is inhibited at the transcriptional level. When treated with NGF, the PC12-27 cells lacking p75(NTR) exhibited a defective TrkA autophosphorylation restricted, however, to the TrkA(Y490) site, and an impairment of the PI3K signaling cascade. This defect was sustained in part by a mTORC1-dependent feed-back inhibition that in wtPC12 cells appeared marginal. Transfection of p75(NTR) to a level and surface distribution analogous to wtPC12 did not modify various high REST-dependent properties of PC12-27 cells such as high -catenin, low TSC2 and high proliferation rate. In contrast, the defective PI3K signaling cascade and its associated mTORC2 activity were largely rescued together with the NGF-induced neurite outgrowth response. These changes were not due to p75(NTR) alone but required its cooperation with TrkA. Our results demonstrate that, in PC12, high REST induces alterations of NGF signaling which, however, are indirect, dependent on the repression of p75(NTR); and that the well-known potentiation by p75(NTR) of the TrkA signaling does not concern all the effects induced by NGF but primarily the PI3K cascade and its associated mTORC2, a complex known to play an important role in neural cell differentiation.
Transcription factor Nrf2 and its repressor Keap1 regulate a network of cytoprotective genes involving more than 1% of the genome, their best known targets being drug-metabolizing and antioxidant genes. Here we demonstrate a novel role for this pathway in directly regulating mitochondrial bioenergetics in murine neurons and embryonic fibroblasts. Loss of Nrf2 leads to mitochondrial depolarisation, decreased ATP levels and impaired respiration, whereas genetic activation of Nrf2 increases the mitochondrial membrane potential and ATP levels, the rate of respiration and the efficiency of oxidative phosphorylation. We further show that Nrf2-deficient cells have increased production of ATP in glycolysis, which is then used by the F1Fo-ATPase for maintenance of the mitochondrial membrane potential. While the levels and in vitro activities of the respiratory complexes are unaffected by Nrf2 deletion, their activities in isolated mitochondria and intact live cells are substantially impaired. In addition, the rate of regeneration of NADH after inhibition of respiration is much slower in Nrf2-knockout cells than in their wild-type counterparts. Taken together, these results show that Nrf2 directly regulates cellular energy metabolism through modulating the availability of substrates for mitochondrial respiration. Our findings highlight the importance of efficient energy metabolism in Nrf2-mediated cytoprotection.

Mood disorders are serious diseases that affect a large portion of the population. There have been many hypotheses put forth over the years to explain the development of major depression, bipolar disorder, and other mood disorders. These hypotheses include disruptions in monoamine transmission, hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis function, immune function, neurogenesis, mitochondrial dysfunction, and neuropeptide signaling (to name a few). Nearly all people suffering from mood disorders have significant disruptions in circadian rhythms and the sleep/wake cycle. In fact, altered sleep patterns are one of the major diagnostic criteria for these disorders. Moreover, environmental disruptions to circadian rhythms, including shift work, travel across time zones, and irregular social schedules, tend to precipitate or exacerbate mood-related episodes. Recent studies have found that molecular clocks are found throughout the brain and body where they participate in the regulation of most physiological processes, including those thought to be involved in mood regulation. This review will summarize recent data that implicate the circadian system as a vital regulator of a variety of systems that are thought to play a role in the development of mood disorders.

The molecular processes that contribute to degenerative diseases are not well understood. Recent observations suggest that some degenerative diseases are promoted by the accumulation of nuclear or cytoplasmic RNA-protein (RNP) aggregates, which can be related to endogenous RNP granules. RNP aggregates arise commonly in degenerative diseases because RNA-binding proteins commonly self-assemble, in part through prion-like domains, which can form self-propagating amyloids. RNP aggregates may be toxic due to multiple perturbations of posttranscriptional control, thereby disrupting the normal &quot;ribostasis&quot; of the cell. This suggests that understanding and modulating RNP assembly or clearance may be effective approaches to developing therapies for these diseases.
B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) family proteins regulate survival, mitochondria morphology dynamics and metabolism in many cell types including neurons. Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expanded CAG repeat tract in the IT15 gene that encodes for the protein huntingtin (htt). In vitro and in vivo models of HD and HD patients' tissues show abnormal mitochondrial function and increased cell death rates associated with alterations in Bcl-2 family protein expression and localization. This review aims to draw together the information related to Bcl-2 family protein alterations in HD to decipher their potential role in mutated htt-related cell death and mitochondrial dysfunction.
One of the most notable characteristics of synaptic transmission is the wide variation in synaptic strength in response to identical stimulation. In hippocampal neurons, approximately one-third of axonal mitochondria are highly motile, and some dynamically pass through presynaptic boutons. This raises a fundamental question: can motile mitochondria contribute to the pulse-to-pulse variability of presynaptic strength? Recently, we identified syntaphilin as an axonal mitochondrial-docking protein. Using hippocampal neurons and slices of syntaphilin knockout mice, we demonstrate that the motility of axonal mitochondria correlates with presynaptic variability. Enhancing mitochondrial motility increases the pulse-to-pulse variability, whereas immobilizing mitochondria reduces the variability. By dual-color live imaging at single-bouton levels, we further show that motile mitochondria passing through boutons dynamically influence synaptic vesicle release, mainly by altering ATP homeostasis in axons. Thus, our study provides insight into the fundamental properties of the CNS to ensure the plasticity and reliability of synaptic transmission.
Present study investigated the influence of the sigma ( and ) receptors within hippocampus on the agmatine induced antinociception in neuropathic rats. Animals were subjected to sciatic nerve ligation for induction of neuropathic pain and observed the paw withdrawal latency in response to thermal hyperalgesia, cold allodynia and the mechanical hyperalgesia. Intrahippocampal (i.h.) as well as intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of agmatine attenuated neuropathic pain in sciatic nerve ligated rats. Intrahippocampal administration of  agonist (+)-pentazocine or  agonist PB28 sensitized whereas,  antagonist BD1063 or  antagonist SM21 potentiated antinociceptive effect of agmatine. The behavioral effects correlated with hippocampal tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) levels observed by western blot analysis. These results suggest that both the  and  receptor subunits within hippocampus play an important role in antinociceptive action of agmatine against neuropathic pain.
Improgan, a non-opioid, antinociceptive drug, activates descending analgesic circuits following brain administration, but the improgan receptor remains unidentified. Since biotinylation of drugs can enhance drug potency or facilitate discovery of new drug targets, a biotinylated congener of improgan (CC44) and several related compounds were synthesized and tested for antinociceptive activity. In rats and mice, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of CC44 produced dose-dependent reductions in thermal nociceptive (tail flick and hot plate) responses, with 5-fold greater potency than improgan. CC44 also robustly attenuated mechanical (tail pinch) nociception in normal rats and mechanical allodynia in a spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic pain. Similar to the effects of improgan, CC44 antinociception was reversed by the GABAA agonist muscimol (consistent with activation of analgesic circuits), and was resistant to the opioid antagonist naltrexone (implying a non-opioid mechanism). Also like improgan, CC44 produced thermal antinociception when microinjected into the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). Unlike improgan, CC44 (i.c.v.) produced antinociception which was resistant to antagonism by the cannabinoid CB1 antagonist/inverse agonist rimonabant. CC44 was inactive in mice following systemic administration, indicating that CC44 does not penetrate the brain. Preliminary findings with other CC44 congeners suggest that the heteroaromatic nucleus (imidazole), but not the biotin moiety, is required for CC44's antinociceptive activity. These findings demonstrate that CC44 is a potent analgesic compound with many improgan-like characteristics. Since powerful techniques are available to characterize and identify the binding partners for biotin-containing ligands, CC44 may be useful in searching for new receptors for analgesic drugs.
Parkinson's disease is a movement disorder characterized by death of dopaminergic substantia nigra (SN) neurons and brain accumulation of -synuclein. The tyrosine kinase Abl is activated in neurodegeneration. Here, we show that lentiviral expression of -synuclein in the mouse SN leads to Abl activation (phosphorylation) and lentiviral Abl expression increases -synuclein levels, in agreement with Abl activation in PD brains. Administration of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor nilotinib decreases Abl activity and ameliorates autophagic clearance of -synuclein in transgenic and lentiviral gene transfer models. Subcellular fractionation shows accumulation of -synuclein and hyper-phosphorylated Tau (p-Tau) in autophagic vacuoles in -synuclein expressing brains, but nilotinib enhances protein deposition into the lysosomes. Nilotinib is used for adult leukemia treatment and it enters the brain within US Food and Drug Administration approved doses, leading to autophagic degradation of -synuclein, protection of SN neurons and amelioration of motor performance. These data suggest that nilotinib may be a therapeutic strategy to degrade -synuclein in PD and other -synucleinopathies.




There is ambiguity concerning the distribution of neurons that express the ghrelin receptor (GHSR) in the medulla oblongata. In the current study we used a sensitive nonradioactive method to investigate GHSR mRNA distribution by in situ hybridization. Strong expression of the GHSR gene was confirmed in neurons of the facial nucleus (FacN, 7), the dorsal vagal complex (DVC), and the semicompact (but not compact) nucleus ambiguus (AmbSC and AmbC). In addition, expression of GHSR was found in other regions, where it had not been described before. GHSR-positive neurons were observed in the gustatory rostral nucleus tractus solitarius and in areas involved in vestibulo-ocular processing (such as the medial vestibular nucleus and the nucleus abducens). GHSR expression was also noted in ventral areas associated with cardiorespiratory control, including the gigantocellular reticular nucleus, the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus, the rostral and caudal ventrolateral medulla, the (pre)-Btzinger complex, and the rostral and caudal ventrolateral respiratory group. However, GHSR-positive neurons in ventrolateral areas did not express markers for cardiovascular presympathetic vasomotor neurons, respiratory propriobulbar rhythmogenic neurons, or sensory interneurons. GHSR-positive cells were intermingled with catecholamine neurons in the dorsal vagal complex but these populations did not overlap. Thus, the ghrelin receptor occurs in the medulla oblongata in 1) second-order sensory neurons processing gustatory, vestibulo-ocular, and visceral sensation; 2) cholinergic somatomotor neurons of the FacN and autonomic preganglionic neurons of the DMNX and AmbSC; 3) cardiovascular neurons in the DVC, Gi, and LPGi; 4) neurons of as yet unknown function in the ventrolateral medulla.
Prior studies have identified two anatomically and neurochemically distinct cellular compartments within the mammalian striatum, termed striosomes and matrix, which express -opioid receptors (OR) and EphA4, respectively. Here we identify and characterize an additional compartment in the rat striatum composed of neurons that express EphA7. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical data indicate that neurons expressing EphA7 mRNA and protein are arranged in a banded &quot;matrisome-like&quot; pattern confined to the matrix in the dorsal striatum. Within the ventral striatum, EphA7-positive (+) neurons have a less organized mosaic pattern that partially overlaps areas expressing OR. Immunolabeling data demonstrate that EphA7+ striatofugal axons form distinct fascicles leaving the striatum. Within the globus pallidus, EphA7+ axons terminate primarily within ventromedial areas of the nucleus and along its striatal border. EphA7+ axons avoid regions containing dopamine neurons within the substantia nigra and preferentially innervate areas near the rostral and caudal margins of the nucleus. Within both nuclei, EphA7+ axons have similar but more restricted terminal fields than the entire population of EphA4+ matrix axons, indicating that EphA7+ axons comprise a subpopulation of matrix axons. Ligand binding data demonstrate that ephrin-A5 selectively binds areas of the striatum, globus pallidus, and substantia nigra containing EphA7+ neurons and axons, but not areas expressing only EphA4. Our findings demonstrate that EphA7 expression identifies a novel &quot;matrisome&quot; compartment within the matrix that binds ephrin-A5 and possesses unique axonal projections. Our findings also suggest that EphA7 and ephrin-A5 may participate in the formation of this matrisome subcompartment and its striatofugal projections.
A mechanistic understanding of goal-directed behavior in vertebrates is hindered by the relative inaccessibility and size of their nervous systems. Here, we have studied the kinematics of prey capture behavior in a highly accessible vertebrate model organism, the transparent larval zebrafish (Danio rerio), to assess whether they use visual cues to systematically adjust their movements. We found that zebrafish larvae scale the speed and magnitude of turning movements according to the azimuth of one of their standard prey, paramecia. They also bias the direction of subsequent swimming movements based on prey azimuth and select forward or backward movements based on the prey's direction of travel. Once within striking distance, larvae generate either ram or suction capture behaviors depending on their distance from the prey. From our experimental estimations of ocular receptive fields, we ascertained that the ultimate decision to consume prey is likely a function of the progressive vergence of the eyes that places the target in a proximal binocular 'capture zone'. By repeating these experiments in the dark, we demonstrate that paramecia are only consumed if they contact the anterior extremities of larvae, which triggers ocular vergence and tail movements similar to close proximity captures in lit conditions. These observations confirm the importance of vision in the graded movements we observe leading up to capture of more distant prey in the light, and implicate somatosensation in captures in the absence of light. We discuss the implications of these findings for future work on the neural control of visually guided behavior in zebrafish.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease in which autoantibodies, most commonly directed against the acetylcholine receptor (AChR), impair neuromuscular transmission and cause muscle weakness. In this study, we utilized two-dimensional difference in-gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) to analyze the muscle's proteomic profile at different stages of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). We identified twenty-two differentially expressed proteins, mainly related to metabolic and stress-response pathways. Interestingly, these identified proteins have also been associated with other contraction-impairing muscle pathologies (e.g. inclusion body myositis), suggesting a similar response of the muscle to such conditions.
Patients with Parkinson's disease show persistent microglial activation in the areas of the brain where the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons takes place. The reason for maintaining this activated state is still unknown, but it is thought that this persistent microglial activation may contribute to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. In this study, we report the microanatomical details of microglia and the relationship between microglia and neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta of Parkinsonian monkeys years after insult with MPTP. We observed that microglial cells appear polarized toward dopaminergic neurons in MPTP-treated macaques compared to untreated animals and present clear phagocytic characteristics, such as engulfing gliaptic contacts, an increase in Golgi apparatus protein machinery and ball-and-chain phagocytic buds. These results demonstrate that activated microglia maintain phagocytic characteristics years after neurotoxin insult, and phagocytosis may be a key contributor to the neurodegenerative process.
Autoantibodies against astrocyte water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) are highly specific for neuromyelitis optica (NMO). However, the molecular mechanism of NMO still remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to identify the possible humoral mechanisms responsible for the occurrence of astrocytic damage. Human primary astrocytes (AST) were immortalized by retroviral vectors harboring temperature-sensitive SV40 T antigen gene and AQP4 cDNA (M23), designated as hAST-AQP4. The effects of NMO sera on the content and localization of AQP4, including cytotoxicity and astrocytic morphology, were evaluated. In addition, this study examined whether the amount and localization of AQP4 protein in astrocytes were influenced by direct contact with the immortalized human brain microvascular endothelial cell line, TY09. NMO sera alone induced cytotoxicity and addition of complement had a more harmful effect on hAST-AQP4. NMO sera also decreased AQP4 mRNA and protein. NMO sera alone up-regulated TNF and IL-6 in astrocytes and co-incubation with anti-TNF and anti-IL-6 neutralizing antibodies blocked both the cytotoxicity and reduction of AQP4 in astrocytes. In the experiment using the in vitro BBB models, AQP4 protein mainly localized at the astrocytic membrane after co-culture with TY09, in contact with TY09. The future elucidation of factors that up-regulate AQP4 in astrocytes presumably released by blood brain barrier forming endothelial cells and that block the production of inflammatory cytokines may therefore lead to the development of a novel therapeutic strategy.

Oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell death has been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD). Oxidative stress initiated by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) causes mitochondrial dysfunction leading to apoptosis and Parkinsonian neurodegeneration. We investigated the neuroprotective potential of serotonin (5-HT), gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) and autologous bone marrow cells (BMC) in combination against oxidative stress-induced cell death. PD was induced in adult male Wistar rats by intranigral infusion of 6-OHDA (8 g/l). The activities of antioxidant enzymes--superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were analysed. The extent of lipid peroxidation was quantified by measuring the formation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARs). Real Time PCR gene expression of SOD, CAT and GPx were performed using specific Taqman probes. 6-OHDA induced decreased activity of SOD, CAT and GPx in corpus striatum was significantly reversed to near control (p&lt;0.001) by treatment with 5-HT, GABA and bone marrow cells. Gene expression studies of SOD, CAT and GPx using Real Time PCR confirmed the above observation. TBAR levels were elevated (p&lt;0.001) in 6-OHDA treated rats indicating lipid peroxidation. 5-HT and GABA along with autologous bone marrow cell supplementation significantly ameliorated 6-OHDA-induced lipid peroxidation (p&lt;0.001). Our results suggest a new therapeutic strategy of neuroprotection against damage by oxidative stress in Parkinson's disease.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is extremely sensitive in detecting multiple sclerosis (MS)-related abnormalities. As a consequence, it has become an established tool to diagnose the disease and to monitor its evolution. In patients at presentation with clinically isolated syndromes suggestive of MS, MRI has been formally included in the diagnostic work up and ad hoc criteria have been proposed and are updated on a regular basis. However, in patients with definite MS, the strength of the relationship between conventional MRI findings and subsequent clinical manifestations of the disease remains modest. This is likely due to the relatively lack of specificity of conventional MRI to the heterogeneous pathological substrates of the disease and its inability to provide accurate estimates of such a damage outside focal lesions as well as to define the mechanisms through which the central nervous system recovers after tissue injury has occurred. Non-conventional MRI techniques offer new biomarkers more closely linked to the pathological features of the disease, which are likely to contribute to overcome, at least partially, these limitations. This review summarizes how MRI has improved our ability to diagnose MS and to predict its course, as well as how it is changing our understanding of the factors associated with the accumulation of irreversible disability in this condition.
Clinicians treating multiple sclerosis (MS) patients need biomarkers in order to predict an individualized prognosis for every patient, that is, characteristics that can be measured in an objective manner, and that give information over normal or pathological processes, or about the response to a given therapeutic intervention. Pharmacogenetics/Genomics in the fields of MS by now can be considered a promise. In the meanwhile, clinicians should use the information provided by the many clinical epidemiological studies performed by now, telling us that there are some clinical markers of good prognosis (female sex, young age of onset, optic neuritis or isolated sensory symptoms at debut, long interval between initial and second relapse, no accumulation of disability after five years of disease evolution, normal or near normal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at onset). Some markers in biological samples are considered as potential prognostic markers like IgM and neurofilaments in CSF or antimyelin and chitinase 3-like 1 in blood (plasma/sera). Baseline MRI lesion number, lesion load and location have been closely associated with a worse evolution, as well as MRI measures related to axonal damage (black holes in T1, brain atrophy, grey matter atrophy (GMA) and white matter atrophy (WMA), magnetization transfer measures and intracortical lesions). Functional measures (OCT, evoked potentials) have a potential role in measuring neurodegeneration in MS and could be very useful tools for prognosis. Several mathematical approaches to estimate the risk of short term use early clinical and paraclinical biomarkers to predict the evolution of the disease.
Quantification of eye-hand coordinated behaviour is a relatively new tool to study neurodegeneration in humans. Its sensitivity depends on the assessment of different behavioural strategies, multiple task testing and repeating tasks within one session. However, large numbers of repetition trials pose a significant burden on subjects. To introduce this method in large-scale population studies, it is necessary to determine whether reducing the number of task repetitions, which will lower subject burden, still leads to acceptable measurement accuracy. The objective of this study was to investigate the validity and reliability of eye-hand coordination outcome parameters in eight healthy volunteers using a test-retest approach. Subjects were assessed during a shortened test procedure consisting of eight repetitions of three behavioural tasks: a reflex-based tapping task, a planning-based tapping task and a memory-based tapping task. Eye-hand coordination was quantified in terms of timing (eye and hand latencies), kinematics and accuracy. Eye and hand latencies were found within a normal range (between 150 and 450ms). A paired samples t-test revealed no differences in timing parameters between the first and second measurements. It was concluded that eight trial repetitions are sufficient for quantifying eye-hand coordination in terms of timing, kinematics and accuracy. This approach demonstrates the testing of multiple visuomotor behaviours within a reasonable time span of a few minutes per task.
The introduction of the FD Rapid GolgiStain Kit has enabled many researchers to easily examine the morphology of neurons. Owing to an improved Golgi-Cox impregnation method, both stable and highly sensitive stained images of neurons can be acquired using this kit. To analyse microstructures such as dendritic spines and growth cones at detail, we attempted to create a useful method combining Golgi-Cox staining and electron microscopy (Golgi-EM method) so that the prepared Kit-stained samples would be appropriate for use in electron microscopy (EM) studies. Results from the present study suggest the importance of the glutaraldehyde fixation step in the Golgi-EM method. Here, we introduce the recommended protocol for the Golgi-EM method, which is available for ultrahigh-voltage electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. We are confident that our Golgi-EM method may become a reliable and important method that can contribute to new discoveries in neuronal morphology.
Human olfactory perception can be measured using psychophysical tools or more complex odor generating devices systems, namely olfactometers. The present paper is aimed at presenting a new inexpensive, non-voluminous portable olfactometer adapted for human fMRI experiments. The system adjusts odorant stimulus presentation to human nasal respiration and records behavioral responses in the same experimental device. Validation by psychophysical measures and photo-ionization detection showed a linear increase in both odor intensity perception and vapor concentration as a function of odorant concentration. Further validation by brain imaging revealed neural activation in typical olfactory areas. In summary, the system represents a new low-cost, easy-use, easy-maintenance portable olfactometry tool for brain imaging, opening up new possibilities for investigating neural response to odors using event-related fMRI designs.
Heterotrimeric G-proteins are critical players in the transduction mechanisms underlying odorant and pheromonal signalling. In the vomeronasal organ (VNO) of the adult mouse, two different G-protein complexes have been identified. Go28 is preferentially expressed in the basal neurons and coexpresses with type-2 vomeronasal pheromone receptors (V2Rs) whereas Gi222 is found in the apical neurons and coexpresses with type-1 vomeronasal pheromone receptors (V1Rs). V2R-expressing neurons project to the posterior accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) whereas neurons expressing V1Rs send their axon to the anterior AOB. G8 is also expressed in developing olfactory neurons where this protein is probably associated with Go. Here, we generated mice with a targeted deletion of the G8 gene and investigated the behavioural effects and the physiological consequences of this mutation. G8(-/-) mice show a normal development of the main olfactory epithelium; moreover, they do not display major deficits in odour perception. In contrast, the VNO undergoes a slow but remarkable loss of basal neurons starting from the fourth postnatal week, with a 40% reduction of cells at 2 months and 70% at 1 year. This loss is associated with a reduced early-gene expression in the posterior AOB of mice stimulated with pheromones. More interestingly, the G8 deletion specifically leads to a reduced pheromone-mediated aggressiveness in both males and females, all other socio-sexual behaviours remaining unaltered. This study defines a specific role for G8 in maintenance of the neuronal population of the VNO and in the mechanisms of pheromonal signalling that involve the aggressive behaviour towards conspecifics.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) affects neurons at both cortical and subcortical levels. The subcortical effects involve several descending motor systems but appeared to be relatively weak, as only small increases in the amplitude of subcortically initiated descending volleys and a minute shortening of latencies of these volleys were found. The aim of the present study was therefore to evaluate the consequences of facilitation of these volleys on the ensuing muscle activation. The experiments were carried out on deeply anaesthetized rats without neuromuscular blockade. Effects of tDCS were tested on EMG potentials recorded from neck muscles evoked by weak (20-60 A) single, double or triple stimuli applied in the medial longitudinal fascicle (MLF) or in the red nucleus (RN). Short latencies of these potentials were compatible with monosynaptic or disynaptic actions of reticulospinal and disynaptic or trisynaptic actions of rubrospinal neurons on neck motoneurons. Despite only weak effects on indirect descending volleys, the EMG responses from both the MLF and the RN were potently facilitated by cathodal tDCS and depressed by anodal tDCS. Both the facilitation and the depression developed relatively rapidly (within the first minute) but both outlasted tDCS and were present for up to 1 h after tDCS. The study thus demonstrates long-lasting effects of tDCS on subcortical neurons in the rat, albeit evoked by an opposite polarity of tDCS to that found to be effective on subcortical neurons in the cat investigated in the preceding study, or for cortical neurons in the humans.
The respiratory activity in the intercostal nerves of the rat is unusual, in that motoneurones of both branches of the intercostal nerves, internal and external, are activated during expiration. Here, the pathways involved in that activation were investigated in anaesthetised and in decerebrate rats by cross-correlation and by intracellular spike-triggered averaging from expiratory bulbospinal neurones (EBSNs), with a view to revealing specific connections that could be used in studies of experimental spinal cord injury. Decerebrate preparations, which showed the strongest expiratory activity, were found to be the most suitable for these measurements. Cross-correlations in these preparations showed monosynaptic connections from 16/19 (84%) of EBSNs, but only to internal intercostal nerve motoneurones (24/37, 65% of EBSN/nerve pairs), whereas disynaptic connections were seen for external intercostal nerve motoneurones (4/19, 21% of EBSNs or 7/25, 28% of EBSN/nerve pairs). There was evidence for additional disynaptic connections to internal intercostal nerve motoneurones. Intracellular spike-triggered averaging revealed excitatory postsynaptic potentials, which confirmed these connections. This is believed to be the first report of single descending fibres that participate in two different pathways to two different groups of motoneurones. It is of interest compared with the cat, where only one group of motoneurones is activated during expiration and only one of the pathways has been detected. The specificity of the connections could be valuable in studies of plasticity in pathological situations, but care will be needed in studying connections in such situations, because their strength was found here to be relatively weak.
The nucleus incertus (NI) of the rat hindbrain is a putative node in the ascending control of the septohippocampal system and hippocampal theta rhythm and is stress and arousal responsive. NI contains GABA neurons that express multiple neuropeptides, including relaxin-3 (RLN3) and neuropeptide receptors, including corticotrophin-releasing factor receptor-1 (CRF-R1), but the precise anatomical and physiological characteristics of NI neurons are unclear. Therefore, we examined the firing properties of NI neurons and their responses to CRF, the correlation of these responses with occurrence of relaxin-3, and NI neuron morphology in the rat. Most NI neurons excited by intracerebroventricular CRF infusion were RLN3-positive (9 of 10), whereas all inhibited cells were RLN3-negative (8 of 8). The spontaneous firing of RLN3 (n = 6) but not non-RLN3 neurons (n = 6) was strongly modulated and phase-locked with the initial ascending phase of hippocampal theta oscillations. In brain slices, the majority of recorded NI neurons (15 of 19) displayed excitatory responses to CRF, which uniformly increased action potential frequency and membrane potential depolarization in the presence of tetrodotoxin, indicating a direct, postsynaptic action of CRF on NI neurons. This excitation was associated with reduction in the slow component of afterhyperpolarization and a strong depolarization. Quantitative analysis in nave rats of validated CRF-R1, RLN3 and neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN) immunoreactivity revealed 52% of NI neurons as CRF-R1 positive, of which 53% were RLN3 positive, while 48% of NI neurons lacked CRF-R1 and RLN3. All RLN3 neurons expressed CRF-R1. CRF neurons that projected to the NI were identified in lateral preoptic hypothalamus, but not in paraventricular hypothalamus, bed nucleus of stria terminalis or central amygdala. Our findings suggest NI is an important site for CRF modulation of hippocampal theta rhythm via effects on GABA/RLN3 transmission.
In the mammalian olfactory bulb (OB), local synaptic circuits modulate the evolving pattern of activity in mitral and tufted cells following olfactory sensory stimulation. GABAergic granule cells, the most numerous interneuron subtype in this brain region, have been extensively studied. However, classic studies using Golgi staining methods identified many other, nongranule cell types in the OB whose function remains mysterious. Within just the granule cell layer (GCL), Ramn y Cajal described multiple morphologically distinct subtypes of nongranule interneurons including large spiny Blanes cells which exhibit intrinsic persistent activity. Here, we define the intrinsic electrophysiology of a different nongranule interneuronal cell type in the GCL described by Ramn y Cajal, sparsely spiny Golgi cells in the rat OB. Golgi cells exhibit two distinct firing modes depending on the membrane potential: tonic firing and bursting. Golgi cells also generate rebound bursts following the offset of hyperpolarizing steps. We find that both low-threshold burst responses to depolarizing inputs and rebound bursts are blocked by nickel, an antagonist of T-type voltage-gated Ca2+ current. The state-dependent firing behavior we report in OB Golgi cells suggests that the function of these interneurons may dynamically shift from providing rhythmic potent inhibition of postsynaptic target neurons at sniffing frequencies to tonic, subtractive inhibition based on centrifugal modulatory input.
Rapidly developing imaging technologies including two-photon microscopy and genetically encoded calcium indicators have opened up new possibilities for recording neural population activity in awake, behaving animals. In the small, transparent zebrafish, it is even becoming possible to image the entire brain of a behaving animal with single-cell resolution, creating brain-wide functional maps. In this chapter, we comprehensively review past functional imaging studies in zebrafish, and the insights that they provide into the functional organization of neural circuits. We further offer a basic primer on state-of-the-art methods for in vivo calcium imaging in the zebrafish, including building a low-cost two-photon microscope and highlight possible challenges and technical considerations.
At the turn of the 20th century, classical regenerative biology--the study of organismal/tissue/limb regeneration in animals such as crayfish, snails, and planaria--garnered much attention. However, scientific luminaries such as Thomas Hunt Morgan eventually turned to other fields after concluding that inquiries into regenerative mechanisms were largely intractable beyond observational intrigues. The field of regeneration has enjoyed a resurgence in research activity at the turn of the 21st century, in large part due to &quot;the promise&quot; of cultured stem cells regarding reparative therapeutic approaches. Additionally, genomics-based methods that allow sophisticated genetic/molecular manipulations to be carried out in nearly any species have extended organismal regenerative biology well beyond observational limits. Throughout its history, complex paradigms such as limb regeneration--involving multiple tissue/cell types, thus, potentially multiple stem cell subtypes--have predominated the regenerative biology field. Conversely, cellular regeneration--the replacement of specific cell types--has been studied from only a few perspectives (predominantly muscle and mechanosensory hair cells). Yet, many of the degenerative diseases that regenerative biology hopes to address involve the loss of individual cell types; thus, a primary emphasis of the embryonic/induced stem cell field is defining culture conditions which promote cell-specific differentiation. Here we will discuss recent methodological approaches that promote the study of cell-specific regeneration. Such paradigms can reveal how the differentiation of specific cell types and regenerative potential of discrete stem cell niches are regulated. In particular, we will focus on how the nitroreductase (NTR) system of inducible targeted cell ablation facilitates: (1) large-scale genetic and chemical screens for identifying factors that regulate regeneration and (2) in vivo time-lapse imaging experiments aimed at investigating regenerative processes more directly. Combining powerful screening and imaging technologies with targeted ablation systems can expand our understanding of how individual stem cell niches are regulated. The former approach promotes the development of therapies aimed at enhancing regenerative potentials in humans, the latter facilitates investigation of phenomena that are otherwise difficult to resolve, such as the role of cellular transdifferentiation or the innate immune system in regenerative paradigms.

We present a novel approach - DTI-based fiber tract-driven topographical mapping (FTTM) - to map and measure the influence of age on the integrity of interhemispheric fibers and challenge their selective functions with measures of interhemispheric integration of lateralized information. This approach enabled identification of spatially specific topographical maps of scalar diffusion measures and their relation to measures of visuomotor performance. Relative to younger adults, older adults showed lower fiber integrity indices in anterior than posterior callosal fibers. FTTM analysis identified a dissociation in the microstructural-function associates between age groups: in younger adults, genu fiber integrity correlated with interhemispheric transfer time, whereas in older adults, body fiber integrity was correlated with interhemispheric transfer time with topographical specificity along left-lateralized callosal fiber trajectories. Neural co-activation from redundant targets was evidenced by fMRI-derived bilateral extrastriate cortex activation in both groups, and a group difference emerged for a pontine activation cluster that was differently modulated by response hand in older than younger adults. Bilateral processing advantages in older but not younger adults further correlated with fiber integrity in transverse pontine fibers that branch into the right cerebellar cortex, thereby supporting a role for the pons in interhemispheric facilitation. In conclusion, in the face of compromised anterior callosal fibers, older adults appear to use alternative pathways to accomplish visuomotor interhemispheric information transfer and integration for lateralized processing. This shift from youthful associations may indicate recruitment of compensatory mechanisms involving medial corpus callosum fibers and subcortical pathways.
Spontaneous fluctuations in resting state activity can change in response to experience-dependent plasticity and learning. Visual learning is fast and can be elicited in an MRI scanner. Here, we showed that a random dot motion coherence task can be learned within one training session. While the task activated primarily visual and parietal brain areas, learning related changes in neural activity were observed in the hippocampus. Crucially, even this rapid learning affected resting state dynamics both immediately after the learning and 24h later. Specifically, the hippocampus changed its coupling with the striatum, in a way that was best explained as a consolidation of early learning related changes. Our findings suggest that long-lasting changes in neuronal coupling are accompanied by changes in resting state activity.
Multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) is a relatively recent innovation in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) methods. MVPA is increasingly widely used, as it is apparently more effective than classical general linear model analysis (GLMA) for detecting response patterns or representations that are distributed at a fine spatial scale. However, we demonstrate that widely used approaches to MVPA can systematically admit certain confounds that are appropriately eliminated by GLMA. Thus confounds rather than distributed representations may explain some cases in which MVPA produced positive results but GLMA did not. The issue is that it is common practice in MVPA to conduct group tests on single-subject summary statistics that discard the sign or direction of underlying effects, whereas GLMA group tests are conducted directly on single-subject effects themselves. We describe how this common MVPA practice undermines standard experiment design logic that is intended to control at the group level for certain types of confounds, such as time on task and individual differences. Furthermore, we note that a simple application of linear regression can restore experimental control when using MVPA in many situations. Finally, we present a case study with novel fMRI data in the domain of rule representations, or flexible stimulus-response mappings, which has seen several recent MVPA publications. In our new dataset, as with recent reports, standard MVPA appears to reveal rule representations in prefrontal cortex regions, whereas GLMA produces null results. However, controlling for a variable that is confounded with rule at the individual-subject level but not the group level (reaction time differences across rules) eliminates the MVPA results. This raises the question of whether recently reported results truly reflect rule representations, or rather the effects of confounds such as reaction time, difficulty, or other variables of no interest.

We investigate the effects of variations in response requirements on BOLD activation in a visual oddball task and consider implications for fMRI task designs. Sixteen healthy subjects completed 3 runs of a visual oddball task: passive, count and respond. Besides expected activation patterns during passive viewing, we identified joint activations, but more importantly crucial differences between the count and respond versions of the task. Middle frontal gyrus activation was seen in the respond but not the count condition suggesting that this region is associated with action execution rather than the decision-making aspect of the task. In addition, activation observed in the central opercular cortex and parietal operculum in the respond (but not count) condition is likely to reflect integration of the sensory, decision and response processes. We also observed activation in the supplementary motor area (SMA) during count as well as respond. Since the count condition requires no motor planning or response our data provide evidence for an SMA involvement in decision-making. Our study clearly shows that the count and respond versions of the visual oddball task result in different patterns of BOLD activation that could both be attributed to 'target detection' if information on the respective other condition was not available. We also show that considering the elements of a complex task is crucial when transferring it from one imaging modality to another and that a motor response is not always necessary in fMRI studies when the task has been set up appropriately.
Chronic subjective tinnitus is an auditory phantom phenomenon characterized by abnormal neuronal synchrony in the central auditory system. As recently shown in a proof of concept clinical trial, acoustic coordinated reset (CR) neuromodulation causes a significant relief of tinnitus symptoms combined with a significant decrease of pathological oscillatory activity in a network comprising auditory and non-auditory brain areas. The objective of the present study was to analyze whether CR therapy caused an alteration of the effective connectivity in a tinnitus related network of localized EEG brain sources. To determine which connections matter, in a first step, we considered a larger network of brain sources previously associated with tinnitus. To that network we applied a data-driven approach, combining empirical mode decomposition and partial directed coherence analysis, in patients with bilateral tinnitus before and after 12 weeks of CR therapy as well as in healthy controls. To increase the signal-to-noise ratio, we focused on the good responders, classified by a reliable-change-index (RCI). Prior to CR therapy and compared to the healthy controls, the good responders showed a significantly increased connectivity between the left primary cortex auditory cortex and the posterior cingulate cortex in the gamma and delta bands together with a significantly decreased effective connectivity between the right primary auditory cortex and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in the alpha band. Intriguingly, after 12 weeks of CR therapy most of the pathological interactions were gone, so that the connectivity patterns of good responders and healthy controls became statistically indistinguishable. In addition, we used dynamic causal modeling (DCM) to examine the types of interactions which were altered by CR therapy. Our DCM results show that CR therapy specifically counteracted the imbalance of excitation and inhibition. CR significantly weakened the excitatory connection between posterior cingulate cortex and primary auditory cortex and significantly strengthened inhibitory connections between auditory cortices and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The overall impact of CR therapy on the entire tinnitus-related network showed up as a qualitative transformation of its spectral response, in terms of a drastic change of the shape of its averaged transfer function. Based on our findings we hypothesize that CR therapy restores a silence based cognitive auditory comparator function of the posterior cingulate cortex.
Several brain-imaging and lesion studies have suggested a role for the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) in computing interval-timing tasks. PPC also seems to have a key role in modulating visuospatial mechanisms, which are known to affect temporal performance. By applying transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the left and right PPC, we aimed to modulate timing ability performance in healthy humans performing a cognitively controlled timing task. In two separate experiments we compared time-processing abilities of two groups of healthy adults submitted to anodal, cathodal or sham tDCS over right or left PPC, by employing a supra-second time reproduction task. Cathodal stimulation over the right PPC affected temporal accuracy by leading participants to overestimate time intervals. Moreover, when applied to the left PPC, it reduced variability in reproducing temporal intervals. No effect was reported for anodal stimulation. These results expand current knowledge on the role of the parietal cortex on temporal processing. We provide evidence that the parietal cortex of both hemispheres is involved in temporal processing by acting on distinct components of timing performance such as accuracy and variability.
The present study examined whether nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) of the CA1 regions of the dorsal hippocampus and medial septum (MS) are involved in cross state-dependent memory retrieval between WIN55, 212-2 (WIN, a non-selective CB1/CB2 receptor agonist) and nicotine or ethanol. Memory retrieval was measured in one-trial step-down type passive avoidance apparatus in male adult mice. Pre-training intraperitoneal administration of WIN (0.1-1mg/kg) dose-dependently impaired memory retrieval when it was tested 24h later. Pre-test systemic administration of nicotine (0.6 and 0.7mg/kg, s.c.) or ethanol (0.5g/kg, i.p.) improved WIN-induced memory impairment, suggesting a cross state-dependent memory retrieval between the drugs. Pre-test intra-CA1 microinjection of nicotine (1 and 2g/mouse) before systemic administration of an ineffective dose of nicotine (0.5mg/kg, s.c.) or ethanol (0.25g/kg) significantly reversed WIN-induced memory impairment. Pre-test intra-CA1 microinjection of mecamylamine (1 and 3g/mouse) inhibited cross state-dependent memory between WIN and nicotine or ethanol. Moreover, pre-test intra-MS microinjection of nicotine (1 and 2g/mouse) in combination with systemic administration of a lower dose of nicotine (0.5mg/kg), but not ethanol (0.25g/kg), improved memory impairment induced by pre-training administration of WIN. On the other hand, in the animals that received pre-training WIN and pre-test systemic administration of nicotine (0.7mg/kg), but not ethanol (0.5g/kg), pre-test intra-MS microinjection of mecamylamine (1-5g/mouse) inhibited WIN-nicotine state-dependent memory retrieval. It should be noted that pre-test intra-CA1 or intra-MS microinjection of nicotine or mecamylamine by itself had no effect on memory retrieval and also could not reverse memory impairment induced by pre-training administration of WIN. It can be concluded that WIN and nicotine or WIN and ethanol can induce state-dependent memory retrieval. In addition, our results showed that a cross-state dependency between these drugs may be mediated through a cholinergic nicotinic mechanism.
The purpose of this paper is to study the effect of smilagenin (SMI) (PYM50028), a sapogenin compound originally identified from Chinese medicinal herb, on dopamine neurons and locomotor ability in aged rats. Experiments were carried out on young and aged Sprague-Dawley rats, which were daily administered with either SMI (18mg/kg/day) or vehicle (0.5% sodium carboxymethycellulose [CMCNa]). Open-field and rotarod performance tests revealed that behavioral ability was impaired in aged rats and was improved by oral administration of smilagenin. Immunohistochemical data showed that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neuron numbers in the substantia nigra pars compacta (unbiased stereological counting) were altered with aging and were increased by smilagenin treatment. Likewise, the dopamine receptor density and the striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) density ((125)I-2-carbomethoxy-3-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane [(125)I-FP-CIT] autoradiography) were significantly lowered in aged rats as compared to young rats, and treatment with smilagenin significantly elevated the dopamine receptor and DAT density in aged rats. Furthermore, smilagenin enhances glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) release both in the striatum and midbrain. These results indicate a possible role of smilagenin in the treatment of age-related extrapyramidal disorders.
Ethyl pyruvate (EP) is a pyruvate derivative and known to be cytoprotective in various pathological conditions through anti-cell death and anti-inflammatory mechanisms. The present study investigated the neuroprotective effect of ethyl pyruvate using a mouse model of collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Our results showed that EP treatment to mice reduced brain edema and improved neurological function after ICH. Delayed treatment with EP until 6h after ICH to mice was still neuroprotective. We further demonstrated that EP protected neurons from hemoglobin-induced cell death in vitro and neuronal cell degeneration in ICH mice. Moreover, EP exerted anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting microglia activation, nuclear factor-B (NF-B) DNA binding activity and subsequent downstream pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and interleukin-1 (IL-1)) production. Taken together, these results suggest that EP exerts neuroprotective effect via anti-cell death and anti-inflammatory actions. EP is a potential novel treatment for ICH patients and deserves further investigation.
Startle pathways may contribute to rapid accomplishment of postural stability. Here we investigate the possible influence of a startling auditory stimulus (SAS) on postural responses. We formulated four specific questions: (1) can a concurrent SAS shorten the onset of automatic postural responses?; and if so (2) is this effect different for forward versus backward perturbations?; (3) does this effect depend on prior knowledge of the perturbation direction?; and (4) is this effect different for low- and high-magnitude perturbations? Balance was perturbed in 11 healthy participants by a movable platform that suddenly translated forward or backward. Each participant received 160 perturbations, 25% of which were combined with a SAS. We varied the direction and magnitude of the perturbations, as well as the prior knowledge of perturbation direction. Perturbation trials were interspersed with SAS-only trials. The SAS accelerated and strengthened postural responses with clear functional benefits (better balance control), but this was only true for responses that protected against falling backwards (i.e. in tibialis anterior and rectus femoris). These muscles also demonstrated the most common SAS-triggered responses without perturbation. Increasing the perturbation magnitude accelerated postural responses, but again with a larger acceleration for backward perturbations. We conclude that postural responses to backward and forward perturbations may be processed by different neural circuits, with influence of startle pathways on postural responses to backward perturbations. These findings give directions for future studies investigating whether deficits in startle pathways may explain the prominent backward instability seen in patients with Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy.
Folate deficiency has been linked to neurodegenerative and stress-related diseases such as stroke, dementia and depression. The role of the neurotrophins nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) in stress-related disorders and neurodegeneration has garnered increasing attention in recent years. Uracil misincorporation is involved in the neuropsychiatric dysfunction induced by experimental folate deprivation. However, the effects of folate deficiency on the expression of NGF and NT-3 in brain tissue have not yet been investigated. In a 22 design, aged mice lacking uracil-DNA N-glycosylase (Ung(-/-)) versus wild-type (Ung(+/+)) controls were subjected to a folate-deficient diet versus a regular diet for three months. Independent of genotype, folate deficiency led to decreased NGF protein levels in the frontal cortex and amygdala. In the hippocampus, NGF levels were increased in UNG(-/-) mice on the normal diet, but not under folate deficiency, while in UNG(+/+) mice, folate deprivation did not affect hippocampal NGF content. NT-3 protein concentrations were neither affected by genotype nor by folate deficiency. Altogether, the results of our study show that folate deficiency affects NGF levels in the frontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus. The decrease in NGF content in the hippocampus in response to folate deficiency in Ung(-/-) mice may contribute to their phenotype of enhanced anxiety and despair-like behavior as well as to selective hippocampal neurodegeneration.
Sleep is a universal phenomenon in vertebrates, and its loss affects various behaviors. Independent studies have reported that sleep loss increases anxiety; however, the detailed mechanism is unknown. Because sleep deprivation increases noradrenalin (NA), which modulates many behaviors and induces patho-physiological changes, this study utilized zebrafish as a model to investigate whether sleep loss-induced increased anxiety is modulated by NA. Continuous behavioral quiescence for at least 6s was considered to represent sleep in zebrafish; although some authors termed it as a sleep-like state, in this study we have termed it as sleep. The activity of fish that signified sleep-waking was recorded in light-dark, during continuous dark and light; the latter induced sleep loss in fish. The latency, number of entries, time spent and distance travelled in the light chamber were assessed in a light-dark box test to estimate the anxiety behavior of normal, sleep-deprived and prazosin (PRZ)-treated fish. Zebrafish showed increased waking during light and complete loss of sleep upon continuous exposure to light for 24h. PRZ significantly increased sleep in normal fish. Sleep-deprived fish showed an increased preference for dark (expression of increased anxiety), and this effect was prevented by PRZ, which increased sleep as well. Our findings suggest that sleep loss-induced anxiety-like behavior in zebrafish is likely to be mediated by NA's action on the 1-adrenoceptor.
Lipid rafts are the preferential site of numerous membrane signaling proteins which are involved in neuronal functioning and survival. These proteins are organized in multiprotein complexes, or signalosomes, in close contact with lipid classes particularly represented in lipid rafts (i.e. cholesterol, sphingolipids and saturated fatty acids), which may contribute to physiological responses leading to neuroprotection. Increasing evidence indicates that alteration of lipid composition in raft structures as a consequence of neuropathologies, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), causes a dramatic increase in lipid raft order. These phenomena may correlate with perturbation of signalosome activities, likely contributing to neurodegenerative progression. Interestingly, significant disruption of stable raft microenvironments has been already observed in the first stages of either AD or PD, suggesting that these alterations may represent early events in the neuropathological development. In this regard, the search for biochemical markers, such as specific metabolic products altered in the brain at the first steps of the disease, presently represents an important challenge for early diagnostic strategies. Alterations of these biomarkers may be reflected in either plasma or cerebrospinal fluid, thus representing a potential strategy to predict an accurate diagnosis. We propose that pathologically-linked lipid raft markers may be interesting candidates to be explored at this level, although it has not been studied so far to what extent alteration of different signalosome components may be reflected in peripheral fluids. In this mini-review, we will discuss on relevant aspects of lipid rafts that contribute to the modulation of neuropathological events related to AD and PD. An interesting hypothesis is that anomalies on raft biomarkers measured at peripheral fluids might mirror the lipid raft pathology observed in early stages of AD and PD.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) can provide noninvasive detection of brain metabolite changes in vivo in Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by deposition of -amyloid peptides (A) in multiple brain regions. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophic factor whose level has been shown to be decreased in AD. BDNF supplementation can offer improvement in AD. However, the means of evaluation are still relatively limited. In the present study, 1H-MRS was applied to evaluate the therapeutic effects of bilateral intraventricular BDNF infusion into APP+PS1 (amyloid precursor protein+presenilin 1) transgenic mice. For comparison to the 1H-MRS changes in the prefrontal cortex, Morris water maze (MWM) test, Fluoro-Jade B staining and immunofluorescence for A, glial fibrillary acidic protein and tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) were also performed. Our results showed that N-acetylaspartate (NAA) levels increased and myo-inositol levels decreased in Tg-BDNF mice compared with Tg-PBS mice. But NAA level in Tg-BDNF mice was still lower than that in wild-type mice at 6weeks after infusion. These changes correlated with increased immunoreactivity of TrkB, reduced compact A peptide and FJB+ neurons in Tg-BDNF mice compared to Tg-PBS mice. However, Tg-BDNF mice did not present obvious changes in behavior in the MWM. Taken together, we suggest that 1H-MRS may be a sensitive means of evaluating metabolic changes in response to therapeutic strategies in AD. Moreover, BDNF, may be a viable means of offering trophic support during disease.
Angiotensin II (Ang II) in the periphery and within the brain plays important roles in blood pressure control. Circulating angiotensin is normally excluded from the brain by the blood-brain barrier (BBB), but there is evidence that in some diseases there is disruption of the BBB that could allow circulating Ang II to access nuclei from which it is normally excluded, such as the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). We therefore investigated whether disruption of the BBB leads to increased activation by circulating Ang II of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-containing neurons in the RVLM. In anaesthetised rats, in which the BBB was disrupted with intracarotid hypertonic mannitol (1.6M, 2mL/kg), subsequent intracarotid infusion of a subpressor dose of Ang II (5ng/kg) activated 24% of TH-containing RVLM neurons whereas saline only activated 8% of TH neurons. Intracarotid pretreatment with the Ang II receptor type 1 (AT1R) blocker, losartan (20g/kg), significantly reduced the number of TH cells activated to 11% (P&lt;0.05, one-way analysis of variance, n=5). In summary, disruption of the BBB resulted in increased activation by circulating Ang II of TH-containing cells in the RVLM. The activation was reduced by losartan indicating a specific action on AT1Rs. These results suggest that disruption of the BBB allows entry of circulating Ang II into the RVLM, which could increase sympathetic outflow. This potential source of Ang II within the RVLM might be an important consideration when assessing sympathetic nerve activity in disease states associated with a compromised BBB.
Reticulospinal (RS) neurons are critical for initiation of locomotor behavior, and following spinal cord injury (SCI) in the lamprey, the axons of these neurons regenerate and restore locomotor behavior within a few weeks. For lamprey RS neurons in culture, experimental induction of calcium influx, either in the growth cone or cell body, is inhibitory for neurite outgrowth. Following SCI, these neurons partially downregulate calcium channel expression, which would be expected to reduce calcium influx and possibly provide supportive conditions for axonal regeneration. In the present study, it was tested whether activation of second messenger signaling pathways stimulates neurite outgrowth of lamprey RS neurons without altering their electrical properties (e.g. spike broadening) so as to possibly increase calcium influx and compromise axonal growth. First, activation of cAMP pathways with forskolin or dbcAMP stimulated neurite outgrowth of RS neurons in culture in a PKA-dependent manner, while activation of cGMP signaling pathways with dbcGMP inhibited outgrowth. Second, neurophysiological recordings from uninjured RS neurons in isolated lamprey brain-spinal cord preparations indicated that dbcAMP or dbcGMP did not significantly affect any of the measured electrical properties. In contrast, for uninjured RS neurons, forskolin increased action potential duration, which might have increased calcium influx, but did not significantly affect most other electrical properties. Importantly, for injured RS neurons during the period of axonal regeneration, forskolin did not significantly alter their electrical properties. Taken together, these results suggest that activation of cAMP signaling by dbcAMP stimulates neurite outgrowth, but does not alter the electrical properties of lamprey RS neurons in such a way that would be expected to induce calcium influx. In conclusion, our results suggest that activation of cAMP pathways alone, without compensation for possible deleterious effects on electrical properties, is an effective approach for stimulating axonal regeneration of RS neuron following SCI.
Based on two-photon calcium imaging, Histed et al. (2009) concluded that electrical microstimulation of cortical tissue in mammals activates a sparse and distributed population of neurons. This work has been cited by many as proof that electrical microstimulation is nonfocal, which means it may lack the precision needed for applications in neuroprosthetics. We affirm that the generation of stimulation-evoked behaviour is based primarily on the orthodromic conduction of signals originating mainly from the deepest layers of cortex, while the work of Histed et al. is effectively limited to investigating the antidromic activation of lateral projection neurons of the superficial cortex. The apparent sparse activation is a consequence of the pattern of axonal projections based on activating a volume of axons while imaging cell bodies transecting a single plane through the cortex. This creates the false impression that the distribution of activated neurons is sparse and nonfocal. We recommend how two-photon calcium imaging, which is superb for the study of individual and groups of neurons, might be more effectively used to ascertain how electrical stimulation affects the brains of mammals. This is a timely topic since investigators are using electrical microstimulation in animals to develop prosthetic devices to restore sensory and motor functions in disabled patients.
Activation of the GABAA receptor results in inhibition of neuronal activity. One subunit of this multi-subunit receptor termed alpha 6 (Gabr6) contributed to inflammatory temporomandibular joint (TMJ) nociception but TMJ disorders often include myofascial pain. To address Gabr6 role in myofascial pain we hypothesized that Gabr6 has an inhibitory role in myofascial nociceptive responses similar to inflammatory TMJ arthritis. To test this hypothesis a, myofascial nociceptive response was induced by placing a ligature bilaterally on the tendon attachment of the anterior superficial part of a male rat's masseter muscle. Four days after ligature placement Gabr6 expression was reduced by infusing the trigeminal ganglia (TG) with small interfering RNA (siRNA) having homology to either the Gabr6 gene (Gabr6 siRNA) or no known gene (control siRNA). After siRNA infusion nociceptive behavioral responses were measured, i.e., feeding behavior and head withdrawal after pressing upon the region above the ligature with von Frey filaments. Neuronal activity in the TG and trigeminal nucleus caudalis and upper cervical region (Vc-C1) was measured by quantitating the amount of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (p-ERK). Total Gabr6 and GABAA receptor contents in the TG and Vc-C1 were determined. Gabr6 siRNA infusion reduced Gabr6 and GABAA receptor expression and significantly increased the nociceptive response in both nociceptive assays. Gabr6 siRNA infusion also significantly increased TG p-ERK expression of the ligated rats. From these results we conclude GABAA receptors consisting of the Gabr6 subunit inhibit TG nociceptive sensory afferents in the trigeminal pathway and have an important role in the regulation of myofascial nociception.
In addition to androgen differences between males and females, there are genetic differences that are caused by unequal dosage of sex chromosome genes. Using the cuprizone-induced demyelination model, we recently showed that surgical gonadectomy of adult mice resulted in decreased normal myelination and remyelination compared to gonadally intact animals, suggesting a supporting role for sex hormones in the maintenance of myelination. However, inherent sex differences in normal myelination and remyelination persisted even after gonadectomy, with males consistently remyelinating to a lesser extent relative to normal myelination as assayed by axon conduction and immunohistochemistry. This suggests a potential role for the sex chromosome complement in mediating the differential rates of remyelination observed in males and females. The present study focuses on the impact that sex chromosomes might have on these myelination differences. Making use of the four core-genotype mice and cuprizone-diet induced demyelination/remyelination paradigm, our results demonstrate sex chromosome-mediated asymmetry between XX and XY mice. The rate of functional remyelination following cuprizone diet-induced callosal demyelination in four core-genotype mice is attenuated in XY compared to XX animals of both gonadal sexes. Importantly, this difference arises only in the absence of circulating sex hormones following gonadectomy and confirms the role of sex hormones in the remyelination process reported earlier by our group. Because a genotype-mediated difference only arises following gonadectomy, the chromosomal contribution to myelination and remyelination is subtle yet significant. To explain this difference, we propose a possible asymmetry in the expression of myelination-related genes in XX vs. XY mice that needs to be investigated in future studies.
Brain iron accumulation and oxidative stress are common features of many neurodegenerative diseases, and could be due in part to increased iron influx across the blood-brain interface. The iron transport protein, divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) is found in reactive astrocytes of the lesioned hippocampal CA fields after excitotoxicity induced by the glutamate analog kainate (KA), but in order for iron to be transported by DMT1, it must be converted from the ferric to the ferrous form. The present study was carried out to investigate the expression of a ferric reductase, duodenal cytochrome b (DCYTB), in the rat hippocampus after KA injury. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction showed significant increases in DCYTB mRNA expression of 2.5, 2.7, and 5.2-fold in the hippocampus at 1week, 2weeks and 1month post-KA lesions respectively compared to untreated controls, and 3.0-fold compared to 1month post-saline injection. DCYTB-positive cells were double labeled with glial fibrillary acidic protein, and electron microscopy showed that the DCYTB-positive cells had dense bundles of glial filaments, characteristic of astrocytes, and were present as end-feet around unlabeled brain capillary endothelial cells. DMT1 labeling in astrocytes and increased iron staining were also observed in the lesioned hippocampus. Together, the present findings of DCYTB and DMT1 localization in astrocytes suggest that DCYTB is a ferric reductase for reduction of ferric iron, for transport by DMT1 into the brain. We postulate that the coordinated action of these two proteins could be important in iron influx across the blood-brain interface, in areas undergoing neurodegeneration.
Mitochondrial fission has been reported to be involved in oxidative stress, apoptosis and many neurological diseases. However, the role of mitochondrial fission in seizures, which could induce oxidative stress and neuronal loss, remains unknown. In this study, we used pilocarpine to elicit seizures in rats. Meanwhile, we used mitochondrial division inhibitor 1 (mdivi-1), a selective inhibitor of mitochondrial fission protein dynamin-related protein1 (Drp1), to suppress mitochondrial fission in epileptic model of rats in vivo. We found that mitochondrial fission was increased after seizures and the inhibition of mitochondrial fission by mdivi-1 significantly attenuated oxidative stress and reduced neuronal loss after seizures, shown by the decreased 8-hydroxy deoxyguanosine (8-oHdG) content, the increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, the reduced expression of cytochrome c and caspase3 and the increased surviving neurons in the hippocampus. These results indicated that mitochondrial fission is up-regulated after seizures and the inhibition of mitochondrial fission is protective against neuronal injury in seizures, the underlying mechanism may be through the mitochondria/reactive oxygen species (ROS)/cytochrome c pathway.
Plasticity resulting from early sensory deprivation has been investigated in both animals and humans. After sensory deprivation, brain areas that are normally associated with the lost sense are recruited to carry out functions in the remaining intact modalities. Previous studies have reported that it is almost exclusively the visual dorsal pathway which is affected by auditory deprivation. The purpose of the current study was to further investigate the possible reorganization of visual ventral stream functions in deaf individuals in both the auditory and the visual cortices. Fifteen pre-lingual profoundly deaf subjects were compared with a group of 16 hearing subjects. We used fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) to explore the areas underlying the processing of two similar visual motion stimuli that however were designed to evoke different types of processing: (1) a global motion stimulus (GMS) which preferentially activates regions of the dorsal visual stream, and (2) a form-from-motion (FFM) stimulus which is known to recruit regions from both visual streams. No significant differences between deaf and hearing individuals were found in target visual and auditory areas when the motion and form components of the stimuli were isolated (contrasted with a static visual image). However, increases in activation were found in the deaf group in the superior temporal gyrus (BA 22 and 42) and in an area located at the junction of the parieto-occipital sulcus and the calcarine fissure (encompassing parts of the cuneus, precuneus and the lingual gyrus) for the GMS and FFM conditions as well as for the static image, relative to a baseline condition absent of any visual stimulation. These results suggest that the observed cross-modal recruitment of auditory areas in deaf individuals does not appear to be specialized for motion processing, but rather is present for both motion and static visual stimuli.
The role of the endocannabinoid system in vomiting has been previously studied using several animal species. These investigations have clearly demonstrated an anti-emetic role for the eCB, anandamide, in these animal models; however, research concerning the role of 2-arhachidonoylglycerol (2AG) has been less clear. The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of exogenous 2AG administration in the house musk shrew, Suncus murinus. In Experiment 1, shrews were injected with vehicle or 2AG (1, 2, 5, 10 mg/kg) 15 min prior to behavioral testing in which the frequency of vomiting episodes was observed. In Experiment 2, shrews were pre-treated with 2AG (2, 5 mg/kg) prior to being administered the emetic drug, lithium chloride (LiCl). It was found that 2AG alone did not induce emesis, but interfered with vomiting in response to LiCl administration. The anti-emetic effects of 2AG in Suncus murinus do not appear to be mediated by CB1 receptors, as concomitant pretreatment with the CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716, did not reverse the suppressive effects of 2AG. These results confirm that manipulations that increase levels of 2AG exert anti-emetic effects in the house musk shrew.
Conflicting results have been obtained by several groups when studying the effects of streptozotocin (STZ)-treated rats in the elevated plus-maze (EPM). Since thirst is a prominent feature in STZ-induced diabetic-like condition, we studied whether the walls of the closed arms of the EPM, by limiting the search for water in the environment, may contribute to the observed differential behavioral outcomes. The aim of this study was to ascertain whether visual barriers within the EPM have an influence on the behavior of STZ-treated rats in this test of anxiety. A striking similarity between STZ-treated (50 mg/kg, i.p., in two consecutive days) and water deprived rats (72 h) was found in exploratory behavior in the EPM, showing an anxiolytic-like profile. However the anxiolytic response of STZ-treated rats exposed to the EPM shifts into an anxiogenic profile when they are subsequently tested in the open-field test, which unlike the EPM is devoid of visual barriers. Likewise, water deprived rats (72 h) also showed an anxiogenic profile when they were exposed to the open-field test. Our results indicate that experimental outcomes based on EPM observations can be misleading when studying physiological or pathological conditions, e.g. diabetes, in which thirst may increase exploratory behavior.
Proprioceptive feedback derived from specialized receptors in skeletal muscle is critical in forming an accurate map of limb position in space, and is used by the central nervous system to plan future movements and to determine accuracy of executed movements. Knockout mouse strains for genes expressed by proprioceptive sensory neurons have been generated that result in generalized motor deficits, but these deficits have not been quantitatively characterized. Here we characterize a conditional knockout mouse model wherein proprioceptive sensory neuron synaptic transmission has been blocked by selective ablation of munc18-1, a synaptic vesicle associated protein required for fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane. Proprioceptive munc18-1 conditional mutants are impaired in surface righting--a dynamic postural adjustment task--and display several specific deficits in pivoting, an early locomotor behavior. Before the emergence of forward locomotion during postnatal development, animals explore their surroundings through pivoting, or rotating the upper torso around the relatively immobile base of the hind limbs. 3-D kinematic analysis was used to quantitatively describe this pivoting behavior at postnatal days 5 and 8 in control and munc18-1 conditional mutants. Mutant animals also pivot, but demonstrate alterations in movement strategy and in postural placement of the forelimbs during pivoting when compared to controls. In addition, brief forelimb stepping movements associated with pivoting are altered in mutant animals. Step duration and step height are increased in mutant animals. These results underscore the importance of proprioceptive feedback even at early stages in postnatal development.
Agnoprotein is one of the key regulatory proteins of polyomaviruses, including JCV, BKV and SV40 and is required for a productive viral life cycle. We have recently reported that agnoprotein forms stable dimer/oligomers mediated by a predicted amphipathic -helix, spanning amino acids (aa), 17 to 42. Deletion of the -helix renders a replication incompetent virus. Here, we have further characterized this region by a systematic deletion and substitution mutagenesis and demonstrated that a Leu/Ile/Phe-rich domain, (spanning aa 28-39) within -helix is indispensable for agnoprotein structure and function. Deletion of aa 30-37 severely affects the dimer/oligomer formation and stable expression of the protein. Mutagenesis data also indicate that the residues, 34-36, may be involved in regulation of the splicing events of JCV transcripts. Collectively, these data suggest that the Leu/Ile/Phe-rich domain plays critical roles in agnoprotein function and thus represents a potential target for developing novel therapeutics against JCV infections.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM, WHO grade IV) is the most common and lethal subtype of primary brain tumor with a median overall survival of 15 months from the time of diagnosis. The presence in GBM of a cancer population displaying neural stem cell (NSC) properties as well as tumor-initiating abilities and resistance to current therapies suggests that these glioblastoma-initiating cells (GICs) play a central role in tumor development and are closely related to NSCs. However, it is nowadays still unclear whether GICs derive from NSCs, neural progenitor cells or differentiated cells such as astrocytes or oligodendrocytes. On the other hand, NSCs are located in specific regions of the adult brain called neurogenic niches that have been shown to control critical stem cell properties, to nourish NSCs and to support their self-renewal. This &quot;seed-and-soil&quot; relationship has also been adapted to cancer stem cell research as GICs also require a specific micro-environment to maintain their &quot;stem cell&quot; properties. In this review, we will discuss the controversies surrounding the origin and the identification of GBM stem cells and highlight the micro-environment impact on their biology.
Autophagy is a catabolic mechanism that selectively eliminates long-lived proteins, aggregates and damaged organelles and is thereby fundamental in maintaining cellular homeostasis. As a prosurvival mechanism, autophagy is carefully regulated and its dysfunction is associated with cancer development. Work of Huang et al (2013) in this issue of The EMBO Journal identifies the apoptosis inhibitor XIAP as a novel repressor of autophagy--a function that significantly contributes to its tumorigenecity.

The serine protease thrombin plays a role in signalling ischemic neuronal death in the brain. Paradoxically, endogenous neuroprotective mechanisms can be triggered by preconditioning with thrombin (thrombin preconditioning, TPC), leading to tolerance to cerebral ischemia. Here we studied the role of thrombin's endogenous potent inhibitor, protease nexin-1 (PN-1), in ischemia and in tolerance to cerebral ischemia induced by TPC. Cerebral ischemia was modelled in vitro in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures from rats or genetically engineered mice lacking PN-1 or with the reporter gene lacZ knocked into the PN-1 locus PN-1HAPN-1-lacZ/HAPN-1-lacZ (PN-1 KI) exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). We observed increased thrombin enzyme activity in culture homogenates 24 h after OGD. Lack of PN-1 increased neuronal death in the CA1, suggesting that endogenous PN-1 inhibits thrombin-induced neuronal damage after ischemia. OGD enhanced -galactosidase activity, reflecting PN-1 expression, at one and 24 h, most strikingly in the stratum radiatum, a glial cell layer adjacent to the CA1 layer of ischemia sensitive neurons. TPC, 24 h before OGD, additionally increased PN-1 expression 1 h after OGD, compared to OGD alone. TPC failed to induce tolerance in cultures from PN-1(-/-) mice confirming PN-1 as an important TPC target. PN-1 upregulation after TPC was blocked by the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) inhibitor, L-JNKI1, known to block TPC. This work suggests that PN-1 is an endogenous neuroprotectant in cerebral ischemia and a potential target for neuroprotection.
In this paper, we study the dynamics of a quadratic integrate-and-fire neuron, spiking in the gamma (30-100Hz) range, coupled to a delta/theta frequency (1-8Hz) neural oscillator. Using analytical and semianalytical methods, we were able to derive characteristic spiking times for the system in two distinct regimes (depending on parameter values): one regime where the gamma neuron is intrinsically oscillating in the absence of theta input, and a second one in which gamma spiking is directly gated by theta input, i.e., windows of gamma activity alternate with silence periods depending on the underlying theta phase. In the former case, we transform the equations such that the system becomes analogous to the Mathieu differential equation. By solving this equation, we can compute numerically the time to the first gamma spike, and then use singular perturbation theory to find successive spike times. On the other hand, in the excitable condition, we make direct use of singular perturbation theory to obtain an approximation of the time to first gamma spike, and then extend the result to calculate ensuing gamma spikes in a recursive fashion. We thereby give explicit formulas for the onset and offset of gamma spike burst during a theta cycle, and provide an estimation of the total number of spikes per theta cycle both for excitable and oscillator regimes.

Homeostatic processes are believed to contribute to the stability of neuronal networks that are perpetually influenced by Hebbian forms of synaptic plasticity. Whereas the rules governing the targeting and trafficking of AMPA and NMDA subtypes of glutamate receptors during rapid Hebbian LTP have been extensively studied, those that are operant during homeostatic forms of synaptic strengthening are less well understood. Here, we used biochemical, biophysical, and pharmacological approaches to investigate glutamate receptor regulation during homeostatic synaptic plasticity. We show in rat organotypic hippocampal slices that prolonged network silencing induced a robust surface upregulation of GluA2-lacking AMPARs, not only at synapses, but also at extrasynaptic dendritic and somatic regions of CA1 pyramidal neurons. We also detected a shift in NMDAR subunit composition that, in contrast to the cell-wide surface delivery of GluA2-lacking AMPARs, occurred exclusively at synapses. The subunit composition and subcellular distribution of AMPARs and NMDARs are therefore distinctly regulated during homeostatic synaptic plasticity. Thus, because subunit composition dictates key channel properties, such as agonist affinity, gating kinetics, and calcium permeability, the homeostatic synaptic process transcends the simple modulation of synaptic strength by also regulating the signaling and integrative properties of central synapses.
We recently showed that spinal synergistic interactions between  opioid receptors (ORs) and 2A adrenergic receptors (2AARs) require protein kinase C (PKC). To identify which PKC isoforms contribute to analgesic synergy, we evaluated the effects of various PKC-isoform-specific peptide inhibitors on synergy between ORs and 2AARs using the tail flick assay of thermal nociception in mice. Only a PKC inhibitor abolished synergy between a OR agonist and an 2AAR agonist. We tested a panel of combinations of opioid and adrenergic agonists in PKC knock-out mice and found that all four combinations of a OR agonist and an 2AAR agonist required PKC for antinociceptive synergy. None of the combinations of a OR agonist with an 2AR agonist required PKC. Immunohistochemistry confirmed that PKC could be found in the population of peptidergic primary afferent nociceptors where ORs and 2AARs have been found to extensively colocalize. Immunoreactivity for PKC was found in the majority of dorsal root ganglion neurons and intensely labeled laminae I and II of the spinal cord dorsal horn. PKC is widespread in the spinal nociceptive system and in peptidergic primary afferents it appears to be specifically involved in mediating the synergistic interaction between ORs and 2AARs.
Saccades allow us to visually explore our environment. Like other goal-directed movements, their accuracy is permanently controlled by adaptation mechanisms that, in the laboratory, can be induced by systematic displacement of the &quot;real&quot; visual target during the saccade. However, in an anti-saccade (AS) task, the target is &quot;virtual&quot; because gaze has to be shifted away from the &quot;real&quot; visual target toward its mentally defined mirror position. Here, we investigated whether the brain can adapt movements aimed at a virtual target by trying, for the first time, to adapt AS. Healthy human volunteers produced leftward AS during three different exposure phases in which a visual target provided feedback after the AS. In the adaptation condition, the feedback target appeared after completion of the AS response at a location shifted outward from final eye position (immediate non-veridical feedback). In the two control conditions, adaptation was prevented by delaying (800 ms) the shifted feedback target (delayed-shift) or by providing an immediate but veridical feedback at the mirror position of the visual target (no-shift). Results revealed a significant increase of AS gain only in the adaptation condition. Moreover, testing pro-saccades (PS) before and after exposure revealed a significant increase of leftward PS gain in the adaptation condition. This transfer of adaptation supports the hypotheses of a motor level of AS adaptation and of a visual level of AS vector inversion. Together with data from the literature, these results also provide new insights into adaptation and planning mechanisms for AS and for other subtypes of voluntary saccades.
Inhibition of GABAA receptors by Cu(2+) has been appreciated for some time, but differences between synaptic and extrasynaptic GABAA receptors have not been explored. We show that Cu(2+) potently blocks steady-state GABA currents mediated by extrasynaptic  subunit-containing GABAA receptors (-GABAARs) with an IC50 of 65 nM. This compares with an IC50 of 85 M for synaptic  subunit-containing GABAARs (-GABAARs). To test the significance of this subunit selectivity, we examined the blocking action of Cu(2+) on neurons of the mouse cerebellum and striatum, brain regions that are known to express both types of receptor. Cu(2+) was shown to significantly reduce tonic inhibition mediated by extrasynaptic -GABAARs with little action on phasic inhibition mediated by conventional synaptic -GABAARs. We speculate on the implications of these observations for conditions, such as Wilson's disease, that can involve raised Cu(2+) levels in the brain.
Activity-dependent regulation of AMPA receptor (AMPAR)-mediated synaptic transmission is the basis for establishing differences in synaptic weights among individual synapses during developmental and experience-dependent synaptic plasticity. Synaptic signaling scaffolds of the Discs large (DLG)-membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) protein family regulate these processes by tethering signaling proteins to receptor complexes. Using a molecular replacement strategy with RNAi-mediated knockdown in rat and mouse hippocampal organotypic slice cultures, a postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) knock-out mouse line and electrophysiological analysis, our current study identified a functional interplay between two paralogs, PSD-95 and synapse-associated protein 102 (SAP102) to regulate synaptic AMPARs. During synaptic development, the SAP102 protein levels normally plateau but double if PSD-95 expression is prevented during synaptogenesis. For an autonomous function of PSD-95 in regulating synaptic AMPARs, in addition to the previously demonstrated N-terminal multimerization and the first two PDZ (PSD-95, Dlg1, zona occludens-1) domains, the PDZ3 and guanylate kinase domains were required. The Src homology 3 domain was dispensable for the PSD-95-autonomous regulation of basal synaptic transmission. However, it mediated the functional interaction with SAP102 of PSD-95 mutants to enhance AMPARs. These results depict a protein domain-based multifunctional aspect of PSD-95 in regulating excitatory synaptic transmission and unveil a novel form of domain-based interplay between signaling scaffolds of the DLG-MAGUK family.
The perception of our limbs in space is built upon the integration of visual, tactile, and proprioceptive signals. Accumulating evidence suggests that these signals are combined in areas of premotor, parietal, and cerebellar cortices. However, it remains to be determined whether neuronal populations in these areas integrate hand signals according to basic temporal and spatial congruence principles of multisensory integration. Here, we developed a setup based on advanced 3D video technology that allowed us to manipulate the spatiotemporal relationships of visuotactile (VT) stimuli delivered on a healthy human participant's real hand during fMRI and investigate the ensuing neural and perceptual correlates. Our experiments revealed two novel findings. First, we found responses in premotor, parietal, and cerebellar regions that were dependent upon the spatial and temporal congruence of VT stimuli. This multisensory integration effect required a simultaneous match between the seen and felt postures of the hand, which suggests that congruent visuoproprioceptive signals from the upper limb are essential for successful VT integration. Second, we observed that multisensory conflicts significantly disrupted the default feeling of ownership of the seen real limb, as indexed by complementary subjective, psychophysiological, and BOLD measures. The degree to which self-attribution was impaired could be predicted from the attenuation of neural responses in key multisensory areas. These results elucidate the neural bases of the integration of multisensory hand signals according to basic spatiotemporal principles and demonstrate that the disintegration of these signals leads to &quot;disownership&quot; of the seen real hand.






Inflammation is increasingly being understood to be a key component to the pathophysiology of cerebrovascular lesions. Ferumoxytol, an iron oxide nanoparticle coated by a carbohydrate shell, has been used in MRI studies as an inflammatory marker because it is cleared by macrophages. Ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI has emerged as an important tool for noninvasive assessment of the inflammatory status of cerebrovascular lesions, namely aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations. Moreover, preliminary evidence suggests that ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI could be applied as a non-invasive tool to differentiate &quot;unstable&quot; lesions that require early intervention from &quot;stable&quot; lesions in which observation may be safe. Assessment of the effects of anti-inflammatory pharmacological interventions on cerebrovascular lesions is also a potentially crucial application of the technique. Future improvements in technique and MRI signal quantification will certainly pave the way for widespread and efficient use of ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI in clinical practice. In this paper, we review current data regarding ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI and discuss its current/potential applications and future perspectives.
Layer 5 pyramidal neurons process information from multiple cortical layers to provide a major output of cortex. Because of technical limitations it has remained unclear how these cells integrate widespread synaptic inputs located in distantly separated basal and tuft dendrites. Here, we obtained in vivo two-photon calcium imaging recordings from the entire dendritic field of layer 5 motor cortex neurons. We demonstrate that during subthreshold activity, basal and tuft dendrites exhibit spatially localized, small-amplitude calcium transients reflecting afferent synaptic inputs. During action potential firing, calcium signals in basal dendrites are linearly related to spike activity, whereas calcium signals in the tuft occur unreliably. However, in both dendritic compartments, spike-associated calcium signals were uniformly distributed throughout all branches. Thus, our data support a model of widespread, multibranch integration with a direct impact by basal dendrites and only a partial contribution on output signaling by the tuft.
Brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) can convert mental states into signals to drive real-world devices, but it is not known if a given covert task is the same when performed with and without BCI-based control. Using a BCI likely involves additional cognitive processes, such as multitasking, attention, and conflict monitoring. In addition, it is challenging to measure the quality of covert task performance. We used whole-brain classifier-based real-time functional MRI to address these issues, because the method provides both classifier-based maps to examine the neural requirements of BCI and classification accuracy to quantify the quality of task performance. Subjects performed a covert counting task at fast and slow rates to control a visual interface. Compared with the same task when viewing but not controlling the interface, we observed that being in control of a BCI improved task classification of fast and slow counting states. Additional BCI control increased subjects' whole-brain signal-to-noise ratio compared with the absence of control. The neural pattern for control consisted of a positive network comprised of dorsal parietal and frontal regions and the anterior insula of the right hemisphere as well as an expansive negative network of regions. These findings suggest that real-time functional MRI can serve as a platform for exploring information processing and frontoparietal and insula network-based regulation of whole-brain task signal-to-noise ratio.
Improvements in performance on visual tasks due to practice are often specific to a retinal position or stimulus feature. Many researchers suggest that specific perceptual learning alters selective retinotopic representations in early visual analysis. However, transfer is almost always practically advantageous, and it does occur. If perceptual learning alters location-specific representations, how does it transfer to new locations? An integrated reweighting theory explains transfer over retinal locations by incorporating higher level location-independent representations into a multilevel learning system. Location transfer is mediated through location-independent representations, whereas stimulus feature transfer is determined by stimulus similarity at both location-specific and location-independent levels. Transfer to new locations/positions differs fundamentally from transfer to new stimuli. After substantial initial training on an orientation discrimination task, switches to a new location or position are compared with switches to new orientations in the same position, or switches of both. Position switches led to the highest degree of transfer, whereas orientation switches led to the highest levels of specificity. A computational model of integrated reweighting is developed and tested that incorporates the details of the stimuli and the experiment. Transfer to an identical orientation task in a new position is mediated via more broadly tuned location-invariant representations, whereas changing orientation in the same position invokes interference or independent learning of the new orientations at both levels, reflecting stimulus dissimilarity. Consistent with single-cell recording studies, perceptual learning alters the weighting of both early and midlevel representations of the visual system.






Microglia are the resident macrophage-like cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and, as such, have critically important roles in physiological and pathological processes such as CNS maturation in development, multiple sclerosis, and spinal cord injury. Microglia can be activated and recruited to action by neuronal injury or stimulation, such as axonal damage seen in MS or ischemic brain trauma resulting from stroke. These immunocompetent members of the CNS are also thought to have roles in synaptic plasticity under non-pathological conditions. We employ protocols for culturing microglia from the neonatal and adult tissues that are aimed to maximize the viable cell numbers while minimizing confounding variables, such as the presence of other CNS cell types and cell culture debris. We utilize large and easily discernable CNS components (e.g. cortex, spinal cord segments), which makes the entire process feasible and reproducible. The use of adult cells is a suitable alternative to the use of neonatal brain microglia, as many pathologies studied mainly affect the postnatal spinal cord. These culture systems are also useful for directly testing the effect of compounds that may either inhibit or promote microglial activation. Since microglial activation can shape the outcomes of disease in the adult CNS, there is a need for in vitro systems in which neonatal and adult microglia can be cultured and studied.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are believed to be involved in many forms of neurodegeneration, including ischaemic infarct damage and Alzheimer's disease. Despite the known involvement of p38 and JNK MAP kinases in mediating apoptosis and cell death in a variety of cell types, the details of the signalling pathways activated in neuronal cells by ROS are poorly characterised. Recently TAK1 (MAP3K7), a kinase upstream of JNK and p38, has attracted attention as a possible mediator of ischaemic cell death. This study tested the hypothesis that hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), which produces ROS, induces apoptosis in the NG108-15 neuronal cell line via activation of either TAK1 or the related kinase ASK1 (MAP3K5). H2O2 caused a concentration-dependent reduction in cell viability associated with caspase 3 activation. Loss of cell viability was inhibited by a selective caspase 3 inhibitor, and by the p38 inhibitor SB203580, but was not affected by the JNK inhibitor SP600125. The selective TAK1 inhibitor 5Z-7-oxozeaenol (5Z-7) exacerbated the loss of cell viability, whereas the ASK1 inhibitor NQDI-1 completely prevented caspase activation and cell death. These results show that pharmacological inhibition of ASK1 is neuroprotective, implicating an ASK1-p38 signalling pathway in ROS-induced apoptosis in neurones. The results also imply that the role of TAK1 may be neuroprotective rather than pro-degenerative.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is the most effective antidepressant treatment available yet its mechanism of action remains incompletely understood. Electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS), a rat model of electroconvulsive therapy, induces expression of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) within the brain but the precise means by which this occurs and by which it contributes to the antidepressant effects of ECS are unknown. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of endogenous small non-coding RNA species, may play a role as BDNF can both regulate and be regulated by miRNAs. We examined expression of BDNF-associated miRNAs in rat brain and blood following either acute (x1) or chronic (x10) ECS. Fourteen BDNF-associated miRNA species were identified for investigation using real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). We found that levels of miRNA miR-212 were significantly increased in rat dentate gyrus following both acute and chronic ECS. MiR-212 levels also increased in whole blood following chronic ECS and this positively correlated with miR-212 levels in the dentate gyrus. Our results suggest that alterations in miRNA expression may be informative about the mechanism of action of ECS/ECT.

It is well known that axons of the adult mammalian central nervous system have a very limited ability to regenerate after injury. Therefore, the neurodegenerative process of glaucoma results in irreversible functional deficits, such as blindness. Brimonidine (BMD) is an alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist that is used commonly to lower intraocular pressure in glaucoma. Although it has been suggested that BMD has neuroprotective effects, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. In this study, we explored the molecular mechanism underlying the neuroprotective effect of BMD in an optic nerve injury (ONI) model. BMD treatment promoted optic nerve regeneration by inducing Erk1/2 phosphorylation after ONI. In addition, an Erk1/2 antagonist suppressed BMD-mediated axonal regeneration. A gene expression analysis revealed that the expression of the neurotrophin receptor gene p75 was increased and that the expression of the tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB) gene was decreased after ONI. BMD treatment abrogated the changes in the expression of these genes. These results indicate that BMD promotes optic nerve regeneration via the activation of Erk1/2.


The inner ear contains sensory epithelia that detect head movements, gravity and sound. It is unclear how to develop these sensory epithelia from pluripotent stem cells, a process that will be critical for modelling inner ear disorders or developing cell-based therapies for profound hearing loss and balance disorders. So far, attempts to derive inner ear mechanosensitive hair cells and sensory neurons have resulted in inefficient or incomplete phenotypic conversion of stem cells into inner-ear-like cells. A key insight lacking from these previous studies is the importance of the non-neural and preplacodal ectoderm, two critical precursors during inner ear development. Here we report the stepwise differentiation of inner ear sensory epithelia from mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in three-dimensional culture. We show that by recapitulating in vivo development with precise temporal control of signalling pathways, ESC aggregates transform sequentially into non-neural, preplacodal and otic-placode-like epithelia. Notably, in a self-organized process that mimics normal development, vesicles containing prosensory cells emerge from the presumptive otic placodes and give rise to hair cells bearing stereocilia bundles and a kinocilium. Moreover, these stem-cell-derived hair cells exhibit functional properties of native mechanosensitive hair cells and form specialized synapses with sensory neurons that have also arisen from ESCs in the culture. Finally, we demonstrate how these vesicles are structurally and biochemically comparable to developing vestibular end organs. Our data thus establish a new in vitro model of inner ear differentiation that can be used to gain deeper insight into inner ear development and disorder.
The incidence of obesity has increased dramatically over the past several years, and in parallel, so has the prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Numerous studies have demonstrated that both obesity and T2D are associated with lower cognitive performance, cognitive decline, and dementia. Intake of dietary fructose has also increased. In fact, high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) accounts for as much as 40% of caloric sweeteners used in the United States. Given the increase in the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD), characterized by an age-related decline in memory and cognitive functioning, in this report we review the effects of obesity on cognitive performance and the impact of high fructose intake in promoting cognitive decline. The paper then considers the effects of omega-3 fatty acids (FAs), which have been linked to promising results in cognitive function including ameliorating the impact of a high-fructose diet.
Dysfunction and/or disruption of nodes of Ranvier are now recognized as key contributors to the pathophysiology of various neurological diseases. One reason is that the excitable nodal axolemma contains a high density of Nav (voltage-gated Na+ channels) that are required for the rapid and efficient saltatory conduction of action potentials. Nodal physiology is disturbed by altered function, localization, and expression of voltage-gated ion channels clustered at nodes and juxtaparanodes, and by disrupted axon-glial interactions at paranodes. This paper reviews recent discoveries in molecular/cellular neuroscience, genetics, immunology, and neurology that highlight the critical roles of nodes of Ranvier in health and disease.

It is well established that physical changes to an environment result in plasticity of hippocampal place cell activity, while in the absence of changes, place fields are remarkably stable. Manipulations of a rat's perception of the environment without physically changing the environment also result in plasticity of place cell firing. Here, we tested the hypothesis that a rat's perception of an environment could be changed by introducing an auditory fear-conditioned stimulus (CS) to a previously neutral environment, inducing plasticity of hippocampal place fields. First, stable place fields were isolated for rats exploring a radial-arm maze in one environment, and then the rats were fear-conditioned to an auditory CS in a completely separate environment. Later, the CS was specifically paired once with a location in the previously neutral radial-arm maze, either within the given neuron's place field (in-field) or an area outside of the place field (out-of-field). A single, paired presentation of the CS with a location in-field for a specific place cell disrupted the stability of that neuron's place field, whereas pairing the CS with a location out-of-field did not affect place field stability. We further showed that this place field disruption for a CS presented in-field was mediated by inputs from the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Temporarily inactivating the BLA immediately post-CS re-exposure attenuated the CS-induced place field destabilization. Our results show neuron-specific conditional plasticity for actively firing hippocampal place cells, and that the BLA mediates this plasticity when an emotionally arousing or fear-related CS is used.
The location of glucocorticoid receptors (GR) implicated in depression symptoms and antidepressant action remains unclear. Forebrain glucocorticoid receptor deletion on a C57B/6129CBA background (FBGRKO-T50) reportedly produces increased depression-like behavior and elevated glucocorticoids. We further hypothesized that forebrain GR deletion would reduce behavioral sensitivity to glucocorticoids and to antidepressants. We have tested this hypothesis in mice with calcium calmodulin kinase II-Cre-mediated forebrain GR deletion derived from a new founder on a pure C57BL/6 background (FBGRKO-T29-1). We measured immobility in forced swim or tail suspension tests after manipulating glucocorticoids or after dose response experiments with tricyclic or monoamine oxidase inhibitor antidepressants. Despite forebrain GR deletion that was at least as rapid and more extensive than reported in the mixed-strain FBGRKO-T50 mice (Boyle et al. 2005), and possibly because of their different founder, our FBGRKO-T29-1 mice did not exhibit increases in depression-like behavior or adrenocortical axis hormones. Nevertheless, FBGRKO-T29-1 mice were at least as sensitive as floxed GR controls to the depressive effects of glucocorticoids and the effects of two different classes of antidepressants. FBGRKO-T29-1 mice also unexpectedly exhibited increased mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) gene expression. Our results reinforce prior evidence that antidepressant action does not require forebrain GR, and suggest a correlation between the absence of depression-like phenotype and combined MR up-regulation and central amygdala GR deficiency. Our findings demonstrate that GR outside the areas targeted in FBGRKO-T29-1 mice are involved in the depressive effects of glucocorticoids, and leave open the possibility that these GR populations also contribute to antidepressant action.
MicroRNAs (miRs) are key post-transcriptional regulators that silence gene expression by direct base pairing to target sites of RNAs. They have a wide variety of tissue expression patterns and are differentially expressed during development and disease. Their activity and abundance is subject to various levels of control ranging from transcription and biogenesis to miR response elements on RNAs, target cellular levels and miR turnover. This review summarizes and discusses current knowledge on the regulation of miR activity and concludes with novel non-canonical functions that have recently emerged.
In both vertebrates and invertebrates, evidence supports separation of luminance increments and decrements (ON and OFF channels) in early stages of visual processing (Hartline, 1938; Joesch et al., 2010); however, less is known about how these parallel pathways are recombined to encode form and motion. In Drosophila, genetic knockdown of inputs to putative ON and OFF pathways and direct recording from downstream neurons in the wide-field motion pathway reveal that local elementary motion detectors exist in pairs that separately correlate contrast polarity channels, ON with ON and OFF with OFF (Joesch et al., 2013). However, behavioral responses to reverse-phi motion of discrete features reveal additional correlations of the opposite signs (Clark et al., 2011). We here present intracellular recordings from feature detecting neurons in the dragonfly that provide direct physiological evidence for the correlation of OFF and ON pathways. These neurons show clear polarity selectivity for feature contrast, responding strongly to targets that are darker than the background and only weakly to dark contrasting edges. These dark target responses are much stronger than the linear combination of responses to ON and OFF edges. We compare these data with output from elementary motion detector-based models (Eichner et al., 2011; Clark et al., 2011), with and without stages of strong center-surround antagonism. Our data support an alternative elementary small target motion detector model, which derives dark target selectivity from the correlation of a delayed OFF with an un-delayed ON signal at each individual visual processing unit (Wiederman et al., 2008, 2009).
The spatiotemporal organization of neurotransmitter receptors in postsynaptic membranes is a fundamental determinant of synaptic transmission and information processing by the brain. Using four independent super-resolution light imaging methods and EM of genetically tagged and endogenous receptors, we show that, in rat hippocampal neurons, AMPARs are often highly concentrated inside synapses into a few clusters of 70 nm that contain 20 receptors. AMPARs are stabilized reversibly in these nanodomains and diffuse freely outside them. Nanodomains are dynamic in their shape and position within synapses and can form or disappear within minutes, although they are mostly stable for up to 1 h. AMPAR nanodomains are often, but not systematically, colocalized with clusters of the scaffold protein PSD95, which are generally of larger size than AMPAR nanoclusters. PSD95 expression level regulates AMPAR nanodomain size and compactness in parallel to miniature EPSC amplitude. Monte Carlo simulations further indicate the impact of AMPAR concentration in clusters on the efficacy of synaptic transmission. The observation that AMPARs are highly concentrated in nanodomains, instead of diffusively distributed in the PSD as generally thought, has important consequences on our understanding of excitatory neurotransmission. Furthermore, our results indicate that glutamatergic synaptic transmission is controlled by the nanometer-scale regulation of the size of these highly concentrated nanodomains.
Spinal cord injury results in distant pathology around putative locomotor networks that may jeopardize the recovery of locomotion. We previously showed that activated microglia and increased cytokine expression extend at least 10 segments below the injury to influence sensory function. Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is a potent regulator of acute neuroinflammation. Whether MMP-9 is produced remote to the injury or influences locomotor plasticity remains unexamined. Therefore, we characterized the lumbar enlargement after a T9 spinal cord injury in C57BL/6 (wild-type [WT]) and MMP-9-null (knock-out [KO]) mice. Within 24 h, resident microglia displayed an activated phenotype alongside increased expression of progelatinase MMP-3 in WT mice. By 7 d, increases in active MMP-9 around lumbar vasculature and production of proinflammatory TNF- were evident. Deletion of MMP-9 attenuated remote microglial activation and restored TNF- expression to homeostatic levels. To determine whether MMP-9 impedes locomotor plasticity, we delivered lumbar-focused treadmill training in WT and KO mice during early (2-9 d) or late (35-42 d) phases of recovery. Robust behavioral improvements were observed by 7 d, when only trained KO mice stepped in the open field. Locomotor improvements were retained for 4 weeks as identified using state of the art mouse kinematics. Neither training nor MMP-9 depletion alone promoted recovery. The same intervention delivered late was ineffective, suggesting that lesion site sparing is insufficient to facilitate activity-based training and recovery. Our work suggests that by attenuating remote mechanisms of inflammation, acute treadmill training can harness endogenous spinal plasticity to promote robust recovery.
Life on earth is entrained to a 24 h solar cycle that synchronizes circadian rhythms in physiology and behavior; light is the most potent entraining cue. In mammals, light is detected by (1) rods and cones, which mediate visual function, and (2) intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs), which primarily project to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the hypothalamus to regulate circadian rhythms. Recent evidence, however, demonstrates that ipRGCs also project to limbic brain regions, suggesting that, through this pathway, light may have a role in cognition and mood. Therefore, it follows that unnatural exposure to light may have negative consequences for mood or behavior. Modern environmental lighting conditions have led to excessive exposure to light at night (LAN), and particularly to blue wavelength lights. We hypothesized that nocturnal light exposure (i.e., dim LAN) would induce depressive responses and alter neuronal structure in hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). If this effect is mediated by ipRGCs, which have reduced sensitivity to red wavelength light, then we predicted that red LAN would have limited effects on brain and behavior compared with shorter wavelengths. Additionally, red LAN would not induce c-Fos activation in the SCN. Our results demonstrate that exposure to LAN influences behavior and neuronal plasticity and that this effect is likely mediated by ipRGCs. Modern sources of LAN that contain blue wavelengths may be particularly disruptive to the circadian system, potentially contributing to altered mood regulation.
In Huntington's disease (HD), cognitive symptoms and cellular dysfunction precede the onset of classical motor symptoms and neuronal death in the striatum and cortex by almost a decade. This suggests that the early cognitive deficits may be due to a cellular dysfunction rather than being a consequence of neuronal loss. Abnormalities in dendritic spines are described in HD patients and in HD animal models. Available evidence indicates that altered spine and synaptic plasticity could underlie the motor as well as cognitive symptoms in HD. However, the exact kinetics of spine alterations and plasticity in HD remain unknown. We used long-term two-photon imaging through a cranial window, to track individual dendritic spines in a mouse model of HD (R6/2) as the disease progressed. In vivo imaging over a period of 6 weeks revealed a steady decrease in the density and survival of dendritic spines on cortical neurons of R6/2 mice compared with control littermates. Interestingly, we also observed increased spine formation in R6/2 mice throughout the disease. However, the probability that newly formed spines stabilized and transformed into persistent spines was greatly reduced compared with controls. In cultured neurons we found that mutant huntingtin causes a loss, in particular of mature spines. Furthermore, in R6/2 mice, aggregates of mutant huntingtin associate with dendritic spines. Alterations in dendritic spine dynamics, survival, and density in R6/2 mice were evident before the onset of motor symptoms, suggesting that decreased stability of the cortical synaptic circuitry underlies the early symptoms in HD.
Trait sensation-seeking, defined as a need for varied, complex, and intense sensations, represents a relatively underexplored hedonic drive in human behavioral neuroscience research. It is related to increased risk for a range of behaviors including substance use, gambling, and risky sexual practice. Individual differences in self-reported sensation-seeking have been linked to brain dopamine function, particularly at D2-like receptors, but so far no causal evidence exists for a role of dopamine in sensation-seeking behavior in humans. Here, we investigated the effects of the selective D2/D3 agonist cabergoline on performance of a probabilistic risky choice task in healthy humans using a sensitive within-subject, placebo-controlled design. Cabergoline significantly influenced the way participants combined different explicit signals regarding probability and loss when choosing between response options associated with uncertain outcomes. Importantly, these effects were strongly dependent on baseline sensation-seeking score. Overall, cabergoline increased sensitivity of choice to information about probability of winning; while decreasing discrimination according to magnitude of potential losses associated with different options. The largest effects of the drug were observed in participants with lower sensation-seeking scores. These findings provide evidence that risk-taking behavior in humans can be directly manipulated by a dopaminergic drug, but that the effectiveness of such a manipulation depends on baseline differences in sensation-seeking trait. This emphasizes the importance of considering individual differences when investigating manipulation of risky decision-making, and may have relevance for the development of pharmacotherapies for disorders involving excessive risk-taking in humans, such as pathological gambling.
Autonomic dysreflexia (AD), a potentially dangerous complication of high-level spinal cord injury (SCI) characterized by exaggerated activation of spinal autonomic (sympathetic) reflexes, can cause pulmonary embolism, stroke, and, in severe cases, death. People with high-level SCI also are immune compromised, rendering them more susceptible to infectious morbidity and mortality. The mechanisms underlying postinjury immune suppression are not known. Data presented herein indicate that AD causes immune suppression. Using in vivo telemetry, we show that AD develops spontaneously in SCI mice with the frequency of dysreflexic episodes increasing as a function of time postinjury. As the frequency of AD increases, there is a corresponding increase in splenic leucopenia and immune suppression. Experimental activation of spinal sympathetic reflexes in SCI mice (e.g., via colorectal distension) elicits AD and exacerbates immune suppression via a mechanism that involves aberrant accumulation of norepinephrine and glucocorticoids. Reversal of postinjury immune suppression in SCI mice can be achieved by pharmacological inhibition of receptors for norepinephrine and glucocorticoids during the onset and progression of AD. In a human subject with C5 SCI, stimulating the micturition reflex caused AD with exaggerated catecholamine release and impaired immune function, thus confirming the relevance of the mouse data. These data implicate AD as a cause of secondary immune deficiency after SCI and reveal novel therapeutic targets for overcoming infectious complications that arise due to deficits in immune function.
Hallmark features of neural circuit development include early exuberant innervation followed by competition and pruning to mature innervation topography. Several neural systems, including the neuromuscular junction and climbing fiber innervation of Purkinje cells, are models to study neural development in part because they establish a recognizable endpoint of monoinnervation of their targets and because the presynaptic terminals are large and easily monitored. We demonstrate here that calyx of Held (CH) innervation of its target, which forms a key element of auditory brainstem binaural circuitry, exhibits all of these characteristics. To investigate CH development, we made the first application of serial block-face scanning electron microscopy to neural development with fine temporal resolution and thereby accomplished the first time series for 3D ultrastructural analysis of neural circuit formation. This approach revealed a growth spurt of added apposed surface area (ASA)&gt;200 m2/d centered on a single age at postnatal day 3 in mice and an initial rapid phase of growth and competition that resolved to monoinnervation in two-thirds of cells within 3 d. This rapid growth occurred in parallel with an increase in action potential threshold, which may mediate selection of the strongest input as the winning competitor. ASAs of competing inputs were segregated on the cell body surface. These data suggest mechanisms to select &quot;winning&quot; inputs by regional reinforcement of postsynaptic membrane to mediate size and strength of competing synaptic inputs.
Caenorhabditis (C.) elegans is a model animal used in genetics, neuroscience, and developmental biology. Researchers often immobilize squirming worms to obtain high-quality images for analysis. However, current methods usually require physical contact or anesthetics. This can cause injuries to worm bodies or neuron disturbances. This study presents an alternative technique, called addressable light-induced heat knockdown (ALINK), to effectively immobilize worms by using light-induced sublethal heat. A microchip composed of an indium-tin-oxide (ITO) glass plate and an ITO glass plate coated with a photoconductive layer (a-Si:H) was produced. Worms to be immobilized were immersed in a liquid medium and sandwiched between the two plates. When the worms were irradiated with a focused laser beam in the presence of electric fields (referred to as an optoelectric treatment), the optoelectric effect heated the liquid medium. The neural functions of the worms shut down temporarily when a critical temperature (&gt;31 C) was reached. Their neural functions resumed after the heat source was removed. A temperature above 37 C killed all worms. Using short-wavelength light reduced the worms' recovery time. An equivalent circuit was modeled to predict the operating modes, and an optoelectric treatment with a high-concentration medium enhanced rapid heating. A safe operating range (20 Vpp (peak-to-peak voltage), 100 kHz to 10 MHz, 31 to 37 C) to induce heat knockdown (KD) was also investigated. The results show that the heat KD was well controlled, autonomous, and reversible. This technique can be used for worm immobilization.
The post-translational conversion of the ubiquitously expressed cellular form of the prion protein, PrPC, into its misfolded and pathogenic isoform, known as prion or PrPSc, plays a key role in prion diseases. These maladies are denoted transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) and affect both humans and animals. A prerequisite for understanding TSEs is unraveling the molecular mechanism leading to the conversion process whereby most -helical motifs are replaced by -sheet secondary structures. Importantly, most point mutations linked to inherited prion diseases are clustered in the C-terminal domain region of PrPC and cause spontaneous conversion to PrPSc. Structural studies with PrP variants promise new clues regarding the proposed conversion mechanism and may help identify &quot;hot spots&quot; in PrPC involved in the pathogenic conversion. These investigations may also shed light on the early structural rearrangements occurring in some PrPC epitopes thought to be involved in modulating prion susceptibility. Here we present a detailed overview of our solution-state NMR studies on human prion protein carrying different pathological point mutations and the implications that such findings may have for the future of prion research.
Memory formation is hypothesized to involve the generation of event-specific neural activity patterns during learning and the subsequent spontaneous reactivation of these patterns. Here, we present evidence that these processes can also be observed in urethane-anesthetized rats and are enhanced by desynchronized brain state evoked by tail pinch, subcortical carbachol infusion, or systemic amphetamine administration. During desynchronization, we found that repeated tactile or auditory stimulation evoked unique sequential patterns of neural firing in somatosensory and auditory cortex and that these patterns then reoccurred during subsequent spontaneous activity, similar to what we have observed in awake animals. Furthermore, the formation of these patterns was blocked by an NMDA receptor antagonist, suggesting that the phenomenon depends on synaptic plasticity. These results suggest that anesthetized animals with a desynchronized brain state could serve as a convenient model for studying stimulus-induced plasticity to improve our understanding of memory formation and replay in the brain.
Sensory systems change their sensitivity based on recent stimuli to adjust their response range to the range of inputs and to predict future sensory input. Here, we report the presence of retinal ganglion cells that have antagonistic plasticity, showing central adaptation and peripheral sensitization. Ganglion cell responses were captured by a spatiotemporal model with independently adapting excitatory and inhibitory subunits, and sensitization requires GABAergic inhibition. Using a simple theory of signal detection, we show that the sensitizing surround conforms to an optimal inference model that continually updates the prior signal probability. This indicates that small receptive field regions have dual functionality--to adapt to the local range of signals but sensitize based upon the probability of the presence of that signal. Within this framework, we show that sensitization predicts the location of a nearby object, revealing prediction as a functional role for adapting inhibition in the nervous system.
Upon reaching their intermediate target, the floorplate, commissural axons acquire responsiveness to repulsive guidance cues, allowing the axons to exit the midline and adopt a contralateral, longitudinal trajectory. The molecular mechanisms that regulate this switch from attraction to repulsion remain poorly defined. Here, we show that the heparan sulfate proteoglycan Glypican1 (GPC1) is required as a coreceptor for the Shh-dependent induction of Hedgehog-interacting protein (Hhip) in commissural neurons. In turn, Hhip is required for postcrossing axons to respond to a repulsive anteroposterior Shh gradient. Thus, Shh is a cue with dual function. In precrossing axons it acts as an attractive guidance molecule in a transcription-independent manner. At the same time, Shh binds to GPC1 to induce the expression of its own receptor, Hhip, which mediates the repulsive response of postcrossing axons to Shh. Our study characterizes a molecular mechanism by which navigating axons switch their responsiveness at intermediate targets.
Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells are a transient cell population of the CNS that is critical for brain development. In the neocortex, CR cells secrete reelin to instruct the radial migration of projection neurons. It has remained unexplored, however, whether CR cells provide additional molecular cues important for brain development. Here, we show that CR cells express the immunoglobulin-like adhesion molecule nectin1, whereas neocortical projection neurons express its preferred binding partner, nectin3. We demonstrate that nectin1- and nectin3-mediated interactions between CR cells and migrating neurons are critical for radial migration. Furthermore, reelin signaling to Rap1 promotes neuronal Cdh2 function via nectin3 and afadin, thus directing the broadly expressed homophilic cell adhesion molecule Cdh2 toward mediating heterotypic cell-cell interactions between neurons and CR cells. Our findings identify nectins and afadin as components of the reelin signaling pathway and demonstrate that coincidence signaling between CR cell-derived secreted and short-range guidance cues direct neuronal migration.
The increasing volume, complexity, and interconnectedness of published studies in neuroscience make it difficult to determine what is known, what is uncertain, and how to contribute effectively to one's field. There is a pressing need to develop automated strategies to help researchers navigate the vastness of the published record. Simplified, interactive, and unbiased representations of previous findings (i.e., research maps) would be invaluable in preparing research surveys, in guiding experiment planning, and in evaluating research plans and contributions. Principles normally used in weighing research findings, including reproducibility and convergence, could be automated and incorporated into research maps. Here, we discuss a series of recent advances that are bringing us closer than ever to being able to derive systematic, comprehensive, but also interactive and user-friendly research maps. These maps could revolutionize the way we review the literature, plan experiments, and fund and publish science.
Determining how neurons integrate different streams of information is critical to understanding circuit computational functions. In this issue of Neuron, Harnett et al. (2013) show that voltage-gated K+ channels control multiple layers of dendritic integration in layer 5 pyramidal neurons.
Tobacco smoking is a well-known risk factor for subsequent alcohol abuse, but the neural events underlying this risk remain largely unknown. Alcohol and nicotine reinforcement involve common neural circuitry, including the mesolimbic dopamine system. We demonstrate in rodents that pre-exposure to nicotine increases alcohol self-administration and decreases alcohol-induced dopamine responses. The blunted dopamine response was due to increased inhibitory synaptic transmission onto dopamine neurons. Blocking stress hormone receptors prior to nicotine exposure prevented all interactions with alcohol that we measured, including the increased inhibition onto dopamine neurons, the decreased dopamine responses, and the increased alcohol self-administration. These results indicate that nicotine recruits neuroendocrine systems to influence neurotransmission and behavior associated with alcohol reinforcement.
Multisensory integration (MI) is crucial for sensory processing, but it is unclear how MI is organized in cortical microcircuits. Whole-cell recordings in a mouse visuotactile area located between primary visual and somatosensory cortices revealed that spike responses were less bimodal than synaptic responses but displayed larger multisensory enhancement. MI was layer and cell type specific, with multisensory enhancement being rare in the major class of inhibitory interneurons and in the output infragranular layers. Optogenetic manipulation of parvalbumin-positive interneuron activity revealed that the scarce MI of interneurons enables MI in neighboring pyramids. Finally, single-cell resolution calcium imaging revealed a gradual merging of modalities: unisensory neurons had higher densities toward the borders of the primary cortices, but were located in unimodal clusters in the middle of the cortical area. These findings reveal the role of different neuronal subcircuits in the synaptic process of MI in the rodent parietal cortex.



SNARE complexes form between the synaptic vesicle protein synaptobrevin and the plasma membrane proteins syntaxin and SNAP25 to drive membrane fusion. A cytosolic protein, complexin (Cpx), binds to the SNARE bundle, and its accessory helix (AH) functions to clamp synaptic vesicle fusion. We performed molecular-dynamics simulations of the SNARE/Cpx complex and discovered that at equilibrium the Cpx AH forms tight links with both synaptobrevin and SNAP25. To simulate the effect of electrostatic repulsion between vesicle and membrane on the SNARE complex, we calculated the electrostatic force and performed simulations with an external force applied to synaptobrevin. We found that the partially unzipped state of the SNARE bundle can be stabilized by interactions with the Cpx AH, suggesting a simple mechanistic explanation for the role of Cpx in fusion clamping. To test this model, we performed experimental and computational characterizations of the syx(3-69)Drosophila mutant, which has a point mutation in syntaxin that causes increased spontaneous fusion. We found that this mutation disrupts the interaction of the Cpx AH with synaptobrevin, partially imitating the cpx null phenotype. Our results support a model in which the Cpx AH clamps fusion by binding to the synaptobrevin C-terminus, thus preventing full SNARE zippering.
Improving our understanding of the mechanisms and effects of anesthetics is a critically important part of neuroscience. The currently dominant theory is that anesthetics and similar molecules act by binding to Cys-loop receptors in the postsynaptic terminal of nerve cells and potentiate or inhibit their function. Although structures for some of the most important mammalian channels have still not been determined, a number of important results have been derived from work on homologous cationic channels in bacteria. However, partly due to the lack of a nervous system in bacteria, there are a number of questions about how these results relate to higher organisms. The recent determination of a structure of the eukaryotic chloride channel, GluCl, is an important step toward accurate modeling of mammalian channels, because it is more similar in function to human Cys-loop receptors such as GABAAR or GlyR. One potential issue with using GluCl to model other receptors is the presence of the large ligand ivermectin (IVM) positioned between all five subunits. Here, we have performed a series of microsecond molecular simulations to study how the dynamics and structure of GluCl change in the presence versus absence of IVM. When the ligand is removed, subunits move at least 2  closer to each other compared to simulations with IVM bound. In addition, the pore radius shrinks to 1.2 , all of which appears to support a model where IVM binding between subunits stabilizes an open state, and that the relaxed nonIVM conformations might be suitable for modeling other channels. Interestingly, the presence of IVM also has an effect on the structure of the important loop C located at the neurotransmitter-binding pocket, which might help shed light on its partial agonist behavior.

