


Axonal growth cones synthesize proteins during development and in response to injury in adult animals. Proteins locally translated in axons are used to generate appropriate responses to guidance cues, contribute to axon growth, and can serve as retrograde messengers. In addition to growth cones, mRNAs and translational machinery are also found along the lengths of axons where synapses form en passant, but contributions of intra-axonal translation to developing synapses are poorly understood. Here, we engineered a subcellular-targeting translational repressor to inhibit mRNA translation in axons, and we used this strategy to investigate presynaptic contributions of cap-dependent protein translation to developing CNS synapses. Our data show that intra-axonal mRNA translation restrains synaptic vesicle recycling pool size and that one target of this regulation is p35, a Cdk5 activating protein. Cdk5/p35 signaling regulates the size of vesicle recycling pools, p35 levels diminish when cap-dependent translation is repressed, and restoring p35 levels rescues vesicle recycling pools from the effects of spatially targeted translation repression. Together our findings show that intra-axonal synthesis of p35 is required for normal vesicle recycling in developing neurons, and that targeted translational repression provides a novel strategy to investigate extrasomal protein synthesis in neurons.
Local synthesis of -actin is required for attractive turning responses to guidance cues of growth cones in vitro but its functional role in axon guidance in vivo is poorly understood. The transport and translation of -actin mRNA is regulated by the RNA-binding protein, Vg1RBP (zipcode-binding protein-1). To examine whether Vg1RBP plays a role in axon navigation in vivo, we disrupted Vg1RBP function in embryonic Xenopus laevis retinal ganglion cells by expressing a dominant-negative Vg1RBP and by antisense morpholino knockdown. We found that attractive turning to a netrin-1 gradient in vitro was abolished in Vg1RBP-deficient axons but, surprisingly, the long-range navigation from the retina to the optic tectum was unaffected. Within the tectum, however, the branching and complexity of axon terminals were significantly reduced. High-resolution time-lapse imaging of axon terminals in vivo revealed that Vg1RBP-GFP-positive granules accumulate locally in the axon shaft immediately preceding the emergence a filopodial-like protrusion. Comparative analysis of branch dynamics showed that Vg1RBP-deficient axons extend far fewer filopodial-like protrusions than control axons and indicate that Vg1RBP promotes filopodial formation, an essential step in branch initiation. Our findings show that Vg1RBP is required for terminal arborization but not long-range axon navigation and suggest that Vg1RBP-regulated mRNA translation promotes synaptic complexity.
Attractive individuals are perceived as having various positive personality qualities. Positive personality qualities can in turn increase perceived attractiveness. However, the developmental origins of the link between attractiveness and personality are not understood. This is important because infant attractiveness ('cuteness') elicits caregiving from adults, and infant personality ('temperament') shapes caregiving behaviour. While research suggests that adults have more positive attitudes towards cuter infants, it is not known whether positive infant temperament can increase the perception of infant cuteness. We investigated the impact of experimentally established infant temperament on adults' perception of cuteness and desire to view individual faces. Ataseline, adults rated the cuteness of, and keypressed to view, images of unfamiliar infants with neutral facial expressions. Training required adults to learn about an infant's 'temperament', through repeated pairing of the neutral infant face with positive or negative facial expressions and vocalizations. Adults then re-rated the original neutral infant faces. Post-training, there were significant changes from baseline: infants who were mostly happy were perceived as cuter and adults expended greater effort to view them. Infants who were mostly sad were not perceived as cuter and adults expended less effort to view them. Our results suggest that temperament has clear consequences for how adults perceive 'bonnie' babies. Perception of infant cuteness is not based on physical facial features alone, and is modifiable through experience.
In early childhood, humans learn culturally specific symbols for number that allow them entry into the world of complex numerical thinking. Yet little is known about how the brain supports the development of the uniquely human symbolic number system. Here, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging along with an effective connectivity analysis to investigate the neural substrates for symbolic number processing in young children. We hypothesized that, as children solidify the mapping between symbols and underlying magnitudes, important developmental changes occur in the neural communication between the right parietal region, important for the representation of non-symbolic numerical magnitudes, and other brain regions known to be critical for processing numerical symbols. To test this hypothesis, we scanned children between 4 and 6years of age while they performed a magnitude comparison task with Arabic numerals (numerical, symbolic), dot arrays (numerical, non-symbolic), and lines (non-numerical). We then identified the right parietal seed region that showed greater blood-oxygen-level-dependent signal in the numerical versus the non-numerical conditions. A psychophysiological interaction method was used to find patterns of effective connectivity arising from this parietal seed region specific to symbolic compared to non-symbolic number processing. Two brain regions, the left supramarginal gyrus and the right precentral gyrus, showed significant effective connectivity from the right parietal cortex. Moreover, the degree of this effective connectivity to the left supramarginal gyrus was correlated with age, and the degree of the connectivity to the right precentral gyrus predicted performance on a standardized symbolic math test. These findings suggest that effective connectivity underlying symbolic number processing may be critical as children master the associations between numerical symbols and magnitudes, and that these connectivity patterns may serve as an important indicator of mathematical achievement.
Attention induces synchronicity in neuronal firing for the encoding of a given stimulus at the exclusion of others. Recently, we reported decreased variability in scalp-recorded cortical evoked potentials to attended compared with ignored speech in adults. Here we aimed to determine the developmental time course for this neural index of auditory attention. We compared cortical auditory-evoked variability with attention across three age groups: preschoolers, school-aged children and young adults. Results reveal an increased impact of selective auditory attention on cortical response variability with development. Although all three age groups have equivalent response variability to attended speech, only school-aged children and adults have a distinction between attend and ignore conditions. Preschoolers, on the other hand, demonstrate no impact of attention on cortical responses, which we argue reflects the gradual emergence of attention within this age range. Outcomes are interpreted in the context of the behavioral relevance of cortical response variability and its potential to serve as a developmental index of cognitive skill.
Consequences of rearing history in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) have been explored in relation to behavioral abnormalities and cognition; however, little is known about the effects of rearing conditions on anatomical brain development. Human studies have revealed that experiences of maltreatment and neglect during infancy and childhood can have detrimental effects on brain development and cognition. In this study, we evaluated the effects of early rearing experience on brain morphology in 92 captive chimpanzees (ages 11-43) who were either reared by their mothers (n=46) or in a nursery (n=46) with age-group peers. Magnetic resonance brain images were analyzed with a processing program (BrainVISA) that extracts cortical sulci. We obtained various measurements from 11 sulci located throughout the brain, as well as whole brain gyrification and white and grey matter volumes. We found that mother-reared chimpanzees have greater global white-to-grey matter volume, more cortical folding and thinner grey matter within the cortical folds than nursery-reared animals. The findings reported here are the first to demonstrate that differences in early rearing conditions have significant consequences on brain morphology in chimpanzees and suggests potential differences in the development of white matter expansion and myelination.
Layer-specific cortical neurons are essential components of local, intracortical and subcortical circuits and are specified by complex signaling pathways acting on cortical progenitors. However, whether extrinsic signals contribute to postmitotic cortical neuronal development is unclear. Here we show in mice that retinoic acid (RA) receptors are activated in newly born migrating cortical neurons indicative of endogenous RA in the cortex. Disruption of RA signaling in postmitotic neurons by dominant-negative retinoid receptor RAR403 expression specifically delays late-born cortical neuron migration in vivo. Moreover, prospective layer V-III neurons that express RAR403 fail to maintain their fates and instead acquire characteristics of layer II neurons. This latter phenotype is rescued by active forms of -catenin at central and caudal but not rostral cortical regions. Taken together, these observations suggest that RA signaling pathways operate postmitotically to regulate the onset of radial migration and to consolidate regional differences in cortical neuronal identity.
Recent advances in imaging technology and in the understanding of neural circuits relevant to emotion, motivation, and depression have boosted interest and experimental work in neuromodulation for affective disorders. Real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be used to train patients in the self regulation of these circuits, and thus complement existing neurofeedback technologies based on electroencephalography (EEG). EEG neurofeedback for depression has mainly been based on models of altered hemispheric asymmetry. fMRI-based neurofeedback (fMRI-NF) can utilize functional localizer scans that allow the dynamic adjustment of the target areas or networks for self-regulation training to individual patterns of emotion processing. An initial application of fMRI-NF in depression has produced promising clinical results, and further clinical trials are under way. Challenges lie in the design of appropriate control conditions for rigorous clinical trials, and in the transfer of neurofeedback protocols from the laboratory to mobile devices to enhance the sustainability of any clinical benefits.
Synchronized neuronal activity in the cortex generates weak electric fields that are routinely measured in humans and animal models by electroencephalography and local field potential recordings. Traditionally, these endogenous electric fields have been considered to be an epiphenomenon of brain activity. Recent work has demonstrated that active cortical networks are surprisingly susceptible to weak perturbations of the membrane voltage of a large number of neurons by electric fields. Simultaneously, noninvasive brain stimulation with weak, exogenous electric fields (transcranial current stimulation, TCS) has undergone a renaissance due to the broad scope of its possible applications in modulating brain activity for cognitive enhancement and treatment of brain disorders. This review aims to interface the recent developments in the study of both endogenous and exogenous electric fields, with a particular focus on rhythmic stimulation for the modulation of cortical oscillations. The main goal is to provide a starting point for the use of rational design for the development of novel mechanism-based TCS therapeutics based on transcranial alternating current stimulation, for the treatment of psychiatric illnesses.
Omics technologies emerged as complementary strategies to genomics in the attempt to understand human illnesses. In general, proteomics technologies emerged earlier than those of metabolomics for major depressive disorder (MDD) research, but both are driven by the identification of proteins and/or metabolites that can delineate a comprehensive characterization of MDD's molecular mechanisms, as well as lead to the identification of biomarker candidates of all types-prognosis, diagnosis, treatment, and patient stratification. Also, one can explore protein and metabolite interactomes in order to pinpoint additional molecules associated with the disease that had not been picked up initially. Here, results and methodological aspects of MDD research using proteomics, metabolomics, and protein interactomics are reviewed, focusing on human samples.
Risk for adult psychiatric disorders is partially determined by early-life alterations occurring during neural circuit formation and maturation. In this perspective, recent data show that the serotonin system regulates key cellular processes involved in the construction of cortical circuits. Translational data for rodents indicate that early-life serotonin dysregulation leads to a wide range of behavioral alterations, ranging from stress-related phenotypes to social deficits. Studies in humans have revealed that serotonin-related genetic variants interact with early-life stress to regulate stress-induced cortisol responsiveness and activate the neural circuits involved in mood and anxiety disorders. Emerging data demonstrate that early-life adversity induces epigenetic modifications in serotonin-related genes. Finally, recent findings reveal that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors can reinstate juvenile-like forms of neural plasticity, thus allowing the erasure of long-lasting fear memories. These approaches are providing new insights on the biological mechanisms and clinical application of antidepressants.




The year 2013 marks the 10th anniversary of the outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). We present a comprehensive introduction to the current situation of surviving SARS victims in China where the disease originated and spread across the world 10 years ago.
The dispersal and migration of organisms have resulted in the colonisation of nearly every possible habitat and ultimately the extraordinary diversity of life. Animal dispersal tendencies are commonly heterogeneous (e.g. long vs. short) and non-random suggesting that phenotypic and genotypic variability between individuals can contribute to population-level heterogeneity in dispersal. Using laboratory and field experiments, we demonstrate that natural allelic variation in a gene underlying a foraging polymorphism in larval fruit flies (for), also influences their dispersal tendencies as adults. Rover flies (for(R) ; higher foraging activity) have consistently greater dispersal tendencies and are more likely to disperse longer distances than sitter flies (for(s) ; lower foraging activity). Increasing for expression in the brain and nervous system increases dispersal in sitter flies. Our study supports the notion that variation in dispersal can be driven by intrinsic variation in food-dependent search behaviours and confirms that single gene pleiotropic effects can contribute to population-level heterogeneity in dispersal.
Anxiety or depression may be a risk factor for the development of diabetes. This relationship may occur through a combination of genetic predispositions; epigenetic contingencies; exacerbating conditions such as metabolic syndrome (a precursor to diabetes); and other serious medical conditions. Medications used to treat anxiety and depression have significant side effects, such as weight gain, further increasing the possibility of developing diabetes. These components combine, interact, and reassemble to create a precarious system for persons with, or predisposed to, diabetes. Clinicians must be aware of these interrelationships to adequately treat the disease.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is an abundant steroid hormone, and its mechanism of action is yet to be determined. The aim of this study was to elucidate the importance of androgen receptors (ARs) and estrogen receptors (ERs) for DHEA function. Orchidectomized C57BL/6 mice were treated with DHEA, DHT, 17-estradiol-3-benzoate (E2), or vehicle. Orchidectomized AR-deficient (ARKO) mice and wild-type (WT) littermates were treated with DHEA or vehicle for 2.5 weeks. At termination, bone mineral density (BMD) was evaluated, thymus and seminal vesicles were weighted, and submandibular glands (SMGs) were histologically examined. To evaluate the in vivo ER activation of the classical estrogen signaling pathway, estrogen response element reporter mice were treated with DHEA, DHT, E2, or vehicle, and a reporter gene was investigated in different sex steroid-sensitive organs after 24 hours. DHEA treatment increased trabecular BMD and thymic atrophy in both WT and ARKO mice. In WT mice, DHEA induced enlargement of glands in the SMGs, whereas this effect was absent in ARKO mice. Furthermore, DHEA was able to induce activation of classical estrogen signaling in bone, thymus, and seminal vesicles but not in the SMGs. In summary, the DHEA effects on trabecular BMD and thymus do not require signaling via AR and DHEA can activate the classical estrogen signaling in these organs. In contrast, DHEA induction of gland size in the SMGs is dependent on AR and does not involve classical estrogen signaling. Thus, both ERs and ARs are involved in mediating the effects of DHEA in an organ-dependent manner.
Shifts in the composition of gut bacterial populations can alter host metabolism and may contribute to the pathogenesis of metabolic disorders, including obesity. Mice deficient in leptin action are obese with altered microbiota and increased susceptibility to certain intestinal pathogens. Because antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) secreted by Paneth cells represent a major mechanism by which the host influences the gut microbiome, we examined the mRNA expression of gut AMPs, several of which were decreased in leptin receptor (LepR)-deficient db/db mice, suggesting a potential role for AMP modulation of microbiota composition. To address the extent to which the alterations in gut microbiota and AMP mRNA expression in db/db mice result from increased food intake vs other defects in leptin action, we examined the effects of pair feeding and gut epithelial LepRb ablation on AMP mRNA expression and microbiota composition. We found that the phylum-level changes in fecal microbial content and AMP gene expression persist in pair-fed db/db mice, suggesting that these differences do not stem from hyperphagia alone. In addition, despite recent evidence to support a role for intestinal epithelial LepRb signaling in pathogen susceptibility, ablation of LepRb from the intestinal epithelium fails to alter body weight, composition of the microbiota, or AMP expression, suggesting a role for LepRb elsewhere for this regulation. Indeed, gut LepRb cells are not epithelial but rather constitute a previously uncharacterized population of perivascular cells within the intestinal submucosa. Overall, our data reveal a role for LepRb signaling extrinsic to the intestinal epithelium and independent of food intake in the control of the gut microbiome.
In 1936, Eugen Steinach and colleagues published a work that brought steroid biochemistry to the study of sexual behavior and, using synthetic androgens and estrogens, foreshadowed by an astonishing 4 decades the discovery of the central role of estrogen in the sexual behavior of male rats. We offer an English translation of that paper, accompanied by historical commentary that presents Steinach as a pioneer in reproductive neuroendocrinology. His work 1) established the interstitial cells as the main source of mammalian gonadal hormones; 2) launched the hypothesis that steroid hormones act on the brain to induce sexual behavior and that chronic gonadal transplants produce sexual reversals in physiology and behavior; 3) demonstrated the influence of sensory stimulation on testicular function; and finally 4) spearheaded the development of synthetic commercial hormones for clinical use in humans. Although its applications were controversial, Steinach's research was confirmed by many, and his concepts were applied to fields such as oncology and vascular disease. His contemporaries lauded his research, as indicated by his 7 Nobel Prize nominations. But Steinach's basic research was rarely acknowledged as the field flourished after 1950. The translation and our commentary attempt to reverse that neglect among behavioral neuroendocrinologists and clarify his central role as a founder of the neuroendocrinology of sexual behavior and reproduction.
Impairment of cognitive functions is a core feature of schizophrenia with relevant consequences on patients' psychosocial functioning. Cognitive remediation techniques have been recently developed with the aim to restore or compensate for such impairments and improve the functional outcome of the disease. There is now convincing evidence of the efficacy of many of these techniques, especially when delivered in the context of a comprehensive treatment programme. Whether the application of these techniques in the early phases of the disease could modify the disease course and outcome and how they could affect brain plasticity and the trajectory of brain disease of schizophrenia is still under scrutiny.




Spike-wave discharges (SWDs) are thalamocortical oscillations that are often considered to be the EEG correlate of absence seizures. Genetic absence epilepsy rats of Strasbourg (GAERS) and Wistar Albino Glaxo rats from Rijswijk (WAG/Rij) exhibit SWDs and are considered to be genetic animal models of absence epilepsy. However, it has been reported that other rat strains have SWDs, suggesting that SWDs may vary in their prevalence, but all rats have a predisposition for them. This is important because many of these rat strains are used to study temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), where it is assumed that there is no seizure-like activity in controls. In the course of other studies using the Sprague-Dawley rat, a common rat strain for animal models of TLE, we found that approximately 19% of 2- to 3-month-old naive female Sprague-Dawley rats exhibited SWDs spontaneously during periods of behavioral arrest, which continued for months. Males exhibited SWDs only after 3 months of age, consistent with previous reports (Buzski et al., 1990). Housing in atypical lighting during early life appeared to facilitate the incidence of SWDs. Spike-wave discharges were often accompanied by behaviors similar to stage 1-2 limbic seizures. Therefore, additional analyses were made to address the similarity. We observed that the frequency of SWDs was similar to that of hippocampal theta rhythm during exploration for a given animal, typically 7-8 Hz. Therefore, activity in the frequency of theta rhythm that occurs during frozen behavior may not reflect seizures necessarily. Hippocampal recordings exhibited high frequency oscillations (&gt;250 Hz) during SWDs, suggesting that neuronal activity in the hippocampus occurs during SWDs, i.e., it is not a passive structure. The data also suggest that high frequency oscillations, if rhythmic, may reflect SWDs. We also confirmed that SWDs were present in a common animal model of TLE, the pilocarpine model, using female Sprague-Dawley rats. Therefore, damage and associated changes to thalamic, hippocampal, and cortical neurons do not prevent SWDs, at least in this animal model. The results suggest that it is possible that SWDs occur in rodent models of TLE and that investigators mistakenly assume that they are stage 1-2 limbic seizures. We discuss the implications of the results and ways to avoid the potential problems associated with SWDs in animal models of TLE.
fMRI language mapping has become increasingly utilized for determining language dominance before surgical intervention for temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). This study aimed to examine the differences between two classes of fMRI word generation tasks used in our clinic: tasks using a single word cue, referred to as simple generative tasks (SGTs), and tasks also involving sentence-level processing, referred to as sentence-level language tasks (SLTs). Specifically, we aimed to investigate the extent and laterality of activation and frontal-temporal connectivity during these language tasks and their relationship to clinical language measures. Thirty-one patients with TLE (18 patients with left TLE and 13 patients with right TLE) performed four language tasks during an fMRI scan, two SGTs and two SLTs. We found significantly greater activity for SLTs over SGTs in bilateral inferior frontal and middle temporal gyri and the left temporal pole. Sentence-level language tasks also showed greater lateralization compared with SGTs. Finally, we found that while activation extent did not correlate with clinical language tests, the degree of left frontal-temporal connectivity was significantly correlated with naming and semantic fluency performance. These correlations also were more robust for SLTs than for SGTs. Taken together, these results provide a compelling argument for including some form of SLTs in fMRI language lateralization protocols for TLE as they allow for better characterization of language networks, particularly in the temporal lobes which are at risk in surgery.
A questionnaire survey was undertaken to assess the impact of a nationwide educational campaign about epilepsy on the knowledge and attitudes toward the disease among Italian primary school teachers. Five hundred and eighty-two teachers participated. All interviewees were aware of the existence of epilepsy, and most of them had direct experience with the disease. Answers about frequency, causes, outcome, and response to treatments were variable and not correlated with age, residency, and years of experience. Teachers had positive attitudes toward epilepsy, except for the idea that driving and sports can be safe for people with epilepsy. Epilepsy and its treatment were considered a source of learning disability and social disadvantages. Several teachers declared themselves being unable to help a child having seizures. Calling an ambulance was a frequent action. Knowledge and attitudes toward epilepsy are improved compared with those reported in our previous studies. Although this may be a positive reflection of the increasing knowledge and the greater availability of information on epilepsy, there are still areas of uncertainty and incorrect behaviors.
This study examined cognitive function in young adults who had epilepsy surgery in childhood. Thirty-seven individuals with medically intractable epilepsy with onset at 16 years or younger who had resective epilepsy surgery at least two years in the past (mean follow-up duration of 8.5 years) were assessed; of these, 13 had seizures within the year prior to the study, and the remainder had none. A comparison group of 16 individuals with childhood-onset intractable epilepsy who had not had surgery, all of whom had experienced at least one seizure in the past 12 months, was also included. The cognitive tests included measures of vocabulary, visuoconstructive ability, memory, and concept formation. Group differences were found only for the vocabulary and verbal memory tests, with the surgical group with seizures having the lowest performance. A subset of the surgical patients had preoperative data available on comparable tests, allowing for an examination of performance over time. Vocabulary scores were higher at follow-up, a finding which was present irrespective of seizure status. The results suggest that after epilepsy surgery in childhood or adolescence, few improvements in cognitive skills related to surgery or seizure outcome are to be expected.

Dravet syndrome (also known as Severe Myoclonic Epilepsy of Infancy) is a rare genetic epilepsy syndrome commonly associated with loss-of-function mutations in SCN1A, the gene encoding the  subunit of the voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.1, resulting in haploinsufficiency. Like other voltage-gated sodium channels, NaV1.1 function contributes to the rising phase of the neuronal action potential; thus, the observation that loss-of-function mutations in this channel gene are associated with seizures has created a paradox for the field. Major work has been done to untangle this paradox during the past decade, resulting in the development of two distinct hypotheses to explain seizures in Dravet syndrome. Here, we review the history of these two hypotheses and speculate as to what the history of Dravet syndrome research might tell us about its future.
Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) are events commonly encountered by primary care physicians, neurologists, pediatricians, and emergency medicine physicians in their practices, yet there continues to be significant variability in the way they are evaluated, diagnosed, and treated. Lack of understanding this condition and limited data on long-term outcome from current treatment paradigms have resulted in an environment with iatrogenic injury, morbidity, and significant costs to the patient and healthcare system. This article will review the current state of research addressing PNES treatment both in the adult and pediatric populations.

It has been reported that glucocorticoids (GCs) can effectively control seizures in pediatric epilepsy syndromes, possibly by inhibition of inflammation. Since inflammation is supposed to be involved in epileptogenesis, we hypothesized that treatment with GCs would reduce brain inflammation and thereby modify epileptogenesis in a rat model for temporal lobe epilepsy, in which epilepsy gradually develops after electrically induced status epilepticus (SE). To prevent the severe adverse effects that are inevitable with long-term GC treatment, we used liposome nanotechnology (G-Technology()) to enhance the sustained delivery to the brain. Starting 4h after onset of SE, rats were treated with glutathione pegylated liposomal methylprednisolone (GSH-PEG liposomal MP) according to a treatment protocol (1 per week; 10mg/kg) that is effective in other models of neuroinflammation. Continuous electro-encephalogram (EEG) recordings revealed that SE duration and onset of spontaneous seizures were not affected by GSH-PEG liposomal MP treatment. The number and duration of spontaneous seizures were also not different between vehicle and GSH-PEG liposomal MP-treated animals. Six weeks after SE, brain inflammation, as assessed by quantification of microglia activation, was not reduced by GSH-PEG liposomal MP-treatment. Also, neuronal cell loss and mossy fiber sprouting were not affected. Our study shows that the selected GSH-PEG liposomal MP treatment regimen that was administered beyond the acute SE phase does not reduce brain inflammation and development of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH) is a neuronal migrational disorder often associated with pharmacoresistant epilepsy (PRE). Resective surgery for PVNH is limited by its deep location, and the overlying eloquent cortex or white matter. Stereotactic MR guided laser interstitial thermal therapy (MRgLITT) has recently become available for controlled focal ablation, enabling us to target these lesions. We here demonstrate the novel application and techniques for the use of MRgLITT in the management of PVNH epilepsy. Comprehensive presurgical evaluation, including intracranial EEG monitoring in two patients revealed the PVNH to be crucially involved in their PRE. We used MRgLITT to maximally ablate the PVNH in both cases. In the first case, seizure medication adjustment coupled with PVNH ablation, and in the second, PVNH ablation in addition to temporal lobectomy rendered the patient seizure free. A transient visual deficit occurred following ablation in the second patient. MRgLITT is a promising minimally invasive technique for ablation of epileptogenic PVNH, a disease not generally viewed as surgically treatable epilepsy. We also show here the feasibility of applying this technique through multiple trajectories and to create lesions of complex shapes. The broad applicability and long term efficacy of MRgLITT need to be elaborated further.
Mutations in GABRG2, which encodes the 2 subunit of GABAA receptors, can cause both genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) and Dravet syndrome. Most GABRG2 truncating mutations associated with Dravet syndrome result in premature termination codons (PTCs) and are stably translated into mutant proteins with potential dominant-negative effects. This study involved search for mutations in candidate genes for Dravet syndrome, namely SCN1A, 2A, 1B, 2B, GABRA1, B2, and G2. A heterozygous nonsense mutation (c.118C&gt;T, p.Q40X) in GABRG2 was identified in dizygotic twin girls with Dravet syndrome and their apparently healthy father. Electrophysiological studies with the reconstituted GABAA receptors in HEK cells showed reduced GABA-induced currents when mutated 2 DNA was cotransfected with wild-type 1 and 2 subunits. In this case, immunohistochemistry using antibodies to the 1 and 2 subunits of GABAA receptor showed granular staining in the soma. In addition, microinjection of mutated 2 subunit cDNA into HEK cells severely inhibited intracellular trafficking of GABAA receptor subunits 1 and 2, and retention of these proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. The mutated 2 subunit-expressing neurons also showed impaired axonal transport of the 1 and 2 subunits. Our findings suggested that different phenotypes of epilepsy, e.g., GEFS+ and Dravet syndrome (which share similar abnormalities in causative genes) are likely due to impaired axonal transport associated with the dominant-negative effects of GABRG2.

The success of epilepsy surgery depends on delineation of the suspected epileptogenic zone. The gold standard to delineate it is to use the ictal onset zone from an electrocorticography (ECoG). Although interictal spikes are also associated with the epileptogenic zone, their clinical significance has been under-evaluated. The aim of this study was to evaluate the source localization of interictal spikes in terms of the association with epileptogenic zone in surgical temporal lobe epilepsy patients. The proposition is that the resection volume in patients with favorable outcomes includes the epileptogenic zone. The association with the epileptogenic zone was assessed as follows: (1) how many of the interictal spike sources are within the resection volume in patients with favorable outcomes and (2) how many of the interictal spike sources are outside the resection volume in patients with unfavorable outcomes. Thirty-eight temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients who underwent both ECoG monitoring and epilepsy surgery were recruited and their 10min of ECoG recordings were analyzed. Six tumor-related TLE patients were excluded in the analysis. Of the remaining 32 patients, 20 patients achieved favorable surgical outcomes (Engel I and II), while the surgical outcomes of 12 patients were unfavorable (Engel III and IV). In each patient, interictal spike sources were localized using sLORETA and co-registered into a reconstructed brain model. The correspondence rate with the resection volume was estimated by counting the percentage of interictal spike sources in the resection volume. The correspondence rate in patients with favorable outcomes was 72.822.1, which was significantly higher than that (41.228.8) of the patients with unfavorable outcomes (p=0.002). Nine out of twelve patients (75%) with unfavorable outcomes had multiple interictal spike source clusters both interior and exterior to the resection volume, while 4 of the 20 patients with favorable outcomes (20%) had such multiple clusters (p=0.021). In conclusion, interictal spike sources are highly associated with the epileptogenic zone. ECoG interictal spike source localization could help in the delineation of the potential resection volume.

Myoclonus is a brief, rapid, involuntary muscle jerk originating in the central nervous system that can be physiological or a symptom of disease. We report a group of five children with excessive myoclonic jerks, only during sleep, and abnormal EEG during the events. Although only one third of the events had EEG epileptiform correlate, the presence of myoclonus without epileptiform EEG correlate has been described in patients with benign myoclonic epilepsy of infancy. We hypothesize that these findings may represent a variant of benign myoclonic epilepsy of infancy.
Measuring neuro-haemodynamic correlates in the brain of epilepsy patients using EEG-fMRI has opened new avenues in clinical neuroscience, as these are two complementary methods for understanding brain function. In this study, we investigated three patients with drug-resistant reflex epilepsy using EEG-fMRI. Different types of reflex epilepsy such as eating, startle myoclonus, and hot water epilepsy were included in the study. The analysis of EEG-fMRI data was based on the visual identication of interictal epileptiform discharges on scalp EEG. The convolution of onset time and duration of these epilepsy spikes was estimated, and using these condition-specific effects in a general linear model approach, we evaluated activation of fMRI. Patients with startle myoclonus epilepsy experienced epilepsy in response to sudden sound or touch, in association with increased delta and theta activity with a spike-and-slow-wave pattern of interictal epileptiform discharges on EEG and fronto-parietal network activation pattern on SPECT and EEG-fMRI. Eating epilepsy was triggered by sight or smell of food and fronto-temporal discharges were noted on video-EEG (VEEG). Similarly, fronto-temporo-parietal involvement was noted on SPECT and EEG-fMRI. Hot water epilepsy was triggered by contact with hot water either in the bath or by hand immersion, and VEEG showed fronto-parietal involvement. SPECT and EEG fMRI revealed a similar fronto-parietal-occipital involvement. From these results, we conclude that continuous EEG recording can improve the modelling of BOLD changes related to interictal epileptic activity and this can thus be used to understand the neuro-haemodynamic substrates involved in reflex epilepsy.
A 5-year-old, female client-owned cat presented with acute onset of focal epileptic seizures with orofacial twitching and behavioural changes. Magnetic resonance imaging showed bilateral temporal lobe hyperintensities and the EEG was consistent with ictal epileptic seizure activity. After antiepileptic and additional corticosteroid treatment, the cat recovered and by 10 months of follow-up was seizure-free without any problem. Retrospectively, antibodies to LGI1, a component of the voltage-gated potassium channel-complex, were identified. Feline focal seizures with orofacial involvement have been increasingly recognised in client-owned cats, and autoimmune limbic encephalitis was recently suggested as a possible aetiology. This is the first report of EEG, MRI and long-term follow-up of this condition in cats which is similar to human limbic encephalitis.
Generalised-onset absence seizures can be resistant to treatment with currently available antiepileptic drugs. Ezogabine (retigabine), a potassium channel opener, is approved for the treatment of focal-onset seizures. This is a case report of an adult with childhood absence epilepsy whose daily absence seizures ceased with adjunctive ezogabine. A 59-year-old woman, with a history of typical absence seizures since the age of 6 years, had multiple seizures daily despite trials of over 11 antiepileptic drugs. While taking lamotrigine and zonisamide, ezogabine at 50mg daily was added. The dose was slowly increased and once a total dose of only 200mg/day was reached, she became seizure-free for three months. After subsequently discontinuing zonisamide, absence seizures returned. Further increasing the ezogabine to 400mg/day, in addition to lamotrigine, did not restore seizure freedom, but adding back zonisamide at half dose again reduced their frequency. Ezogabine at low dose, added to lamotrigine and zonisamide, led to sustained absence seizure freedom. The return of seizures after zonisamide discontinuation suggests that the seizure freedom may have been the result of the different mechanisms of action of the antiepileptic drugs.
Simple febrile seizures last for less than 10 minutes and resolve spontaneously, in the context of a febrile illness, without focal features or recurrence during the subsequent 24 hours. We report the case of fortuitous video-EEG recording of a FS, clinically classified as &quot;simple&quot;, which demonstrated a focal, temporal onset. This clinical finding is in agreement with animal model studies demonstrating focal onset.
We report the case of 62-year-old woman referred to our department because of a clinical suspicion of tonic-clonic seizures. Clinical examination revealed an exaggerated startle reflex, EEG showed a photomyoclonic response, and blood tests indicated severe hypocalcaemia. Additional clinical data, treatment strategies, and long-term follow-up visits were reported. The present report discusses the difficulties in distinguishing between epileptic and non-epileptic startles, and shows, for the first time, exaggerated startle reflex and extreme photomyoclonic response due to severe hypocalcaemia.
Seizures triggered by visual stimuli are the most common type of reflex seizure. Self-induced seizures produced by stimulation of natural light are rare and self-induction is a mode of seizure precipitation employed by either intellectually disabled or healthy photosensitive individuals. Absences and myoclonic jerks are the most common seizure types in self-induction. We report on a girl with normal intelligence who self-induced seizures by waving her outspread fingers in front of a bright light. This situation is called sunflower epilepsy.
Severe cardioinhibitory vasovagal syndrome is characterised by syncope accompanied by cardiac asystole which may lead clinically to seizure-like motor activity. Vasovagal syncope usually occurs in erect posture and is often provoked by emotional or physical triggers. We report two patients who presented with severe cardioinhibitory vasovagal syncope accompanied by cardiac asystole resulting in seizure-like motor manifestations in sleep and supine posture. Both cases were initially diagnosed as epilepsy and treated with antiepileptic drugs. We discuss the putative mechanisms of this rare condition and its potential for misdiagnosis as epilepsy.
Affective deficits are one common denominator of schizophrenia (SZ), bipolar disorder (BD) and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) with the amygdala indicated as one of the major structures involved in emotion regulation. Previous findings of differences in amygdala volume between healthy controls and patients with SZ, BD or OCD diverge with respect to the affected hemisphere, size and direction of the effect. Variability in the CACNA1C gene has been linked to BD, SZ as well as structural and functional variation in the amygdala in healthy people and patients with BD. We were interested to investigate whether amygdala volumes differ between hemispheres, diagnostic or genotype groups, and whether any interactive effects exist. We combined genotyping of SNP rs1006737 in CACNA1C with structural MRI measurements of relative gray matter (GM) amygdala volume in patients with SZ, BD or OCD as well as healthy controls (N Total=72). The CACNA1C genotype showed a significant effect on relative GM amygdala volume in patients with SZ. There was a significant left versus right relative GM amygdala volume decrease in patients with SZ or BD. The effects of hemisphere and diagnosis (controls vs. patients with SZ) on relative GM amygdala volume were genotype specific. Our data suggest that the CACNA1C genotype may account for some heterogeneity in the effects of hemisphere and diagnosis on amygdala volume when comparing patients with SZ and controls and point to disturbed Ca(2+)-signaling as a plausible mechanism contributing to the pathology in patients with SZ.







Because of its great genetic potential, the mouse (Mus musculus) has become a popular model species for studies on hearing and sound processing along the auditory pathways. Here, we present the first comparative study on the representation of neuronal response parameters to tones in primary and higher-order auditory cortical fields of awake mice. We quantified 12 neuronal properties of tone processing in order to estimate similarities and differences of function between the fields, and to discuss how far auditory cortex (AC) function in the mouse is comparable to that in awake monkeys and cats. Extracellular recordings were made from 1400 small clusters of neurons from cortical layers III/IV in the primary fields AI (primary auditory field) and AAF (anterior auditory field), and the higher-order fields AII (second auditory field) and DP (dorsoposterior field). Field specificity was shown with regard to spontaneous activity, correlation between spontaneous and evoked activity, tone response latency, sharpness of frequency tuning, temporal response patterns (occurrence of phasic responses, phasic-tonic responses, tonic responses, and off-responses), and degree of variation between the characteristic frequency (CF) and the best frequency (BF) (CF-BF relationship). Field similarities were noted as significant correlations between CFs and BFs, V-shaped frequency tuning curves, similar minimum response thresholds and non-monotonic rate-level functions in approximately two-thirds of the neurons. Comparative and quantitative analyses showed that the measured response characteristics were, to various degrees, susceptible to influences of anesthetics. Therefore, studies of neuronal responses in the awake AC are important in order to establish adequate relationships between neuronal data and auditory perception and acoustic response behavior.
Despite the significance of human touch, brain responses to interpersonal manual touch have been rarely investigated. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study brain activity in eight healthy adults whose left hand was touched by two individuals, in separate runs and in 20-s blocks, either by holding, smoothing, or poking. Acceleration was measured from both the subject's and the touching person's hands for postimaging control of the stimuli. Independent component analysis of the functional magnetic resonance imaging data unraveled three functional networks involving the primary somatosensory cortex (SI). One network comprised the contralateral and another the ipsilateral Brodmann area 3. The third network included area 2 bilaterally, left-hemisphere middle temporal gyrus and dorsolateral prefrontal regions, ventral prefrontal cortices bilaterally, and middle cingulate cortex. The response shapes and polarities varied between the three networks. The contralateral area 3 differentiated the responses between the three types of touch stimuli, and the response magnitudes depended on the variability of the touch within each block. However, the responses of the other two networks were strikingly similar to all stimuli. The subjects' reports on the pleasantness of the touch did not correlate with the characteristics of the SI responses. These findings imply area-specific processing of the natural human touch in three networks including the SI cortex, with only area 2 connected to a functional network of brain areas that may support social interaction.
Variation within mesolimbic dopamine (DA) pathways has significant implications for behavioral responses to rewards, and previous studies have indicated long-term programming effects of early life stress on these pathways. In the current study, we examined the impact of natural variations in maternal care in Long Evans rats on the development of DA pathways in female offspring and the consequences for reward-directed behaviors. We found that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in the ventral tegmental area was elevated by postnatal day 6 in response to maternal licking/grooming (LG), and that these effects were sustained into adulthood. Increased TH immunoreactivity was not found to be associated with altered epigenetic regulation or transcriptional activation of Th, but probably involved LG-associated changes in the differentiation of postnatal DA neurons through increased expression of Cdkn1c, and enhanced survival of DA projections through LG-associated increases in Lmx1b and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. At weaning, high-LG offspring had elevated DA receptor mRNA levels within the nucleus accumbens and increased conditioned place preference for a high-fat diet. In contrast, high-LG, as compared with low-LG, juvenile offspring had a reduced preference for social interactions with siblings, and haloperidol administration abolished group differences in conditioned place preference through a shift towards increased social preferences in high-LG offspring. The effects of maternal care on developing DA pathways and reward-directed behavior of female offspring that we have observed may play a critical role in the behavioral transmission of maternal LG from mother to daughter, and account for individual differences in the mesolimbic DA system.
In the primary visual cortex (V1), the spike synchronization seen in neuron pairs with non-overlapping receptive fields can be explained by similarities in their preferred orientation (PO). However, this is not true for pairs with overlapping receptive fields, as they can still exhibit spike synchronization even if their POs are only weakly correlated. Here, we investigated the relationship between spike synchronization and suppressive modulation derived from classical receptive-field surround (surround suppression). We found that layer 4 and layer 2/3 pairs exhibited mainly asymmetric spike synchronization that had non-zero time-lags and was dependent on both the similarity of the PO and the strength of surround suppression. In contrast, layer 2/3 and layer 2/3 pairs showed mainly symmetric spike synchronization that had zero time-lag and was dependent on the similarity of the strength of surround suppression but not on the similarity in POs. From these results, we propose that in cat V1 there exists a functional network that mainly depends on the similarity in surround suppression, and that in layer 2/3 neurons the network maintains surround suppression that is primarily inherited from layer 4 neurons.
Metabolic signals related to feeding and body temperature regulation have profound effects on vigilance. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is a key effector organ in the regulation of metabolism in several species, including rats and mice. Significant amounts of active BAT are also present throughout adulthood in humans. The metabolic activity of BAT is due to the tissue-specific presence of the uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1). To test the involvement of BAT thermogenesis in sleep regulation, we investigated the effects of two sleep-promoting stimuli in UCP-1-deficient mice. Sleep deprivation by gentle handling increased UCP-1 mRNA expression in BAT and elicited rebound increases in non-rapid-eye-movement sleep and rapid-eye-movement sleep accompanied by elevated slow-wave activity of the electroencephalogram. The rebound sleep increases were significantly attenuated, by ~ 35-45%, in UCP-1-knockout (KO) mice. Wild-type (WT) mice with capsaicin-induced sensory denervation of the interscapular BAT pads showed similar impairments in restorative sleep responses after sleep deprivation, suggesting a role of neuronal sleep-promoting signaling from the BAT. Exposure of WT mice to 35 C ambient temperature for 5 days led to increased sleep and body temperature and suppressed feeding and energy expenditure. Sleep increases in the warm environment were significantly suppressed, by ~ 50%, in UCP-1-KO animals while their food intake and energy expenditure did not differ from those of the WTs. These results suggest that the metabolic activity of the BAT plays a role in generating a metabolic environment that is permissive for optimal sleep. Impaired BAT function may be a common underlying cause of sleep insufficiency and metabolic disorders.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is a critical brain region for the rewarding effects of drugs of abuse. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) can facilitate stress- and drug-induced neuroadaptation in the mesocorticolimbic system. BDNF-containing projections to the NAc originate from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the prefrontal cortex, and BDNF release activates tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB). In this study, we examined the necessity for BDNF-TrkB signaling in the NAc shell during social defeat stress-induced cross-sensitization to amphetamine. Adeno-associated virus expressing short hairpin RNA directed against TrkB (AAV-shTrkB) was infused bilaterally into the NAc shell to knock down TrkB, whereas AAV-GFP (green fluorescent protein) was used as the control virus. Rats were exposed to intermittent social defeat stress or handling procedures; amphetamine challenge was given at 10 days after the last defeat and locomotor activity was measured. Stressed rats that received the control virus showed cross-sensitization to amphetamine compared with the handled rats. In contrast, NAc TrkB knockdown prevented social defeat stress-induced cross-sensitization. TrkB knockdown in the NAc was found to reduce the level of phospho-extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 in this region. NAc TrkB knockdown also prevented stress-induced elevation of BDNF and the glutamate receptor type 1 (GluA1) subunit of AMPA receptor in the VTA, as well as FosB expression in the NAc. These findings indicated that BDNF-TrkB signaling in the NAc shell was required for social defeat stress-induced cross-sensitization. NAc TrkB-BDNF signaling also appeared to be involved in the regulation of GluA1 in the VTA, as well as in the NAc FosB accumulation that could trigger cross-sensitization after social defeat stress.
Memory for odour information may result from temporal coupling between the olfactory and hippocampal systems. Respiration defines the frequency of olfactory perception, but how the respiratory rate affects hippocampal oscillations remains poorly understood. The afferent connectivity of the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca complex (MS/DB) proposes this region as a crossroads between respiratory and limbic pathways. Here we investigate if the firing rates of septal neurons integrate respiratory rate signals. We demonstrate that approximately 50% of MS/DB neurons are temporally correlated with sniffing frequency. Moreover, a group of slow-spiking septal neurons are phase-locked to the sniffing cycle. We show that inter-burst intervals of MS/DB theta cells relate to the sniff rate. Intranasal odour infusion evokes sniff phase preference for the activity of fast-spiking MS/DB neurons. Concurrently, the infusion augments the correlation between sniffing and limbic theta oscillations. During periods of sniffing-theta correlation, CA1 place cells fired preferentially during the inhalation phase, suggesting the theta cycle as a coherent time frame for central olfactory processing. Furthermore, injection of the GABAergic agonist muscimol into medial septum induces a parallel decrease of sniffing and theta frequencies. Our findings provide experimental evidence that MS/DB does not merely generate theta rhythm, but actively integrates sensorimotor stimuli that reflect sniffing rate. Such integration may provide temporal oscillatory synchronisation of MS/DB-innervated limbic structures with the sniffing cycle.
Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by mental retardation and impaired speech. Because patients with this disorder often exhibit motor tremor and stereotypical behaviors, which are associated with basal ganglia pathology, we hypothesized that AS is accompanied by abnormal functioning of the striatum, the input nucleus of the basal ganglia. Using mutant mice with maternal deficiency of AS E6-AP ubiquitin protein ligase Ube3a (Ube3a(m-/p+) ), we assessed the effects of Ube3a deficiency on instrumental conditioning, a striatum-dependent task. We used whole-cell patch-clamp recording to measure glutamatergic transmission in the dorsomedial striatum (DMS) and dorsolateral striatum (DLS). Ube3a(m-/p+) mice were severely impaired in initial acquisition of lever pressing. Whereas the lever pressing of wild-type controls was reduced by outcome devaluation and instrumental contingency reversal, the performance of Ube3a(m-/p+) mice were more habitual, impervious to changes in outcome value and action-outcome contingency. In the DMS, but not the DLS, Ube3a(m-/p+) mice showed reduced amplitude and frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. These results show for the first time a selective deficit in instrumental conditioning in the Ube3a deficient mouse model, and suggest a specific impairment in glutmatergic transmission in the associative corticostriatal circuit in AS.
MicroRNA (miRNA) are short sequences of RNA that function as post-transcriptional regulators by binding to target mRNA transcripts resulting in translational repression. A number of recent studies have identified miRNA as being involved in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. However, the role of miRNA in multiple system atrophy (MSA), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by oligodendroglial accumulation of alpha-synuclein remains unexamined. In this context, this study examined miRNA profiles in MSA cases compared with controls and in transgenic (tg) models of MSA compared with non-tg mice. The results demonstrate a widespread dysregulation of miRNA in MSA cases, which is recapitulated in the murine models. The study employed a cross-disease, cross-species approach to identify miRNA that were either specifically dysregulated in MSA or were commonly dysregulated in neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration or the tg mouse model equivalents of these disorders. Using this approach we identified a number of miRNA that were commonly dysregulated between disorders and those that were disease-specific. Moreover, we identified miR-96 as being up-regulated in MSA. Consistent with the up-regulation of miR-96, mRNA and protein levels of members of the solute carrier protein family SLC1A1 and SLC6A6, miR-96 target genes, were down-regulated in MSA cases and a tg model of MSA. These results suggest that miR-96 dysregulation may play a role in MSA and its target genes may be involved in the pathogenesis of MSA.
The ability to inhibit action tendencies is vital for adaptive human behaviour. Various paradigms are supposed to assess action inhibition and are often used interchangeably. However, these paradigms are based on different conceptualizations (action restraint vs. action cancellation) and the question arises as to what extent different conceptualizations of inhibitory processing are mirrored in a distinct neural activation pattern. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the neural correlates of action restraint vs. action cancellation. Analyses of local activity changes as well as network connectivity measures revealed a strong overlap of activation within a common action inhibition network including inferior frontal, pre-supplementary motor and thalamic brain areas as well as the anterior cingulate cortex. Furthermore, our findings pointed to additional neural networks that are distinct for action restraint (i.e. right superior frontal gyrus, left middle frontal gyrus, and bilateral anterior cingulate cortex) and action cancellation (i.e. right middle frontal gyrus, posterior cingulate cortex, and parietal regions). Our connectivity analyses showed that different inhibitory modalities largely relied on a task-independent global inhibition network within the brain. Furthermore, they suggested that the conceptually distinct inhibitory aspects of action restraint vs. action cancellation also activated additional specific brain regions in a task-dependent manner. This has implications for the choice of tasks in an empirical setting, but is also relevant for various clinical contexts in which inhibition deficits are considered a diagnostic feature.
Request and emblematic gestures, despite being both communicative gestures, do differ in terms of social valence. Indeed, only the former are used to initiate/maintain/terminate an actual interaction. If such a difference is at stake, a relevant social cue, i.e. eye contact, should have different impacts on the neuronal underpinnings of the two types of gesture. We measured blood oxygen level-dependent signals, using functional magnetic resonance imaging, while participants watched videos of an actor, either blindfolded or not, performing emblems, request gestures, or meaningless control movements. A left-lateralized network was more activated by both types of communicative gestures than by meaningless movements, regardless of the accessibility of the actor's eyes. Strikingly, when eye contact was taken into account as a factor, a right-lateralized network was more strongly activated by emblematic gestures performed by the non-blindfolded actor than by those performed by the blindfolded actor. Such modulation possibly reflects the integration of information conveyed by the eyes with the representation of emblems. Conversely, a wider right-lateralized network was more strongly activated by request gestures performed by the blindfolded than by those performed by the non-blindfolded actor. This probably reflects the effect of the conflict between the observed action and its associated contextual information, in which relevant social cues are missing.


On April 2013 experts in the field of autism from Italy and Israel convened in Jerusalem to discuss and finalize clinical recommendations for early diagnosis and intervention in Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs). In this paper, we summarize the results of this Italian-Israeli consensus conference. ASDs constitute a class of severe and heterogeneous neurodevelopmental conditions caused by atypical brain development beginning during early prenatal life, reflecting many genetic, neurobiological and environmental influences. The first clinical signs of ASDs begin to be evident in children between 12 and 18 months of age, often after a period of relatively typical postnatal development. Recent longitudinal studies reveal substantial diversity in developmental trajectories through childhood and adolescence. Some intervention approaches have been demonstrated to be effective in improving core symptoms of ASDs, even if the heterogeneity and developmental nature of the disorder make it implausible that only one specific treatment will be best for all children with ASDs. More randomized control trials (RCTs) on early intervention are needed to identify the most effective strategies and provide the most efficient allocation of resources during the critical early intervention time period. Future research should focus on linking biological phenotypes with specific genotypes, thus establishing a foundation for the development of diagnostic screening tools and individualization of treatments.

The effect of carotid artery stenting (CAS) and carotid endarterectomy (CEA) on cognitive function is unclear. Both cognitive improvement and decline have been reported after CAS and CEA. We aimed to compare the changes in postprocedural cognitive function after CAS versus CEA. A systematic qualitative review of the literature was conducted according to the recommendations of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis statement for studies evaluating the changes in cognitive function after CAS compared with CEA. Thirteen studies (403 CEAs; 368 CAS procedures) comparing the changes in cognitive function after CEA versus CAS were identified. Most studies did not show significant differences in overall cognitive function or only showed a difference in a single cognitive test between the two procedures. A definitive conclusion regarding the effect of CAS versus CEA on cognitive function was not possible owing to heterogeneity in definition, method, timing of assessment, and type of cognitive tests. For the same reasons, performing a meta-analysis was not feasible. The lack of standardization of specific cognitive tests and timing of assessment of cognitive function after CAS and CEA do not allow for definite conclusions to be drawn. Larger, adequately-powered and appropriately designed studies are required to accurately evaluate the effect of CAS versus CEA on postprocedural cognitive function.
Children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have smaller volumes of total brain matter and subcortical regions, but it is unclear whether these represent delayed maturation or persist into adulthood. We performed a structural MRI study in 119 adult ADHD patients and 107 controls and investigated total gray and white matter and volumes of accumbens, caudate, globus pallidus, putamen, thalamus, amygdala and hippocampus. Additionally, we investigated effects of gender, stimulant treatment and history of major depression (MDD). There was no main effect of ADHD on the volumetric measures, nor was any effect observed in a secondary voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analysis of the entire brain. However, in the volumetric analysis a significant gender by diagnosis interaction was found for caudate volume. Male patients showed reduced right caudate volume compared to male controls, and caudate volume correlated with hyperactive/impulsive symptoms. Furthermore, patients using stimulant treatment had a smaller right hippocampus volume compared to medication-nave patients and controls. ADHD patients with previous MDD showed smaller hippocampus volume compared to ADHD patients with no MDD. While these data were obtained in a cross-sectional sample and need to be replicated in a longitudinal study, the findings suggest that developmental brain differences in ADHD largely normalize in adulthood. Reduced caudate volume in male patients may point to distinct neurobiological deficits underlying ADHD in the two genders. Smaller hippocampus volume in ADHD patients with previous MDD is consistent with neurobiological alterations observed in MDD.
The prelimbic medial prefrontal cortex (PL) is an important encephalic structure involved in the expression of emotional states. In a previous study, intra-PL injection of cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychotomimetic cannabinoid present in the Cannabis sativa plant, reduced the expression of fear conditioning response. Although its mechanism remains unclear, CBD can facilitate 5HT1A receptor-mediated neurotransmission when injected into several brain structures. This study was aimed at verifying if intra-PL CBD could also induce anxiolytic-like effect in a conceptually distinct animal model, the elevated plus maze (EPM). We also verified if CBD effects in the EPM and contextual fear conditioning test (CFC) depend on 5HT1A receptors and previous stressful experience. CBD induced opposite effects in the CFC and EPM, being anxiolytic and anxiogenic, respectively. Both responses were prevented by WAY100,635, a 5HT1A receptor antagonist. In animals that had been previously (24h) submitted to a stressful event (2h-restraint) CBD caused an anxiolytic, rather than anxiogenic, effect in the EPM. This anxiolytic response was abolished by previous injection of metyrapone, a glucocorticoid synthesis blocker. Moreover, restraint stress increased 5HT1A receptors expression in the dorsal raphe nucleus, an effect that was attenuated by injection of metyrapone before the restraint procedure. Taken together, these results suggest that CBD modulation of anxiety in the PL depend on 5HT1A-mediated neurotransmission and previous stressful experience.
Methadone maintenance treatment is the most widely-used therapy in opioid dependence, but some patients relapse or drop out from treatment. We genotyped a genetic variant in the succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase enzyme gene, ALDH5A1, and found that subjects carrying the T variant allele have a higher risk to be nonresponders to methadone treatment (OR=3.16; 95% CI [1.48-6.73], P=0.0024). This could be due to a reduction in the ALDH5A1 enzyme activity, that would increase endogenous gamma-hydroxbutyric acid (GHB) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels and therefore, inducing symptoms such as sedation and impaired pschomotor performance. These neuropsychological effects related with the reduction in enzyme activity could be responsible for a higher propensity to relapse in these genetically predisposed patients.
Abuse of toluene-containing inhalants is common during adolescence, with ongoing chronic misuse associated with adverse outcomes and increased risk for addictive behaviours in adulthood. However, the mechanisms mediating the adaptive processes related to these outcomes are not well defined. To model human abuse patterns we exposed male adolescent Wistar rats (postnatal day 27) to chronic intermittent inhaled toluene (CIT, 10,000 ppm) or air (control) for 1h/day, three times/week for 3 weeks. The effects of CIT on behaviour and recovery were monitored. Locomotor activity was recorded following two consecutive injections of amphetamine (1mg/kg, i.p.) 72 and 96 h after the last exposure. This was followed with injection of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801 (0.5mg/kg, i.p.) 20 days after the last exposure. CIT resulted in a significant and persistent retardation in weight gain during the exposure period and abstinence (p&lt;0.05). Repeated exposure resulted in tolerance to the onset of toluene-induced behaviours and recovery latency. There was a reduction in the acute stimulant effects of amphetamine in CIT-exposed animals and an increase in the magnitude of locomotor activity (p&lt;0.0125) following a subsequent exposure when compared to the responses observed in controls; this was associated with altered locomotor responses to MK801. Repeated exposure to CIT during adolescence alters parameters of growth, as measured by body weight, and leads to tolerance, indicating that increasing concentrations of the compound may be needed to reach the same behavioural state. Toluene during this period also alters responses to a psychostimulant which may be related to long-term glutamatergic dysfunction.



Transforming growth factor 1 (TGF-1) is a multi-functional cytokine implicated in many aspects of mammalian wound healing and scar tissue formation. However, few experiments have so far addressed the potential biological effects of TGF-1 in the nervous system after injury, in addition to the immune system. In the present study, expressional silencing TGF-1 was achieved by selecting predesigning hairpins targeting mouse TGF-1 genes. Four homozygous transgenic offspring were generated and designed as Founder 90, Founder 12, Founder 41 and Founder 46. The down-regulated rates of TGF-1 in different transgenic mice were also determined. To investigate the potential roles of TGF-1, we observed changes in the neurological behavior of TGF-1-knockdown (TGF-1-kd) mice after spinal cord transection (SCT). Moreover, mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines, including IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, NF-B and TNF, were also detected in nucleate cells from blood by real-time PCR. Consequently, different TGF-1 expressions were detected in multiple tissues, and protein levels of TGF-1 decreased at different rates relative to that of wild type (WT) ones. The levels of TGF-1 proteins in TGF-1-kd mice decreased at most by 57% in Founder 90, which showed a significant recovery in Basso, Beattie, Bresnahan (BBB) scores after SCT compared with that of WT. However, expressions of immune relative genes showed no dramatic difference compared with WT ones. This study is the first to generate TGF-1 down regulated mice and determine the possible roles of TGF-1 in vivo in different conditions.
We report an experiment where participants observed an attack on their virtual body as experienced in an immersive virtual reality (IVR) system. Participants sat by a table with their right hand resting upon it. In IVR, they saw a virtual table that was registered with the real one, and they had a virtual body that substituted their real body seen from a first person perspective. The virtual right hand was collocated with their real right hand. Event-related brain potentials were recorded in two conditions, one where the participant's virtual hand was attacked with a knife and a control condition where the knife only struck the virtual table. Significantly greater P450 potentials were obtained in the attack condition confirming our expectations that participants had a strong illusion of the virtual hand being their own, which was also strongly supported by questionnaire responses. Higher levels of subjective virtual hand ownership correlated with larger P450 amplitudes. Mu-rhythm event-related desynchronization in the motor cortex and readiness potential (C3-C4) negativity were clearly observed when the virtual hand was threatened-as would be expected, if the real hand was threatened and the participant tried to avoid harm. Our results support the idea that event-related potentials may provide a promising non-subjective measure of virtual embodiment. They also support previous experiments on pain observation and are placed into context of similar experiments and studies of body perception and body ownership within cognitive neuroscience.
Stroke is one of the common causes of death and disability. Despite extensive efforts in stroke research, therapeutic options for improving the functional recovery remain limited in clinical practice. Experimental stroke models using genetically modified mice could aid in unraveling the complex pathophysiology triggered by ischemic brain injury. Here, we optimized the procedure for generating mouse stroke model using an intraluminal suture in the middle cerebral artery and verified the blockage of blood flow using indocyanine green coupled with near infra-red radiation. The first week after the ischemic injury was critical for survivability. The survival rate of 11% in mice without any treatment but increased to 60% on administering prophylactic antibiotics. During this period, mice showed severe functional impairment but recovered spontaneously starting from the second week onward. Among the various behavioral tests, the pole tests and neurological severity score tests remained reliable up to 4 weeks after ischemia, whereas the rotarod and corner tests became less sensitive for assessing the severity of ischemic injury with time. Further, loss of body weight was also observed for up 4 weeks after ischemia induction. In conclusion, we have developed an improved approach which allows us to investigate the role of the cell death-related genes in the disease progression using genetically modified mice and to evaluate the modes of action of candidate drugs.


Osmoregulation in mammals is tightly controlled by the release of vasopressin and oxytocin from magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MSC) of the supraoptic nucleus (SON). The release of vasopressin and oxytocin in the neurohypophysis by axons of MSC is regulated by bursting activity of these neurons, which is influenced by multiple sources, including intrinsic membrane properties, paracrine contributions of glial cells, and extrinsic synaptic inputs. Previous work has shown that bursting activity of MSC is tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive, and that TTX-S sodium channels Nav1.2, Nav1.6 and Nav1.7 are expressed by MSC and upregulated in response to osmotic challenge in rats. The TTX-resistant sodium channels, NaV1.8 and Nav1.9, are preferentially expressed, at relatively high levels, in peripheral neurons, where their properties are linked to repetitive firing and subthreshold electrogenesis, respectively, and are often referred to as &quot;peripheral&quot; sodium channels. Both sodium channels have been implicated in pain pathways, and are under study as potential therapeutic targets for pain medications which might be expected to have minimal CNS side effects. We show here, however, that Nav1.9 is expressed by vasopressin- and oxytocin-producing MSC of the rat supraoptic nucleus (SON). We also show that cultured MSC exhibit sodium currents that have characteristics of Nav1.9 channels. In contrast, Nav1.8 is not detectable in the SON. These results suggest that Nav1.9 may contribute to the firing pattern of MSC of the SON, and that careful assessment of hypothalamic function be performed as NaV1.9 blocking agents are studied as potential pain therapies.
Astrocytes react to CNS injury by building a dense wall of filamentous processes around the lesion. Stromal cells quickly take up residence in the lesion core and synthesize connective tissue elements that contribute to fibrosis. Oligodendrocyte precursor cells proliferate within the lesion and entrap dystrophic axon tips. Here we review evidence that this aggregate scar acts as the major barrier to regeneration of axons after injury. We also consider several exciting new interventions that allow axons to regenerate beyond the glial scar, and discuss the implications of this work for the future of regeneration biology.
Long-term therapy with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), still the most effective treatment in Parkinson's disease (PD), is associated with severe motor complications such as dyskinesia. Experimental and clinical data have indicated that adenosine A2A receptor antagonists can provide symptomatic improvement by potentiating L-DOPA efficacy and minimizing its side effects. It is known that the G-protein-coupled adenosine A2A, cannabinoid CB1 and dopamine D2 receptors may interact and form functional A2A-CB1-D2 receptor heteromers in co-transfected cells as well as in rat striatum. These data suggest that treatment with a combination of drugs or a single compound selectively acting on A2A-CB1-D2 heteromers may represent an alternative therapeutic treatment of PD. We investigated the expression of A2A-CB1-D2 receptor heteromers in the striatum of both nave and hemiparkinsonian rats (HPD-rats) bearing a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion, and assessed how receptor heteromer expression and biochemical properties were affected by L-DOPA treatment. Radioligand binding data showed that A2A-CB1-D2 receptor heteromers are present in the striatum of both nave and HPD-rats. However, behavioral results indicated that the combined administration of A2A (MSX-3 or SCH58261) and CB1 (rimonabant) receptor antagonists, in the presence of L-DOPA does not produce a response different from administration of the A2A receptor antagonist alone. These behavioral results prompted identification of heteromers in L-DOPA-treated animals. Interestingly, the radioligand binding results in samples from lesioned animals suggest that the heteromer is lost following acute or chronic treatment with L-DOPA.
Bortezomib (BTZ), a proteasome inhibitor, is an effective anti-neoplastic drug used in the treatment of multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. However, it can induce a reversible peripheral neuropathy that may lead to treatment discontinuation. The mechanism through which BTZ exerts toxic effects in peripheral neurons is not clear. Release of proinflammatory cytokines after nerve damage can induce neurodegeneration, but the effects of BTZ on cytokine expression in neurons are unknown, although BTZ modulates the expression of cytokines, such as TNF- and IL-6, in tumor cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression and the role of these cytokines on the course of BTZ induced neuropathy in mice. IL-6, TNF-, TGF-1 and IL-1 were up-regulated in dorsal root ganglia but TNF- and IL-6 increased faster and higher. Then, we studied the potential neuroprotective effect of selective antibodies anti-TNF- and anti-IL-6 on the evolution of the neuropathy. Treatment with anti-TNF- but not with anti-IL-6 significantly prevented the decrease of sensory nerve action potentials amplitude and the loss of myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. We conclude that monoclonal antibodies directed against TNF- may be a suitable neuroprotective therapy against the neurotoxicity induced by BTZ.
Previous work implicated the complement system in adult neurogenesis as well as elimination of synapses in the developing and injured CNS. In the present study, we used mice lacking the third complement component (C3) to elucidate the role the complement system plays in hippocampus-dependent learning and synaptic function. We found that the constitutive absence of C3 is associated with enhanced place and reversal learning in adult mice. Our findings of lower release probability at CA3-CA1 glutamatergic synapses in combination with unaltered overall efficacy of these synapses in C3 deficient mice implicate C3 as a negative regulator of the number of functional glutamatergic synapses in the hippocampus. The C3 deficient mice showed no signs of spontaneous epileptiform activity in the hippocampus. We conclude that C3 plays a role in the regulation of the number and function of glutamatergic synapses in the hippocampus and exerts negative effects on hippocampus-dependent cognitive performance.
Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is a debilitating and dose-limiting side effect of treatment with the chemotherapeutic agent, paclitaxel. Understanding the effects of paclitaxel on sensory neuronal function and the signaling pathways which mediate these paclitaxel-induced changes in function are critical for the development of therapies to prevent or alleviate the PN. The effects of long-term administration of paclitaxel on the function of sensory neurons grown in culture, using the release of the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) as an endpoint of sensory neuronal function, were examined. Dorsal root ganglion cultures were treated with low (10 nM) and high (300 nM) concentrations of paclitaxel for 1, 3, or 5 days. Following paclitaxel treatment, the release of CGRP was determined using capsaicin, a TRPV1 agonist; allyl isothiocyanate (AITC), a TRPA1 agonist; or high extracellular potassium. The effects of paclitaxel on the release of CGRP were stimulant-, concentration-, and time-dependent. When neurons were stimulated with capsaicin or AITC, a low concentration of paclitaxel (10nM) augmented transmitter release, whereas a high concentration (300 nM) reduced transmitter release in a time-dependent manner; however, when high extracellular potassium was used as the evoking stimulus, all concentrations of paclitaxel augmented CGRP release from sensory neurons. These results suggest that paclitaxel alters the function of sensory neurons in vitro, and suggest that the mechanisms by which paclitaxel alters neuronal function may include functional changes in TRP channel activity. The described in vitro model will facilitate future studies to identify the signaling pathways by which paclitaxel alters neuronal sensitivity.
There is unequivocal electrophysiological evidence that spreading depression (SD) can trigger epileptiform field potentials. In vitro experiments on human brain tissues indicated that -aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibition prevented this process. Intra- and extracellular recordings of bioelectrical activities were performed in the rodent neocortex, hippocampus and amygdala after perfusion of low concentrations of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline and induction of SD by KCl application. Induction of SD in combined amygdala-hippocampus-cortex slices pre-treated with low concentration of bicuculline triggered epileptiform burst discharges in cortical as well as subcortical brain structures. Propagation of SD significantly depolarized the membrane, decreased the amplitude and duration of action potentials (APs) and after-hyperpolarization as well as the neuronal membrane input resistance and the amplitude of threshold potentials. Ten to twenty minutes after induction of SD, the pattern of APs changed from regular firing to a series of APs riding on an underlying paroxysmal depolarization shift before the appearance of typical ictaform activities. Changes of characteristic features of APs occurred after SD persisted during the appearance of epileptiform activities. These results indicate that SD increases neuronal excitability and facilitates synchronization of neuronal discharges in the presence of partial disinhibition of neuronal tissues. Our findings might explain the occurrence of seizures in neurological disorders with partial impairment of inhibitory tone, such as brain ischemia and epilepsy.
Ischemia-induced progenitor cell proliferation is a prominent example of the adult mammalian brain's ability to regenerate injured tissue resulting from pathophysiological processes. In order to better understand and exploit the cell signaling mechanisms that regulate ischemia-induced proliferation, we examined the role of the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade effector ribosomal S6 kinase (RSK) in this process. Here, using the endothelin-1 ischemia model in wild type mice, we show that the activated form of RSK is expressed in the progenitor cells of the subgranular zone (SGZ) after intrahippocampal cerebral ischemia. Further, RSK inhibition significantly reduces ischemia-induced SGZ progenitor cell proliferation. Using the neurosphere assay, we also show that both SGZ- and subventricular zone (SVZ)-derived adult neural stem cells (NSC) exhibit a significant reduction in proliferation in the presence of RSK and MAPK inhibitors. Taken together, these data reveal RSK as a regulator of ischemia-induced progenitor cell proliferation, and as such, suggest potential therapeutic value may be gained by specifically targeting the regulation of RSK in the progenitor cell population of the SGZ.



Both active and passive anti--amyloid (A) immunotherapies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have demonstrated clearance of brain A deposits. Among passive immunotherapeutics, two Phase III clinical trials in mild-to-moderate AD patients with bapineuzumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody directed at the N-terminal sequence of A, were disappointing. Also solanezumab, directed at the mid-region of A, failed in two Phase III trials in mild-to-moderate AD. Another Phase III trial with solanezumab is ongoing in mildly affected AD patients based on encouraging results in this subgroup. Second-generation active A vaccines (CAD106, ACC-001, and Affitope AD02) and new passive anti-A immunotherapies (gantenerumab and crenezumab) have been developed and are under clinical testing. These new anti-A immunotherapies are being tested in prodromal AD, in presymptomatic subjects with AD-related mutations, or in asymptomatic subjects at risk of developing AD. These primary and secondary prevention trials will definitely test the A cascade hypothesis of AD.
In this paper, we discuss robot-mediated neurorehabilitation as a significant emerging field in clinical medicine. Stroke rehabilitation is advancing toward more integrated processes, using robotics to facilitate this integration. Rehabilitation approaches have tremendous value in reducing long-term impairments in stroke patients during hospitalization and after discharge, of which robotic systems are a new modality that can provide more effective rehabilitation. The function of robotics in rehabilitative interventions has been examined extensively, generating positive yet not completely satisfactory clinical results. This article presents state-of-the-art robotic systems and their prospective function in poststroke rehabilitation of the upper and lower limbs.

Recent research is providing family therapists with new information about the complex interaction between an individual's biological makeup and his/her social and physical environment. Family and social relationships, particularly during sensitive periods early in life, can affect a child's biological foundation. Additionally, stress during the early years can have a lasting effect on an individual's physical and mental health and contribute to the onset of severe mental illness. Community programs have been developed to intervene early with families who have an at-risk child to prevent or minimize the onset of mental illness including providing partnerships with at-risk mothers of infants to shape attachment relationships. Programs are also developing individual and family interventions to prevent the onset of psychosis. Practicing family therapists can incorporate emerging neuroscience and early intervention research and leverage the growing base of community programs to enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of mental health outcomes for clients. Additionally, family therapy education programs should broaden student training to incorporate the growing body of information about how family relationships affect individual mental health development.
Research has documented the deleterious effects on caregivers of providing care for an individual with traumatic brain injury (TBI). TBI caregivers in Mexico specifically have reduced health-related quality of life (HRQOL) across both physical and mental health domains. The purpose of the current study was to uncover the system of connections between Mexican TBI caregivers' HRQOL and their mental health. A cross-sectional survey was conducted at a public medical facility in Guadalajara, Mxico. Ninety family caregivers of individuals with TBI completed measures of HRQOL, satisfaction with life, depression, and burden. A canonical correlation analysis revealed that the better the caregivers' HRQOL, the better their mental health was, with the effect reaching a large-sized effect. A distinct pattern emerged linking caregivers' higher energy levels and better social functioning to lower depression and greater satisfaction with life. A series of multiple regressions similarly uncovered that the most robust independent HRQOL predictors of caregiver mental health were vitality and social functioning. Especially for TBI caregivers with poor health, behavioral health interventions in Latin America that target the HRQOL domains of social functioning and vitality may significantly improve caregiver mental health, and as a result, informal care for TBI.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is generally characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons projecting from the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) to the striatum that results in movement dysfunction, but also entails mitochondrial dysfunction. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the protective effects of Moutan Cortex Radicis (MCE, Moutan peony) on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD-like symptoms and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of action, with a focus on mitochondrial function. In a rat primary mesencephalic culture system, MCE significantly protected dopaminergic neurons from the neurotoxic effects of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), an active form of MPTP. Additionally, in a subacute mouse model of MPTP-induced PD, MCE resulted in enhanced recovery from PD-like motor symptoms, including increased locomotor activity and reduced bradykinesia. MCE increased dopamine availability and protected against MPTP-induced dopaminergic neuronal damage. Moreover, MCE inhibited MPTP-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and resulted in increased expression of phosphorylated Akt, ND9, mitochondrial transcription factor A, and H2AX in the SNpc. Mitochondria-mediated apoptosis was also inhibited, via the regulation of B-cell lymphoma family proteins and the inhibition of cytochrome C release and caspase-3 activation. These results indicate that MCE has neuroprotective effects in PD models and may be useful for preventing or treating PD.
Anthropometric measurements (e.g. the height to the head, nose tip, eyes or shoulders) of a perpetrator based on video material may be used in criminal cases. However, several height measurements may be difficult to assess as the perpetrators may be disguised by clothes or headwear. The eye height (EH) measurement, on the other hand, is less prone to concealment. The purpose of the present study was to investigate: (1) how the eye height varies during the gait cycle, and (2) how the eye height changes with head position. The eyes were plotted manually in APAS for 16 test subjects during a complete gait cycle. The influence of head tilt on the EH was investigated in 20 healthy men. Markers were attached to the face and the subjects were instructed to stand relaxed, tilt their head to the right, to the left, forward and backward. The marker data for the right eye were used to calculate the EH. The respective deviation and SD from the relaxed standing EH and the EH in the Frankfurt plane, left tilted, right tilted, forward tilted and backward tilted, in addition to the corresponding head tilt angles were calculated. There was no correlation between the height of the subject and the maximum vertical displacement of the EH throughout the gait cycle nor between height of the subjects and the variation of the EH throughout the gait cycle. The average maximum vertical displacement for the test subject group was 4.76 cm ( 1.56 cm). The average EH was lower when the subjects were standing in the relaxed position than in the Frankfurt plane. The average EH was higher in the relaxed position than when the subjects tilted their heads, except when they tilted their heads backwards. The subjects had a slightly larger range of motion to the right than to the left, which was not significant. The results of this study provide a range for eye height estimates and may be readily implemented in forensic case work. It can be used as a reference in height estimates in cases with height measurements based on time of the gait cycle and based on the degree of head tilt from video material. Our data also provide descriptive statistics which may be helpful when comparing eye height measurements of a perpetrator with one or more suspects.
PINK1 mutations cause autosomal recessive forms of Parkinson disease (PD). Previous studies suggest that the neuroprotective function of wild-type (WT) PINK1 is related to mitochondrial homeostasis. PINK1 can also localize to the cytosol; however, the cytosolic function of PINK1 has not been fully elucidated. In this study we demonstrate that the extramitochondrial PINK1 can regulate tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression and dopamine (DA) content in dopaminergic neurons in a PINK1 kinase activity-dependent manner. We demonstrate that overexpression of full-length (FL) WT PINK1 can downregulate TH expression and DA content in dopaminergic neurons. In contrast, overexpression of PD-linked G309D, A339T, and E231G PINK1 mutations upregulates TH and DA levels in dopaminergic neurons and increases their vulnerability to oxidative stress. Furthermore transfection of FL WT PINK1 or PINK1 fragments with the PINK1 kinase domain can inhibit TH expression, whereas kinase-dead (KD) FL PINK1 or KD PINK1 fragments upregulate TH level. Our findings highlight a potential novel function of extramitochondrial PINK1 in dopaminergic neurons. Deregulation of these functions of PINK1 may contribute to PINK1 mutation-induced dopaminergic neuron degeneration. However, deleterious effects caused by PINK1 mutations may be alleviated by iron-chelating agents and antioxidant agents with DA quinone-conjugating capacity.
The detailed mechanisms of prion-induced neurotoxicity are largely unknown. Here, we have studied the role of DNA damage caused by reactive oxygen species in a mouse scrapie model by characterizing prion disease in the ogg1(-/-)mutyh(-/-) double knockout, which is compromised in oxidative DNA base excision repair. Ogg1 initiates removal of the major oxidation product 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) in DNA, and Mutyh initiates removal of adenine that has been misincorporated opposite 8-oxoG. Our data show that the onset of clinical signs appeared unaffected by Mutyh and Ogg1 expression. However, the ogg1(-/-)mutyh(-/-) mice displayed a significantly shorter clinical phase of the disease. Thus, accumulation of oxidative DNA damage might be of particular importance in the terminal clinical phase of prion disease. The prion-induced pathology and lesion profile were similar between knockout mice and controls. The fragmentation pattern of protease-resistant PrP as revealed in Western blots was also identical between the groups. Our data show that the fundamentals of prion propagation and pathological manifestation are not influenced by the oxidative DNA damage repair mechanisms studied here, but that progressive accumulation of oxidative lesions may accelerate the final toxic phase of prion disease.
Loss-of-function mutations in the KRIT1 gene (CCM1) have been associated with the pathogenesis of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM), a major cerebrovascular disease. However, KRIT1 functions and CCM pathogenetic mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Indeed, recent experiments in animal models have clearly demonstrated that the homozygous loss of KRIT1 is not sufficient to induce CCM lesions, suggesting that additional factors are necessary to cause CCM disease. Previously, we found that KRIT1 is involved in the maintenance of the intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis to prevent ROS-induced cellular dysfunctions, including a reduced ability to maintain a quiescent state. Here, we show that KRIT1 loss of function leads to enhanced expression and phosphorylation of the redox-sensitive transcription factor c-Jun, as well as induction of its downstream target COX-2, in both cellular models and human CCM tissues. Furthermore, we demonstrate that c-Jun upregulation can be reversed by either KRIT1 re-expression or ROS scavenging, whereas KRIT1 overexpression prevents forced upregulation of c-Jun induced by oxidative stimuli. Taken together with the reported role of c-Jun in vascular dysfunctions triggered by oxidative stress, our findings shed new light on the molecular mechanisms underlying KRIT1 function and CCM pathogenesis.




There is growing evidence that leptin is able to ameliorate Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like pathologies, including brain amyloid- (A) burden. In order to improve the therapeutic potential for AD, we generated a lentivirus vector expressing leptin protein in a self-inactivating HIV-1 vector (HIV-leptin), and delivered this by intra-cerebroventricular administration to APP/PS1 transgenic model of AD. Three months after intra-cerebroventricular administration of HIV-leptin, brain A accumulation was reduced. By electron microscopy, we found that APP/PS1 mice exhibited deficits in synaptic density, which were partially rescued by HIV-leptin treatment. Synaptic deficits in APP/PS1 mice correlated with an enhancement of caspase-3 expression, and a reduction in synaptophysin levels in synaptosome preparations. Notably, HIV-leptin therapy reverted these dysfunctions. Moreover, leptin modulated neurite outgrowth in primary neuronal cultures, and rescued them from A42-induced toxicity. All the above changes suggest that leptin may affect multiple aspects of the synaptic status, and correlate with behavioral improvements. Our data suggest that leptin gene delivery has a therapeutic potential for A-targeted treatment of mouse model of AD.
Adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors based on serotype 5 are an efficient means to target dorsal root ganglia (DRG) to study gene function in the primary sensory neurons of the peripheral nervous system. In this study, we have developed a compact AAV dual promoter vector composed of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) and chicken beta-actin (CAG) promoters in a back-to-back configuration with a shared enhancer, and show efficient expression of two proteins simultaneously in DRG neurons. We demonstrate how this is useful for experiments on axonal regeneration, by co-expressing a gene of interest and an axonal marker. Using a farnesylated form of eGFP, which is actively transported along axons, we show superior long-distance labelling of axons of DRG neurons compared with normal eGFP. Additionally, we have efficiently transduced lumbar DRG neurons by injecting the AAV dual promoter vector into the dorsal intrathecal space, which is a less invasive delivery method. In summary, we have developed an AAV dual promoter vector designed for simultaneous expression of a gene of interest and a fluorescent protein to label long-distance axonal projections, which allows specific quantification of axons from transduced neurons after injury.
Migraine headaches are a common comorbidity in Rolandic epilepsy (RE) and familial aggregation of migraine in RE families suggests a genetic basis not mediated by seizures. We performed a genome-wide linkage analysis of the migraine phenotype in 38 families with RE to localize potential genetic contribution, with a follow-up in an additional 21 families at linked loci. We used two-point and multipoint LOD (logarithm of the odds) score methods for linkage, maximized over genetic models. We found evidence of linkage to migraine at chromosome 17q12-22 [multipoint HLOD (heterogeneity LOD) 4.40, recessive, 99% penetrance], replicated in the second dataset (HLOD 2.61), and suggestive evidence at 1q23.1-23.2, centering over the FHM2 locus (two-point LOD 3.00 and MP HLOD 2.52). Sanger sequencing in 14 migraine-affected individuals found no coding mutations in the FHM2 gene ATP1A2. There was no evidence of pleiotropy for migraine and either reading or speech disorder, or the electroencephalographic endophenotype of RE when the affected definition was redefined as those with migraine or the comorbid phenotype, and pedigrees were reanalyzed for linkage. In summary, we report a novel migraine susceptibility locus at 17q12-22, and a second locus that may contribute to migraine in the general population at 1q23.1-23.2. Comorbid migraine in RE appears genetically influenced, but we did not obtain evidence that the identified susceptibility loci are consistent with pleiotropic effects on other comorbidities in RE. Loci identified here should be fine-mapped in individuals from RE families with migraine, and prioritized for analysis in other types of epilepsy-associated migraine.
Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) perform per-SNP association tests to identify variants involved in disease or trait susceptibility. However, such an approach is not powerful enough to unravel genes that are not individually contributing to the disease/trait, but that may have a role in interaction with other genes as a group. Pathway analysis is an alternative way to highlight such group of genes. Using SNP association P-values from eight multiple sclerosis (MS) GWAS data sets, we performed a candidate pathway analysis for MS susceptibility by considering genes interacting in the cell adhesion molecule (CAMs) biological pathway using Cytoscape software. This network is a strong candidate, as it is involved in the crossing of the blood-brain barrier by the T cells, an early event in MS pathophysiology, and is used as an efficient therapeutic target. We drew up a list of 76 genes belonging to the CAM network. We highlighted 64 networks enriched with CAM genes with low P-values. Filtering by a percentage of CAM genes up to 50% and rejecting enriched signals mainly driven by transcription factors, we highlighted five networks associated with MS susceptibility. One of them, constituted of ITGAL, ICAM1 and ICAM3 genes, could be of interest to develop novel therapeutic targets.
Melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) has a major role in energy homeostasis. The rs17782313 polymorphism, mapped 188kb downstream from MC4R, has been associated with satiety, higher body mass index (BMI) and total calorie intake in adults. To assess the association of rs17782313 with gastric functions, satiation, or satiety, we studied 178 predominantly Caucasian overweight and obese people: 120 females, 58 males; mean BMI 33.45.3kg/m(2) (SD); age 37.711.2years. Quantitative traits assessed were gastric emptying (GE) of solids and liquids; fasting and postprandial gastric volume; satiation by maximum tolerated volume and 4 symptoms by 100-mm visual analog scales (VAS); and satiety by ad libitum buffet meal. Associations of genotype and quantitative traits were assessed by analysis of covariance (using gender and BMI as covariates), based on a dominant [TC (n=72)-CC (n=12) vs. TT (n=94)] genetic model. rs17782313(C) was associated with postprandial satiation symptoms (median  total VAS 26.5mm, p=0.036), reduced proportion of solid GE at 2h (median  6.7%, p=0.008) and 4h (median  3.2%, p=0.006), and longer t  (median  6min, p=0.034). Associations of rs17782313 with obesity may be explained by reduced satiation and GE. The role of MC4R mechanisms in satiation and gastric function deserves further study.
The fifth version of the Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (DSM -5) was released in May 2013 after 14 years of development. Originally announced as an integrative version of the latest data in neuroscience, this manual should be more based on pathophysiology than the previous versions. Mixed dimensional and categorical mental disorder approach would also take the place of categorical approach which was considered obsolete. Before its release, the DSM-5 proposed revision has been criticized from many psychiatrists across the world. Some felt that paradigm change towards a dimensional approach turned out to be too complex and inadapted for practice. Others pointed out that DSM-5 tended to turn any behavior that deviates from normality into psychiatric diagnoses and thus make everybody ill. Previous DSM versions had left little space for elderly psychiatry. Indeed, few topics took into account clinical characteristics of mental disorders in the elderly. This review provides an overview of the changes in the DSM-in the field of old age psychiatry. We try to identify the DSM-5 key points for clinical practice and elderly psychiatric care. Various past and recent controversies that have been issued on this new DSM version will also be discussed.

The origin of -synuclein (-syn)-positive glial cytoplasmic inclusions found in oligodendrocytes in multiple system atrophy (MSA) is enigmatic, given the fact that oligodendrocytes do not express -syn mRNA. Recently, neuron-to-neuron transfer of -syn was suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. In this study, we explored whether a similar transfer of -syn might occur from neurons to oligodendrocytes, which conceivably could explain how glial cytoplasmic inclusions are formed. We studied oligodendrocytes in vitro and in vivo and examined their ability to take up different -syn assemblies. First, we treated oligodendrocytes with monomeric, oligomeric, and fibrillar forms of -syn proteins and investigated whether -syn uptake is dynamin-dependent. Second, we injected the same -syn species into the mouse cortex to assess their uptake in vivo. Finally, we monitored the presence of human -syn within rat oligodendroglial cells grafted in the striatum of hosts displaying Adeno-Associated Virus-mediated overexpression of human -syn in the nigro-striatal pathway. Here, we show that oligodendrocytes take up recombinant -syn monomers, oligomers and, to a lesser extent, fibrils in vitro in a concentration and time-dependent manner, and that this process is inhibited by dynasore. Further, we demonstrate in our injection model that oligodendrocytes also internalize -syn in vivo. Finally, we provide the first direct evidence that -syn can transfer to grafted oligodendroglial cells from host rat brain neurons overexpressing human -syn. Our findings support the hypothesis of a neuron-to-oligodendrocyte transfer of -syn, a mechanism that may play a crucial role in the progression and pathogenesis of MSA.
Astrocytes respond to insult with a process of cellular activation known as reactive astrogliosis. One of the key signals regulating this phenomenon is the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B), which is responsible for modulating inflammation, cell survival, and cell death. In astrocytes, following trauma or disease, the expression of NF-B-dependent genes is highly activated. We previously demonstrated that inactivation of astroglial NF-B in vivo (GFAP-IB-dn mice) leads to improved functional outcome in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), and this is accompanied by reduction of pro-inflammatory gene expression in the CNS. Here we extend our studies to show that recovery from EAE in GFAP-IB-dn mice is associated with reduction of peripheral immune cell infiltration into the CNS at the chronic phase of EAE. This is not dependent on a less permeable blood-brain barrier, but rather on a reduced immune cell mobilization from the periphery. Furthermore, once inside the CNS, the ability of T cells to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines is diminished during acute disease. In parallel, we found that the number of total and activated microglial cells is reduced, suggesting that functional improvement in GFAP-IB-dn mice is dependent upon reduction of the overall inflammatory response within the CNS sustained by both resident and infiltrating cells. This results in preservation of myelin compaction and enhanced remyelination, as shown by electron microscopy analysis of the spinal cord. Collectively our data indicate that astrocytes are key players in driving CNS inflammation and are directly implicated in the pathophysiology of EAE, since blocking their pro-inflammatory capability results in protection from the disease.

Nowadays, unwanted pregnancy is a major globe tragedy for millions of women, associated with significant direct and indirect costs, no matter for individuals or society. The progesterone receptor antagonist steroid, mifepristone has been widely and effectively using throughout the world for medical abortion, but to a lesser extent for emergency contraception. In this review, we hope to explore the role of mifepristone as a contraceptive, particularly for emergency contraception. Studies of mifepristone have also been expanding to the fields of endometriosis and uterine fibroids. Furthermore, this initially considered reproductive medicine has been investigated in some psychotic diseases and various disorders of hypercortisolism, because of its glucocorticoid receptor antagonism. Mifepristone was approved suitable for patients with hyperglycemia secondary to Cushing's syndrome by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2012. The aim of this article is to review published reports on the anti-progesterone and anti-glucocorticoid properties of mifepristone as a clinical agent. There is a new insight into systematically describing and evaluating the potential efficiency of mifepristone administrated in the field of endocrine and neuroendocrine, not only in obstetrics and gynecology.
As imaging technologies help us understand the structure and function of the brain, providing insight into human capabilities as basic as vision and as complex as memory, and human conditions as impairing as depression and as fraught as psychopathy, some have asked whether they can also help us understand human agency. Specifically, could neuroimaging lead us to reassess the socially significant practice of assigning and taking responsibility? While responsibility itself is not a psychological process open to investigation through neuroimaging, decision-making is. Over the past decade, different researchers and scholars have sought to use neuroimaging (or the results of neuroimaging studies) to investigate what is going on in the brain when we make decisions. The results of this research raise the question whether neuroscience-especially now that it includes neuroimaging-can and should alter our understandings of responsibility and our related practice of holding people responsible. It is this question that we investigate here.
Advances in neuroscience have revolutionized our understanding of the central nervous system. Neuroimaging technologies, in particular, have begun to reveal the complex anatomical, physiological, biochemical, genetic, and molecular organizational structure of the organ at the center of that system: the human brain. More recently, neuroimaging technologies have enabled the investigation of normal brain function and are being used to gain important new insights into the mechanisms behind many neuropsychiatric disorders. This research has implications for psychiatric diagnosis, treatment, and risk assessment. However, with some exceptions, neuroimaging is still a research tool-not ready for use in clinical psychiatry.
Since the mid-1980s, psychologists and neuroscientists have used brain imaging to test hypotheses about human thought processes and their neural instantiation. In just three decades, functional neuroimaging has been transformed from a crude clinical tool to a widely used research method for understanding the human brain and mind. Such rapidly achieved success is bound to evoke skepticism. A degree of skepticism toward new methods and ideas is both inevitable and useful in any field. It is especially valuable in a science as young as cognitive neuroscience and its even younger siblings, social and affective neuroscience. Healthy skepticism encourages us to check our assumptions, recognize the limitations of our methods, and proceed thoughtfully. Skepticism itself, however, also must be examined. In this article, I review the most commonly voiced criticisms of functional neuroimaging. In the spirit of healthy skepticism, I will critically examine these criticisms themselves. Each contains at least a kernel of truth, although I will argue that in some cases the kernel has been over extended in ways that are inaccurate or misleading.


In noisy listening conditions, intelligibility of degraded speech can be enhanced by top-down restoration. Cochlear implant (CI) users have difficulty understanding speech in noisy environments. This could partially be due to reduced top-down restoration of speech, which may be related to the changes that the electrical stimulation imposes on the bottom-up cues. We tested this hypothesis using the phonemic restoration (PhR) paradigm in which speech interrupted with periodic silent intervals is perceived illusorily continuous (continuity illusion or CoI) and becomes more intelligible (PhR benefit) when the interruptions are filled with noise bursts. Using meaningful sentences, both CoI and PhR benefit were measured in CI users, and compared with those of normal-hearing (NH) listeners presented with normal speech and 8-channel noise-band vocoded speech, acoustically simulating CIs. CI users showed different patterns in both PhR benefit and CoI, compared to NH results with or without the noise-band vocoding. However, they were able to use top-down restoration under certain test conditions. This observation supports the idea that changes in bottom-up cues can impose changes to the top-down processes needed to enhance intelligibility of degraded speech. The knowledge that CI users seem to be able to do restoration under the right circumstances could be exploited in patient rehabilitation and product development.
Mutations in the connexin 26 gene (GJB2) are the most common genetic cause of deafness, leading to congenital bilateral non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Here we report the generation of a mouse model for a connexin 26 (Cx26) mutation, in which cre-Sox10 drives excision of the Cx26 gene from non-sensory cells flanking the auditory epithelium. We determined that these conditional knockout mice, designated Gjb2-CKO, have a severe hearing loss. Immunocytochemistry of the auditory epithelium confirmed absence of Cx26 in the non-sensory cells. Histology of the organ of Corti and the spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) performed at ages 1, 3, or 6 months revealed that in Gjb2-CKO mice, the organ of Corti began to degenerate in the basal cochlear turn at an early stage, and the degeneration rapidly spread to the apex. In addition, the density of SGNs in Rosenthal's canal decreased rapidly along a gradient from the base of the cochlea to the apex, where some SGNs survived until at least 6 months of age. Surviving neurons often clustered together and formed clumps of cells in the canal. We then assessed the influence of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene therapy on the SGNs of Gjb2-CKO mice by inoculating Adenovirus with the BDNF gene insert (Ad.BDNF) into the base of the cochlea via the scala tympani or scala media. We determined that over-expression of BDNF beginning around 1 month of age resulted in a significant rescue of neurons in Rosenthal's canal of the cochlear basal turn but not in the middle or apical portions. This data may be used to design therapies for enhancing the SGN physiological status in all GJB2 patients and especially in a sub-group of GJB2 patients where the hearing loss progresses due to ongoing degeneration of the auditory nerve, thereby improving the outcome of cochlear implant therapy in these ears.
Perceptual representations of auditory stimuli (i.e., sounds) are derived from the auditory system's ability to segregate and group the spectral, temporal, and spatial features of auditory stimuli-a process called &quot;auditory scene analysis&quot;. Psychophysical studies have identified several of the principles and mechanisms that underlie a listener's ability to segregate and group acoustic stimuli. One important psychophysical task that has illuminated many of these principles and mechanisms is the &quot;streaming&quot; task. Despite the wide use of this task to study psychophysical mechanisms of human audition, no studies have explicitly tested the streaming abilities of non-human animals using the standard methodologies employed in human-audition studies. Here, we trained rhesus macaques to participate in the streaming task using methodologies and controls similar to those presented in previous human studies. Overall, we found that the monkeys' behavioral reports were qualitatively consistent with those of human listeners, thus suggesting that this task may be a valuable tool for future neurophysiological studies.
Cell assemblies code information in both the temporal and spatial domain. One tractable example of temporal coding is the phenomenon of phase precession. In medial entorhinal cortex, theta-phase precession is observed in spatially specific grid cells, with grid spike-times shifting to earlier phases of the extracellular theta rhythm as the animal passes through the grid field. Although the exact mechanisms underlying spatial-temporal coding remain unknown, computational work points to single-cell oscillatory activity as a biophysical mechanism capable of producing phase precession. Support for this idea comes from observed correlations between single-cell resonance and entorhinal neurons characterized by phase precession. Here, we take advantage of the absence of single-cell theta-frequency resonance in hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) 1 knockout (KO) mice to examine the relationship between intrinsic rhythmicity and phase precession. We find phase precession is highly comparable between forebrain-restricted HCN1 KO and wild-type mice. Grid fields in HCN1 KO mice display more experience-dependent asymmetry however, consistent with reports of enhanced long-term potentiation in the absence of HCN1 and raising the possibility that the loss of HCN1 improves temporal coding via the rate-phase transformation. Combined, our results clarify the role of HCN1 channels in temporal coding and constrain the number of possible mechanisms generating phase precession.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
In the Ts65Dn/DnJ mouse model of Down syndrome (DS), hippocampal deficits of learning and memory are the most robust features supporting this mouse as a valid cognitive model of DS. Although dentate gyrus (DG) dysfunction is suggested by excessive GABAergic inhibition, its role in perturbing DG functions in DS is unknown. We hypothesize that in the Ts65Dn/DnJ mouse, the specific role of the DG is disturbed in its support of contextual and spatial information. Support for this hypothesis comes from rats with DG lesions that show similar deficits. In order to test this hypothesis, we have developed a novel series of spontaneous exploratory tasks that emphasize the importance of recognizing spatial and contextual cues and that involve DG function. The results with this exploratory battery show that Ts65Dn/DnJ mice are impaired in DG-dependent short-term recognition tests involving object recognition with contextual cues, in place recognition and in metric distance recognition relative to wild type littermate controls. Further, whereas Ts65Dn/DnJ mice can recognize object novelty in the absence of contextual cues after a 5-min delay, they cannot do so after a delay of 24 h, suggesting a problem with CA1-mediated consolidation. The results also show that Ts65Dn/DnJ mice are not impaired in tasks (object recognition and configural object recognition) that are mediated by the perirhinal cortex (PRh). These results implicate the DG as a specific therapeutic target and the PRh as a potential therapeutic strength for future research to ameliorate learning and memory in DS.
Dendritic cells and their precursors express PPAR-gamma, whose stimulation has inhibitory effects on the maturation and function of dendritic cells in vivo. Dendritic cells can differentiate in vitro from CD133+ progenitors; the influence of PPAR-gamma stimulation on this process is unknown. We have addressed the effect of PPAR-gamma agonist rosiglitazone, at a concentration as used in clinics, on the differentiation of dendritic cells from human CD133+ progenitors. Cells were harvested from cord blood by density gradient and immunomagnetic separation, and cultured for 18 days with fetal calf serum, cytokines and 1 mol/L rosiglitazone. Analyses included flow cytometry, electron microscopy and mixed lymphocyte reaction. As expected, control cells generated without rosiglitazone were dendritic, expressed MHC-II, CD80, CD83 and CD86 and stimulated mixed reaction potently. A minority of cells expressed the Langerhans cell marker CD207/langerin, but none contained Birbeck granules. With rosiglitazone much fewer cells were generated; they were all dendritic, expressed differentiation and maturation-related antigens in higher percentage and were better stimulators of lymphocytes than those generated without the drug. The vast majority of cells expressed CD207/langerin and many contained Birbeck granules, i.e. were full-fledged Langerhans cells. We conclude that stimulation of PPAR-gamma, while negatively affecting the number of generated cells, promotes the maturation of human cord blood CD133 positive precursors into efficient, immunostimulating dendritic cells with a Langerhans cell phenotype.
Early developmental stress can have long-term physiological and behavioral effects on an animal. Developmental stress and early corticosterone (Cort) exposure affect song quality in many songbirds. Early housing condition can act as a stressor and affect the growth of nestlings and adult song, and improvements in housing condition can reverse adverse effects of early stress exposure in rodents. However, little is known about this effect in songbirds. Therefore, we took a novel approach to investigate if housing condition can modify the effects of early Cort exposure on adult song in male zebra finches. We manipulated early housing conditions to include breeding in large communal flight cages (FC; standard housing condition; with mixed-sex and mix-aged birds) versus individual breeding cages (IBC, one male-female pair with small, IBC-S, or large clutches, IBC-L) in post-hatch Cort treated male birds. We found that Cort treated birds from IBC-S have higher overall song learning scores (between tutor and pupil) than from FC but there is no difference between these groups in the No-Cort treated birds. When examining the effects of Cort within each housing condition, overall song learning scores decreased in Cort treated birds from flight cages but increased in birds from IBC-S compared to controls. Likewise, the total number of syllables and syllable types increased significantly in Cort treated birds from IBC-S, but decreased in FC-reared birds though this effect was not statistically significant. These findings suggest that the effects of early Cort treatment on learned features of song depend on housing condition.
Abnormal function of the neuroendocrine stress system has been implicated in the behavioral impairments observed following brain ischemia. The current study examined long-term changes in stress signal regulation 30days following global cerebral ischemia. Experiment 1 investigated changes in the expression of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) and its subtype 1 receptor (CRHR1), glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), and the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was determined at the locus coeruleus (LC). Experiment 2 investigated the role of central CRHR1 activation on corticosterone (CORT) secretion at multiple time intervals following global ischemia after exposure to an acute stressor. Findings from Experiment 1 demonstrated a persistent increase in GR, CRH and CRHR1 immunoreactivity (ir) at the PVN, reduced GR and CRHR1 expression in pyramidal CA1 neurons, and increased LC TH expression in ischemic rats displaying working memory errors in the radial arm Maze. Findings from Experiment 2 revealed increased CORT secretion up to 7 days, but no longer present 14 and 21 days post ischemia. However upon an acute restraint stress induced 27 days following reperfusion, ischemic rats had increased plasma CORT secretions compared to sham-operated animals, suggesting HPA axis hypersensitivity. Antalarmin (2 g/2 l) pretreatment significantly attenuated post ischemic elevation of basal and stress-induced CORT secretion. These findings support persistent neuroendocrine dysfunctions following brain ischemia likely to contribute to emotional and cognitive impairments observed in survivors of cardiac arrest and stroke.
Men are less likely than women to suffer from anxiety disorders. Because gonadal hormones play a crucial role in many behavioral sex differences, they may underlie sex differences in human anxiety. In rodents, testosterone (T) exerts anxiolytic effects via the androgen receptor (AR): we found that male mice with a naturally-occurring mutation rendering the AR dysfunctional, referred to as spontaneous testicular feminization mutation (sTfm), showed more anxiety-like behaviors than wildtype (WT) males. Here, we used Cre-lox recombination technology to create another dysfunctional allele for AR. These induced Tfm (iTfm) animals also displayed more anxiety-like behaviors than WTs. We further found that AR-modulation of these behaviors interacts with circadian phase. When tested in the resting phase, iTfms appeared more anxious than WTs in the open field, novel object and elevated plus maze tests, but not the light/dark box. However, when tested during the active phase (lights off), iTfms showed more anxiety-related behavior than WTs in all four tests. Finally, we confirmed a role of T acting via AR in regulating HPA axis activity, as WT males with T showed a lower baseline and overall corticosterone response, and a faster return to baseline following mild stress than did WT males without T or iTfms. These findings demonstrate that this recombined AR allele is a valuable model for studying androgenic modulation of anxiety, that the anxiolytic effects of AR in mice are more prominent in the active phase, and that HPA axis modulation by T is AR dependent.
Stress has been associated with negative changes observed during the aging process. However, very little research has been carried out on the role of age in acute stress effects on memory. We aimed to explore the role of age and sex in the relationship between hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA-axis) and sympathetic nervous system (SNS) reactivity to psychosocial stress and short-term declarative memory performance. To do so, sixty-seven participants divided into two age groups (each group with a similar number of men and women) were exposed to the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) and a control condition in a crossover design. Memory performance was assessed by the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT). As expected, worse memory performance was associated with age; but more interestingly, the stressor impaired recall after interference only in the older group. In addition, this effect was negatively correlated with the alpha-amylase over cortisol ratio, which has recently been suggested as a good marker of stress system dysregulation. However, we failed to find sex differences in memory performance. These results show that age moderates stress-induced effects on declarative memory, and they point out the importance of studying both of the physiological systems involved in the stress response together.
Several studies have reported that performance on spatial rotation tests is better at menses than at high estradiol phases of the menstrual cycle in women. These effects are debated because nearly all reports of menstrual cycle variability have relied on a single test, the Mental Rotations Test (MRT, Vandenberg and Kuse, 1978). In the present study, we investigated key features of the MRT that might be responsible for its association with estradiol levels. We hypothesized that associations could be demonstrated for other tasks that share the same characteristics. Forty-four women ages 20-38 years, matched on education and general ability, were assessed at low (n=24) or high (n=20) estradiol stages of the menstrual cycle on a set of spatial tests that varied in dimensionality, plane of rotation, angular disparity, and effortfulness. Saliva was used to quantify estradiol and progesterone. Low estradiol was found to be associated with significantly better accuracy on the MRT and also on a mental rotation task that required large angles of rotation but employed only two-dimensional object representations and rotations limited to the picture plane. In contrast, a task using identical stimuli that required only small angles of rotation did not show an estradiol effect. A group difference also was seen on a test of perceptual closure. The results confirm that the estradiol effect is not limited to the MRT, and identify the rotational element, but also aspects of figural perception, as possible processes that may be responsive to estrogens. These findings advance our understanding by showing an association between estradiol and discrete spatial processes. Implications for understanding the origins of the robust sex difference commonly observed on the MRT are discussed.
In studies of stress, it can be difficult to obtain blood rapidly enough to avoid confounding steroid measures. Noninvasive urinary steroid measures may provide an alternative insofar as they reflect systemic steroids. In Experiment 1, we profiled urinary corticosterone, progesterone, and estradiol in ovariectomized female mice following 1h on an elevated platform. This increased urinary corticosterone for 3h and progesterone for 4h. In Experiment 2, blood and urine samples were obtained at 0-6h following stressor offset. Females showed increased serum corticosterone and progesterone immediately after stressor offset. Urinary corticosterone was increased at both 0 and 2h post-stress, while an increase in progesterone 2-6h after stressor offset was not significant. Estradiol was not influenced by this mild stressor. In Experiment 3, mice were exposed to a more severe 1h stressor, a rat across a wire-mesh grid. In serum, both corticosterone and progesterone were elevated immediately after stressor offset and returned to baseline within 2h. In urine, this severe stressor elevated corticosterone immediately and 2h after stressor offset, and in progesterone 2h after stressor offset. Estradiol in serum was not dynamic, but it was significantly elevated in urine 4h after stressor offset. Urinary measures generally reflected systemic measures; however, with a different time course resulting in a longer return to baseline. We suggest that the relative value of serum or urinary steroid measures in mice depends upon the experimental design, and that estradiol may only respond when the stressor is severe.
Apathy, common in neurological disorders, is defined as disinterest and loss of motivation, with a reduction in self-initiated activity. Research in diseased populations has shown that apathy is associated with variations in the volume of brain regions such as the anterior cingulate and the frontal lobes. The goal of this study was to determine the neural signatures of apathy in people with penetrating traumatic brain injuries (pTBIs), as to our knowledge, these have not been studied in this sample. We studied 176 male Vietnam War veterans with pTBIs using voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM) and apathy scores from the UCLA Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), a structured inventory of symptoms completed by a caregiver. Our results revealed that increased apathy symptoms were associated with brain damage in limbic and cortical areas of the left hemisphere including the anterior cingulate, inferior, middle, and superior frontal regions, insula, and supplementary motor area. Our results are consistent with the literature, and extend them to people with focal pTBI. Apathy is a significant symptom since it can reduce participation of the patient in family and other social interactions, and diminish affective decision-making.
Deformable registration has been widely used in neuroscience studies for spatial normalization of brain images onto the standard space. Because of possible large anatomical differences across different individual brains, registration performance could be limited when trying to estimate a single directed deformation pathway, i.e., either from template to subject or from subject to template. Symmetric image registration, however, offers an effective way to simultaneously deform template and subject images toward each other until they meet at the middle point. Although some intensity-based registration algorithms have nicely incorporated this concept of symmetric deformation, the pointwise intensity matching between two images may not necessarily imply the matching of correct anatomical correspondences. Based on HAMMER registration algorithm (Shen and Davatzikos, [2002]: IEEE Trans Med Imaging 21:1421-1439), we integrate the strategies of hierarchical attribute matching and symmetric diffeomorphic deformation to build a new symmetric-diffeomorphic HAMMER registration algorithm, called as S-HAMMER. The performance of S-HAMMER has been extensively compared with 14 state-of-the-art nonrigid registration algorithms evaluated in (Klein et al., [2009]: NeuroImage 46:786-802) by using real brain images in LPBA40, IBSR18, CUMC12, and MGH10 datasets. In addition, the registration performance of S-HAMMER, by comparison with other methods, is also demonstrated on both elderly MR brain images (&gt;70 years old) and the simulated brain images with ground-truth deformation fields. In all experiments, our proposed method achieves the best registration performance over all other registration methods, indicating the high applicability of our method in future neuroscience and clinical applications.
We examined whether altered connectivity in functional networks during working memory performance persists following conclusion of that performance, into a subsequent resting state. We conducted functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in 50 young adults during an initial resting state, followed by an N-back working memory task and a subsequent resting state, in order to examine changes in functional connectivity within and between the default-mode network (DMN) and the task-positive network (TPN) across the three states. We found that alterations in connectivity observed during the N-back task persisted into the subsequent resting state within the TPN and between the DMN and TPN, but not within the DMN. Further, both speed of working memory performance and TPN connectivity strength during the N-back task predicted connectivity strength in the subsequent resting state. Finally, DMN connectivity measured before and during the N-back task predicted individual differences in self-reported inattentiveness, but this association was not found during the post-task resting state. Together, these findings have important implications for models of how the brain recovers following effortful cognition, as well as for experimental designs using resting and task scans.
Emotional words--as symbols for biologically relevant concepts--are preferentially processed in brain regions including the visual cortex, frontal and parietal regions, and a corticolimbic circuit including the amygdala. Some of the brain structures found in functional magnetic resonance imaging are not readily apparent in electro- and magnetoencephalographic (EEG; MEG) measures. By means of a combined EEG/MEG source localization procedure to fully exploit the available information, we sought to reduce these discrepancies and gain a better understanding of spatiotemporal brain dynamics underlying emotional-word processing. Eighteen participants read high-arousing positive and negative, and low-arousing neutral nouns, while EEG and MEG were recorded simultaneously. Combined current-density reconstructions (L2-minimum norm least squares) for two early emotion-sensitive time intervals, the P1 (80-120 ms) and the early posterior negativity (EPN, 200-300 ms), were computed using realistic individual head models with a cortical constraint. The P1 time window uncovered an emotion effect peaking in the left middle temporal gyrus. In the EPN time window, processing of emotional words was associated with enhanced activity encompassing parietal and occipital areas, and posterior limbic structures. We suggest that lexical access, being underway within 100 ms, is speeded and/or favored for emotional words, possibly on the basis of an &quot;emotional tagging&quot; of the word form during acquisition. This gives rise to their differential processing in the EPN time window. The EPN, as an index of natural selective attention, appears to reflect an elaborate interplay of distributed structures, related to cognitive functions, such as memory, attention, and evaluation of emotional stimuli.
Odor names refer usually to &quot;source&quot; object categories. For example, the smell of rose is often described with its source category (flower). However, linguistic studies suggest that odors can also be named with labels referring to categories of &quot;practices&quot;. This is the case when rose odor is described with a verbal label referring to its use in fragrance practices (&quot;body lotion,&quot; cosmetic for example). It remains unknown whether naming an odor by its practice category influences olfactory neural responses differently than that observed when named with its source category. The aim of this study was to investigate this question. To this end, functional MRI was used in a within-subjects design comparing brain responses to four different odors (peach, chocolate, linden blossom, and rose) under two conditions whereby smells were described either (1) with their source category label (food and flower) or (2) with a practice category label (body lotion). Both types of labels induced activations in secondary olfactory areas (orbitofrontal cortex), whereas only the source label condition induced activation in the cingulate cortex and the insula. In summary, our findings offer a new look at olfactory perception by indicating differential brain responses depending on whether odors are named according to their source or practice category.
DYNC1H1 encodes the heavy chain of cytoplasmic dynein 1, a motor protein complex implicated in retrograde axonal transport, neuronal migration, and other intracellular motility functions. Mutations in DYNC1H1 have been described in autosomal-dominant Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 2 and in families with distal spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) predominantly affecting the legs (SMA-LED). Recently, defects of cytoplasmic dynein 1 were also associated with a form of mental retardation and neuronal migration disorders. Here, we describe two unrelated patients presenting a combined phenotype of congenital motor neuron disease associated with focal areas of cortical malformation. In each patient, we identified a novel de novo mutation in DYNC1H1: c.3581A&gt;G (p.Gln1194Arg) in one case and c.9142G&gt;A (p.Glu3048Lys) in the other. The mutations lie in different domains of the dynein heavy chain, and are deleterious to protein function as indicated by assays for Golgi recovery after nocodazole washout in patient fibroblasts. Our results expand the set of pathological mutations in DYNC1H1, reinforce the role of cytoplasmic dynein in disorders of neuronal migration, and provide evidence for a syndrome including spinal nerve degeneration and brain developmental problems.
The clinicopathologic and molecular genetic features of 5 cases of rhabdoid glioblastoma, an extremely rare variant of glioblastoma that tends to affect patients at a young age, were investigated by immunohistochemical analysis and focused molecular genetic studies including array-based comparative genomic hybridization. All 5 cases had supratentorial tumors that immunohistochemical analysis revealed to be robustly positive for epithelial membrane antigen, vimentin, p53, and PDGFR (platelet-derived growth factor receptor, alpha polypeptide) but only focally positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Although complete retention of SMARCB1 (INI1) was observed in all 5 cases, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) amplification, PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog) loss, homozygous deletion of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A, 1p/19q codeletion, and isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 R132/IDH2 R172 mutation were not observed in any case, although a high level of EGFR polysomy was detected in 1 recurrent tumor. Although c-MET (MET protein) expression was focal but robustly positive in 3 cases, met proto-oncogene (MET) fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed low polysomy but not MET amplification. MGMT (O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyl-40 transferase) methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction revealed MGMT methylation in only 1 case. Furthermore, array-based comparative genomic hybridization revealed gain of chromosome 7 and loss of 1p, 6, 8p, 11, 13q, and 18q but no deletion of chromosome 22. In contrast to the classical subtype of primary glioblastoma, the cases studied here were characterized by the absence of EGFR amplification, PTEN loss, and 9p homozygous deletion and overexpression of p53, PDGFR, and c-MET, suggesting that they can be classified as the proneural or mesenchymal subtype of glioblastoma and benefit from intensive therapy that includes temozolomide.



Functional connectivity, a flourishing new area of research in human neuroscience, carries a substantial challenge for visualization: while the end points of connectivity are known, the precise path between them is not. Although a large body of work already exists on the visualization of anatomical connectivity, the functional counterpart lacks similar development. To optimize the clarity of whole-brain and complex connectivity patterns in three-dimensional brain space, we develop mean-shift edge bundling, which reveals the multitude of connections as derived from correlations in the brain activity of cortical regions.
CD28 is a crucial costimulatory receptor necessary full T cell activation. The role of CD28 in multiple sclerosis (MS) has been evaluated as the source of costimulatory signals integrating those delivered by TCR. However, CD28 is also able to act as a unique signaling receptor and to deliver TCR-independent autonomous signals, which regulate the expression and production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. By comparing the cytokine/chemokine profiles of CD4(+) T cells from relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients and healthy donors (HD), we found that CD28 engagement without TCR strongly up-regulates IL-8 and IL-6 expression in RRMS compared to HD. More interestingly, in RRMS but not in HD, CD28 stimulation selectively induces the expression of IL-17A by cooperating with IL-6-mediated signals. By using specific inhibitory drugs, we also identify the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K) as the critical regulator of CD28 proinflammatory functions in MS.
Although the destructive effects of an overactive adaptive immune system have been well established, especially in the context of autoimmune diseases, recently an understanding of the beneficial effects of the adaptive immunity in central nervous system (CNS) injuries has emerged. CD4(+) T cells have been shown to benefit injured CNS tissue through various mechanisms; both traditional cytokine signalling and by modulating the phenotype of neural cells in the injury site. One of the major targets of the cytokine signalling in the CNS are myeloid cells, both resident microglia and monocytes, that infiltrate the tissue after injury and whose phenotype; protective or destructive, appears to be directly influenced by T cells. This cross-talk between the adaptive and innate immune systems presents potential new targets that could provide tangible benefits in pathologies that currently have few treatment options.
Microglia cells, the resident innate immune cells in the brain, are highly active, extending and retracting highly motile processes through which they continuously survey their microenvironment for 'danger signals' and interact dynamically with surrounding cells. Upon sensing changes in their central nervous system microenvironment, microglia become activated, undergoing morphological and functional changes. Microglia activation is not an 'all-or-none' process, but rather a continuum depending on encountered stimuli, which is expressed through a spectrum of molecular and functional phenotypes ranging from so-called 'classically activated', with a highly pro-inflammatory profile, to 'alternatively activated' associated with a beneficial, less inflammatory, neuroprotective profile. Microglia activation has been demonstrated in most neurological diseases of diverse aetiology and has been implicated as a contributor to neurodegeneration. The possibility to promote microglia's neuroprotective phenotype has therefore become a therapeutic goal. We have focused our discussion on the role of microglia in multiple sclerosis, a prototype of inflammatory, demyelinating, neurodegenerative disease, and on the effect of currently approved or on-trial anti-inflammatory therapeutic strategies that might mediate neuroprotection at least in part through their effect on microglia by modifying their behaviour via a switch of their functional phenotype from a detrimental to a protective one. In addition to pharmaceutical approaches, such as treatment with glatiramer acetate, interferon-, fingolimod or dimethyl fumarate, we address the alternative therapeutic approach of treatment with mesenchymal stem cells and their potential role in neuroprotection through their 'calming' effect on microglia.
Neuroinflammatory changes are a characteristic of several, if not all, neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease and are typified by increased microglial activation. Microglia express several receptors making them highly reactive and plastic cells, and, at least in vitro, they adopt different phenotypes in a manner analogous to their peripheral counterparts, macrophages. Microglia also express numerous cell surface proteins enabling them to interact with cells and the evidence indicates that maintenance of microglia in a quiescent state relies, at least to some extent, on an interaction with neurons by means of specific ligand-receptor pairs, for example CD200-CD200R. It is clear that microglia also interact with T cells and recent evidence indicates that co-incubation of microglia with T helper type 1 cells markedly increases their activation. Under normal conditions, small numbers of activated T cells gain entry to the brain and are involved in immune surveillance but infiltration of significant numbers of T cells occurs in disease and following injury. The consequences of T cell infiltration appear to depend on the conditions, with descriptions of both neurodestructive and neuroprotective effects in animal models of different diseases. This review will discuss the modulatory effect of T cells on microglia and the impact of infiltration of T cells into the brain with a focus on Alzheimer's disease, and will propose that infiltration of interferon--producing cells may be an important factor in triggering inflammation that is pathogenic and destructive.
Ultraviolet radiation is an important risk factor for the development of skin cancers. Melanin is known to protect the skin against harmful effects of ultraviolet radiation. Hence, vitiligo patients are at higher risk of developing such malignancies. But few reports of occurrence of skin cancers in vitiligo lesions suggest that their occurrence in vitiligo is rare. There are reports of development of Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) in vitiligo lesions, following long-term Psoralen and Ultraviolet-A (PUVA) therapy. But there are no reports of occurrence of SCC in a vitiligo patch located in photo-covered area. We describe a patient with SCC in a vitiligo patch present in photo-covered skin.



Clinician-rated measures are used in clinical trials and measurement-based clinical care settings to assess baseline symptoms and treatment outcomes of major depressive disorder (MDD), with a widely held dictum that they are sufficient in assessing the patient's clinical status. In this study, we examined clinician-rated measures of depressive and global symptom severity, obtained by interviewing patients as well as informants in an attempt to examine the potential difference or similarity between these two sources of information. The sample consisted of 89 treatment seeking, DSM-IV diagnosed MDD outpatients treated between 1995 and 2004. The clinician-rated measures used included the Montgomery sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), and the Clinical Global Impression Scale (CGI) for Severity. The scores of the clinician-rated measures collected from patients' interviews were compared with those collected from informants' interviews. Clinician-rated scores, collected by interviewing patients, were significantly higher and indicative of greater symptom severity when compared with those collected by interviewing informants. This was true for both the MADRS before (P&lt;0.0001) and after treatment scores (P&lt;0.0001), as well as the CGI before (P&lt;0.0001) and after treatment scores (P&lt;0.0001). Consistently involving informants and the time/burden it takes for them to participate might not be practical in MDD clinical trials or everyday clinical care. The discrepancies observed between the clinician-rated scores obtained from patients and informants emphasize the importance of incorporating collateral information during the assessment and rating of depressive symptom severity in both clinical trials as well as in clinical practice.

Recent studies suggest that the regulatory networks controlling the functions of stem cells during development may be abnormally active in human cancers. An embryonic stem cell (ESC) gene signature was found to correlate with a more undifferentiated phenotype of several human cancer types including gliomas, and associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. In the present study, we used tissue microarrays of 80 low-grade (WHO Grade II) and 98 high-grade human gliomas (WHO Grades III and IV) to investigate the presence of the ESC-related proteins Nanog, Klf4, Oct4, Sox2 and c-Myc by immunohistochemistry. While similar patterns of co-expressed proteins between low- and high-grade gliomas were present, we found up-regulated protein levels of Nanog, Klf4, Oct4 and Sox2 in high-grade gliomas. Survival analysis by Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed a significant shorter survival in the subgroups of low-grade astrocytomas (n = 42) with high levels of Nanog protein (p = 0.0067) and of Klf4 protein (p = 0.0368), in high-grade astrocytomas (n = 85) with high levels of Nanog (p = 0.0042), Klf4 (p = 0.0447), and c-Myc (p = 0.0078) and in glioblastomas only (n = 71) with high levels of Nanog (p = 0.0422) and of c-Myc (p = 0.0256). In the multivariate model, Nanog was identified as an independent prognostic factor in the subgroups of low-grade astrocytomas (p = 0.0039), high-grade astrocytomas (p = 0.0124) and glioblastomas only (p = 0.0544), together with established clinical variables in these tumors. These findings provide further evidence for the joint regulatory pathways of ESC-related proteins in gliomas and identify Nanog as one of the key players in determining clinical outcome of human astrocytomas.




Paired pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation was used to investigate differences in cortical excitability between patients with isolated (unrecurrent, unprovoked) seizures and those with epilepsy. Compared to controls, cortical excitability was higher in the isolated seizure group at 250-300 ms. Compared to epilepsy, cortical excitability was lower in patients with isolated seizures also at 250 and 300 ms. Lowered seizure threshold caused by disturbances within inhibitory circuits is present in patients who experience a seizure even if no further seizures occur.
Drug addiction is a major public health issue, yet the underlying adaptation of neural networks by drugs of abuse is not fully understood. We have previously linked chaperone heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) to drug-induced adaptations. Focusing on the NAc core and shell, the present study aims to provide further findings for our understanding of the relation between behavioural sensitization to morphine and Hsp70 at transcriptional and functional levels in rats. Firstly, we delineated the characteristics of behavioural sensitization induced by a single morphine exposure (1-10 mg/kg, s.c.). Secondly, Hsp70 protein expression in the NAc core was time- and dose-relatedly induced during the development of behavioural sensitization to a single morphine exposure in rats, and Pearson analysis indicated a positive correlation between behavioural sensitization and Hsp70 expression in NAc core. Thirdly, at the transcriptional level, intra-NAc core injection of the specific heat shock factor-I (HSF-I) inhibitor N-Formyl-3,4-methylenedioxy-benzylidine--butyrolactam (KNK437) suppressed Hsp70 expression and the development of behavioural sensitization, while the HSF-I specific inducer geranylgeranylacetone (GGA) promoted both of them. Interestingly, intra-NAc shell injection of KNK437 or GGA did not affect the development of behavioural sensitization. Finally, both the functional inhibition of Hsp70 ATPase activity by methylene blue (MB), and the antagonism of Hsp70 substrate binding site (SBD) activity by pifithrin- (PES) impaired the development of behavioural sensitization when they were microinjected into the NAc core. Taken together, the critical involvement of chaperone Hsp70 in behavioural sensitization to morphine identifies a biological target for long-lasting adaptations with relevance to addiction.
With the increasingly widespread use of antipsychotics in bipolar disorder (BD), switching among these agents and between antipsychotics and mood stabilizers has become more common, in particular, since the introduction of the novel atypical antipsychotics with mood stabilizer properties. This systematic review aims to provide a comprehensive update of the current literature in BD about the switching of antipsychotics, among them and between them and mood stabilizers, in acute and maintenance treatment. We conducted a comprehensive, computerized literature search using terms related to antipsychotic switching in BD in the PubMed/Medline, PsycINFO, CINAHL database; the Cochrane Library and; the Clinicaltrials.gov web up to January 9th, 2013 according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statement. The search returned 4160 articles. After excluding duplications, reviews, case reports and studies that did not fulfil the selection criteria, 8 studies were included. Not only have few articles on antipsychotic switching been published but also recruitment in most studies included mixed samples of patients. In general, antipsychotic switching, regardless of the route of drug administration, was well tolerated and no interference was shown in antipsychotic effectiveness during the interchange of drugs. Metabolic improvement was perceived when the switch involved antipsychotics with a low metabolic risk profile. The evidence-base for antipsychotic switching in BD is scant, and little controlled data is available. Switch from quetiapine to lithium and from risperidone to olanzapine has proven successful. Switching to antipsychotics with low metabolic risk had some positive impact on several safety measures. In stabilized patients, the plateau cross-taper switch may be preferred.
High-frequency stimulation of the nucleus accumbens, also known as deep brain stimulation (DBS), is currently used to alleviate obsessive compulsive symptoms when pharmacotherapy is ineffective. However, the mechanism by which DBS achieves its therapeutic actions is not understood. Imaging studies and the actions of dopaminergic drugs in untreated patients suggest that the dopamine (DA) system likely plays a role in the pathophysiology of obsessive compulsive disorder. Therefore, we examined whether DBS would impact the DA system as a potential component of its therapeutic actions. The activity of DA neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) were recorded in anesthetized rats under high-frequency stimulation. DA neuron activity was measured in terms of number of neurons firing, average firing rate and firing pattern. DBS of the nucleus accumbens core did not significantly affect VTA activity or discharge pattern. On the other hand, DBS caused a potent decrease in the number of SNc DA neurons firing spontaneously. Such an effect could contribute to the disruption of pathological habit formation in the SNc-dorsal striatal projection system that may have therapeutic implications for the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder.


The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of palifermin, an N-terminal truncated version of endogenous keratinocyte growth factor, in the control of oral mucositis during antiblastic therapy. Twenty patients undergoing allogeneic stem-cell transplantation for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia were treated with palifermin, and compared to a control group with the same number of subjects and similar inclusion criteria. Statistical analysis were performed to compare the outcomes in the treatment vs. control groups. In the treatment group, we found a statistically significant reduction in the duration of parenteral nutrition (P=0.002), duration of mucositis (P=0.003) and the average grade of mucositis (P=0.03). The statistical analysis showed that the drug was able to decrease the severity of mucositis. These data, although preliminary, suggest that palifermin could be a valid therapeutic adjuvant to improve the quality of life of patients suffering from leukaemia.
The relation between attractiveness and motor affordance is a key topic in design and has not yet been investigated electrophysiologically. In this respect, action affordance and attractiveness represent two crucial dimensions in object processing (specifically for tools). In light of this evidence, Event Related Potentials (ERPs) enabled us to gain new insights into the time course of the interaction between these two dimensions during an explicit tool evaluation task. Behaviorally, tools that were judged as high affording and high attractive yielded faster response times than those judged as low affording and low attractive. The ERP results showed that early processes related to sensory gating and feature extraction (N100) were sensitive to both affordance and attractiveness; the P200 was dominated by affordance, indexing a facilitated access to motor action representation. The N300, P300 and the Late Positive Potential (LPP) showed enhanced responses for highly affording/attractive tools, reflecting the interconnection between attractiveness and affordance. Later responses were entirely affected by attractiveness, suggesting additional affective responses evoked by desirable tools. We are showing that things that are perceived as more functional and attractive have a privileged neural activation in the time course of tool evaluation, for the first time.
This study analyzed the relationship of individual differences in personality with habituation in the acoustic startle response (ASR). Data from nine trials in ASR to white noise bursts and a personality questionnaire based on the alternative big five personality approach were modelled with a latent growth curve (LCM) including intercept and slope habituation growth factors. There was a negative correlation between the intercept and slope, indicating that individuals with higher initial ASR levels had also a more pronounced and faster decrease in the ASR. Contrary to expectations, Extraversion and Sensation Seeking did not relate with habituation in ASR. Neuroticism and Aggressiveness related asymmetrically with the habituation rate in ASR. Higher levels of Neuroticism were related with faster habituation, whereas higher levels of Aggressiveness were related with slower habituation. Further studies with the LCM should be undertaken to clarify in a greater extent the association of personality with habituation in ASR.
The skin conductance response (SCR) is increasingly being used as a measure of sympathetic activation concurrent with neuroscience measurements. We present a method of automated analysis of SCR data in the contexts of event-related cognitive tasks and nonspecific responding to complex stimuli. The primary goal of the method is to accurately measure the classical trough-to-peak amplitude of SCR in a fashion closely matching manual scoring. To validate the effectiveness of the method in event-related paradigms, three archived datasets were analyzed by two manual raters, the fully-automated method (Autonomate), and three alternative software packages. Further, the ability of the method to score non-specific responses to complex stimuli was validated against manual scoring. Results indicate high concordance between fully-automated and computer-assisted manual scoring methods. Given that manual scoring is error prone, subject to bias, and time consuming, the automated method may increase the efficiency and accuracy of SCR data analysis.
Increased theta (4-7 Hz)-beta (13-30 Hz) power ratio in resting state electroencephalography (EEG) has been associated with risky disadvantageous decision making and with impaired reinforcement learning. However, the specific contributions of theta and beta power in risky decision making remain unclear. The first aim of the present study was to replicate the earlier found relationship and examine the specific contributions of theta and beta power in risky decision making using the Iowa Gambling Task. The second aim of the study was to examine whether the relation were associated with differences in reward or punishment sensitivity. We replicated the earlier found relationship by showing a positive association between theta/beta ratio and risky decision making. This correlation was mainly driven by theta oscillations. Furthermore, theta power correlated with reward motivated learning, but not with punishment learning. The present results replicate and extend earlier findings by providing novel insights into the relation between thetabeta ratios and risky decision making. Specifically, findings show that resting-state theta activity is correlated with reinforcement learning, and that this association may be explained by differences in reward sensitivity.
Although previous studies have shown that brain potentials recorded from passive observers differ when gambling-task outcomes are delivered to a friend or a stranger, it is unclear how these outcome evaluations are reflected in brain potentials during active competition. The present study recorded event-related potentials (ERP) from 16 normal adults playing an interactive gambling task against both a friend and a stranger. In this task, the P300 was modulated by the feedback valence (gain or loss) and the nature of the interpersonal relationship, such that it was larger when competing against strangers. Regression analyses indicated that empathy to another's personal distress was negatively related to P300 amplitudes when competing against friends. The dFRN, defined as the difference between losses and gains, varied with Perspective-Taking when competing against friends, such that smaller dFRN amplitudes were correlated with increased Perspective-Taking. The modulation of ERP components indicates that interpersonal relationships may influence outcome evaluations in competitive situations. Correlations between ERP components and empathy measures also provide preliminary support of a relationship between one's empathy and the processing of outcomes during competition against a friend.
This study explores the internal structure of the Self-Efficacy Scale (SES) using item response analysis. The SES was previously translated into Swedish and modified to encompass all types of pain, not exclusively back pain. Data on perceived self-efficacy in 47 patients with subacute whiplash-associated disorders were derived from a previously conducted randomized-controlled trial. The item-level factor analysis was carried out using a six-step procedure. To further study the item inter-relationships and to determine the underlying structure empirically, the 20 items of the SES were also subjected to principal component analysis with varimax rotation. The analyses showed two underlying factors, named 'social activities' and 'physical activities', with seven items loading on each factor. The remaining six items of the SES appeared to measure somewhat different constructs and need to be analysed further.
Mammalian epithelial cells are coated with a multifunctional surface glycocalyx (GCX). On vascular endothelial cells (EC), intact GCX is atheroprotective. It is degraded in many vascular diseases. GCX heparan sulfate (HS) is essential for healthy flow-induced EC nitric oxide (NO) release, elongation, and alignment. The HS core protein mechanisms involved in these processes are unknown. We hypothesized that the glypican-1 (GPC1) HS core protein mediates flow-induced EC NO synthase (eNOS) activation because GPC1 is anchored to caveolae where eNOS resides. We also hypothesized that the HS core protein syndecan-1 (SDC1) mediates flow-induced EC elongation and alignment because SDC1 is linked to the cytoskeleton which impacts cell shape. We tested our hypotheses by exposing EC monolayers treated with HS degrading heparinase III (HepIII), and monolayers with RNA-silenced GPC1, or SDC1, to 3 to 24 hours of physiological shear stress. Shear-conditioned EC with intact GCX exhibited characteristic eNOS activation in short-term flow conditions. After long-term exposure, EC with intact GCX were elongated and aligned in the direction of flow. HS removal and GPC1 inhibition, not SDC1 reduction, blocked shear-induced eNOS activation. EC remodeling in response to flow was attenuated by HS degradation and in the absence of SDC1, but preserved with GPC1 knockdown. These findings clearly demonstrate that HS is involved in both centralized and decentralized GCX-mediated mechanotransduction mechanisms, with GPC1 acting as a centralized mechanotransmission agent and SDC1 functioning in decentralized mechanotransmission. This foundational work demonstrates how EC can transform fluid shear forces into diverse biomolecular and biomechanical responses.


Cephalopods have been utilised in neuroscience research for more than 100years particularly because of their phenotypic plasticity, complex and centralised nervous system, tractability for studies of learning and cellular mechanisms of memory (e.g. long-term potentiation) and anatomical features facilitating physiological studies (e.g. squid giant axon and synapse). On 1 January 2013, research using any of the about 700 extant species of &quot;live cephalopods&quot; became regulated within the European Union by Directive 2010/63/EU on the &quot;Protection of Animals used for Scientific Purposes&quot;, giving cephalopods the same EU legal protection as previously afforded only to vertebrates. The Directive has a number of implications, particularly for neuroscience research. These include: (1) projects will need justification, authorisation from local competent authorities, and be subject to review including a harm-benefit assessment and adherence to the 3Rs principles (Replacement, Refinement and Reduction). (2) To support project evaluation and compliance with the new EU law, guidelines specific to cephalopods will need to be developed, covering capture, transport, handling, housing, care, maintenance, health monitoring, humane anaesthesia, analgesia and euthanasia. (3) Objective criteria need to be developed to identify signs of pain, suffering, distress and lasting harm particularly in the context of their induction by an experimental procedure. Despite diversity of views existing on some of these topics, this paper reviews the above topics and describes the approaches being taken by the cephalopod research community (represented by the authorship) to produce &quot;guidelines&quot; and the potential contribution of neuroscience research to cephalopod welfare.

The attitudes that characterize the contemporary &quot;neuro-turn&quot; were strikingly commonplace as part of the self-fashioning of social identity in the biographies and personal papers of past neurologists and neuroscientists. Indeed, one fundamental connection between nineteenth- and twentieth-century neurology and contemporary neuroscience appears to be the value that workers in both domains attach to the idea of integration, a vision of neural science and medicine that connected reductionist science to broader inquiries about the mind, brain, and human nature and in so doing supposedly resolved once and for all questions germane to the human sciences, humanities, and arts. How those attitudes were produced and reproduced first in neurology and then in neuroscience; in what way they were constructed and disciplined, thereby eventuating in the contested sciences and medicines of the mind, brain, and nervous system; and even how they garnered ever-wider contemporary purchase in cultures and societies are thus fascinating problems for historians of science and medicine. Such problems shed light on ethics, practices, controversies, and the uneasy social relations within those scientific and medical domains. But more to the point of this essay: they also account for the apparent epistemological weight now accorded &quot;the neuro&quot; in our contemporary moment. They thus illuminate in a rather different way why historians have suddenly discovered the value of &quot;the neuro&quot;.
A neurohistorical approach begins with the principle that the human brain is relatively plastic and therefore continuously open to developmental and cultural influences. This does not mean that we should treat the brain as a blank slate. Instead, such influences, as they interact with given brain/body systems, can generate unpredictable forward-acting effects. The phenomenon of compulsive hoarding offers a case study of a historically or culturally situated behavior that can be approached in this way. Hoarding appears to be correlated with cognitive lesions or genetic predispositions. Yet although the behavior is very visible today, there is little evidence for the practice in the human past, suggesting that something has triggered the growing prevalence of the phenomenon. Using the coevolutionary approach intrinsic to environmental history, we can treat the rise of compulsive hoarding as an emergent phenomenon generated by the unpredictable ways in which cognitive and endocrinological systems have interacted with a changing material environment. The results of this inquiry suggest not only why history needs cognitive neuroscience but also why neuroscience needs history.
This essay introduces a Focus section on &quot;Neurohistory and History of Science&quot; by distinguishing images of the brain as governor and as transducer: the former treat the brain as the executive control center of the body, the latter as an interface between the organism and reality at large. Most of the consternation expressed in the symposium about the advent of neurohistory derives from the brain-as-governor conception, which is rooted in a &quot;biologistic&quot; understanding of humanity that in recent years has become bound up in various nefarious &quot;neoliberal&quot; political and economic agendas. However, given the sophisticated attitude that neurohistory's leading champion, Daniel Smail, displays toward evolutionary theory's potential impact on historical practice, he is perhaps better understood as part of the brain-as-transducer tradition. This tradition, largely suppressed in current representations of neuroscience, has a strong theological provenance, ultimately concerned with our becoming attuned to the divine frequency, not least by extending the powers of the human nervous system through technology. This essay sympathetically explores the implications of this perspective for historical practice.
While many studies have assessed the efficacy of similarity-based cues for auditory stream segregation, much less is known about whether and how the larger-scale structure of sound sequences support stream formation and the choice of sound organization. Two experiments investigated the effects of musical melody and rhythm on the segregation of two interleaved tone sequences. The two sets of tones fully overlapped in pitch range but differed from each other in interaural time and intensity. Unbeknownst to the listener, separately, each of the interleaved sequences was created from the notes of a different song. In different experimental conditions, the notes and/or their timing could either follow those of the songs or they could be scrambled or, in case of timing, set to be isochronous. Listeners were asked to continuously report whether they heard a single coherent sequence (integrated) or two concurrent streams (segregated). Although temporal overlap between tones from the two streams proved to be the strongest cue for stream segregation, significant effects of tonality and familiarity with the songs were also observed. These results suggest that the regular temporal patterns are utilized as cues in auditory stream segregation and that long-term memory is involved in this process.
Sounds such as the voice or musical instruments can be recognized on the basis of timbre alone. Here, sound recognition was investigated with severely reduced timbre cues. Short snippets of naturally recorded sounds were extracted from a large corpus. Listeners were asked to report a target category (e.g., sung voices) among other sounds (e.g., musical instruments). All sound categories covered the same pitch range, so the task had to be solved on timbre cues alone. The minimum duration for which performance was above chance was found to be short, on the order of a few milliseconds, with the best performance for voice targets. Performance was independent of pitch and was maintained when stimuli contained less than a full waveform cycle. Recognition was not generally better when the sound snippets were time-aligned with the sound onset compared to when they were extracted with a random starting time. Finally, performance did not depend on feedback or training, suggesting that the cues used by listeners in the artificial gating task were similar to those relevant for longer, more familiar sounds. The results show that timbre cues for sound recognition are available at a variety of time scales, including very short ones.

















Handling small animals for veterinary and experimental procedures can negatively affect animal wellbeing. We hypothesized that playful handling (tickling) would decrease stress associated with repeated injections in adult laboratory rats, especially those with prior tickling experience. We compared responses of 4 groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats to intraperitoneal injection of saline daily for 10 d. Rats either tickled or not tickled as juveniles (2 min/d for 21 d) were exposed as adults to either a passive hand or tickling for 2 min immediately before and after injections. Rates of vocalization (22- and 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USV), indicative of negative and positive affective states, respectively, and audible calls indicative of pain and discomfort) were quantified before, during, and after injection. Tickling before and after injection, especially when combined with juvenile tickling experience (ending 40 to 50 d earlier), increased 50-kHz USV rates before and after injection, reduced audible call rate during injection, and decreased the duration of the injection procedure. The treatments did not affect indicators of physiologic stress (body weight change; fecal corticosteroid levels). We conclude that playful handling performed in association with a mildly aversive procedure serves as a useful refinement by inducing a positive affective state that mitigates the aversiveness of the procedure and makes rats easier to handle, especially when they have been accustomed to tickling as juveniles.
Laboratory mice preferentially rear their offspring in communal nests (CN), with all mothers contributing to maternal care and feeding of all the pups. Previous studies using primarily outbred mice have shown that offspring reared under CN conditions may display increased preweaning growth rates and differences in adult behavior and neurobiology compared with mice reared under single-nesting (SN; one dam with her litter) conditions. Here we compared pup mortality; weaning and adult body weights; adult behavior; and gene expression in the hippocampus and frontal cortex between C57BL/6J, DBA/2J and 129x1/SvJ mice reared by using CN (3 dams and their litters sharing a single nest) or SN. Male and female pups of all 3 strains reared in CN cages showed higher body weight at weaning than did SN pups of the same strain, with no significant difference in pup mortality between groups. Adult male offspring reared in CN showed no differences in any behavioral test when compared with SN offspring. Combining CN dams and litters after parturition revealed greater cortical brain-derived neurotropic factor expression in adult male C57BL/6J offspring and cortical glucocorticoid receptor expression in adult male C57BL/6J and 129x1/SvJ offspring as compared with SN offspring of the same strain. Communal rearing can enhance juvenile growth rates but does not change adult behavior in inbred mouse strains, although potential effects on adult neurophysiology are possible.



Most medical curricula rely on human bodies for teaching macroscopic anatomy. Over the past 20 years, plastination has become an important means of preservation of organs, for well dissected specimens or for body slices. Here, several critical points regarding body donation with legal and ethical considerations for long-term preservation, the use of cadavers in teaching and the preparation of plastinates as an additional teaching tool will be discussed. Silicone S10 is the gold standard in the preparation of plastinates. An important point to respect is the preparation of specimens, since only very well dissected body parts or excellent tissue sections should be plastinated to show the extraordinary aspects of the human anatomy. The preparation of thin and transparent sections and preservation with P40 polyester provides an additional technique to prepare resistant body slices. A selection of samples prepared by S10 and P40 are shown and compared. In addition, Prussian or Berlin blue staining of brain slices is shown to discriminate better between gray and white matter and demonstrate neuroanatomical structures. These plastinates have been used for many years in teaching first- and second-year medical students and have not lost their appeal. Students and staff appreciate the use of such plastinates. One of the advantages is that their use is not restricted to the dissection hall; slices and body parts can be used in any lecture room or in small group teaching. Therefore, ethical and legal questions need to be addressed regarding their specific use. Plastinates do not replace the traditional dissection courses, since students learn best the anatomical features of a given region by hands-on dissection and by exploratory anatomy. Furthermore, plastinates are more rigid and do not allow demonstration of hidden structures; they also become more cumbersome for endoscopy or are too rigid for demonstrating mechanical features of joints. However, although not a replacement for traditional dissections, plastination provides an additional tool for long-term preservation and for teaching human anatomy.
Social cognition deficits are observed in a variety of psychiatric illnesses. However, data concerning anxiety disorders are sparse and difficult to interpret. This meta-analysis aims at determining if social cognition is affected in social phobia (SP) or posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) compared to non-clinical controls and the specificity of such deficits relatively to other anxiety disorders. The scoping review aims to identify research gaps in the field. Forty studies assessing mentalizing, emotion recognition, social perception/knowledge or attributional style in anxiety disorders were included, totalizing 1417 anxious patients and 1321 non-clinical controls. Results indicate distinct patterns of social cognition impairments: people with PTSD show deficits in mentalizing (effect size d = -1.13) and emotion recognition (d = -1.6) while other anxiety disorders including SP showed attributional biases (d = -0.53 to d = -1.15). The scoping review identified several under investigated domains of social cognition in anxiety disorders. Some recommendations are expressed for future studies to explore the full range of social cognition in anxiety disorders and allow direct comparisons between different disorders.
Little research has investigated changes in subjective distress during cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for anxiety disorders in youth. In the current study, 40 youth diagnosed with primary obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD; M age = 11.9 years, 60% male, 80% Caucasian) and 36 parent informants completed separate weekly ratings of child distress for each OC symptom during a 12-session course of CBT. Between-session changes in distress were calculated at the start of, on average throughout, and at the end of treatment. On average throughout treatment, child- and parent-reported decreases in child distress were significant. Baseline OCD severity, functional impairment, and internalizing symptoms predicted degree of change in child distress. Additionally, greater decreases in child distress were predictive of more improved clinical outcomes. Findings advance our understanding of the strengths and limitations of this clinical tool. Future studies should examine youth distress change between and within CBT sessions across both subjective and psychophysiological levels of analysis.
Anxiety sensitivity (AS) has been implicated in the development and maintenance of a range of mental health problems. The development of the Anxiety Sensitivity Index - 3, a psychometrically sound index of AS, has provided the opportunity to better understand how the lower-order factors of AS - physical, psychological, and social concerns - are associated with unique forms of psychopathology. The present study investigated these associations among 85 treatment-seeking adults with high AS. Participants completed measures of AS, anxiety, and depression. Multiple regression analyses controlling for other emotional disorder symptoms revealed unique associations between AS subscales and certain types of psychopathology. Only physical concerns predicted unique variance in panic, only cognitive concerns predicted unique variance in depressive symptoms, and social anxiety was predicted by only social concerns. Findings emphasize the importance of considering the multidimensional nature of AS in understanding its role in anxiety and depression and their treatment.
Motor impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) is partly due to defective central processing of lower limb afferents. Concomitant alterations in cardiovascular autonomic control leading to orthostatic hypotension may worsen motor ability. We evaluated whether mechanical activation of feet sensory afferents could improve gait and modify the response of cardiovascular autonomic control to stressors in 16 patients (age 66  2 yr) with idiopathic PD (Hoehn &amp; Yhar scale 2-3) on their usual therapy. Eight subjects (group A) were randomized to undergo skin pressure (0.58  0.04 kg/mm(2)) stimulation at the hallux tip and first metatarsal joint (effective stimulation; ES) of both feet. Eight remaining patients (group B) underwent sham stimulation (SS) followed by ES. Three-dimensional movement analysis provided quantitative indexes of movement disability before (baseline) and 24 h after ES and SS. Spectral analysis of heart rate and blood pressure variability provided markers of cardiac sympatho-vagal (LF/HF) and vascular sympathetic (LFSAP) modulations. Markers were measured at rest and during 75 head-up tilt, before and 24 h after ES and SS. After ES, step length and gait velocity increased, upright rotation velocity was enhanced, and step number was decreased. After ES, LFSAP declined. The increase in LF/HF and LFSAP induced by tilt was greater than before feet stimulation. No changes in gait and autonomic parameters were observed after SS. Twenty-four hours after ES, patients with PD showed improved gait and increased cardiac and vascular sympathetic modulation during upright position compared with baseline. Conversely, SS was ineffective on both movement and autonomic parameters, indicating a site specificity effect of the stimulation.
We conducted a longitudinal study of 30 preschool children with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) to evaluate the potential benefits of the Treatment and Education of Autistic and related Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH). Fifteen children following a low intensity TEACCH program were assessed four times for autism severity, adaptive functioning, language skills, maladaptive behaviors and parental stress and compared with a control group of 15 children following a non-specific approach. Findings suggest that a low intensity home and school TEACCH program may provide benefits for children with ASD by reducing autistic symptoms and maladaptive behaviors. Furthermore, a decrease in parental stress indicates that parents' involvement in the rehabilitation program is a crucial factor and contributes greatly to treatment efficacy.
Mutations in Methyl-CpG-Binding protein 2 (MECP2) are commonly associated with the neurodevelopmental disorder Rett syndrome (RTT). However, some people with RTT do not have mutations in MECP2, and interestingly there have been people identified with MECP2 mutations that do not have the clinical features of RTT. In this report we present four people with neurodevelopmental abnormalities and clear RTT-disease causing MECP2 mutation but lacking the characteristic clinical features of RTT. One patient's symptoms suggest an extension of the known spectrum of MECP2 associated phenotypes to include global developmental delay with obsessive compulsive disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. These results reemphasize that RTT should remain a clinical diagnosis, based on the recent consensus criteria.



Osteoclasts are multinucleated cells responsible for the resorption of bone and other mineralized tissues during development, physiological remodeling, and pathological bone loss. Osteoclasts have the ability to resorb substrate while concurrently migrating. However, the subcellular processes underlying migration are not well understood. It has been proposed that, in other cell types, cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+) ]i ) regulates cell protrusion as well as retraction. Integration of these distinct events would require precise spatiotemporal patterning of subcellular Ca(2+) . The large size of osteoclasts offers a unique opportunity to monitor patterns of Ca(2+) during cell migration. We used ratiometric imaging to map [Ca(2+) ]i within rat and mouse osteoclasts. Migration was characterized by lamellipodial outgrowth at the leading edge, along with intermittent retraction of the uropod. Migrating osteoclasts displayed elevation of [Ca(2+) ]i in the uropod, that began prior to retraction. Dissipation of this [Ca(2+) ]i gradient by loading osteoclasts with the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA abolished uropod retraction, on both glass and mineralized substrates. In contrast, elevation of [Ca(2+) ]i using ionomycin initiated prompt uropod retraction. To investigate downstream effectors, we treated cells with calpain inhibitor-1, which impaired uropod retraction. In contrast, lamellipodial outgrowth at the leading edge of osteoclasts was unaffected by any of these interventions, indicating that the signals regulating outgrowth are distinct from those triggering retraction. The large size of mature, multinucleated osteoclasts allowed us to discern a novel spatiotemporal pattern of Ca(2+) involved in cell migration. Whereas localized elevation of Ca(2+) is necessary for uropod retraction, lamellipod outgrowth is independent of Ca(2+) -a heretofore unrecognized degree of specificity underlying the regulation of osteoclast migration.

Ophthalmology was one of the most important specialties in Egyptian medicine, and more specialists are known in this field than in any other. This specialization seems, however, to have been of a purely noninvasive nature. Even though it has been claimed that cataract surgery was performed in pharaonic Egypt, careful analysis of the sources does not support the claim. No example of cataract surgery or of any other invasive ophthalmologic procedure can be found in the original sources.
Commonly used neuroimaging approaches in humans exploit hemodynamic or metabolic indicators of brain function. However, fundamental gaps remain in our ability to relate such hemo-metabolic reactivity to neurotransmission, with recent reports providing paradoxical information regarding the relationship among basal perfusion, functional imaging contrast, and neurotransmission in awake humans. Here, sequential magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) measurements of the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter, -aminobutyric acid (GABA+macromolecules normalized by the complex N-acetyl aspartate-N-acetyl aspartyl glutamic acid: [GABA(+)]/[NAA-NAAG]), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements of perfusion, fractional gray-matter volume, and arterial arrival time (AAT) are recorded in human visual cortex from a controlled cohort of young adult male volunteers with neurocognitive battery-confirmed comparable cognitive capacity (3T; n=16; age=233 years). Regression analyses reveal an inverse correlation between [GABA(+)]/[NAA-NAAG] and perfusion (R=-0.46; P=0.037), yet no relationship between AAT and [GABA(+)]/[NAA-NAAG] (R=-0.12; P=0.33). Perfusion measurements that do not control for AAT variations reveal reduced correlations between [GABA(+)]/[NAA-NAAG] and perfusion (R=-0.13; P=0.32). These findings largely reconcile contradictory reports between perfusion and inhibitory tone, and underscore the physiologic origins of the growing literature relating functional imaging signals, hemodynamics, and neurotransmission.
Previous studies have shown that intraparenchymal transplantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) ameliorates neurologic deficits in animals with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). However, massive grafted cell death after transplantation, possibly caused by a hostile host brain environment, lessens the effectiveness of this approach. We focused on the effect of oxidative stress against grafted NSCs and hypothesized that conferring antioxidant properties to transplanted NSCs may overcome their death and enhance neuroprotection after ICH. Copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is a specific antioxidant enzyme that counteracts superoxide anions. We investigated whether genetic manipulation to overexpress SOD1 enhances survival of grafted NSCs and accelerates amelioration of ICH. Neural stem cells that overexpress SOD1 were administered intracerebrally 3 days after ICH in a mouse model. Histologic and behavioral tests were examined after ICH. Copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase overexpression protected the grafted NSCs via a decrease in production of reactive oxygen species. This resulted in an increase in paracrine factors released by the NSCs, and an increase in surviving neurons in the striatum and a reduction in striatal atrophy. In addition, SOD1 overexpression showed progressive improvement in behavioral recovery. Our results suggest that enhanced antioxidative activity in NSCs improves efficacy of stem cell therapy for ICH.
Network activation triggers a significant energy metabolism increase in both neurons and astrocytes. Questions of the primary neuronal energy substrate (e.g., glucose vs. lactate) as well as the relative contributions of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation and their cellular origin (neurons vs. astrocytes) are still a matter of debates. Using simultaneous measurements of electrophysiological and metabolic parameters during synaptic stimulation in hippocampal slices from mature mice, we show that neurons and astrocytes use both glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation to meet their energy demands. Supplementation or replacement of glucose in artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) with pyruvate or lactate strongly modifies parameters related to network activity-triggered energy metabolism. These effects are not induced by changes in ATP content, pH(i), [Ca(2+)](i) or accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Our results suggest that during network activation, a significant fraction of NAD(P)H response (its overshoot phase) corresponds to glycolysis and the changes in cytosolic NAD(P)H and mitochondrial FAD are coupled. Our data do not support the hypothesis of a preferential utilization of astrocyte-released lactate by neurons during network activation in slices--instead, we show that during such activity glucose is an effective energy substrate for both neurons and astrocytes.
Chronic hypertension induces cerebrovascular remodeling, changing the inner diameter and elasticity of arterial vessels. To examine cerebrovascular morphologic changes and vasodilatory impairment in early-stage hypertension, we measured baseline (normocapnic) cerebral arterial blood volume (CBV(a)) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) as well as hypercapnia-induced dynamic vascular responses in animal models. All experiments were performed with young (3 to 4 month old) spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and control Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) under 1% isoflurane anesthesia at 9.4 Tesla. Baseline regional CBF values were similar in both animal groups, whereas SHR had significantly lower CBV(a) values, especially in the hippocampus area. As CBF is maintained by adjusting arterial diameters within the autoregulatory blood pressure range, CBV(a) is likely more sensitive than CBF for detecting hypertensive-mediated alterations. Unexpectedly, hypercapnia-induced CBF and blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) response were significantly higher in SHR as compared with WKY, and the CBF reactivity was highly correlated with the BOLD reactivity in both groups. The higher reactivity in early-stage hypertensive animals indicates no significant vascular remodeling occurred. At later stages of hypertension, the reduced vascular reactivity is expected. Thus, CBF and CBV(a) mapping may provide novel insights into regional cerebrovascular impairment in hypertension and its progression as hypertension advances.

Electrochemical methods are very often used to detect catecholamine and indolamine neurotransmitters separated by conventional reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The present paper presents the development of a chromatographic method to detect monoamines present in low-volume brain dialysis samples using a capillary column filled with sub-2m particles. Several parameters (repeatability, linearity, accuracy, limit of detection) for this new ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) method with electrochemical detection were examined after optimization of the analytical conditions. Noradrenaline, adrenaline, serotonin, dopamine and its metabolite 3-methoxytyramine were separated in 1L of injected sample volume; they were detected above concentrations of 0.5-1nmol/L, with 2.1-9.5% accuracy and intra-assay repeatability equal to or less than 6%. The final method was applied to very low volume dialysates from rat brain containing monoamine traces. The study demonstrates that capillary UHPLC with electrochemical detection is suitable for monitoring dialysate monoamines collected at high sampling rate.
Recently, differential expression of microRNAs, in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) suggests that they might have key regulatory roles in this neurodegenerative disease. Taking into account this fact, several studies demonstrated that the miR-29 is significantly decreased in AD patients, also displaying abnormally high levels of -site APP-cleaving enzyme 1. Thus, RNA biochemical or structural studies often require a RNA sample that is chemically pure and biologically active. The present work describes a new affinity chromatography method using an arginine support to specifically purify pre-miR-29 from other Rhodovulum sulfidophilum small RNA species. Nevertheless, in order to achieve higher efficiency and selectivity, it is essential to characterize the behavior of pre-miR-29 binding/elution. Thus, three different strategies based on increased sodium chloride (280-500mM), arginine (25mM) or decreased ammonium sulfate (2-0.1M) stepwise gradients are described to purify pre-miR-29. In this way, it was proved that well-defined binding/elution conditions are crucial to enhance the purification performance. As a matter of fact, by employing elution strategies using sodium chloride or arginine, an improvement in the final pre-miR-29 yields (96.5 and 56.7%, respectively) was obtained. Moreover, the quality control analysis revealed high integrity in pre-miR-29 preparations as well as high purity (90 and 98%, respectively), demonstrated by the scarce detection of proteins. This improved method takes advantage of its simplicity, significant cost reduction, due to the elimination of some complex operations, and speed for large-scale purification of pre-miRNAs suitable for biochemical and structural studies.
Context: TSH-suppressive doses of levothyroxine (L-T4) have adverse effects on bone and cardiac function, but it is unclear whether central nervous system function is also affected. Objective: The aim of the study was to determine whether women receiving TSH-suppressive L-T4 doses have decrements in health status, mood, or cognitive function. Design and Setting: A cross-sectional comparison was made among three groups of women in an academic medical center research clinic. Patients: Twenty-four women receiving chronic TSH-suppressive L-T4 doses, 35 women receiving chronic replacement L-T4 doses, and 20 untreated control women participated in the study. Interventions: Subjects underwent testing at a single outpatient visit. Main Outcome Measures: We measured health status (SF-36), mood (Profile of Mood States, Symptom Checklist 90-R, Affective Lability Scale), and cognitive function (declarative memory [Paragraph Recall], working memory [N-back, Subject Ordered Pointing], motor learning [Pursuit Rotor, Motor Sequence Learning Test], and executive function [Letter Cancellation Test, Trail Making Test, Iowa Gambling Test]). Results: Women receiving TSH-suppressive or replacement L-T4 doses had decrements in health status and mood compared to healthy controls. These decrements were more pronounced in women receiving replacement, rather than suppressive, L-T4 doses. Memory and executive function were not affected in either treated group, compared to healthy controls. Conclusions: Women receiving TSH-suppressive doses of L-T4 do not have central nervous system dysfunction due to exogenous subclinical thyrotoxicosis, but TSH-suppressed and L-T4-replaced women have slight decrements in health status and mood that may be related to self-knowledge of the presence of a thyroid condition or other uncharacterized factors. These mood alterations do not impair cognitive function.
Context: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating the efficacy of vitamin D (Vit D) in depression provided inconsistent results. Objective: We aim to summarize the evidence of RCTs to assess the efficacy of oral Vit D supplementation in depression compared to placebo. Data Sources: We searched electronic databases, two conference proceedings, and gray literature by contacting authors of included studies. Study Selection: We selected parallel RCTs investigating the effect of oral Vit D supplementation compared with placebo on depression in adults at risk of depression, with depression symptoms or a primary diagnosis of depression. Data Extraction: Two reviewers independently extracted data from relevant literature. Data Synthesis: Classical and Bayesian random-effects meta-analyses were used to pool relative risk, odds ratio, and standardized mean difference. The quality of evidence was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation tool. Results: Six RCTs were identified with 1203 participants (72% females) including 71 depressed patients; five of the studies involved adults at risk of depression, and one trial used depressed patients. Results of the classical meta-analysis showed no significant effect of Vit D supplementation on postintervention depression scores (standardized mean difference = -0.14, 95% confidence interval = -0.41 to 0.13, P = .32; odds ratio = 0.93, 95% confidence interval = 0.54 to 1.59, P = .79). The quality of evidence was low. No significant differences were demonstrated in subgroup or sensitivity analyses. Similar results were found when Bayesian meta-analyses were applied. Conclusions: There is insufficient evidence to support the efficacy of Vit D supplementation in depression symptoms, and more RCTs using depressed patients are warranted.
Context: Reports on psychiatric morbidity in males with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) are lacking. Objective: The aim was to study psychiatric disorders in CAH males. Design, Setting, and Participants: We studied males with CAH (21-hydroxylase deficiency, n = 253; CYP21A2 mutations known, n = 185), and compared them with controls (n = 25 300). Data were derived through linkage of national population-based registers. We assessed the subgroups of CYP21A2 genotype separately (null, I2splice, I172N, P30L, and NC), as well as outcomes before and after the introduction of national neonatal screening in 1986. Main Outcome Measures: Psychiatric disorders including attempted and completed suicide (suicidality) were reviewed. Results: Psychiatric disorders (suicidality not included), suicidality, and alcohol misuse were increased in CAH males compared with controls (odds ratios, 1.5, 2.3, and 1.9; 95% confidence intervals, 1.1-2.2, 1.1-5.0, and 1.0-3.5, respectively). In the null genotype group, no increased rates were seen; in the I2splice group, psychiatric disorders, personality disorders, and alcohol misuse were increased; in the I172N group, suicide attempt and drug misuse were increased; and in the P30L and NC groups, psychotic disorders were increased. In CAH males born before the neonatal screening, the rates of psychiatric disorders and suicidality were increased, but only psychotic disorders increased in those born afterward. There was no increased risk for any neurodevelopmental disorder. Conclusions: CAH males have an increased psychiatric morbidity. Psychiatric morbidity was not raised in the most severe genotype group. Late diagnosis of CAH may explain some of the findings. Those born before the introduction of neonatal screening were more affected, which may be explained by the higher age.

Gliomas account for 70% of human malignant primary brain tumours. The most common form is glioblastoma multiforme, World Health Organization grade IV. Despite the implementation of post-operative adjuvant radiotherapy with concurrent temozolomide (TMZ), the disease's overall prognosis remains dismal. TMZ is currently the only mono-chemotherapeutic agent for newly-diagnosed high-grade glioma patients and acquired resistance inevitably occurs in the majority of such patients, further limiting treatment options. Therefore, there is an urgent need to better understand the underlying mechanisms involved in TMZ resistance, a critical step to developing effective, targeted treatments. An emerging body of evidence suggests the intimate involvement of a novel class of nucleic acid, microRNA (miRNA), in tumorigenesis and disease progression for a number of human malignancies, including primary brain tumours. miRNA are short, single-stranded, non-coding RNA (22 nucleotides) that function as post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression. This review provides an overview of the key treatment obstacles faced in patients with high-grade gliomas, especially in the context of recurrent, chemoresistant tumours and the potential roles of miRNA in chemoresistance and management of this disease.
Meningiomas may express a number of potentially growth-promoting receptors including receptors for progesterone, growth hormone and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). These and other receptors are potential targets for chemotherapy. We have prospectively studied a panel of markers as a routine in order to obtain data of individual expression of markers that may provide targets for anti-receptor treatment. One hundred and seventy-five consecutive patients operated on for meningiomas between 2005 and 2008 were prospectively analysed with antibodies against receptors for growth hormone, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), androgen receptors, progesterone receptors (PR) and antibodies against CD34, VEGF, Ki-67 and caspase-3. Expression of IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1r), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) E30 and growth hormone receptor (GHr) was conserved across histological grades and found in 88% to 94% of meningiomas. PR were detected in 87%, but expression decreased in aggressive tumours. Angio-markers such as VEGF and CD34 were detected in 69% and 17% of meningiomas, respectively. Androgen receptors and caspase-3 were uncommon. The analyses of a panel were undertaken as a clinical routine in order to assess its feasibility and to provide data that can be utilised in a clinical setting. Three putative therapeutic receptor targets, IGF-1r, GHr and EGFR E30 were expressed in a large majority of tumours and in contrast to PR maintained expression despite increasing pathological grade of meningioma. Our data also suggest that anti-progesterone therapies and anti-angiogenic therapies could be targeted to subsets of meningioma patients who express PR or have CD34-positive tumours.
The beneficial effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) for the motor symptoms in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) are well established. Early in PD, mild cognitive impairment is present in a proportion of patients. Hence, it can also be present in PD patients considered for DBS. The potential impact of even a modest decline post-surgically is a concern because it could result in impaired cognitive function. Therefore, attempts to determine which pre-operative cognitive measures predict post-operative cognitive change warrant further attention. We report our findings in a cohort of 30 routinely operated non-demented patients who underwent detailed neuropsychological assessments on average 7.1 months before and 9.4 months after STN DBS. We report the individual and group differences pre- and post-DBS. Stepwise regression analysis was used to analyse the best cognitive predictors of post-operative cognitive changes. We describe our data in relation to published normative data. Post-STN DBS, the immediate story recall component of verbal memory was the most affected cognitive function showing a significant decline in its group mean with a large effect size. The best predictors for this change were pre-surgical list learning and Full Scale Intelligence Quotient. These results suggest that non-demented patients, with even mild impairments in both general intellectual functions and list learning, may be at greater risk of decline in other aspects of verbal memory after STN DBS. Pre-existing mild executive dysfunction was not influenced post-operatively. These findings may help selection and consent for STN DBS.
Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator is associated with significant recanalisation failure in the setting of large artery occlusion. Endovascular treatment by stentriever achieves improved rates of recanalisation but its impact on clinical outcomes remains unclear. We hypothesise that successful recanalisation, unattentuated by age and stroke severity, is associated with improved clinical outcomes in patients treated with the Solitaire stentriever (ev3 Endovascular, Plymouth, MN, USA). We conducted a retrospective study of 60 consecutive acute ischaemic stroke patients treated with the Solitaire stentriever. The data included demographics, vascular risk factors, ictal onset time, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score at presentation, angiographic findings, post-procedure imaging, and clinical follow-up. Recanalisation success was defined as a thrombolysis in cerebral infarction score (TICI)  2b. Good clinical outcome was defined as a modified Rankin Scale score (mRS)  2 at 3 months. Of the 60 patients, the mean age was 64.1 (standard deviation 13.4) years and 68.3% were men. Median NIHSS score at presentation was 18 (interquartile range 14-22). Successful recanalisation (TICI  2b) was achieved in 44 patients (73.3%). Of these 44 patients, 25 patients (56.8%) achieved mRS  2 at 3months. Multiple logistic regression showed significant association between recanalisation success and improved clinical outcome (p=0.019). Of all patients, four (6.7%) developed symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage. Overall mortality was 28.3%. In conclusion, the Solitaire stentriever was associated with improved recanalisation rates. We showed that successful recanalisation is associated with good clinical outcomes after adjustments for age, sex and stroke severity.
A type I Chiari malformation occurs when caudal displacement of the cerebellar tonsils below the level of the foramen magnum obstructs the normal flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) between the cranial and spinal spaces, a condition that often needs surgical decompression to restore normal CSF circulation. Abrupt changes in CSF flow dynamics after Chiari decompression can affect the intracranial CSF dynamics to the extent that a previously undiagnosed intracranial aneurysm remote from the site can rupture. The authors describe the development of an intraoperative aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage that occurred as a result of spontaneous rupture of a previously undiagnosed right distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery in a 57-year-old woman with type I Chiari malformation who was undergoing surgical decompression. The mechanism of the aneurysmal rupture appears to be related to the changes of CSF flow dynamics during surgical decompression. Normally, pressure equilibrium between the two sides of the aneurysmal wall prevents its rupture, but factors that significantly affect this equilibrium, such as systemic hypertension, can cause the aneurysm to rupture. To our knowledge, the concept of spontaneous intraoperative rupture of intracranial aneurysm remote from the site of surgery has been described twice previously but under different scenarios. This scenario, to our knowledge, has not been previously described.
Modern image-guided spinal navigation employs high-quality intra-operative three dimensional (3D) images to improve the accuracy of spinal surgery. This study aimed to assess the accuracy of thoraco-lumbar pedicle screw insertion using the O-arm (Breakaway Imaging, LLC, Littleton, MA, USA) 3D imaging system. Ninety-two patients underwent insertion of thoraco-lumbar pedicle screws guided by O-arm navigation over a 27 month period. Intra-operative scans were retrospectively reviewed for pedicle breach. The operative time of patients where O-arm navigation was used was compared to a matched control group where fluoroscopy was used. A total of 467 pedicle screws were inserted. Four hundred and forty-five screws (95.3%) were placed within the pedicle without any breach (Gertzbein classification grade 0). Sixteen screws (3.4%) had a pedicle breach of less than 2mm (Gertzbein classification grade 1), and six screws (1.3%) had a pedicle breach between 2mm and 4mm (Gertzbein classification grade 2). The grade 2 screws were revised intra-operatively. There was no incidence of neurovascular injury in this series of patients. The mean operative time for O-arm patients was 5.25 hours. In a matched control group of fluoroscopy patients, the mean operative time was 4.75 hours. The difference in the mean operative time between the two groups was not statistically significant (p=0.15, paired t-test). Stereotactic navigation based on intra-operative O-arm 3D imaging resulted in high accuracy in thoraco-lumbar pedicle screw insertion.
A data mining study that examined associations between 105 drugs and 55 cancer sites found significant associations between 2 selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (fluoxetine and paroxetine) and testicular cancer. The study suggested several reasons why these associations merited further investigation. A later study tested specific relationships between 12 antidepressant drugs and testicular cancer and subtypes thereof; whereas significant relationships were again found, these disappeared after adjusting for confounding variables. These 2 studies are educative because they illustrate how false-positive results can easily arise in exploratory research and how confounding may be responsible for statistically significant relationships in study designs that are not randomized controlled trials.
Our ability to make decisions is predicated upon our knowledge of the outcomes of the actions available to us. Reinforcement learning theory posits that actions followed by a reward or punishment acquire value through the computation of prediction errors-discrepancies between the predicted and the actual reward. A multitude of neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that rewards and punishments evoke neural responses that appear to reflect reinforcement learning prediction errors [e.g., Krigolson, O. E., Pierce, L. J., Holroyd, C. B., &amp; Tanaka, J. W. Learning to become an expert: Reinforcement learning and the acquisition of perceptual expertise. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 21, 1833-1840, 2009; Bayer, H. M., &amp; Glimcher, P. W. Midbrain dopamine neurons encode a quantitative reward prediction error signal. Neuron, 47, 129-141, 2005; O'Doherty, J. P. Reward representations and reward-related learning in the human brain: Insights from neuroimaging. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 14, 769-776, 2004; Holroyd, C. B., &amp; Coles, M. G. H. The neural basis of human error processing: Reinforcement learning, dopamine, and the error-related negativity. Psychological Review, 109, 679-709, 2002]. Here, we used the brain ERP technique to demonstrate that not only do rewards elicit a neural response akin to a prediction error but also that this signal rapidly diminished and propagated to the time of choice presentation with learning. Specifically, in a simple, learnable gambling task, we show that novel rewards elicited a feedback error-related negativity that rapidly decreased in amplitude with learning. Furthermore, we demonstrate the existence of a reward positivity at choice presentation, a previously unreported ERP component that has a similar timing and topography as the feedback error-related negativity that increased in amplitude with learning. The pattern of results we observed mirrored the output of a computational model that we implemented to compute reward prediction errors and the changes in amplitude of these prediction errors at the time of choice presentation and reward delivery. Our results provide further support that the computations that underlie human learning and decision-making follow reinforcement learning principles.
To sustain successful behavior in dynamic environments, active organisms must be able to learn from the consequences of their actions and predict action outcomes. One of the most important discoveries in systems neuroscience over the last 15 years has been about the key role of the neurotransmitter dopamine in mediating such active behavior. Dopamine cell firing was found to encode differences between the expected and obtained outcomes of actions. Although activity of dopamine cells does not specify movements themselves, a recent study in humans has suggested that tonic levels of dopamine in the dorsal striatum may in part enable normal movement by encoding sensitivity to the energy cost of a movement, providing an implicit &quot;motor motivational&quot; signal for movement. We investigated the motivational hypothesis of dopamine by studying motor performance of patients with Parkinson disease who have marked dopamine depletion in the dorsal striatum and compared their performance with that of elderly healthy adults. All participants performed rapid sequential movements to visual targets associated with different risk and different energy costs, countered or assisted by gravity. In conditions of low energy cost, patients performed surprisingly well, similar to prescriptions of an ideal planner and healthy participants. As energy costs increased, however, performance of patients with Parkinson disease dropped markedly below the prescriptions for action by an ideal planner and below performance of healthy elderly participants. The results indicate that the ability for efficient planning depends on the energy cost of action and that the effect of energy cost on action is mediated by dopamine.
Single-trial fluctuations in the EEG signal have been shown to temporally correlate with the fMRI BOLD response and are valuable for modeling trial-to-trial fluctuations in responses. The P1 and N1 components of the visual ERP are sensitive to different attentional modulations, suggesting that different aspects of stimulus processing can be modeled with these ERP parameters. As such, different patterns of BOLD covariation for P1 and N1 informed regressors would be expected; however, current findings are equivocal. We investigate the effects of variations in attention on P1 and N1 informed BOLD activation in a visual oddball task. Simultaneous EEG-fMRI data were recorded from 13 healthy participants during three conditions of a visual oddball task: Passive, Count, and Respond. We show that the P1 and N1 components of the visual ERP can be used in the integration-by-prediction method of EEG-fMRI data integration to highlight brain regions related to target detection and response production. Our data suggest that the P1 component of the ERP reflects changes in sensory encoding of stimulus features and is more informative for the Passive and Count conditions. The N1, on the other hand, was more informative for the Respond condition, suggesting that it can be used to model the processing of stimulus, meaning specifically discriminating one type of stimulus from another, and processes involved in integrating sensory information with response selection. Our results show that an understanding of the underlying electrophysiology is necessary for a thorough interpretation of EEG-informed fMRI analysis.
The relative simplicity of certain invertebrate nervous systems, such as those of gastropod molluscs, allows behaviors to be dissected at the level of small neural circuits composed of individually identifiable neurons. Elucidating the neurotransmitter phenotype of neurons in neural circuits is important for understanding how those neural circuits function. In this study, we examined the distribution of -aminobutyric-acid;-immunoreactive (GABA-ir) neurons in four species of sea slugs (Mollusca, Gastropoda, Opisthobranchia, Nudibranchia): Tritonia diomedea, Melibe leonina, Dendronotus iris, and Hermissenda crassicornis. We found consistent patterns of GABA immunoreactivity in the pedal and cerebral-pleural ganglia across species. In particular, there were bilateral clusters in the lateral and medial regions of the dorsal surface of the cerebral ganglia as well as a cluster on the ventral surface of the pedal ganglia. There were also individual GABA-ir neurons that were recognizable across species. The invariant presence of these individual neurons and clusters suggests that they are homologous, although there were interspecies differences in the numbers of neurons in the clusters. The GABAergic system was largely restricted to the central nervous system, with the majority of axons confined to ganglionic connectives and commissures, suggesting a central, integrative role for GABA. GABA was a candidate inhibitory neurotransmitter for neurons in central pattern generator (CPG) circuits underlying swimming behaviors in these species, however none of the known swim CPG neurons were GABA-ir. Although the functions of these GABA-ir neurons are not known, it is clear that their presence has been strongly conserved across nudibranchs.
The systematic and topographic representation of frequency is a first principle of organization throughout the auditory system. The dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) receives direct tonotopic projections from the auditory nerve (AN) as well as secondary and descending projections from other sources. Among the recipients of AN input in the DCN are vertical cells (also called tuberculoventral cells), glycinergic interneurons thought to provide on- or near-best-frequency feed-forward inhibition to principal cells in the DCN and various cells in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN). Differing lines of physiological and anatomical evidence suggest that vertical cells and their projections are organized with respect to frequency, but this has not been conclusively demonstrated in the intact mammalian brain. To address this issue, we retrogradely labeled vertical cells via physiologically targeted injections in the AVCN of the CBA/J mouse. Results from multiple cases were merged with a normalized 3D template of the cochlear nucleus (Muniak et al. [2013] J. Comp. Neurol. 521:1510-1532) to demonstrate quantitatively that the arrangement of vertical cells is tonotopic and aligned to the innervation pattern of the AN. These results suggest that vertical cells are well positioned for providing immediate, frequency-specific inhibition onto cells of the DCN and AVCN to facilitate spectral processing.
The wall of the ventral third ventricle is composed of two distinct cell populations: tanycytes and ependymal cells. Tanycytes regulate many aspects of hypothalamic physiology, but little is known about the transcriptional network that regulates their development and function. We observed that the retina and anterior neural fold homeobox transcription factor (Rax) is selectively expressed in hypothalamic tanycytes, and showed a complementary pattern of expression to markers of hypothalamic ependymal cells, such as Rarres2 (retinoic acid receptor responder [tazarotene induced] 2). To determine whether Rax controls tanycyte differentiation and function, we generated Rax haploinsufficient mice and examined their cellular and molecular phenotype in adulthood. These mice appeared grossly normal, but careful examination revealed a thinning of the third ventricular wall and reduction of both tanycyte and ependymal markers. These experiments show that Rax is required for hypothalamic tanycyte and ependymal cell differentiation. Rax haploinsufficiency also resulted in the ectopic presence of ependymal cells in the 2 tanycytic zone, where few ependymal cells are normally found, suggesting that Rax is selectively required for 2 tanycyte differentiation. These changes in the ventricular wall were associated with reduced diffusion of Evans Blue tracer from the ventricle to the hypothalamic parenchyma, with no apparent repercussion on the gross anatomical or behavioral phenotype of these mice. In conclusion, we have provided evidence that Rax is required for the normal differentiation and patterning of hypothalamic tanycytes and ependymal cells, as well as for maintenance of the cerebrospinal fluid-hypothalamus barrier.
Electrical synapses are expressed prominently in the developing and mature nervous systems. Unlike chemical synapses, little is known about the developmental role of electrical synapses, reflecting the limitations imposed by the lack of selective pharmacological blockers. At a molecular level, the building blocks of electrical synapses are connexin proteins. In this study, we report the expression pattern for neuronally expressed connexin 35b (cx35b), the zebrafish orthologue of mammalian connexin (Cx) 36. We find that cx35b is expressed at the time of neural induction, indicating a possible early role in neural progenitor cells. Additionally, cx35b localizes to the ventral spinal cord during embryonic and early larval stages. We detect cx35b mRNA in secondary motor neurons (SMNs) and interneurons. We identified the premotor circumferential descending (CiD) interneuron as one interneuron subtype expressing cx35b. In addition, cx35b is present in other ventral interneurons of unknown subtype(s). This early expression of cx35b in SMNs and CiDs suggests a possible role in motor network function during embryonic and larval stages.
The parahippocampal region, which comprises the perirhinal, postrhinal, and entorhinal cortices, as well as the pre- and parasubiculum, receives inputs from several association cortices and provides the major cortical input to the hippocampus. This study examined the topographic organization of projections from the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) to the parahippocampal region in rats by injecting anterograde tracers, biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L), into four subdivisions of OFC. The rostral portion of the perirhinal cortex receives strong projections from the medial (MO), ventral (VO), and ventrolateral (VLO) orbitofrontal areas and the caudal portion of lateral orbitofrontal area (LO). These projections terminate in the dorsal bank and fundus of the rhinal sulcus. In contrast, the postrhinal cortex receives a strong projection specifically from VO. All four subdivisions of OFC give rise to projections to the dorsolateral parts of the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC), preferentially distributing to more caudal levels of LEC. The medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) receives moderate input from VO and weak projections from MO, VLO, and LO. The presubiculum receives strong projections from caudal VO but only weak projections from other OFC regions. As for the laminar distribution of projections, axons originating from OFC terminate more densely in upper layers (layers I-III) than in deep layers in the parahippocampal region. These results thus show a striking topographic organization of OFC-to-parahippocampal connectivity. Whereas LO, VLO, VO, and MO interact with perirhinal-LEC circuits, the interactions with postrhinal cortex, presubiculum, and MEC are mediated predominantly through the projections of VO.
Our knowledge of the hearing abilities of frogs and toads is largely defined by work with a few well-studied species. One way to further advance comparative work on anuran hearing would be greater use of minimally invasive electrophysiological measures, such as the auditory brainstem response (ABR). This study used the ABR evoked by tones and clicks to investigate hearing in Cope's gray treefrog (Hyla chrysoscelis). The objectives were to characterize the effects of sound frequency, sound pressure level, and subject sex and body size on ABRs. The ABR in gray treefrogs bore striking resemblance to ABRs measured in other animals. As stimulus level increased, ABR amplitude increased and latency decreased, and for responses to tones, these effects depended on stimulus frequency. Frequency-dependent differences in ABRs were correlated with expected differences in the tuning of two sensory end organs in the anuran inner ear (the amphibian and basilar papillae). The ABR audiogram indicated two frequency regions of increased sensitivity corresponding to the expected tuning of the two papillae. Overall, there was no effect of subject size and only small effects related to subject sex. Together, these results indicate the ABR is an effective method to study audition in anurans.
Anterior skull base defects with encephalocele in adults are quite rare and can be a cause of spontaneous rhinoliquorrhea; however, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistula can be not rarely misdiagnosed for several months or years. Five adult patients affected by ethmoidal encephalocele with CSF fistula were treated in our institute from 2006 through to 2011. Onset of clinical history was represented by rhinoliquorrhea, which was precociously recognized in only 1 patient; in the other 4, it was misdiagnosed for a period ranging from 11 months to 5 years. After clinical diagnosis of CSF fistula and after brain magnetic resonance imaging, ethmoidal encephalocele was evident in all patients; preoperative study was completed by spiral computed tomography scan, to clearly identify the skull base bone defect. All patients were operated on by transsphenoidal endonasal endoscope-assisted microsurgical approach through 1 nostril. The herniated brain was coagulated and removed, and reconstruction of cranial base was performed. Postoperative rhinoliquorrhea or other complications did not occur in any patient at short and late follow-up. All patients were discharged after a few days. Endonasal endoscope-assisted microsurgical approach was effective in exposing and repairing the ethmoidal bone defect; tridimensional vision and wide lateral and superior exposition of the operative field were possible in each patient, thanks to the use of microscope and angulated endoscope.
The purpose of this study was to determine how North American dental students are taught neuroscience during their preclinical dental education. This survey represents one part of a larger research project, the Basic Science Survey Series for Dentistry, which covers all of the biomedical science coursework required of preclinical students in North American dental schools. Members of the Section on Anatomical Sciences of the American Dental Education Association assembled, distributed, and analyzed the neuroscience survey, which had a 98.5 percent response from course directors of the sixty-seven North American dental schools. The eighteen-item instrument collected demographic data on the course directors, information on the content in each course, and information on how neuroscience content is presented. Findings indicate that 1) most neuroscience instruction is conducted by non-dental school faculty members; 2) large content variability exists between programs; and 3) an increase in didactic instruction, integrated curricula, and use of computer-aided instruction is occurring. It is anticipated that the information derived from the survey will help guide neuroscience curricula in dental schools and aid in identifying appropriate content.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has been reported to ameliorate auditory hallucinations that are nonresponsive/minimally responsive to antipsychotic treatment in schizophrenia. The neurobiological basis of the tDCS effects in ameliorating auditory hallucinations is yet to be explored. In this case report, for the first time, using the novel method for noninvasive assessment of cortical plasticity, we demonstrate potential neuroplasticity effect of tDCS in improving treatment-resistant auditory hallucinations in a schizophrenic patient.
Studies have generally shown a positive association between socioeconomic status (SES) and obesity in low-income countries, but few have tested this relationship in the Middle East where obesity prevalence is extraordinarily high and the nutrition profile more closely resembles developed world contexts. The objective of this study is to examine the SES-obesity association in Cairo, Egypt. Multinomial regression analyses were conducted and predicted probabilities were found for overweight and obesity status among adult men and women in a stratified analysis. Data were taken from the 2007 Cairo Urban Inequity Study which collected information on 3993 individuals from 50 neighborhoods in the Cairo Governorate. Five different measures of SES were utilized - education, household expenditures, household assets, subjective wealth, and father's education. No significant associations were found between most measures of SES and overweight/obesity in this population. Overweight and obesity are prevalent across the SES spectrum. These findings suggest that obesity programs and policies should be targeted at all SES groups in Cairo, although specific mechanisms may vary by SES and should be explored further in future studies.
Recent studies suggest that infants understand that others can have false beliefs. However, most of these studies have used looking time measures, and the few that have used behavioral measures are all based on the change-of-location paradigm, leading to claims that infants might use behavioral rules instead of mental state understanding to pass these tests. We investigated infants' false-belief reasoning using a different paradigm. In this unexpected-contents helping task, 18-month-olds were familiarized with boxes for blocks that contained blocks. When an experimenter subsequently reached for a box for blocks that now contained a spoon, infants based their choice of whether to give her a spoon or a block on her true or false belief about which object the block box contained. These results help to demonstrate the flexibility of infants' false-belief understanding.
All available studies addressing the clinical and legal aspects of child pornography have systematically concerned male abusers. The social lens through which women are viewed tends to play down their responsibility in the sexual abuse of children. Unlike men, women rarely abuse children outside the close or family circle. Furthermore, they have frequently been abused themselves in their childhood. To our knowledge, no cases of women charged with sex-related offences, including child pornography, have been described in the literature. The psychopathological characteristics of female sexual abusers and of the two women in our cases tend to suggest that the deliberate downloading of child pornography images by women is unusual, as their deviant behaviour is not related to paedophile sexual arousal It is hypothesized that the act enables women perpetrators to satisfy the sexual urges of their spouse. Sexual abuse by women exists, but the nature of the abuse appears to be specific to the gender of the perpetrator. We present two cases of women charged with sexual offences concerning minors, including the production of child pornography material.
A major goal of biophysics is to understand the physical mechanisms of biological molecules and systems. Mechanistic models are evaluated based on their ability to explain carefully controlled experiments. By fitting models to data, biophysical parameters that cannot be measured directly can be estimated from experimentation. However, it might be the case that many different combinations of model parameters can explain the observations equally well. In these cases, the model parameters are not identifiable: the experimentation has not provided sufficient constraining power to enable unique estimation of their true values. We demonstrate that this pitfall is present even in simple biophysical models. We investigate the underlying causes of parameter non-identifiability and discuss straightforward methods for determining when parameters of simple models can be inferred accurately. However, for models of even modest complexity, more general tools are required to diagnose parameter non-identifiability. We present a method based in Bayesian inference that can be used to establish the reliability of parameter estimates, as well as yield accurate quantification of parameter confidence.
Molecular imaging represents a bridge between basic and clinical neuroscience observations and provides many opportunities for translation and identifying mechanisms that may inform prevention and intervention strategies in late-life depression (LLD). Substantial advances in instrumentation and radiotracer chemistry have resulted in improved sensitivity and spatial resolution and the ability to study in vivo an increasing number of neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, and, importantly, neuropathological processes. Molecular brain imaging studies in LLD will be reviewed, with a primary focus on positron emission tomography. Future directions for the field of molecular imaging in LLD will be discussed, including integrating molecular imaging with genetic, neuropsychiatric, and cognitive outcomes and multimodality neuroimaging.



Myotonic dystrophy type 2 (DM2) is more common than DM1 in Europe and is considered a rare cause of myotonic dystrophies in Asia. Its clinical course is also milder with more phenotypic variability than DM1. We herein describe the first known Asian family (three affected siblings) with DM2 based on clinical and genetic analyses. Notably, two of the affected siblings were previously diagnosed with limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. Myotonia (the inability of the muscle to relax) was absent or only faintly present in these individuals. The third sibling had grip myotonia and is the first known Asian DM2 patient. The three DM2 siblings share several systemic characteristics, including late-onset, proximal-dominant muscle weakness, diabetes, cataracts and asthma. Repeat-primed PCR across the DM2 repeat revealed a characteristic ladder pattern of a CCTG expansion in all siblings. Southern blotting analysis identified the presence of 3400 repeats. Further DM2 studies in Asian populations are needed to define the clinical presentation of Asian DM2 and as yet unidentified phenotypic differences from Caucasian patients.

The objectives were to conduct a meta-analysis in accordance with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) standards to determine effect sizes (Cohen's d) for cognitive dysfunction in adults with type 2 diabetes, relative to nondiabetic controls, and to obtain effect sizes for the most commonly reported neuropsychological tests within domains. Twenty-four studies, totaling 26,137 patients (n = 3351 with diabetes), met study inclusion criteria. Small to moderate effect sizes were obtained for five of six domains: motor function (3 studies, n = 2374; d = -0.36), executive function (12 studies, n = 1784; d = -0.33), processing speed (16 studies, n = 3076; d = -0.33), verbal memory (15 studies, n = 4,608; d = -0.28), and visual memory (6 studies, n = 1754; d = -0.26). Effect size was smallest for attention/concentration (14 studies, n = 23,143; d = -0.19). The following tests demonstrated the most notable performance decrements in diabetes samples: Grooved Pegboard (dominant hand) (d = -0.60), Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (immediate) (d = -0.40), Trails B (d = -0.39), Rey-Osterreith Complex Figure (delayed) (d = -0.38), Trails A (d = -0.34), and Stroop Part I (d = -0.28). This study provides effect sizes to power future epidemiological and clinical diabetes research studies examining cognitive function and to help inform the selection of neuropsychological tests.
Covert orienting is related to the integrity of the midbrain, but the specificity of the relation is unclear. We compared covert orienting in three etiologies of congenital hydrocephalus (aqueductal stenosis [AS], Dandy-Walker malformation [DWM], and spina bifida myelomeningocele [SBM]--with and without tectal beaking) to explore the effects of midbrain and posterior fossa malformations. We hypothesized a stepwise order of group performance reflecting the degree of midbrain tectum dysmorphology. Performance on an exogenously cued covert orienting task was compared using repeated measures analysis of covariance, controlling for age. Individuals with SBM and tectal beaking demonstrated the greatest disengagement cost in the vertical plane, whereas individuals with AS performed as well as a typically developing (TD) group. Individuals with SBM but no tectal beaking and individuals with DWM showed greater disengagement costs in the vertical plane relative to the TD group, but better performance relative to the group with SBM and tectal beaking. Individuals with AS, DWM, and SBM and tectal beaking demonstrated poorer inhibition of return than TD individuals. Impairments in attentional disengagement in SBM are not attributable to the general effects of hydrocephalus, but are instead associated with specific midbrain anomalies that are part of the Chiari II malformation.
Linkages between neuropsychological functioning (i.e., response inhibition, processing speed, reaction time variability) and word reading have been documented among children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and children with Reading Disorders. However, associations between neuropsychological functioning and other aspects of reading (i.e., fluency, comprehension) have not been well-documented among children with comorbid ADHD and Reading Disorder. Children with ADHD and poor word reading (i.e., 25th percentile) completed a stop signal task (SST) and tests of word reading, reading fluency, and reading comprehension. Multivariate multiple regression was conducted predicting the reading skills from SST variables [i.e., mean reaction time (MRT), reaction time standard deviation (SDRT), and stop signal reaction time (SSRT)]. SDRT predicted word reading, reading fluency, and reading comprehension. MRT and SSRT were not associated with any reading skill. After including word reading in models predicting reading fluency and reading comprehension, the effects of SDRT were minimized. Reaction time variability (i.e., SDRT) reflects impairments in information processing and failure to maintain executive control. The pattern of results from this study suggest SDRT exerts its effects on reading fluency and reading comprehension through its effect on word reading (i.e., decoding) and that this relation may be related to observed deficits in higher-level elements of reading.
White matter (WM) change plays an important role in age-related cognitive decline. In this review, we consider methodological advances with particular relevance to the role of WM in age-related changes in processing speed. In this context, intra-individual variability in processing speed performance has emerged as a sensitive proxy of cognitive and neurological decline while neuroimaging techniques used to assess WM change have become increasingly more sensitive. Together with a carefully designed task protocol, we emphasize that the combined implementation of intra-individual variability and neuroimaging techniques hold promise for specifying the WM-processing speed relationship with implications for normative and clinical samples.
Simple geometric and organic shapes and their arrangement are being used in different neuropsychology tests for the assessment of cognitive function, special memory and also for the therapy purpose in different patient groups. Until now there is no electrophysiological evidence of cognitive function determination for simple geometric, organic shapes and their arrangement. Then the main objective of this study is to know the cortical processing and amplitude, latency of visual induced N170 and P300 event related potential components on different geometric, organic shapes and their arrangement and different educational influence on it, which is worthwhile to know for the early and better treatment for those patient groups. While education influenced on cognitive function by using auditory oddball task, little is known about the influence of education on cognitive function induced by visual attention task in case of the choice of geometric, organic shapes and their arrangements. Using a 128-electrode sensor net, we studied the responses of the choice of the different geometric and organic shapes randomly in experiment 1 and their arrangements in experiment 2 in the high, medium and low education groups. In both experiments, subjects push the button &quot;1&quot; or &quot;2&quot; if like or dislike, respectively. Total 45 healthy subjects (15 in each group) were recruited. ERPs were measured from 11 electrode sites and analyzed to see the evoked N170/N240 and P300 ERP components. There were no differences between like and dislike in amplitudes even in latencies in every stimulus in both experiments. We fixed geometric shapes and organic shapes stimuli only, not like and dislike. Upon the stimulus types, N170 ERP component was found instead of N240, in occipito-temporal (T5, T6, O1 and O2) locations where the amplitude is the highest at O2 location and P300 was distributed in the central (Cz and Pz) locations in both experiments in all groups. In experiment 1, significant low amplitude and non-significant larger latency of the N170 component are found out at O1 location for both stimuli in low education group comparing medium education groups, but in experiment 2, there is no significant difference between stimuli among groups in amplitude and latency. In both experiments, P300 component was found in Cz and Pz locations though the amplitudes are higher at Cz than Pz areas. In experiment 1, medium education group evoked significantly (geometric shape stimuli, P = 0.05; organic shape stimuli, P = 0.02) higher amplitude of P300 component comparing low education group at Cz location. Whereas, there is no significant difference of amplitudes among groups across stimuli in Cz and Pz locations in experiment 2. Latencies have no significant differences in both experiments among groups also, but longer latency are found in low education group at Cz location comparing medium education group, though not significant. We conclude that simple geometric shapes, organic shapes and their arrangements evoked visual N170 component at temporo-occipital areas with right lateralization and P300 ERP component at centro-parietal areas. Significant low amplitude of N170 and P300 ERP components and longer latencies during different shape stimuli in low education group prove that, low education significantly influence on visual cognitive functions in low education group.

Wound closure requires a complex series of micro-environmentally influenced events. A key aspect of wound closure is the migration of keratinocytes across the open wound. It has been found previously that the response to hypoxia via the HIF-1 transcription factor is a key feature of wound closure. The need for hypoxic response is likely due to interrupted wound vasculature, as well as infection, and in this work we investigated the need for a highly related hypoxic response transcription factor, HIF-2. This factor was deleted tissue specifically in mice, and the resulting mice were found to have an accelerated rate of wound closure. This is correlated with a reduced bacterial load and inflammatory response in these mice. This indicates that manipulating or reducing the HIF-2 response in keratinocytes could be a useful means to accelerate wound healing and tissue repair.
Anticipatory dementia is related to anxiety, which is a clinical predictor of early conversion to Alzheimer's disease. The Fear of Alzheimer's Disease Scale (FADS) is a reliable and valid instrument to address anticipatory dementia. The aim of the present investigation was to develop the Korean version of the Fear of Alzheimer's Disease Scale (K-FADS) and to verify its reliability and validity. We developed the K-FADS to consist of 30 items with total scores ranging from 0 to 120, as in the original FADS. One hundred eight healthy volunteer participants, drawn from 3 different university hospitals, were evaluated. The K-FADS revealed good reliability (Cronbach =0.96) and good validity as compared to the Korean version of the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory Form (r=0.242, P=0.013). Test-retest reliability was excellent, as the intra-class correlation coefficient comparing the retest to test was 0.98 (95% confidence interval, 0.96-0.99). Our results show that the K-FADS is a suitable and valuable scale to assess anticipatory dementia in elderly Koreans.
Pituitary adenoma (PA) is a common benign neuroendocrine tumor; however, the incidence and proportion of hormone-producing PAs in Korean patients remain unknown. Authors analyzed 506 surgically resected and pathologically proven pituitary lesions of the Seoul National University Hospital from 2006 to 2011. The lesions were categorized as: PAs (n = 422, 83.4%), Rathke's cleft cysts (RCCs) (n = 54, 10.6%), inflammatory lesions (n = 8, 1.6%), meningiomas (n = 4), craniopharyngiomas (n = 4), granular cell tumors (n = 1), metastatic renal cell carcinomas (n = 2), germinomas (n = 1), ependymomas (n = 1), and unsatisfactory specimens (n = 9, 1.8%). PAs were slightly more prevalent in women (M: F = 1:1.17) with a mean age of 48.8 yr (9-80 yr). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that prolactin-producing PAs (16.6%) and growth hormone-producing adenomas (9.2%) were the most common functional PAs. Plurihormonal PAs and nonfunctioning (null cell) adenomas were found in 14.9% and 42.4% of patients with PAs, respectively. The recurrence rate of PAs was 11.1%, but nearly 0% for the remaining benign lesions such as RCCs. 25.4% of patients with PAs were treated by gamma-knife after surgery due to residual tumors or regrowth of residual tumor. In conclusion, the pituitary lesions and the proportions of hormone-producing PAs in Korean patients are similar to those of previous reports except nonfunctioning (null cell) PAs, which are unusually frequent.
The durability of high surface area platinum electrodes during acute intracerebral measurements was investigated. Electrode sites with extremely rough surfaces were realized using electrochemical deposition of platinum onto silicon-based microelectrode arrays from a lead-free platinizing solution. The close to 1000-fold increase in effective surface area lowered impedance, its absolute value at 1kHz became about 7 and 18% of the original Pt electrodes in vitro and in vivo, respectively. 24-channel probes were subjected to 12 recording sessions, during which they were implanted into the cerebrum of rats. Our results showed that although on the average the effective surface area of the platinized sites decreased, it remained more than two orders of magnitude higher than the average effective surface area of the original, sputtered thin-film platinum electrodes. Sites with electrochemical deposits proved to be superior, e.g. they provided less thermal and 50Hz noise, even after 12 penetrations into the intact rat brain.
Behcet's disease (BD) is a chronic, inflammatory, and multisystemic condition although its pathogenesis is uncertain. Main component of St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum, HP) is hyperforin and induces antiinflammatory and antioxidant properties. We aimed to investigate effects of HP on oxidative stress, apoptosis, and cytosolic-free Ca [Ca](i) concentration in neutrophil of BD patients. Nine new-diagnosed active patients with BD and nine control subjects were included in the study. Disease activity was considered by clinical findings. Neutrophil samples were obtained from the patients and controls. The neutrophils from patients were divided into three subgroups and were incubated with HP, voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) blockers, (verapamil+dilitiazem) and non-specific TRPM2 channel blocker (2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate, 2-APB), respectively. The neutrophils were stimulated by fMLP as a Ca-concentration agonist and oxidative stress former. Caspase-3, caspase-9, apoptosis, lipid peroxidation, and [Ca](i) values were high in the patient groups, although cell viability, glutathione (GSH), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) values were low in patient group. However, the [Ca](i), caspase-3, and caspase-9 values decreased markedly in patient+HP group although GSH and GSH-Px values increased in the group. The [Ca](i) concentration was also decreased in the patient group by V+D, 2-APB, and HP incubations. In conclusion, we observed the importance of neutrophil Ca entry, apoptosis, and oxidative stress through gating VGCC and TRPM2 channels in the neutrophils in the pathogenesis and activation of the patients with BD. HP induced protective effects on oxidative stress by modulating Ca influx in BD patients.
The N100 component, evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and electroencephalography is associated with the activation of inhibitory cortical circuits and has recently been suggested as a potential marker of inhibition in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The aim of the present ADHD study was to investigate the modulation of the TMS-N100 in go and nogo trials of a response control task considering stages of response preparation, activation, execution and inhibition. Eighteen children with ADHD and 19 typically developing children, aged 10-14 years, were assessed. TMS was delivered over the left motor cortex, the TMS-N100 was measured at electrode P3. The TMS-N100 was determined at rest and at different time points (50 ms before S2; 150, 300 and 500 ms after S2) in a cued go/nogo task (S1-S2 paradigm). Correlations between the TMS-N100 measures, MEP-related TMS measures (e.g., short-interval intracortical inhibition) and performance measures were calculated. At rest, the amplitude of TMS-N100 was not found to be significantly reduced in the ADHD group. During the go/nogo task, children with ADHD showed a smaller increase of TMS-N100 amplitude in go trials and a smaller decrease after inhibiting a response. In go trials, a lower TMS-N100 was associated with a smaller variability of reaction times. A smaller TMS-N100 modulation extends the picture of cortical inhibition deficits in ADHD. Findings suggest a functional involvement of the mechanisms underlying the TMS-N100 at the motor output stage.
Impairment of the ubiquitin proteasome pathway is believed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. This process is carried out under tight regulation by deubiquitinating enzymes. Genetic linkage studies indicated that the region of the human ubiquitin-specific protease 24 (USP24) gene is significantly correlated with Parkinson's disease. In this study, we cloned a 1648 bp 5' flanking region of the human USP24 gene coding sequence and a series of nested deletions into the pGL3-Basic vector. We analyzed promoter activities of these regions with a luciferase-based reporter assay system. A 64-bp region was identified to contain the transcription initiation site and a minimum promoter sequence for transcriptional activation of the USP24 gene expression. Expression of USP24 is controlled by a TATA-box-less promoter with several putative cis-acting elements. Transcriptional activation and gel-shift assay demonstrated that the USP24 gene promoter contains a functional NFB-binding site. Over-expression of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NFB) and tumor-necrosis factor alpha (TNF) treatment significantly increased the USP24 promoter activity, mRNA expression and protein level in human HEK293 cells, mouse N2a cells and human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Deletion and mutation of the binding site abolished the regulatory effect of NFB on human USP24 gene transcription. These results suggested that USP24 expression is tightly regulated at its transcription level and NFB plays an important role in this process.
Methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) binds to methylated DNA and acts as a transcriptional repressor. Mutations of human MECP2 gene lead to Rett syndrome, a severe neural developmental disorder. Here, we report that the MeCP2 protein can be modified by covalent linkage to small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) and SUMOylation at lysine 223 is necessary for its transcriptional repression function. SUMOylation of MeCP2 is required for the recruitment of histone deacetylase complexes 1/2 complex. Mutation of MeCP2 lysine 223 to arginine abolishes its suppression of gene expression in mouse primary cortical neurons. Significantly, mutation of MeCP2 K223 site leads to developmental deficiency of rat hippocampal synapses in vitro and in vivo. Thus, the SUMOylation of MeCP2 at K223 is a critical switch for transcriptional repression and plays a crucial function in regulating synaptic development in the central nervous system.
Tumor progression locus 2 (Tpl2)/cancer Osaka thyroid kinase is a newer member of MAP3K family that is now known for its essential role in tumor necrosis factor-aplha (TNF) expression in macrophages, but its pro-inflammatory signaling, if any, in glia is unknown. When cultures of murine microglia and astrocytes were exposed to lipopolysaccharide, there was a rapid activation (i.e., phosphorylation) of Tpl2 in parallel to the activation of down-stream effector MAPKs, that is, extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK), p38 MAPK and C-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Pre-incubation of the cultures with a Tpl2 inhibitor selectively suppressed the activation of the primary down-stream target, that is, ERK relative to p38 MAPK and JNK. That Tpl2 activation was functionally involved in glial inflammatory response was indicated by a reduced release of the cytokines, i.e. TNF and the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase in the presence of the kinase inhibitor. Furthermore, over-expression of a wild-type Tpl2 construct in C-6 glia resulted in an enhanced transcriptional activation of inducible nitric oxide synthase, while transfection with a dominant negative form of Tpl-2 had the opposite effect. The findings assign an important pro-inflammatory signaling function for Tpl2 pathway in glial cells.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is a neuroprotective growth factor that promotes neuronal survival by inhibition of apoptosis. To examine whether IGF-1 exerts cytoprotective effects against extracellular inflammatory stimulation, ventral spinal cord 4.1 (VSC4.1) motoneuron cells were treated with interferon-gamma (IFN-). Our data demonstrated apoptotic changes, increased calpain:calpastatin and Bax:Bcl-2 ratios, and expression of apoptosis-related proteases (caspase-3 and -12) in motoneurons rendered by IFN- in a dose-dependent manner. Post-treatment with IGF-1 attenuated these changes. In addition, IGF-1 treatment of motoneurons exposed to IFN- decreased expression of inflammatory markers (cyclooxygenase-2 and nuclear factor-kappa B:inhibitor of kappa B ratio). Furthermore, IGF-1 attenuated the loss of expression of IGF-1 receptors (IGF-1R and IGF-1R) and estrogen receptors (ER and ER) induced by IFN-. To determine whether the protective effects of IGF-1 are associated with ERs, ERs antagonist ICI and selective siRNA targeted against ER and ER were used in VSC4.1 motoneurons. Distinctive morphological changes were observed following siRNA knockdown of ER and ER. In particular, apoptotic cell death assessed by TUNEL assay was enhanced in both ER and ER-silenced VSC4.1 motoneurons following IFN- and IGF-1 exposure. These results suggest that IGF-1 protects motoneurons from inflammatory insult by a mechanism involving pivotal interactions with ER and ER.
Heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF), a vascular-derived trophic factor, belongs to the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family of neuroprotective, hypoxia-inducible proteins released by astrocytes in CNS injuries. It was suggested that HB-EGF can replace fetal calf serum (FCS) in astrocyte cultures. We previously demonstrated that in contrast to standard 2D cell culture systems, Bioactive3D culture system, when used with FCS, minimizes the baseline activation of astrocytes and preserves their complex morphology. Here, we show that HB-EGF induced EGF receptor (EGFR) activation by Y1068 phosphorylation, Mapk/Erk pathway activation, and led to an increase in cell proliferation, more prominent in Bioactive3D than in 2D cultures. HB-EGF changed morphology of 2D and Bioactive3D cultured astrocytes toward a radial glia-like phenotype and induced the expression of intermediate filament and progenitor cell marker protein nestin. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin protein expression was unaffected. RT-qPCR analysis demonstrated that HB-EGF affected the expression of Notch signaling pathway genes, implying a role for the Notch signaling in HB-EGF-mediated astrocyte response. HB-EGF can be used as a FCS replacement for astrocyte expansion and in vitro experimentation both in 2D and Bioactive3D culture systems; however, caution should be exercised since it appears to induce partial de-differentiation of astrocytes.
Protein phosphorylation plays a critical role in neuronal transcription, translation, cell viability, and synaptic plasticity. In neurons, phospho-enzymes and specific substrates directly link glutamate release and post-synaptic depolarization to these cellular functions; however, many of these enzymes and their protein substrates remain uncharacterized or unidentified. In this article, we identify a novel, synaptically driven neuronal phosphoproteome characterized by a specific motif of serine/threonine-glutamine ([S/T]-Q, abbreviated as SQ). These SQ-containing substrates are predominantly localized to dendrites, synapses, the soma; and activation of this SQ phosphoproteome by bicuculline application is induced via calcium influx through L-type calcium channels. On the other hand, acute application of NMDA can inactivate this SQ phosphoproteome. We demonstrate that the SQ motif kinase Ataxia-telangiectasia mutated can also localize to dendrites and dendritic spines, in addition to other subcellular compartments, and is activated by bicuculline application. Pharmacology studies indicate that Ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and its sister kinase ataxia telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related up-regulate these neuronal SQ substrates. Phosphoproteomics identified over 150 SQ-containing substrates whose phosphorylation is bidirectionally regulated by synaptic activity.
Recent studies reveal that cocaine experience results in persistent neuroadaptive changes within glutamate (Glu) synapses in brain areas associated with drug reward. However, it remains unclear whether cocaine affects Glu release in drug-naive animals and how it is altered by drug experience. Using high-speed amperometry with enzyme-based and enzyme-free biosensors in freely moving rats, we show that an initial intravenous cocaine injection at a low self-administering dose (1 mg/kg) induces rapid, small and transient Glu release in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAc), which with subsequent injections rapidly becomes a much stronger, two-component increase. Using cocaine-methiodide, cocaine's analog that does not cross the blood-brain barrier, we confirm that the initial cocaine-induced Glu release in the NAc has a peripheral neural origin. Unlike cocaine, Glu responses induced by cocaine-methiodide rapidly habituate following repeated exposure. However, after cocaine experience this drug induces cocaine-like Glu responses. Hence, the interoceptive actions of cocaine, which essentially precede its direct actions in the brain, play a critical role in experience-dependent alterations in Glu release, cocaine-induced neural sensitization and may contribute to cocaine addiction. Using high-speed amperometry with enzyme-based biosensors in freely moving rats, we show that initial intravenous cocaine induces rapid, transient glutamate (Glu) release in the Nac (Nucleus accumbens), rapidly becoming a stronger, two-component increase with subsequent injections. We show that the peripheral actions of cocaine, which precedes its direct central actions, play a critical role in experience-dependent alterations in Glu release, possibly contributing to cocaine addiction.
Abstract Seven years have passed since the initial report of the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from adult human somatic cells, and in the intervening time the field of neuroscience has developed numerous disease models using this technology. Here, we review progress in the field and describe both the advantages and potential pitfalls of modeling neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental diseases using this technology. We include tables with information on neural differentiation protocols and studies that developed human iPSC lines to model neurological diseases. We also discuss how one can: investigate effects of genetic mutations with iPSCs, examine cell fate-specific phenotypes, best determine the specificity of a phenotype, and bring in vivo relevance to this in vitro technique.
Cells possess complex growth factor networks that play vital roles in regulating fundamental life processes. Such protein factors exert their action by binding to cognate cell specific receptors resulting in regulation of cell division, differentiation, chemotaxis or apoptosis. Engagement of receptors by their respective ligands results in activation of sequential protein phosphorylation cascades, culminating downstream into activation of gene transcription. These factors are expressed ubiquitously under a variety of conditions by normal as well as transformed cells, thereby underpinning their function in autocrine and paracrine stimulation of cells under several physiological and pathological conditions. Despite major advances in our understanding of growth factors, their paradoxical roles in normal cellular homeostasis and pathologies underpin the need to examine their roles in disease and health. The goal of this special issue is to present emerging trends in the roles that growth factors play in inflammatory disease processes that include cardiovascular, cancer, stroke and neurodegenerative processes associated with aging, viral infection and substance abuse with the ultimate aim to pave the way for future therapeutic breakthroughs.
As people are living longer, the prevalance of neurodegenerative diseases continues to rise resulting in huge socio-economic consequences. Despite major advancements in studying the pathophysiology of these diseases and a large number of clinical trials currently there is no effective treatment for these illnesses. All neuroprotective strategies have either failed or have shown only a minimal effect. There has been a major shift in recent years exploring the potential of neuroregenerative approaches. While the concept of using neurotropins for therapeutic purposes has been in existence for many years, new modes of delivery and expression of this family of molecules makes this approach now feasilble. Further neurotropin mimetics and receptor agonists are also being developed. The use of small molecules to induce the expression of neurotropins including repurposing of FDA approved drugs for this approach is another strategy being pursued. In the review we examine these new developments and discuss the potential for such approaches in the context of the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases.
The 20th conference of the Society on NeuroImmune Pharmacology will be held March 26-29, 2014. It features the latest in research examining the intersection of neuroscience, immunology and pharmacology, relevant for human health and disease. Particular emphases are placed on HIV and other infectious diseases, and abused substances, including illicit drugs and alcohol.
The 4th Conference of the American Society for Nanomedicine is being held March 28-30, 2014 at the Universities at Shady Grove, Rockville, Maryland. The meeting's theme is on defining the role of nanomedicines for nervous system diagnostics and disease but balanced by broad and timely topics for nanotechnology. Nanoneuromedicine, as defined by the development of small drug formulations for the diagnosis and treatment of degenerative, inflammatory, infectious, vascular, addictive, behavioral and metabolic disorders of the nervous system, will provide a focus for each of the scientific sessions. This research is interdisciplinary and it's in its infancy. The hurdles that preclude translation from bench to bedside would include its delivery across the blood brain barrier, limiting nervous system toxicities, and improving drug targeting to diseased brain subregions. These all pose challenges. Multidisciplinary works in neuroscience (neurobiology, neurochemistry, neurophysiology, and neuroinflammation), bioimaging, and polymer chemistry to facilitate outcomes for formulation manufacture will be vigorously discussed. How drugs reach sites of action need include neural cell specific subcellular compartments. The ASNM meeting will showcase nanoneuromedicine research from leading investigators of divergent scientific backgrounds who define this new field. It will also serve as an incubator for developing investigators and broad new field discoveries. Welcome to the conference and enjoy!
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha, TNF-, is a cytokine that is a well-known factor in multiple disease conditions and is recognized for its major role in central nervous system signaling. TNF- signaling is most commonly associated with neurotoxicity, but in some conditions it has been found to be neuroprotective. TNF- has long been known to induce nuclear factor-kappa B, NF-B, signaling by, in most cases, translocating the p65 (RelA) DNA binding factor to the nucleus. p65 is a key member of NF-B, which is well established as a family of transcription factors that regulates many signaling events, including growth and process development, in neuronal cell populations. NF-B has been shown to affect both the receiving aspect of neuronal signaling events in dendritic development as well as the sending of neuronal signals in axonal development. In both cases, NK-B functions as a promoter and/or inhibitor of growth, depending on the environmental conditions and signaling cascade. In addition, NF-B is involved in memory formation or neurogenesis, depending on the region of the brain in which the signaling occurs. The ephrin (Eph) receptor family represents a subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases, RTKs, which received much attention due to its potential involvement in neuronal cell health and function. There are two subsets of ephrin receptors, Eph A and Eph B, each with distinct functions in cardiovascular and skeletal development and axon guidance and synaptic plasticity. The presence of multiple binding sites for NF-B within the regulatory region of EphB2 gene and its potential regulation by NF-B pathway suggests that TNF- may modulate EphB2 via NF-B and that this may contribute to the neuroprotective activity of TNF-.
Our previous study demonstrated that platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) increased the cell proliferation of primary rat neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs). However, whether PDGF-BB regulates neurogenesis in HIV-associated neurological disorder (HAND) remains largely unknown. In this study we demonstrated that pre-treatment of NPCs with PDGF-BB restored Tat-mediated impairment of cell proliferation via activation of p38 and JNK MAPK pathways. Moreover, treatment with PDGF-BB induced inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), evidenced by its phosphorylation at Ser9, this effect was significantly inhibited by the p38 and JNK inhibitors. Level of nuclear -catenin, the primary substrate of GSK-3, was also concomitantly increased following PDGF-BB treatment, suggesting that PDGF-BB stimulates NPC proliferation via acting on GSK-3 to promote nuclear accumulation of -catenin. This was further validated by gain and loss of function studies using cells transfected with either the wild type or mutant GSK-3 constructs. Together these data underpin the role of GSK-3/-catenin as a novel target that regulates NPC proliferation mediated by PDGF-BB with implications for therapeutic intervention for reversal of impaired neurogenesis inflicted by Tat.
Fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2), also known as basic FGF, is a multi-functional growth factor. One of the 22-member FGF family, it signals through receptor tyrosine kinases encoding FGFR1-4. FGF2 activates FGFRs in cooperation with heparin or heparin sulfate proteoglycan to induce its pleiotropic effects in different tissues and organs, which include potent angiogenic effects and important roles in the differentiation and function of the central nervous system (CNS). FGF2 is crucial to development of the CNS, which explains its importance in adult neurogenesis. During development, high levels of FGF2 are detected from neurulation onwards. Moreover, developmental expression of FGF2 and its receptors is temporally and spatially regulated, concurring with development of specific brain regions including the hippocampus and substantia nigra pars compacta. In adult neurogenesis, FGF2 has been implicated based on its expression and regulation of neural stem and progenitor cells in the neurogenic niches, the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus. FGFR1 signaling also modulates inflammatory signaling through the surface glycoprotein CD200, which regulates microglial activation. Because of its importance in adult neurogenesis and neuroinflammation, manipulation of FGF2/FGFR1 signaling has been a focus of therapeutic development for neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and traumatic brain injury. Novel strategies include intranasal administration of FGF2, administration of an NCAM-derived FGFR1 agonist, and chitosan-based nanoparticles for the delivery of FGF2 in pre-clinical animal models. In this review, we highlight current research towards therapeutic interventions targeting FGF2/FGFR1 in neurodegenerative disorders.
Human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV) causes mild or severe neurological problems, termed HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND), even when HIV patients receive antiretroviral therapy. Thus, novel adjunctive therapies are necessary to reduce or abolish the neurotoxic effect of HIV. However, new therapies require a better understanding of the molecular and cellular mechanisms of HIV-induced neurotoxicity. HAND subjects are characterized by being profoundly depressed, and they experience deficits in memory, learning and movements. Experimental evidence has also shown that HIV reduces neurogenesis. These deficits resemble those occurring in premature brain aging or in a brain with impaired neural repair properties. Thus, it appears that HIV diminishes neuronal survival, along with reduced neuronal connections. These two phenomena should not occur in the adult and developing brain when synaptic plasticity is promoted by neurotrophic factors, polypeptides that are present in adult synapses. This review will outline experimental evidence as well as present emerging concepts for the use of neurotrophic factors and in particular brain-derived neurotrophic factor as an adjunct therapy to prevent HIV-mediated neuronal degeneration and restore the loss of synaptic connections.
The control and eradication of neurological complications associated with AIDS continues to be an important goal in efforts toward improving the well being of HIV-infected patients. Although combined antiretroviral therapies have contributed significantly to increasing the longevity of patients by suppressing the virus burden in the systemic compartments, the prevalence of HIV-associated neurological disorders continues to be on the rise. This in turn, leads to an impaired quality of life of the infected individuals who continue to suffer from mild to moderate cognitive decline and memory loss. Developing therapeutic interventions that reverse neuronal injury in the context of HIV infection, is thus of paramount importance in the field. Our previous studies have demonstrated that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) has a neuroprotective potential against HIV envelope protein gp120 and Tat. Paradoxically, PDGF is also a cerebrovascular permeant with deleterious effects on the blood-brain barrier resulting in increased influx of monocytes in the CNS. Herein, we review the opposing roles of PDGF in the context of HIV-associated neurodegenerative disorder (HAND).

Dilating HIV vasculopathy can be a cause of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke in patients with HIV. Although first identified in children, this condition is increasingly being recognized in adults and has a dismal natural history under medical or expectant management. Vessel wall invasion by varicella zoster virus, HIV or Mycobacterium avium intracellulare complex (MAI) has been postulated as a possible etiology. We present a case of an adult patient with HIV and chronic disseminated MAI infection who presented with ischemic stroke and three fusiform cerebral aneurysms that were successfully treated with the pipeline embolization device (PED). Flow diversion may be a viable treatment option for patients presenting with this serious neurovascular condition when aneurysm location precludes parent vessel sacrifice or surgical bypass. In addition, platelet function testing with VerifyNow may be valuable in selecting the appropriate P2Y12 receptor antagonist to be used in order to prevent PED thrombosis, since some of the antiretroviral drugs may inhibit clopidogrel or prasugrel metabolism.



In fibromyalgia (FM), reduced habituation of laser-evoked potentials (LEPs) suggests a dysfunction of pain processing at a central level. In this study, we aimed to further examine the nociceptive pathways at the peripheral to the central level in a large group of FM patients by means of LEPs and skin biopsy, in light of healthy controls findings and main clinical features. One hundred and ninety-nine FM patients and 109 age- and sex-matched controls were submitted to LEPs by the dorsum of the right hand and the skin over the right chest and knee tender point stimulation. Skin biopsy was performed in 21 randomly selected FM patients and 60 age- and sex-matched controls. The mean N2-P2 amplitude was reduced in the whole FM group, with normal or even increased values in patients with migraine as comorbidity and reduced values in other patients including those presenting with distal sensory deficits. All patients had reduced N2-P2 habituation in respect to controls. In the FM group, LEPs habituation was correlated with pain at tender points and bad quality of life. Epidermal fiber density was significantly reduced in FM patients versus controls, and correlated with N2-P2 amplitude by the hand and chest tender-point stimulation. Dysfunction in the nociceptive system at both the central and peripheral levels may concur to explain phenotypical eterogeneity and clinical symptom complexity in fibromyalgia.



The watertight closure of the skull base after endonasal surgery is and has always been critical in cranial base surgery. Nowadays, endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery is the standard of treatment for most of the sellar tumors. Reconstruction of the sella is not always deemed necessary, and generally it is reserved for patients with macroadenomas or with intraoperative evidence of cerebrospinal fluid leak. We herein report our experience with a simple maneuver that, in our opinion, simplifies sellar floor reconstruction.

Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common malignant adult brain tumor and carries a poor prognosis due to primary and acquired resistance. While many cellular features of GBM have been documented, it is unclear if cells within these tumors extend a primary cilium, an organelle whose associated signaling pathways may regulate proliferation, migration, and survival of neural precursor and tumor cells. Using immunohistochemical and electron microscopy (EM) techniques, we screened human GBM tumor biopsies and primary cell lines for cilia. Immunocytochemical staining of five primary GBM cell lines revealed that between 8 and 25 % of the cells in each line possessed gamma tubulin-positive basal bodies from which extended acetylated, alpha-tubulin-positive axonemes. EM analyses confirmed the presence of cilia at the cell surface and revealed that their axonemes contained organized networks of microtubules, a structural feature consistent with our detection of IFT88 and Arl13b, two trafficked cilia proteins, along the lengths of the axonemes. Notably, cilia were detected in each of 23 tumor biopsies (22 primary and 1 recurrent) examined. These cilia were distributed across the tumor landscape including regions proximal to the vasculature and within necrotic areas. Moreover, ciliated cells within these tumors co-stained with Ki67, a marker for actively dividing cells, and ZEB1, a transcription factor that is upregulated in GBM and linked to tumor initiation, invasion, and chemoresistance. Collectively, our data show that subpopulations of cells within human GBM tumors are ciliated. In view of mounting evidence supporting roles of primary cilia in tumor initiation and propagation, it is likely that further study of the effects of cilia on GBM tumor cell function will improve our understanding of GBM pathogenesis and may provide new directions for GBM treatment strategies.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is an autoimmune disorder of the central nervous system directed against astrocytes. Initially diagnosed in individuals with monophasic or relapsing optic neuritis and transverse myelitis, NMO is now recognized as a demyelinating disorder with pleiotropic presentations due to the identification of a specific autoantibody response against the astrocyte water channel aquaporin-4 in the majority of individuals. As visual impairment and neurologic dysfunction in NMO are commonly severe, aggressive treatment of relapses and prophylactic immunomodulatory therapy are the focus of treatment. Although there are no approved treatments for NMO, medications and therapeutic interventions for acute and chronic treatment have been the subject of retrospective study and case reports. The goal of this review is to familiarize the reader with biologic and clinical data supporting current treatments in NMO and highlight future strategies based on advancements in our understanding of NMO pathogenesis.
Elevated intracranial pressure in patients with chronic renal failure has several potential causes. Its rare occurrence secondary to the hemodynamic effects of hemodialysis is described and the findings support a multifactorial etiology (&quot;two hits&quot;).
Patients with homonymous hemianopia (HH) often fail to meet visual field (VF) requirements for a driver's license. We describe 2 patients with complete HH, who met the minimum VF requirements for driving using a novel, high-power, monocular sector prism system. Baseline VFs were assessed using automated and kinetic perimetry. Patients were fitted with glasses and press-on 57-PD peripheral monocular sector prisms placed on the lens ipsilateral to the VF defect above and below the visual axis with prisms oriented obliquely. Kinetic perimetry was reassessed both monocularly and binocularly, with and without prisms. The 2 patients had 95 and 82 angle of continuous, horizontal, binocular VF. With the use of the prism system, the binocular VF increased to 115 and 112 angles. Both patients reported improvement in quality of life and each holds a valid driver's license and has successfully operated a motor vehicle without any restrictions or accidents. These findings suggest that the addition of oblique 57-PD prisms to the ipsilateral spectacle lens above and below the visual axis for patients with complete HH can significantly increase horizontal VF, which may help an individual become visually qualified to obtain a driver's license.
A previously healthy 29-year-old man was admitted to a tertiary referral center with acute left hemiparesis followed shortly by de novo convulsive status epilepticus. This was in the context of a 2-month history of flu-like symptoms, severe headaches, and retinopathy recently diagnosed as acute multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy. Neuroimaging demonstrated bilateral, multiple territory cerebral infarction. Despite intravenous methylprednisolone and craniotomy for the management of raised intracranial pressure, the patient deteriorated and died 14 days later. At autopsy, multiple infarcts of varying ages within a 10-day period were seen in association with a segmental giant cell vasculopathy of meningeal arteries.

Previous studies have shown that neural oscillations in the 8- to 12-Hz range influence sensory perception. In the current study, we examined whether both the power and phase of these mu/alpha oscillations predict successful conscious tactile perception. Near-threshold tactile stimuli were applied to the left hand while electroencephalographic (EEG) activity was recorded over the contralateral right somatosensory cortex. We found a significant inverted U-shaped relationship between prestimulus mu/alpha power and detection rate, suggesting that there is an intermediate level of alpha power that is optimal for tactile perception. We also found a significant difference in phase angle concentration at stimulus onset that predicted whether the upcoming tactile stimulus was perceived or missed. As has been shown in the visual system, these findings suggest that these mu/alpha oscillations measured over somatosensory areas exert a strong inhibitory control on tactile perception and that pulsed inhibition by these oscillations shapes the state of brain activity necessary for conscious perception. They further suggest that these common phasic processing mechanisms across different sensory modalities and brain regions may reflect a common underlying encoding principle in perceptual processing that leads to momentary windows of perceptual awareness.
Disruptions of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca(2+) homeostasis are heavily linked to neuronal pathology. Depletion of ER Ca(2+) stores can result in cellular dysfunction and potentially cell death, although adaptive processes exist to aid in survival. We examined the age and region dependence of one postulated, adaptive response to ER store-depletion (SD), hyperpolarization-activated cation-nonspecific (h)-channel plasticity in neurons of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus (DHC and VHC, respectively) from adolescent and adult rats. With the use of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from the soma and dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons, we observed a change in h-sensitive measurements in response to SD, induced by treatment with cyclopiazonic acid, a sarcoplasmic reticulum/ER Ca(2+)-ATPase blocker. We found that whereas DHC and VHC neurons in adolescent animals respond to SD with a perisomatic expression of SD h plasticity, adult animals express SD h plasticity with a dendritic and somatodendritic locus of plasticity in DHC and VHC neurons, respectively. Furthermore, SD h plasticity in adults was dependent on membrane potential and on the activation of L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. These results suggest that cellular responses to the impairment of ER function, or ER stress, are dependent on brain region and age and that the differential expression of SD h plasticity could provide a neural basis for region- and age-dependent disease vulnerabilities.
Recent stimulus history, or adaptation, can alter neuronal response properties. Adaptation effects have been characterized in a number of visually responsive structures, from the retina to higher visual cortex. However, it remains unclear whether adaptation effects across stages of the visual system take a similar form in response to a particular sensory event. This is because studies typically probe a single structure or cortical area, using a stimulus ensemble chosen to provide potent drive to the cells of interest. Here we adopt an alternative approach and compare adaptation effects in primary visual cortex (V1) and area MT using identical stimulus ensembles. Previous work has suggested these areas adjust to recent stimulus drive in distinct ways. We show that this is not the case: adaptation effects in V1 and MT can involve weak or strong loss of responsivity and shifts in neuronal preference toward or away from the adapter, depending on stimulus size and adaptation duration. For a particular stimulus size and adaptation duration, however, effects are similar in nature and magnitude in V1 and MT. We also show that adaptation effects in MT of awake animals depend strongly on stimulus size. Our results suggest that the strategies for adjusting to recent stimulus history depend more strongly on adaptation duration and stimulus size than on the cortical area. Moreover, they indicate that different levels of the visual system adapt similarly to recent sensory experience.
Monitoring representative fractions of neurons from multiple brain circuits in behaving animals is necessary for understanding neuronal computation. Here, we describe a system that allows high-channel-count recordings from a small volume of neuronal tissue using a lightweight signal multiplexing headstage that permits free behavior of small rodents. The system integrates multishank, high-density recording silicon probes, ultraflexible interconnects, and a miniaturized microdrive. These improvements allowed for simultaneous recordings of local field potentials and unit activity from hundreds of sites without confining free movements of the animal. The advantages of large-scale recordings are illustrated by determining the electroanatomic boundaries of layers and regions in the hippocampus and neocortex and constructing a circuit diagram of functional connections among neurons in real anatomic space. These methods will allow the investigation of circuit operations and behavior-dependent interregional interactions for testing hypotheses of neural networks and brain function.
Peripheral nerve stimulation inhibits the motor cortex, and the process has been termed short-latency afferent inhibition (SAI) at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 20 ms. The objective of the present study was to test how SAI interacts with short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) under different stimulation conditions. We studied 20 healthy volunteers. Surface electromyogram was recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Using paired- and triple-pulse paradigms, we investigated how SAI interacts with SICI under these different conditions. The effects of different conditioning stimulus (CS) intensities (0.6-0.9 active motor threshold), SAI latencies (23 and 25 ms), and ISIs (2 and 3 ms) for SICI were examined in rest and active conditions. SAI had inhibitory interactions with SICI at different CS intensities for rest or active SICI, at SAI latencies of 23 and 25 ms. This interaction occurred at weak CS intensities for SICI when there was no inhibition, and SICI became facilitatory in the presence of SAI. This can be explained by SICI inhibiting SAI and not by saturation of inhibition. The interaction between SAI and SICI was greater for SICI at ISI of 3 ms than for ISI of 2 ms, suggesting that different circuits may be activated at these ISIs. We conclude that SAI and SICI have inhibitory interactions that are influenced by factors such as ISI and muscle activities, which should be considered in design and interpretation of cortical interaction studies.
Successful motor performance requires the ability to adapt motor commands to task dynamics. A central question in movement neuroscience is how these dynamics are represented. Although it is widely assumed that dynamics (e.g., force fields) are represented in intrinsic, joint-based coordinates (Shadmehr R, Mussa-Ivaldi FA. J Neurosci 14: 3208-3224, 1994), recent evidence has questioned this proposal. Here we reexamine the representation of dynamics in two experiments. By testing generalization following changes in shoulder, elbow, or wrist configurations, the first experiment tested for extrinsic, intrinsic, or object-centered representations. No single coordinate frame accounted for the pattern of generalization. Rather, generalization patterns were better accounted for by a mixture of representations or by models that assumed local learning and graded, decaying generalization. A second experiment, in which we replicated the design of an influential study that had suggested encoding in intrinsic coordinates (Shadmehr and Mussa-Ivaldi 1994), yielded similar results. That is, we could not find evidence that dynamics are represented in a single coordinate system. Taken together, our experiments suggest that internal models do not employ a single coordinate system when generalizing and may well be represented as a mixture of coordinate systems, as a single system with local learning, or both.
The expression of homosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) is thought to mediate a crucial role in sustaining memory function. Our in vivo investigations of LTD expression at lateral (LPP) and medial perforant path (MPP) synapses in the dentate gyrus (DG) corroborate prior demonstrations that PP-DG LTD is difficult to induce in intact animals. In freely moving animals, LTD expression occurred inconsistently among LPP-DG and MPP-DG responses. Interestingly, following acute electrode implantation in anesthetized rats, low-frequency stimulation (LFS; 900 pulses, 1 Hz) promotes slow-onset LTP at both MPP-DG and LPP-DG synapses that utilize distinct induction mechanisms. Systemic administration of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (+/-)-cyclopiperidine-6-piperiperenzine (CPP; 10 mg/kg) 90 min before LFS selectively blocked MPP-DG but not LPP-DG slow onset LTP, suggesting MPP-DG synapses express a NMDA receptor-dependent slow onset LTP whereas LPP-DG slow onset LTP induction is NMDA receptor independent. In experiments where paired-pulse LFS (900 paired pulses, 200-ms paired-pulse interval) was used to induce LTD, paired-pulse LFS of the LPP resulted in rapid onset LTP of DG responses, whereas paired-pulse LFS of the MPP induced slow onset LTP of DG responses. Although LTD observations were very rare following acute electrode implantation in anesthetized rats, LPP-DG LTD was demonstrated in some anesthetized rats with previously implanted electrodes. Together, our data indicate in vivo PP-DG LTD expression is an inconsistent phenomenon that is primarily observed in recovered animals, suggesting perturbation of the dentate through surgery-related tissue trauma influences both LTD incidence and LTP induction at PP-DG synapses in vivo.
Endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) and neurotrophins, particularly brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), are potent synaptic modulators that are expressed throughout the forebrain and play critical roles in many behavioral processes. Although the effects of BDNF at excitatory synapses have been well characterized, the mechanisms of action of BDNF at inhibitory synapses are not well understood. Previously we have found that BDNF suppresses presynaptic GABA release in layer 2/3 of the neocortex via postsynaptic tropomyosin-related kinase receptor B (trkB) receptor-induced release of endocannabinoids. To examine the intracellular signaling pathways that underlie this effect, we used pharmacological approaches and whole cell patch-clamp techniques in layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons of somatosensory cortex in brain slices from juvenile Swiss CD1 mice. Our results indicated that phospholipase C (PLC) is involved in the CB1 receptor-mediated synaptic effect of BDNF, because the BDNF effect was blocked in the presence of the broad-spectrum PLC inhibitors U-73122 and edelfosine, whereas the inactive analog U-73343 did not alter the suppressive effect of BDNF at inhibitory synapses. Endocannabinoid release can also be triggered by metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated activation of PLC, and BDNF has been shown to enhance spontaneous glutamate release. An mGluR antagonist, E4CPG, however, did not block the BDNF effect. In addition, the effect of BDNF was independent of other signaling pathways downstream of trkB receptor activation, namely, mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathways, as well as protein kinase C signaling.
How does the brain accomplish sound localization with invariance to total sound level? Sensitivity to interaural level differences (ILDs) is first computed at the lateral superior olive (LSO) and is observed at multiple levels of the auditory pathway, including the central nucleus of inferior colliculus (ICC) and auditory cortex. In LSO, this ILD sensitivity is level-dependent, such that ILD response functions shift toward the ipsilateral (excitatory) ear with increasing sound level. Thus early in the processing pathway changes in firing rate could indicate changes in sound location, sound level, or both. In ICC, while ILD responses can shift toward either ear in individual neurons, there is no net ILD response shift at the population level. In behavioral studies of human sound localization acuity, ILD sensitivity is invariant to increasing sound levels. Level-invariant sound localization would suggest transformation in level sensitivity between LSO and perception of sound sources. Whether this transformation is completed at the level of the ICC or continued at higher levels remains unclear. It also remains unknown whether perceptual sound localization is level-invariant in rats, as it is in humans. We asked whether ILD sensitivity is level-invariant in rat auditory cortex. We performed single-unit and whole cell recordings in rat auditory cortex under ketamine anesthesia and measured responses to white noise bursts presented through sealed earphones at a range of ILDs. Surprisingly, we found that with increasing sound levels ILD responses shifted toward the ipsilateral ear (which is typically inhibitory), regardless of whether cells preferred ipsilateral, contralateral, or binaural stimuli. Voltage-clamp recordings suggest that synaptic inhibition does not contribute substantially to this transformation in level sensitivity. We conclude that the level invariance of ILD sensitivity seen in behavioral studies is not present in rat auditory cortex.
Cognitive neuroscience, being more inclusive and ambitious in scope than cognitive neuropsychology, seems to have taken the place of the latter within the modern neurosciences. Nevertheless, recent advances in the neurosciences afford neuropsychology with epistemic possibilities that simply did not exist even 15 years ago. Human lesion studies still have an important role to play in shaping such possibilities, particularly when combined with other methods of enquiry. I first outline theoretical and methodological advances within the neurosciences that can inform and shape the rebirth of a dynamic, non-modular neuropsychology. I then use an influential computational theory of brain function, the free energy principle, to suggest an unified account of anosognosia for hemiplegia as a research example of the potential for transition from a modular, cognitive neuropsychology to a dynamic, computational and even restorative neuropsychology. These and many other adjectives that can flexibly, take the place of 'cognitive' next to 'neuropsychology' will hopefully designate the much needed rebirth and demarcation of a field, neuropsychology itself, that has somehow lost its place within the modern neurosciences and yet seems to have a unique and important role to play in the future understanding of the brain.
Recent research suggests synesthesia as a result of a hypersensitive multimodal binding mechanism. To address the question whether multimodal integration is altered in synesthetes in general, grapheme-colour and auditory-visual synesthetes were investigated using speech-related stimulation in two behavioural experiments. First, we used the McGurk illusion to test the strength and number of illusory perceptions in synesthesia. In a second step, we analysed the gain in speech perception coming from seen articulatory movements under acoustically noisy conditions. We used disyllabic nouns as stimulation and varied signal-to-noise ratio of the auditory stream presented concurrently to a matching video of the speaker. We hypothesized that if synesthesia is due to a general hyperbinding mechanism this group of subjects should be more susceptible to McGurk illusions and profit more from the visual information during audiovisual speech perception. The results indicate that there are differences between synesthetes and controls concerning multisensory integration--but in the opposite direction as hypothesized. Synesthetes showed a reduced number of illusions and had a reduced gain in comprehension by viewing matching articulatory movements in comparison to control subjects. Our results indicate that rather than having a hypersensitive binding mechanism, synesthetes show weaker integration of vision and audition.
This study investigated the hypothesis that rule reconfiguration in task switching can isolate aspects of intact and impaired control at different stages of Parkinson's disease (PD) by comparing switches between concrete naming rules pertaining to stimulus selection, to switches between abstract rules which allocate categorization responses to these stimuli. Based on previous findings, it was hypothesized that attentional switches, where task set competition emerges at the stimulus but not response set level, highlights striatal dopaminergic function. Conversely, increasing the degree of task set competition to encompass reconfiguration of response set when switching between abstract rules, represents a condition which engages the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and renders this manipulation sensitive to frontal damage. To this end, we investigated task switching with concrete and abstract rules in unilaterally (Hoehn &amp; Yahr stage I) and bilaterally (Hoehn &amp; Yahr stage II) affected PD patients, as well as striatally intact frontal lesion patients. As predicted, frontal lesion patients demonstrated switching deficits only with abstract categorization rules, where switching engendered complete task set reconfiguration and a new response, as did stage II PD patients with presumed frontal cortical pathology. Replicating previous findings, stage I PD patients with relatively circumscribed striatal pathology demonstrated no such impairment. Disease severity also impacted on attentional switching indexed by naming rules, since medicated stage II but not stage I patients demonstrated switching deficits emerging from stimulus set reconfiguration, suggesting that the ameliorative efficacy of dopaminergic medication is inversely related to the severity of the striatal deficit. These findings illustrate that the nature of the rules that are switched, and its implication in terms of reconfiguring different task set elements, highlights different neural characters of cognitive flexibility. These manipulations may help decipher the differential effects of progressive neurodegeneration on parkinsonian cognition, and provide a framework in which to conceptualize the contributions of cortical and subcortical regions to cognitive control.
Radiotherapy and chemotherapy may induce neurological toxicities with different appearances on CT and MRI scans. While optimized radiotherapy techniques have reduced some complications, new unwanted effects have occurred on account of therapeutic protocols involving the simultaneous use of radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Advances in radio-surgery, innovative anti-angiogenic therapies, as well as prolonged patient survival have led to the emergence of new deleterious side effects. In this report, we describe the early, semi-delayed, and late encephalic complications, while specifying how to identify the morphological lesions depending on the therapeutic protocol.
We studied the electrophysiological, hemodynamic, and cytomorphological consequences of microhemorrhagic brain injury induced by a nanoscale iron injection. Of particular interest were the etiology, development, and treatment of epilepsy associated with this injury. We developed an animal model of chronic epilepsy using nanoscale injection into the adult mouse cortex. Although injection of nanoamounts of iron did not cause clear cell death or damage in the cortex, it elicited varying degrees of spontaneous epileptiform events that could be recorded under anesthesia 3 months postinjection. The influence of these chronic epileptiform events on neurovascular coupling was probed by directly stimulating the cortex ipsilateral to the epileptic focus and by measuring cerebral blood volume simultaneously in both hemispheres using intrinsic signal optical imaging. The ipsilateral hemodynamic response was dramatically lower in animals that exhibited longer, more frequent epileptiform events, but it was unchanged in animals displaying infrequent, short events. In contrast, the contralateral hemodynamic response was augmented in all iron-injected animals compared with the control group. These abnormal hemodynamic responses in chronically epileptic animals were correlated with the degree of reduction in the number of GABAergic interneurons. Therefore, nanoscale iron injection, which mimics some aspects of microhemorrhagic brain injury, generated chronic, yet varying, degrees of spontaneous epileptiform events. Moreover, the severity of the epileptiform events corresponded to the degree of reduction in GABAergic interneurons in the iron-injected hemisphere and the level of autoregulatory dysfunction of cerebral blood flow.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
We previously reported that glioma cells induce the expression of membrane-type 1 metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP or MMP-14) in tumor-associated microglia/macrophages and promote tumor growth, whereas MMP-14 expression in microglia under physiological conditions is very low. Here, we show that the increase in MMP-14 expression is also found in microglia/macrophages associated with neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory pathologies in mouse models as well as in human biopsies or post-mortem tissue. We found that microglial/macrophage MMP-14 expression was upregulated in Alzheimer's disease tissue, in active lesions of multiple sclerosis, and in tissue from stage II stroke as well as in the corresponding mouse models for the human diseases. In contrast, we observed no upregulation for MMP-14 in microglia/macrophages in the early phase of stroke or in the corresponding mouse model, in human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) tissue or in a mouse model of ALS as well as in human cases of acute brain trauma. These data indicate that MMP-14 expression is not a general marker for activated microglia/macrophages but is upregulated in defined stages of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases and that there is generally a good match between mouse models and human brain pathologies.

Abstract Blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption is a pathological hallmark of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) and is associated with neuroinflammatory events contributing to brain edema and cell death. The goal of this study was to elucidate the profile of BBB disruption after penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI) in conjunction with changes in neuroinflammatory markers. Brain uptake of biotin-dextran amine (BDA; 3 kDa) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP; 44 kDa) was evaluated in rats at 4 h, 24 h, 48 h, 72 h, and 7 days post-PBBI and compared with the histopathologic and molecular profiles for inflammatory markers. BDA and HRP both displayed a uniphasic profile of extravasation, greatest at 24 h post-injury and which remained evident out to 48 h for HRP and 7 days for BDA. This profile was most closely associated with markers for adhesion (mRNA for intercellular adhesion molecule-1) and infiltration of peripheral granulocytes (mRNA for matrix metalloproteinase-9 [MMP-9] and myeloperoxidase staining). Improvement of BBB dysfunction coincided with increased expression of markers implicated in tissue remodeling and repair. The results of this study reveal a uniphasic and gradient opening of the BBB after PBBI and suggest MMP-9 and resident inflammatory cell activation as candidates for future neurotherapeutic intervention after PBBI.
The pathophysiology of blast-induced traumatic brain injury (TBI) and subsequent behavioral deficits are not well understood. Unraveling the mechanisms of injury is critical to derive effective countermeasures against this form of neurotrauma. Preservation of the integrity of cellular DNA is crucial for the function and survival of cells. We evaluated the effect of repeated blast exposures on the integrity of brain DNA and tested the utility of cell-free DNA (CFD) in plasma as a biomarker for the diagnosis and prognosis of blast-induced polytrauma. The results revealed time-dependent breakdown in cellular DNA in different brain regions, with the maximum damage at 24 h post-blast exposures. CFD levels in plasma showed a significant transient increase, which was largely independent of the timing and severity of brain DNA damage; maximum levels were recorded at 2 h after repeated blast exposure and returned to baseline at 24 h. A positive correlation was observed between the righting reflex time and CFD level in plasma at 2 h after blast exposure. Brain DNA damage subsequent to repeated blast was associated with decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, increased release of cytochrome C, and up-regulation of caspase-3, all of which are indicative of cellular apoptosis. Shock-wave-induced DNA damage and initiation of mitochondrial-driven cellular apoptosis in the brain after repeated blast exposures indicate that therapeutic strategies directed toward inhibition of DNA damage or instigation of DNA repair may be effective countermeasures.
Abstract Traumatic brain injury (TBI) increases the risk of neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly anxiety disorders. Yet, there are presently no therapeutic interventions to prevent the development of post-traumatic anxiety or effective treatments once it has developed. This is because, in large part, of a lack of understanding of the underlying pathophysiology. Recent research suggests that chronic neuroinflammatory responses to injury may play a role in the development of post-traumatic anxiety in rodent models. Acute peri-injury administration of immunosuppressive compounds, such as Ibudilast (MN166), have been shown to prevent reactive gliosis associated with immune responses to injury and also prevent lateral fluid percussion injury (LFPI)-induced anxiety-like behavior in rats. There is evidence in both human and rodent studies that post-traumatic anxiety, once developed, is a chronic, persistent, and drug-refractory condition. In the present study, we sought to determine whether neuroinflammation is associated with the long-term maintenance of post-traumatic anxiety. We examined the efficacy of an anti-inflammatory treatment in decreasing anxiety-like behavior and reactive gliosis when introduced at 1 month after injury. Delayed treatment substantially reduced established LFPI-induced freezing behavior and reactive gliosis in brain regions associated with anxiety and continued neuroprotective effects were evidenced 6 months post-treatment. These results support the conclusion that neuroinflammation may be involved in the development and maintenance of anxiety-like behaviors after TBI.
Diabetes is associated with cognitive impairment and brain aging, with alterations in hippocampal neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity implicated in these changes. As the prevalence of diabetes continues to rise, readily implemented strategies are increasingly needed in order to protect the brain's cognitive functions. One possibility is resveratrol (RES) (3,5,4- trihydroxystilbene), a polyphenol of the phytoalexin family that has been shown to be protective in a number of neuropathology paradigms. In the present study, we sought to determine whether dietary supplementation with RES has potential for the protection of cognitive functions in diabetes. Diabetes was induced using streptozotocin, and once stable, animals received AIN93G rodent diet supplemented with RES for 6 weeks. Genome-wide expression analysis was conducted on the hippocampus and genes of interest were confirmed by quantitative, real-time polymerase chain reaction. Genome-wide gene expression analysis of the hippocampus revealed that RES supplementation of the diabetic group resulted in 481 differentially expressed genes compared to non-supplemented diabetic mice. Intriguingly, gene expression that was previously found significantly altered in the hippocampus of diabetic mice, and that is implicated in neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity (Hdac4, Hat1, Wnt7a, ApoE), was normalized following RES supplementation. In addition, pathway analysis revealed Jak-Stat signaling was the most significantly enriched pathway. The Jak-Stat pathway induces a pro-inflammatory signaling cascade, and we found most genes involved in this cascade (e.g. Il15, Il22, Socs2, Socs5) had significantly lower expression following RES supplementation. These data indicate RES could be neuroprotective and beneficial for the maintenance of cognitive function in diabetes.









The rising number of newly insured young adults brought on by health care reform will soon increase demands on primary care physicians. Physicians will face more young adult patients, which presents an opportunity for more prevention-oriented care. In the present study, we evaluated whether brief observer reports of young adults' personality traits could predict which individuals would be at greater risk for poor health as they entered midlife. Following the cohort of 1,000 individuals from the Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Study (Moffitt, Caspi, Rutter, &amp; Silva, 2001), we show that very brief measures of young adults' personalities predicted their midlife physical health across multiple domains (metabolic abnormalities, cardiorespiratory fitness, pulmonary function, periodontal disease, and systemic inflammation). Individuals scoring low on the traits of Conscientiousness and Openness to Experience went on to develop poorer health even after accounting for preexisting differences in education, socioeconomic status, smoking, obesity, self-reported health, medical conditions, and family medical history. Moreover, personality ratings from peer informants who knew participants well, and from a nurse and receptionist who had just met participants for the first time, predicted health decline from young adulthood to midlife despite striking differences in level of acquaintance. Personality effect sizes were on par with other well-established health risk factors such as socioeconomic status, smoking, and self-reported health. We discuss the potential utility of personality measurement to function as an inexpensive and accessible tool for health care professionals to personalize preventive medicine. Adding personality information to existing health care electronic infrastructures could also advance personality theory by generating opportunities to examine how personality processes influence doctor-patient communication, health service use, and patient outcomes.
Nicotine, the primary psychoactive component in tobacco smoke, produces its behavioral effects through interactions with neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). 42 nAChRs are the most abundant in mammalian brain, and converging evidence shows that this subtype mediates the rewarding and reinforcing effects of nicotine. A number of rare variants in the CHRNA4 gene that encode the 4 nAChR subunit have been identified in human subjects and appear to be underrepresented in a cohort of smokers. We compared three of these variants (4R336C, 4P451L, and 4R487Q) to the common variant to determine their effects on 42 nAChR pharmacology. We examined [(3)H]epibatidine binding, interacting proteins, and phosphorylation of the 4 nAChR subunit with liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in HEK 293 cells and voltage-clamp electrophysiology in Xenopus laevis oocytes. We observed significant effects of the 4 variants on nAChR expression, subcellular distribution, and sensitivity to nicotine-induced receptor upregulation. Proteomic analysis of immunopurified 42 nAChRs incorporating the rare variants identified considerable differences in the intracellular interactomes due to these single amino acid substitutions. Electrophysiological characterization in X. laevis oocytes revealed alterations in the functional parameters of activation by nAChR agonists conferred by these 4 rare variants, as well as shifts in receptor function after incubation with nicotine. Taken together, these experiments suggest that genetic variation at CHRNA4 alters the assembly and expression of human 42 nAChRs, resulting in receptors that are more sensitive to nicotine exposure than those assembled with the common 4 variant. The changes in nAChR pharmacology could contribute to differences in responses to smoked nicotine in individuals harboring these rare variants.



Over the last decades interest in using auricular acupuncture for substance dependence care has increased. The specific auricular acupuncture protocol used follows the National Acupuncture Detoxification Association (NADA) definition. This paper describes patients' experiences of receiving auricular acupuncture during protracted withdrawal. Interviews were conducted with 15 patients treated at an outpatient clinic for substance dependence. Content analysis was used to analyse the interviews. The analysis resulted in seven categories of positive experiences and seven categories of negative experiences. The positive experiences were: Relaxation and well-being, Peacefulness and harmony, New behaviours, Positive physical impact, Importance of context, Anxiety reduction and Reduced drug and alcohol consumption. The negative experiences were: Nothing negative, Disturbing context, Short-term effect, Depending on someone else, Time-consuming, Physical distractions and Remaining cravings. The conclusion of this study is that all respondents appreciated NADA treatment. This study supports further research on using NADA in addiction treatment to reduce suffering during protracted withdrawal and in other contexts.
Individual randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of habit reversal training and a Comprehensive Behavioral Intervention for Tics (collectively referred to as behavior therapy, BT) have demonstrated efficacy in reducing tic severity for individuals with Tourette Syndrome and Chronic Tic Disorders (collectively referred to as TS), with no examination of treatment moderators. The present meta-analysis synthesized the treatment effect sizes (ES) of BT relative to comparison conditions, and examined moderators of treatment. A comprehensive literature search identified eight RCTs that met inclusion criteria, and produced a total sample of 438 participants. A random effects meta-analysis found a medium to large ES for BT relative to comparison conditions. Participant mean age, average number of therapy sessions, and the percentage of participants with co-occurring attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) were found to moderate treatment effects. Participants receiving BT were more likely to exhibit a treatment response compared to control interventions, and identified a number needed to treat (NNT) of three. Sensitivity analyses failed to identify publication bias. Overall, BT trials yield medium to large effects for TS that are comparable to treatment effects identified by meta-analyses of antipsychotic medication RCTs. Larger treatment effects may be observed among BT trials with older participants, more therapeutic contact, and less co-occurring ADHD.
A recent genome-wide analysis indicated that a polymorphism (rs2535629) of ITIH3 showed the strongest association signal with susceptibility to psychiatric disorders in Caucasian populations. The aim of the study was to replicate the association of rs2535629 with schizophrenia and major depressive disorder (MDD) in Japanese subjects. A total of 611 patients with schizophrenia, 868 with MDD, and 1193 healthy controls were successfully genotyped for rs2535629. A significant difference in allele distribution was found between patients with schizophrenia and controls (odds ratio [OR]=1.21, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.05-1.39, P=0.0077). A similar trend was found for patients with MDD (OR=1.11, 95% CI: 0.98-1.26, P=0.092). The allele distribution in the combined patient group (schizophrenia and MDD) was significantly different from that of the control group (OR=1.15, 95% CI: 1.03-1.28, P=0.011). Gene expression microarray analysis of whole blood samples in 39 MDD patients and 40 healthy controls showed that rs2535629 has a strong influence on the expression levels of ITIH4 and GLT8D1. The expression levels of GLT8D1 were significantly higher in patients with MDD than in controls (P=0.021). To our knowledge, the present study showed for the first time the association of rs2535629 with psychiatric disorders in an Asian population. Our findings suggest that rs2535629 influences the susceptibility to psychiatric disorders by affecting the expression level of GLT8D1.
Omega-3 fatty acid deficiency during development leads to enduing alterations in central monoamine neurotransmission in rat brain. Here we investigated the effects of omega-3 fatty acid deficiency on behavioral and neurochemical responses to chronic fluoxetine (FLX) treatment. Male rats were fed diets with (CON, n=34) or without (DEF, n=30) the omega-3 fatty acid precursor alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) during peri-adolescent development (P21-P90). A subset of CON (n=14) and DEF (n=12) rats were administered FLX (10mg/kg/d) through their drinking water for 30d beginning on P60. The forced swimming test (FST) was initiated on P90, and regional brain mRNA markers of serotonin and noradrenaline neurotransmission were determined. Dietary ALA depletion led to significant reductions in frontal cortex docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3) composition in DEF (-26%, p=0.0001) and DEF+FLX (-32%, p=0.0001) rats. Plasma FLX and norfluoxetine concentrations did not different between FLX-treated DEF and CON rats. During the 15-min FST pretest, DEF+FLX rats exhibited significantly greater climbing behavior compared with CON+FLX rats. During the 5-min test trial, FLX treatment reduced immobility and increased swimming in CON and DEF rats, and only DEF+FLX rats exhibited significant elevations in climbing behavior. DEF+FLX rats exhibited greater midbrain, and lower frontal cortex, 5-HT1A mRNA expression compared with all groups including CON+FLX rats. DEF+FLX rats also exhibited greater midbrain alpha2A adrenergic receptor mRNA expression which was positively correlated with climbing behavior in the FST. These preclinical data demonstrate that low omega-3 fatty acid status leads to abnormal behavioral and neurochemical responses to chronic FLX treatment in male rats.
Abnormal serotonin transporter (5-HTT) function and autonomic nervous system (ANS) dysregulation has been proposed in panic disorder. However, in contrast to hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) functioning, ANS reactivity during panic response has yet not been investigated in humans with respect to the 5-HTT genotype. The present study assessed the influence of challenging by cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK-4) on heart rate variability (HRV) measures, to monitor autonomic reactivity and its relationship to 5-HTT-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) genotypes. We hypothesized substantial effects of the 5-HTTLPR genotype on autonomic reactivity. We studied 30 healthy young men, 15 of each with the long/long (l/l) or short/short (s/s) genotype for the 5-HTTLPR. All participants received an intravenous application of 50g CCK-4. HRV measures were assessed in both groups at baseline and immediately after CCK-4 application. Our results indicated lower parasympathetic activity in s/s carriers during baseline, time and frequency domain measures. CCK-4 application significantly enhanced the sympathetic tone in both groups, leading to diminished group differences. A significant treatment by genotype effect indicated reduced autonomic reactivity to CCK-4 challenge in the s/s compared to l/l carriers. Our findings show enhanced sympathetic and/or diminished cardiac vagal activity under basal conditions and blunted autonomic reactivity in s/s vs. l/l carriers. Our study provides novel data supporting claims that the s/s genotype represents a genetic vulnerability factor associated with inadequate hyporeactivity to stress and extends current knowledge on the impact of the central serotonergic activity on the sympathoadrenal pathway.
The racial/ethnic composition of the US population is shifting, with the nonwhite population growing faster than whites. We examined cannabis use disorder (CUD) prevalences and correlates in seven racial/ethnic groups. We included cannabis use (CU) prevalence as a comparison. Data were from the 2005-2011 National Surveys on Drug Use and Health (N=394,400). Substance use among respondents aged 12 years was assessed by computer-assisted, self-interviewing methods. The following were included as control variables: age, sex, family income, government assistance, county type, residential stability, major depressive episode history, arrest history, nicotine dependence, alcohol disorder, and survey year. Past-year CU prevalence increased significantly from 10.45% in 2005 to 11.41-11.54% during 2009-2011. Compared with whites, mixed-race individuals had higher odds of CU; Asian Americans and Hispanics had lower odds of CU. There were no significant yearly changes in CUD prevalence in the sample during 2005-2011 (1.58-1.73%). Compared with whites, individuals who were mixed-race, black, and Native American had higher odds of CUD; Asian Americans had lower odds. In aggregate, 15.35% of past-year cannabis users met criteria for a CUD in the 12-month period. Past-year cannabis users who were black, Native American, Hispanic, or Asian American had higher odds of CUD than white users. In each racial/ethnic group, adolescent cannabis users generally showed greater odds of CUD than adult users. Behavioral health indicators (major depressive episode, arrest history, nicotine dependence, alcohol disorder) were associated with CU and CUD. In conclusion, CUD disproportionally affects nonwhite groups and youth.

While there is evidence of clinical improvement of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) with treatment, its neural underpinnings are insufficiently clear. Moreover, it is unknown whether similar neurophysiological changes occur in PTSD specifically after child abuse, given its enduring nature and the developmental vulnerability of the brain during childhood. We systematically reviewed PTSD treatment effect studies on structural and functional brain changes from PubMed, EMBASE, PsycINFO, PILOTS and the Cochrane Library. We included studies on adults with (partial) PTSD in Randomized Controlled Trials (RCT) or pre-post designs (excluding case studies) on pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy. Risk of bias was evaluated independently by two raters. Brain coordinates and effect sizes were standardized for comparability. We included 15 studies (6 RCTs, 9 pre-post), four of which were on child abuse. Results showed that pharmacotherapy improved structural abnormalities (i.e., increased hippocampus volume) in both adult-trauma and child abuse related PTSD (3 pre-post studies). Functional changes were found to distinguish between groups. Adult-trauma PTSD patients showed decreased amygdala and increased dorsolateral prefrontal activations post-treatment (4 RCTs, 5 pre-post studies). In one RCT, child abuse patients showed no changes in the amygdala, but decreased dorsolateral prefrontal, dorsal anterior cingulate and insula activation post-treatment. In conclusion, pharmacotherapy may reduce structural abnormalities in PTSD, while psychotherapy may decrease amygdala activity and increase prefrontal, dorsal anterior cingulate and hippocampus activations, that may relate to extinction learning and re-appraisal. There is some evidence for a distinct activation pattern in child abuse patients, which clearly awaits further empirical testing.

The newly formed Outcome Measures in Rheumatology (OMERACT) Myositis Special Interest Group (SIG) was established to examine patient-reported outcome measures (PROM) in myositis. At OMERACT 11, a literature review of PROM used in the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) and other neuromuscular conditions was presented. The group examined in more detail 2 PROM more extensively evaluated in patients with IIM, the Myositis Activities Profile, and the McMaster-Toronto Arthritis Patient Preference Disability Questionnaire, through the OMERACT filter of truth, discrimination, and feasibility. Preliminary results from a qualitative study of patients with myositis regarding their symptoms were discussed that emphasized the range of symptoms experienced: pain, physical tightness/stiffness, fatigue, disease effect on emotional life and relationships, and treatment-related side effects. Following discussion of these results and following additional discussions since OMERACT 11, a research agenda was developed. The next step in evaluating PROM in IIM will require additional focus groups with a spectrum of patients with different myositis disease phenotypes and manifestations across a range of disease activity, and from multiple international settings. The group will initially focus on dermatomyositis and polymyositis in adults. Qualitative analysis will facilitate the identification of commonalities and divergent patient-relevant aspects of disease, insights that are critical given the heterogeneous manifestations of these diseases. Based on these qualitative studies, existing myositis PROM can be examined to more thoroughly assess content validity, and will be important to identify gaps in domain measurement that will be required to develop a preliminary core set of patient-relevant domains for IIM.




We report the case of a 37-year-old male with Cowden disease that caused a gradual neurological deficit because of rupture of a brain stem cavernous hemangioma. Removal of the hemangioma and hematoma was performed with an infrafacial triangle approach. Nine months after the operation, magnetic resonance imaging showed abnormal vessels on the cerebellar surface. Digital subtraction angiography showed a dural arteriovenous fistula (dAVF) from part of the meningeal artery to the ectatic inferior vermian vein with cortical reflux. After embolization, surgical obliteration of the dAVF was performed. Surgical findings showed neovascularization in the thickened dura, in which dural vessels shunted to cerebellar vessels through adhesion between the dura mater and cerebellar surface. Therefore, the thickened dura was removed with the cerebellar surface. This case suggests that postoperative angiogenesis may cause arteriovenous fistula in patients with Cowden disease.



Integrated psychological treatment addressing co-existing alcohol misuse and depression has not been compared with single-focused treatment. This trial evaluates changes over 36 months following randomization of 284 outpatients to one of four motivational interviewing and cognitive-behavior therapy (MICBT) based interventions: (1) brief integrated intervention (BI); or BI plus 9 further sessions with (2) an integrated-, (3) alcohol-, or (4) depression-focus. Outcome measures included changes in alcohol consumption, depression (BDI-II: Beck Depression Inventory) and functioning (GAF: Global Assessment of Functioning), with average improvements from baseline of 21.8 drinks per week, 12.6 BDI-II units and 8.2 GAF units. Longer interventions tended to be more effective in reducing depression and improving functioning in the long-term, and in improving alcohol consumption in the short-term. Integrated treatment was at least as good as single-focused MICBT. Alcohol-focused treatment was as effective as depression-focused treatment at reducing depression and more effective in reducing alcohol misuse. The best approach seems to be an initial focus on both conditions followed by additional integrated- or alcohol-focused sessions.




Mid-gestation stage mouse embryos were cultured utilizing a serum-free culture medium prepared from commercially available stem cell media supplements in an oxygenated rolling bottle culture system. Mouse embryos at E10.5 were carefully isolated from the uterus with intact yolk sac and in a process involving precise surgical maneuver the embryos were gently exteriorized from the yolk sac while maintaining the vascular continuity of the embryo with the yolk sac. Compared to embryos prepared with intact yolk sac or with the yolk sac removed, these embryos exhibited superior survival rate and developmental progression when cultured under similar conditions. We show that these mouse embryos, when cultured in a defined medium in an atmosphere of 95% O2 / 5% CO2 in a rolling bottle culture apparatus at 37 C for 16-40 hr, exhibit morphological growth and development comparable to the embryos developing in utero. We believe this method will be useful for investigators needing to utilize whole embryo culture to study signaling interactions important in embryonic organogenesis.

The signaling pathway for tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and its receptors is up-regulated during extracorporeal circulation (ECC), and recruits blood neutrophil into the lung tissue, which results in acute lung injury (ALI). In this study, we evaluated the role of tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1) in ECC-induced ALI by blocking TNF- binding to TNFR1 with CAY10500. Anesthetized Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were pretreated intravenously with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) or vehicle (0.3 ml ethanol IV) or CAY10500, and then underwent ECC for 2 h. The oxygenation index (OI) and pulmonary inflammation were assessed after ECC. OI was significantly decreased, while TNF- and neutrophil in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and plasma TNF- increased after ECC. Pretreatment of CAY10500 decreased plasma TNF- level, but did not decrease TNF- levels and neutrophil counts in BALF or improve OI. Lung histopathology showed significant alveolar congestion, infiltration of the leukocytes in the airspace, and increased thickness of the alveolar wall in all ECC-treated groups. CAY10500 pretreatment slightly reduced leukocyte infiltration in lungs, but did not change the wet/dry ratio in the lung tissue. Blocking TNF- binding to TNFR1 by CAY10500 intravenously slightly mitigates pulmonary inflammation, but cannot improve the pulmonary function, indicating the limited role of TNFR1 pathway in circulating inflammatory cell in ECC-induced ALI.






Although the central autonomic network (CAN) has been well researched in animal models, the CAN in humans is still unclear, especially for cardiovascular control. This study aimed to investigate which areas of the cerebral cortices are associated with the peripheral cardiac autonomic control involved in the CAN in uremic patients with autonomic dysfunction and normal controls. The central and peripheral autonomic network in 19 uremic patients with significant autonomic dysfunction and 24 age- and sex-matched controls [mean age  standard deviation (SD), 55.16  10.45 years and 55.42  5.42 years, respectively] were evaluated by simultaneous spectral analysis of electroencephalography (EEG) and electrocardiography recording (ECG), along with serial autonomic tests [autonomic questionnaire and orthostatic blood pressure (BP) change]. Only frequency-domain heart rate variability (f-HRV) during the deep-breathing stage could differentiate the two groups. Although there is no significant difference in f-HRV during the quiet-breathing stage, different patterns of central oscillation and their correlation with peripheral cardiac autonomic indices could be found for the two groups. Although the power of specific EEG bands under electrode T3 and T6 correlated significantly with the power of peripheral HRV indices in the control group, those under electrodes P3 and Pz had significant correlations in the uremic group suggesting a role of functional connectivity between them. In addition, sympathetic activity is correlated with slow wave EEG (theta/delta) power whereas parasympathetic activity is correlated with fast wave EEG (beta) power. In conclusion, there is functional connectivity between the parietal cortex and the peripheral cardiac autonomic system (PAN) in uremics and the pattern of central autonomic connectivity differs between uremic patients with autonomic dysfunction and normal controls.
25% of all people aged 55 years and older have a family history of dementia. For most, the family history is due to genetically complex disease, where many genetic variations of small effect interact to increase risk of dementia. The lifetime risk of dementia for these families is about 20%, compared with 10% in the general population. A small proportion of families have an autosomal dominant family history of early-onset dementia, which is often due to mendelian disease, caused by a mutation in one of the dementia genes. Each family member has a 50% chance of inheriting the mutation, which confers a lifetime dementia risk of over 95%. In this Review, we focus on the evidence for, and the approach to, genetic testing in Alzheimer's disease (APP, PSEN1, and PSEN2 genes), frontotemporal dementia (MAPT, GRN, C9ORF72, and other genes), and other familial dementias. We conclude by discussing the practical aspects of genetic counselling.

Deep-brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an established treatment for motor complications in Parkinson's disease. 20 years of experience with this procedure have contributed to improved understanding of the role of the STN in motor, cognitive, and emotional control. In Parkinson's disease, the pathological STN neuronal activity leads to motor, cognitive, and emotional inhibition. Deafferentation of the STN by DBS can reverse such behavioural inhibition. The release of this brake allows both motor and non-motor improvement, but can also be associated with excessive motor, cognitive, and emotional behavioural disinhibition. Conversely, the notable reduction in anti-parkinsonian drug dose allowed by motor improvement can unveil mesolimbic hypodopaminergic behaviours such as apathy, anxiety, or depression. Fine-tuning of stimulation parameters with dopaminergic drugs is necessary to prevent or improve pathological behaviours.

Using a mouse model with the tumor suppressor TRAF3 deleted from B cells, we identified Sox5 as a gene strikingly up-regulated in B lymphomas. Sox5 proteins were not detected in normal or premalignant TRAF3(-/-) B cells even after treatment with B cell stimuli. The Sox5 expressed in TRAF3(-/-) B lymphomas represents a novel isoform of Sox5, and was localized in the nucleus of malignant B cells. Overexpression of Sox5 inhibited cell cycle progression, and up-regulated the protein levels of p27 and -catenin in human multiple myeloma cells. Together, our findings indicate that Sox5 regulates the proliferation of malignant B cells.

A novel system for the release of neurotrophic factor into a nerve guidance channel (NGC) based on resorbable phosphate glass hollow fibers (50P2O5-30CaO-9Na2O-3SiO2-3MgO-2.5K2O-2.5TiO2 mol%) in combination with a genipin-crosslinked agar/gelatin hydrogel (A/G_GP) is proposed. No negative effect on the growth of neonatal olfactory bulb ensheathing cell line (NOBEC) as well as on the expression of pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins was measured in vitro in the presence of fiber dissolution products in the culture medium. For the release studies, fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran (FD-20), taken as growth factor model molecule, was solubilized in different media and introduced into the fiber lumen exploiting the capillary action. The fibers were filled with i) FD-20/phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution, ii) FD-20/hydrogel solution before gelation and iii) hydrogel before gelation, subsequently lyophilized and then filled with the FD-20/PBS solution. The different strategies used for the loading of the FD-20 into the fibers resulted in different release kinetics. A slower release was observed with the use of A/G_GP hydrogel. At last, poly(-caprolactone) (PCL) nerve guides containing the hollow fibers and the hydrogel have been fabricated.
Physical activity has been proposed as one of the most effective strategies to prevent cognitive decline. Protein supplementation may exert an additive effect. The effect of resistance-type exercise training with or without protein supplementation on cognitive functioning in frail and pre-frail elderly people was assessed in a secondary analysis. Two 24-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled intervention studies were carried out in parallel. Subjects performed a resistance-type exercise program of two sessions per week (n=62) or no exercise program (n=65). In both studies, subjects were randomly allocated to either a protein (215 g daily) or a placebo drink. Cognitive functioning was assessed with a neuropsychological test battery focusing on the cognitive domains episodic memory, attention and working memory, information processing speed, and executive functioning. In frail and pre-frail elderly, resistance-type exercise training in combination with protein supplementation improved information processing speed (changes in domain score 0.080.51 versus -0.230.19 in the non-exercise group, p=0.04). Exercise training without protein supplementation was beneficial for attention and working memory (changes in domain scores 0.350.70 versus -0.120.69 in the non-exercise group, p=0.02). There were no significant differences among the intervention groups on the other cognitive tests or domain scores.

Ammonia is thought to be central in the development of hepatic encephalopathy. However, the specific relation of ammonia with brain energy depletions and learning has not been studied. Our work attempts to reproduce an increase in rat cerebral ammonia level, study the hyperamonemic animals' performance of two learning tasks, an allocentric (ALLO) and a cue guided (CG) task, and elucidate the contribution of hyperammonemia to the differential energy requirements of the brain limbic system regions involved in these tasks. To assess these goals, four groups of animals were used: a control (CHA) CG group (n=10), a CHA ALLO group (n=9), a hyperammonemia (HA) CG group (n=7), and HA ALLO group (n=8). Oxidative metabolism of the target brain regions were assessed by histochemical labelling of cytochrome oxidase (C.O.). The behavioural results revealed that the hyperammonemic rats were not able to reach the behavioural criterion in either of the two tasks, in contrast to the CHA groups. The metabolic brain consumption revealed increased C.O. activity in the anterodorsal thalamus when comparing the HA ALLO group with the CHA ALLO group. Significant differences between animals trained in the CG task were observed in the prelimbic, infralimbic, parietal, entorhinal and perirhinal cortices, the anterolateral and anteromedial striatum, and the basolateral and central amygdala. Our findings may provide fresh insights to reveal how the differential damage to the brain limbic structures involved in these tasks differs according to the degree of task difficulty.
A new method for elemental bioimaging with laser ablation-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (LA-ICP-MS) was developed and applied to study the uptake of manganese (Mn) in Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans). C. elegans is a well-established model organism in neuroscience, genetics and genomics, which has been extensively studied to decipher mechanisms of heavy metal induced toxicity. Knowledge about the distribution of manganese (Mn) and other metals in this organism will be helpful in elucidating pathways and mechanisms of transport, distribution and excretion. The LA-ICP-MS method requires limited sample preparation and can be used rapidly and easily to visualize the Mn distribution in C. elegans. Due to thorough optimization of the analytical parameters, intense Mn signals in C. elegans wild-type (WT) and mutants were obtained at a spatial resolution as small as 4 m, thus proving the suitability of LA-ICP-MS to study the uptake of metals in C. elegans.
The loss of NPC1 protein function is the predominant cause of Niemann-Pick type C1 disease (NP-C1), a systemic and neurodegenerative disorder characterized by late-endosomal/lysosomal accumulation of cholesterol and other lipids. Limited evidence from post-mortem human tissues, an Npc1(-/-) mouse model, and cell culture studies also suggest failure of metal homeostasis in NP-C1. To investigate these findings, we performed a comprehensive transition metal analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), plasma and tissue samples from human NP-C1 patients and an Npc1(-/-) mouse model. NPC1 deficiency in the Npc1(-/-) mouse model resulted in a perturbation of transition metal homeostasis in the plasma and key organs (brain, liver, spleen, heart, lungs, and kidneys). Analysis of human patient CSF, plasma and post-mortem brain tissues also indicated disrupted metal homeostasis. There was a disparity in the direction of metal changes between the human and the Npc1(-/-) mouse samples, which may reflect species-specific metal metabolism. Nevertheless, common to both species is brain zinc accumulation. Furthermore, treatment with the glucosylceramide synthase inhibitor miglustat, the only drug shown in a controlled clinical trial to have some efficacy for NP-C1, did not correct the alterations in CSF and plasma transition metal and ceruloplasmin (CP) metabolism in NP-C1 patients. These findings highlight the importance of NPC1 function in metal homeostasis, and indicate that metal-targeting therapy may be of value as a treatment for NP-C.
Furry animals cause respiratory allergies in a significant proportion of the population. A majority of all mammalian allergens are spread as airborne particles, and several have been detected in environments where furry animals are not normally kept. The repertoire of allergens from each source belongs to a restricted number of allergen families. Classification of allergen families is particularly important for the characterization of allergenicity and cross-reactivity of allergens. In fact, major mammalian allergens are taken from only three protein families, i.e. the secretoglobin, lipocalin and kallikrein families. In particular, the lipocalin superfamily harbours major allergens in all important mammalian allergen sources, and cross-reactivity between lipocalin allergens may explain cross-species sensitization between mammals. The identification of single allergen components is of importance to improve diagnosis and therapy of allergic patients using component-resolved diagnostics and allergen-specific immunotherapy (ASIT) respectively. Major disadvantages with crude allergen extracts for these applications emphasize the benefits of careful characterization of individual allergens. Furthermore, detailed knowledge of the characteristics of an allergen is crucial to formulate attenuated allergy vaccines, e.g. hypoallergens. The diverse repertoires of individual allergens from different mammalian species influence the diagnostic potential and clinical efficacy of ASIT to furry animals. As such, detailed knowledge of individual allergens is essential for adequate clinical evaluation. This review compiles current knowledge of the allergen families of mammalian species, and discusses how this information may be used for improved diagnosis and therapy of individuals allergic to mammals.
This study examined the association between specific combat experiences and postdeployment hazardous drinking patterns on selected military populations that are considered high risk, such as personnel belonging to U.S. Army Special Operations Forces. Data collection were conducted in a 5-year span in which 1,323 Special Operations Forces Soldiers were surveyed anonymously from 3 to 6 months after returning from deployment to Iraq/Afghanistan regarding their combat experiences and mental health. Combat items were independently analyzed and placed into the following categories: (1) Fighting, (2) Killing, (3) Threat to oneself, (4) Death/Injury of others, and (5) Atrocities. Alcohol misuse was measured using the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test-Consumption. Of the Soldiers sampled, 15% (N = 201) screened positive for alcohol misuse 3 to 6 months postdeployment. Combat experiences relating to fighting, threat to oneself, and atrocities were significantly related to alcohol misuse when analyzed individually. However, when factors were analyzed simultaneously, combat experiences in the fighting category were significantly associated with a positive screen for alcohol misuse. In conclusion, Soldiers belonging to certain elite combat units are significantly more likely to screen positive for alcohol misuse if they are exposed to specific types of fighting combat experiences versus any other type of combat exposure.
Exercise is considered a non-pharmacological tool against several lifestyle disorders in which mitochondrial dysfunction is involved. The present study aimed to analyze the preventive (voluntary physical activity-VPA) and therapeutic (endurance training-ET) role of exercise against non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)-induced liver mitochondrial dysfunction. Sixty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into standard-diet sedentary (SS, n=20), standard-diet VPA (SVPA, n=10), high-fat diet sedentary (HS, n=20) and high-fat diet VPA (HVPA, n=10). After 9weeks of diet-treatment, half of SS and HS animals were engaged in an ET program (SET and HET) for 8weeks, 5days/week and 60min/day. Liver mitochondrial oxygen consumption and transmembrane-electric potential () were evaluated in the presence of glutamate-malate (G/M), palmitoyl-malate (P/M) and succinate (S/R). Mitochondrial enzymes activity, lipid and protein oxidation, oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) subunits, cytochrome c, adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT) and uncoupling protein-2 (UCP2) content were assessed. HS groups show the histological features of NASH in parallel with decreased  and respiratory control (RCR) and ADP/O ratios (G/M and P/M). A state 3 decrease (G/M and S/R), FCCP-induced uncoupling respiration (S/R) and ANT content were also observed. Both exercise types counteracted oxygen consumption (RCR, ADP/O and FCCP-uncoupling state) impairments and improved  (lag-phase). In conclusion, exercise prevented or reverted (VPA and ET, respectively) the bioenergetic impairment induced by NASH, but only ET positively remodeled NASH-induced liver structural damage and abnormal mitochondria. It is possible that alterations in inner membrane integrity and fatty acid oxidation may be related to the observed phenotypes induced by exercise.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder, predominantly caused by mutations in the X-linked Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. Patients present with numerous functional deficits including intellectual disability and abnormalities of movement. Clinical and biochemical features may overlap with those seen in patients with primary mitochondrial respiratory chain disorders. In the late stages of the disorder, patients suffer from motor deterioration and usually require assisted mobility. Using a mouse model of RTT (Mecp2(tm1Tam)), we studied the mitochondrial function in the hind-limb skeletal muscle of these mice. We identified a reduction in cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (MTCO1) at both the transcript and protein level, in accordance with our previous findings in RTT patient brain studies. Mitochondrial respiratory chain (MRC) enzyme activity of complexes II+III (COII+III) and complex IV (COIV), and glutathione (GSH) levels were significantly reduced in symptomatic mice, but not in the pre-symptomatic mice. Our findings suggest that mitochondrial abnormalities in the skeletal muscle may contribute to the progressive deterioration in mobility in RTT through the accumulation of free radicals, as evidenced by the decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH). We hypothesise that a diminution in GSH leads to an accumulation of free radicals and an increase in oxidative stress. This may impact on respiratory chain function and contribute in part to the progressive neurological and motor deterioration seen in the Mecp2-mutant mouse. Treatment strategies aimed at restoring cellular GSH levels may prove to be a novel target area to consider in future approaches to RTT therapies.
Motile cells such as bacteria, amoebae, and fibroblasts display a continual level of energy-consuming reactions involving the cytoskeleton and signal pathways, regardless of whether or not they are actually migrating. I draw parallels between these &quot;silent signals&quot; and the intrinsic activity of the human brain, especially that associated with the brain stem. In both cases, it can be argued that the organism continually rehearses possible future actions, so it can act quickly and accurately when suitable cues are received from the environment.
The proper assembly of neural circuits during development requires the precise control of axon outgrowth, guidance, and arborization. Although the protocadherin family of cell surface receptors is widely hypothesized to participate in neural circuit assembly, their specific roles in neuronal development remain largely unknown. Here we demonstrate that zebrafish pcdh18b is involved in regulating axon arborization in primary motoneurons. Although axon outgrowth and elongation appear normal, antisense morpholino knockdown of pcdh18b results in dose-dependent axon branching defects in caudal primary motoneurons. Cell transplantation experiments show that this effect is cell autonomous. Pcdh18b interacts with Nap1, a core component of the WAVE complex, through its intracellular domain, suggesting a role in the control of actin assembly. Like that of Pcdh18b, depletion of Nap1 results in reduced branching of motor axons. Time-lapse imaging and quantitative analysis of axon dynamics indicate that both Pcdh18b and Nap1 regulate axon arborization by affecting the density of filopodia along the shaft of the extending axon.
Working memory, which is dependent on higher-order executive function in the prefrontal cortex, is often disrupted in patients exposed to blast overpressure. In this study, we evaluated working memory and medial prefrontal neurochemical status in a rat model of blast neurotrauma. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with 3% isoflurane and exposed to calibrated blast overpressure (17 psi, 117 kPa) while sham animals received only anesthesia. Early neurochemical effects in the prefrontal cortex included a significant decrease in betaine (trimethylglycine) and an increase in GABA at 24 h, and significant increases in glycerophosphorylcholine, phosphorylethanolamine, as well as glutamate/creatine and lactate/creatine ratios at 48 h. Seven days after blast, only myo-inositol levels were altered showing a 15% increase. Compared to controls, short-term memory in the novel object recognition task was significantly impaired in animals exposed to blast overpressure. Working memory in control animals was negatively correlated with myo-inositol levels (r=-.759, p&lt;0.05), an association that was absent in blast exposed animals. Increased myo-inositol may represent tardive glial scarring in the prefrontal cortex, a notion supported by GFAP changes in this region after blast overexposure as well as clinical reports of increased myo-inositol in disorders of memory.
Neurotransmitter release as well as the structural and functional dynamics of the presynaptic active zone is controlled by proteinaceous components. Here we describe for the first time an experimental approach for the isolation of the presynaptic active zone from individual mouse brains, a prerequisite for understanding the functional inventory of the presynaptic protein network and for the later analysis of changes occurring in mutant mice. Using a monoclonal antibody against the ubiquitous synaptic vesicle protein SV2 we immunopurified synaptic vesicles docked to the presynaptic plasma membrane. Enrichment studies by means of Western blot analysis and mass spectrometry identified 485 proteins belonging to an impressive variety of functional categories. Our data suggest that presynaptic active zones represent focal hot spots that are not only involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release but also in multiple structural and functional alterations the adult nerve terminal undergoes during neural activity in adult CNS. They furthermore open new avenues for characterizing alterations in the active zone proteome of mutant mice and their corresponding controls, including the various mouse models of neurological diseases.
A number of genes regulate regeneration of peripheral axons, but their ability to drive axon growth and regeneration in the central nervous system (CNS) remains largely untested. To address this question we overexpressed eight transcription factors and one small GTPase alone and in pairwise combinations to test whether combinatorial overexpression would have a synergistic impact on CNS neuron neurite growth. The Jun oncogene/signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (JUN/STAT6) combination increased neurite growth in dissociated cortical neurons and in injured cortical slices. In injured cortical slices, JUN overexpression increased axon growth to a similar extent as JUN and STAT6 together. Interestingly, JUN overexpression was not associated with increased growth associated protein 43 (GAP43) or integrin alpha 7 (ITGA7) expression, though these are predicted transcriptional targets. This study demonstrates that JUN overexpression in cortical neurons stimulates axon growth, but does so independently of changes in expression of genes thought to be critical for JUNs effects on axon growth. We conclude that JUN activity underlies this CNS axonal growth response, and that it is mechanistically distinct from peripheral regeneration responses, in which increases in JUN expression coincide with increases in GAP43 expression.
Human fetal exposure to valproic acid (VPA), a widely-used anti-epileptic and mood-stabilizing drug, leads to an increased incidence of behavioral and intellectual impairments including autism; VPA administration to pregnant rats and mice at gestational days 12.5 (E12.5) or E13.5 leads to autistic-like symptoms in the offspring and is widely used as an animal model for autism. We report here that this VPA administration protocol transiently increased both BDNF mRNA and BDNF protein levels 5-6-fold in the fetal mouse brain. VPA exposure in utero induced smaller increases in the expression of mRNA encoding the other neurotrophins, NT3 (2.5-fold) and NT4 (2-fold). Expression of the neurotrophin receptors, trkA, trkB and trkC were minimally affected, while levels of the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor, p75(NTR), doubled. Of the nine 5'-untranslated exons of the mouse BDNF gene, only expression of exons I, IV and VI was stimulated by VPA in utero. In light of the well-established role of BDNF in regulating neurogenesis and the laminar fate of postmitotic neurons in the developing cortex, an aberrant increase in BDNF expression in the fetal brain may contribute to VPA-induced cognitive disorders by altering brain development.
Methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) is a structural chromosomal protein involved in the regulation of gene expression. Alterations in the levels of MeCP2 have been related to neurodevelopmental disorders. Studies in mouse models of MeCP2 deficiency have demonstrated that this protein is important for neuronal maturation, neurite complexity, synaptogenesis, and synaptic plasticity. However, the mechanisms by which MeCP2 dysfunction leads to neurodevelopmental defects, and the role of activity, remain unclear, as most studies examine the adult nervous system, which may obfuscate the primary consequences of MeCP2 mutation. We hypothesize that MeCP2 plays a role during the formation and activity-driven maturation of neural circuits at early postnatal stages. To test this hypothesis, we use the olfactory system as a neurodevelopmental model. This system undergoes postnatal neurogenesis; axons from olfactory neurons form highly stereotyped projections to higher-order neurons, facilitating the detection of possible defects in the establishment of connectivity. In vivo olfactory stimulation paradigms were used to produce physiological synaptic activity in gene-targeted mice in which specific olfactory circuits are visualized. Our results reveal defective postnatal refinement of olfactory circuits in Mecp2 knock out (KO) mice after sensory (odorant) stimulation. This failure in refinement was associated with deficits in the normal responses to odorants, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) production, as well as changes in adhesion molecules known to regulate axonal convergence. The defective refinement observed in Mecp2 KO mice was prevented by daily treatment with ampakine beginning after the first postnatal week. These observations indicate that increasing synaptic activity at early postnatal stage might circumvent the detrimental effect of MeCP2 deficiency on circuitry maturation. The present results provide in vivo evidence in real time for the role of MeCP2 in activity-dependent maturation of olfactory circuitry, with implications for understanding the mechanism of MeCP2 mutations in the development of neural connectivity.
A complex and still not comprehensively resolved panel of transmembrane proteins regulates the outgrowth and the subsequent morphological and functional development of neuronal processes. In order to gain a more detailed description of these events at the molecular level, we have developed a cell surface biotinylation assay to isolate, detect, and quantify neuronal membrane proteins. When we applied our assay to investigate neuron maturation in vitro, we identified 439 differentially expressed proteins, including 20 members of the immunoglobulin superfamily. Among these candidates, we focused on Negr1, a poorly described cell adhesion molecule. We demonstrated that Negr1 controls the development of neurite arborization in vitro and in vivo. Given the tight correlation existing among synaptic cell adhesion molecules, neuron maturation, and a number of neurological disorders, our assay results are a useful tool that can be used to support the understanding of the molecular bases of physiological and pathological brain function.
GPR88, coding for a G protein-coupled orphan receptor that is highly represented in the striatum, is a strong functional candidate gene for neuropsychiatric disorders and is located at 1p22-p21, a chromosomal region that we have previously linked to bipolar disorder (BD) in the Sardinian population. In order to ascertain the relevance of GPR88 as a risk factor for psychiatric diseases, we performed a genetic association analysis between GPR88 and BD in a sample of triads (patient and both parents) recruited in the Sardinian and the Palestinian population as well as between GPR88 and schizophrenia (SZ) in triads from the Xhosa population in South Africa. We found a positive association between GPR88 and BD in the Sardinian and Palestinian triads. Moreover, we found a positive association between GPR88 and SZ in triads from the Xhosa population in South Africa. When these results were corrected for multiple testing, the association between GPR88 and BD was maintained in the Palestinian population. Thus, these results suggest that GPR88 deserves consideration as a candidate gene for psychiatric diseases and requires to be further investigated in other populations.
Nemaline myopathy (NM) is genetically heterogeneous disorder characterized by early onset muscular weakness and sarcoplasmatic or intranuclear inclusions of rod-shaped Z-disk material in muscle fibers. Thus far, mutations in seven genes have been identified as cause of NM. Only one singleTNNT1 nonsense mutation has been previously described that causes autosomal recessive NM in the old order Amish with a very specific clinical phenotype including rapidly progressive contractures. Here, we report a patient who is compound heterozygous for a c.309+1G&gt;A mutation and an exon 14 deletion in theTNNT1 gene. This report confirms the specific clinical phenotype ofTNNT1 NM and documents two newTNNT1 mutations outside the old order Amish.


To develop antigen-specific immunotherapies for autoimmune diseases, knowledge of the molecular structure of targeted immunological hotspots will guide the production of reagents to inhibit and halt production of antigen specific attack agents. To this end we have identified three noncontiguous segments of the Torpedo nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) -subunit that contribute to the conformationally sensitive immunological hotspot on the AChR termed the main immunogenic region (MIR): (1-12), (65-79), and (110-115). This region is the target of greater than 50% of the anti-AChR Abs in serum from patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) and animals with experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). Many monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) raised in one species against an electric organ AChR cross react with the neuromuscular AChR MIR in several species. Probing the Torpedo AChR -subunit with mAb 132A, a disease inducing anti-MIR mAb raised against the Torpedo AChR, we have determined that two of the three MIR segments, (1-12) and (65-79), form a complex providing the signature components recognized by mAb 132A. These two segments straddle a third, (110-115), that seems not to contribute specific side chains for 132A recognition, but is necessary for optimum antibody binding. This third segment appears to form a foundation upon which the three-dimensional 132A epitope is anchored.
The biologic activity induced by ligand binding to orthosteric or allosteric sites on a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) is mediated by stabilization of specific receptor conformations. In the case of the 2 adrenergic receptor, these ligands are generally small-molecule agonists or antagonists. However, a monomeric single-domain antibody (nanobody) from the Camelid family was recently found to allosterically bind and stabilize an active conformation of the 2-adrenergic receptor (2AR). Here, we set out to study the functional interaction of 18 related nanobodies with the 2AR to investigate their roles as novel tools for studying GPCR biology. Our studies revealed several sequence-related nanobody families with preferences for active (agonist-occupied) or inactive (antagonist-occupied) receptors. Flow cytometry analysis indicates that all nanobodies bind to epitopes displayed on the intracellular receptor surface; therefore, we transiently expressed them intracellularly as &quot;intrabodies&quot; to test their effects on 2AR-dependent signaling. Conformational specificity was preserved after intrabody conversion as demonstrated by the ability for the intracellularly expressed nanobodies to selectively bind agonist- or antagonist-occupied receptors. When expressed as intrabodies, they inhibited G protein activation (cyclic AMP accumulation), G protein-coupled receptor kinase (GRK)-mediated receptor phosphorylation, -arrestin recruitment, and receptor internalization to varying extents. These functional effects were likely due to either steric blockade of downstream effector (Gs, -arrestin, GRK) interactions or stabilization of specific receptor conformations which do not support effector coupling. Together, these findings strongly implicate nanobody-derived intrabodies as novel tools to study GPCR biology.

Cognitive functions are highly heritable and the impact of complex genetic interactions, though undoubtedly important, has received little investigation. Here we show in an animal model and in a human neuroimaging experiment a consistent non-linear interaction between two genes--catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) and dysbindin (dys; dystrobrevin-binding protein 1 (DTNBP1))--implicated through different mechanisms in cortical dopamine signaling and prefrontal cognitive function. In mice, we found that a single genetic mutation reducing expression of either COMT or DTNBP1 alone produced working memory advantages, while, in dramatic contrast, genetic reduction of both in the same mouse produced working memory deficits. We found evidence of the same non-linear genetic interaction in prefrontal cortical function in humans. In healthy volunteers (N=176) studied with functional magnetic resonance imaging during a working memory paradigm, individuals homozygous for the COMT rs4680 Met allele that reduces COMT enzyme activity showed a relatively more efficient prefrontal engagement. In contrast, we found that the same genotype was less efficient on the background of a dys haplotype associated with decreased DTNBP1 expression. These results illustrate that epistasis can be functionally multi-directional and non-linear and that a putatively beneficial allele in one epistastic context is a relatively deleterious one in another. These data also have important implications for single-locus association analyses of complex traits.
Endogenous opioid and cannabinoid systems are thought to act synergistically regulating antinociceptive and reward mechanisms. To further understand the human implications of the interaction between these two systems, we investigated the role of the common, functional missense variant Pro129Thr of the gene coding fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), the major degrading enzyme of endocannabinoids, on psychophysical and neurotransmitter (dopaminergic, opioid) responses to pain and placebo-induced analgesia in humans. FAAH Pro129/Pro129 homozygotes, who constitute nearly half of the population, reported higher placebo analgesia and more positive affective states immediately and 24h after placebo administration; no effects on pain report in the absence of placebo were observed. Pro129/Pro129 homozygotes also showed greater placebo-induced -opioid, but not D(2/3) dopaminergic, enhancements in neurotransmission in regions known involved in placebo effects. These results show that a common genetic variation affecting the function of the cannabinoid system is serving as a probe to demonstrate the involvement of cannabinoid and opioid transmitters on the formation of placebo effects.


Microdeletions of chromosomal region 2q23.1 that disrupt MBD5 (methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 5) contribute to a spectrum of neurodevelopmental phenotypes; however, the impact of this locus on human psychopathology has not been fully explored. To characterize the structural variation landscape of MBD5 disruptions and the associated human psychopathology, 22 individuals with genomic disruption of MBD5 (translocation, point mutation and deletion) were identified through whole-genome sequencing or cytogenomic microarray at 11 molecular diagnostic centers. The genomic impact ranged from a single base pair to 5.4Mb. Parents were available for 11 cases, all of which confirmed that the rearrangement arose de novo. Phenotypes were largely indistinguishable between patients with full-segment 2q23.1 deletions and those with intragenic MBD5 rearrangements, including alterations confined entirely to the 5'-untranslated region, confirming the critical impact of non-coding sequence at this locus. We identified heterogeneous, multisystem pathogenic effects of MBD5 disruption and characterized the associated spectrum of psychopathology, including the novel finding of anxiety and bipolar disorder in multiple patients. Importantly, one of the unique features of the oldest known patient was behavioral regression. Analyses also revealed phenotypes that distinguish MBD5 disruptions from seven well-established syndromes with significant diagnostic overlap. This study demonstrates that haploinsufficiency of MBD5 causes diverse phenotypes, yields insight into the spectrum of resulting neurodevelopmental and behavioral psychopathology and provides clinical context for interpretation of MBD5 structural variations. Empirical evidence also indicates that disruption of non-coding MBD5 regulatory regions is sufficient for clinical manifestation, highlighting the limitations of exon-focused assessments. These results suggest an ongoing perturbation of neurological function throughout the lifespan, including risks for neurobehavioral regression.


The identification of an ultra-high risk (UHR) profile for psychosis and a greater understanding of its prodrome have led to increasing interest in early intervention to delay or prevent the onset of psychotic illness. In a randomized placebo-controlled trial, we have identified long-chain -3 (-3) polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) supplementation as potentially useful, as it reduced the rate of transition to psychosis by 22.6% 1 year after baseline in a cohort of 81 young people at UHR of transition to psychosis. However, the mechanisms whereby the -3 PUFAs might be neuroprotective are incompletely understood. Here, we report on the effects of -3 PUFA supplementation on intracellular phospholipase A2 (inPLA(2)) activity, the main enzymes regulating phospholipid metabolism, as well as on peripheral membrane lipid profiles in the individuals who participated in this randomized placebo-controlled trial. Patients were studied cross-sectionally (n=80) and longitudinally (n=65) before and after a 12-week intervention with 1.2g per day -3 PUFAs or placebo, followed by a 40-week observation period to establish the rates of transition to psychosis. We investigated inPLA(2) and erythrocyte membrane FAs in the treatment groups (-3 PUFAs vs placebo) and the outcome groups (psychotic vs non-psychotic). The levels of membrane -3 and -6 PUFAs and inPLA(2) were significantly related. Some of the significant associations (that is, long-chain -6 PUFAs, arachidonic acid) with inPLA(2) activity were in opposite directions in individuals who did (a positive correlation) and who did not (a negative correlation) transition to psychosis. Supplementation with -3 PUFA resulted in a significant decrease in inPLA(2) activity. We conclude that -3 PUFA supplementation may act by normalizing inPLA(2) activity and -6-desaturase-mediated metabolism of -3 and -6 PUFAs, suggesting their role in neuroprogression of psychosis.
The kynurenine pathway metabolite kynurenic acid (KYNA), modulating glutamatergic and cholinergic neurotransmission, is increased in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder type 1 with psychotic features. KYNA production is critically dependent on kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO). KMO mRNA levels and activity in prefrontal cortex (PFC) are reduced in schizophrenia. We hypothesized that KMO expression in PFC would be reduced in bipolar disorder with psychotic features and that a functional genetic variant of KMO would associate with this disease, CSF KYNA level and KMO expression. KMO mRNA levels were reduced in PFC of bipolar disorder patients with lifetime psychotic features (P=0.005, n=19) or schizophrenia (P=0.02, n=36) compared with nonpsychotic patients and controls. KMO genetic association to psychotic features in bipolar disorder type 1 was studied in 493 patients and 1044 controls from Sweden. The KMO Arg(452) allele was associated with psychotic features during manic episodes (P=0.003). KMO Arg(452) was studied for association to CSF KYNA levels in an independent sample of 55 Swedish patients, and to KMO expression in 717 lymphoblastoid cell lines and 138 hippocampal biopsies. KMO Arg(452) associated with increased levels of CSF KYNA (P=0.03) and reduced lymphoblastoid and hippocampal KMO expression (P0.05). Thus, findings from five independent cohorts suggest that genetic variation in KMO influences the risk for psychotic features in mania of bipolar disorder patients. This provides a possible mechanism for the previous findings of elevated CSF KYNA levels in those bipolar patients with lifetime psychotic features and positive association between KYNA levels and number of manic episodes.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3), a prominent enzyme in carbohydrate metabolism, also has a major role in brain function. It is physiologically regulated by the kinase Akt, which phosphorylates GSK3 to inhibit catalytic activity. Inositol hexakisphosphate-1 (IP6K1) generates the inositol pyrophosphate diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (IP7), which physiologically inhibits Akt leading to enhanced GSK3 activity. We report that IP6K1 binds and stimulates GSK3 enzymatic activity in a non-catalytic fashion. Physiological relevance is evident in the inhibition of GSK3 activity in the brains of IP6K1-deleted mice. Behavioral alterations of IP6K1 knockout mice resemble those of GSK3 mutants. Accordingly, modulation of IP6K1-GSK3 interaction may exert beneficial effects in psychiatric disorders involving GSK3.
Deposition of amyloid- (A) in the cerebral cortex is thought to be a pivotal event in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis with a significant genetic contribution. Molecular imaging can provide an early noninvasive phenotype, but small samples have prohibited genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of cortical A load until now. We employed florbetapir ((18)F) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging to assess brain A levels in vivo for 555 participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). More than six million common genetic variants were tested for association to quantitative global cortical A load controlling for age, gender and diagnosis. Independent genome-wide significant associations were identified on chromosome 19 within APOE (apolipoprotein E) (rs429358, P=5.5  10(-14)) and on chromosome 3 upstream of BCHE (butyrylcholinesterase) (rs509208, P=2.7  10(-8)) in a region previously associated with serum BCHE activity. Together, these loci explained 15% of the variance in cortical A levels in this sample (APOE 10.7%, BCHE 4.3%). Suggestive associations were identified within ITGA6, near EFNA5, EDIL3, ITGA1, PIK3R1, NFIB and ARID1B, and between NUAK1 and C12orf75. These results confirm the association of APOE with A deposition and represent the largest known effect of BCHE on an AD-related phenotype. BCHE has been found in senile plaques and this new association of genetic variation at the BCHE locus with A burden in humans may have implications for potential disease-modifying effects of BCHE-modulating agents in the AD spectrum.
Mice with a mutation in the Clock gene (Clock19) have been identified as a model of mania; however, the mechanisms that underlie this phenotype, and the changes in the brain that are necessary for lithium's effectiveness on these mice remain unclear. Here, we find that cholecystokinin (Cck) is a direct transcriptional target of CLOCK and levels of Cck are reduced in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of Clock19 mice. Selective knockdown of Cck expression via RNA interference in the VTA of wild-type mice produces a manic-like phenotype. Moreover, chronic treatment with lithium restores Cck expression to near wild-type and this increase is necessary for the therapeutic actions of lithium. The decrease in Cck expression in the Clock19 mice appears to be due to a lack of interaction with the histone methyltransferase, MLL1, resulting in decreased histone H3K4me3 and gene transcription, an effect reversed by lithium. Human postmortem tissue from bipolar subjects reveals a similar increase in Cck expression in the VTA with mood stabilizer treatment. These studies identify a key role for Cck in the development and treatment of mania, and describe some of the molecular mechanisms by which lithium may act as an effective antimanic agent.
Parkinson's disease (PD) involves the degeneration of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) that is thought to cause the classical motor symptoms of this disease. However, motivational and affective impairments are also often observed in PD patients. These are usually attributed to a psychological reaction to the general motor impairment and to a loss of some of the neurons within the ventral tegmental area (VTA). We induced selective lesions of the VTA and SNc DA neurons that did not provoke motor deficits, and showed that bilateral dopamine loss within the SNc, but not within the VTA, induces motivational deficits and affective impairments that mimicked the symptoms of PD patients. Thus, motivational and affective deficits are a core impairment of PD, as they stem from the loss of the major group of neurons that degenerates in this disease (DA SNc neurons) and are independent of motor deficits.
Patient-physician interactions significantly contribute to placebo effects and clinical outcomes. While the neural correlates of placebo responses have been studied in patients, the neurobiology of the clinician during treatment is unknown. This study investigated physicians' brain activations during patient-physician interaction while the patient was experiencing pain, including a 'treatment', 'no-treatment' and 'control' condition. Here, we demonstrate that physicians activated brain regions previously implicated in expectancy for pain-relief and increased attention during treatment of patients, including the right ventrolateral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices. The physician's ability to take the patients' perspective correlated with increased brain activations in the rostral anterior cingulate cortex, a region that has been associated with processing of reward and subjective value. We suggest that physician treatment involves neural representations of treatment expectation, reward processing and empathy, paired with increased activation in attention-related structures. Our findings further the understanding of the neural representations associated with reciprocal interactions between clinicians and patients; a hallmark for successful treatment outcomes.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is an autosomal dominant, late-onset neurodegenerative disease caused by a polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion in the ataxin-1 protein, which causes progressive neurodegeneration in cerebellar Purkinje cells and brainstem nuclei. Here, we tested if reducing mutant ataxin-1 expression would significantly improve phenotypes in a knock-in (KI) mouse model that recapitulates spatial and temporal aspects of SCA1. Adeno-associated viruses (AAVs), expressing inhibitory RNAs targeting ataxin-1, were injected into the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) of KI mice. This approach induced ataxin-1 suppression in the cerebellar cortex and in brainstem neurons. RNA interference (RNAi) of ataxin-1 preserved cerebellar lobule integrity and prevented disease-related transcriptional changes for over a year. Notably, RNAi therapy also preserved rotarod performance and neurohistology. These data suggest that delivery of AAVs encoding RNAi sequences against ataxin-1, to DCN alone, may be sufficient for SCA1 therapy.
There is emerging evidence that the misfolding of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) may represent a common pathogenic event in both familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To reduce the burden of misfolded SOD1 species in the nervous system, we have tested a novel therapeutic approach based on adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated tonic expression of a DNA construct encoding a secretable single-chain fragment variable (scFv) antibody composed of the variable heavy and light chain regions of a monoclonal antibody (D3H5) binding specifically to misfolded SOD1. A single intrathecal injection of the AAV encoding the single-chain antibody in SOD1(G93A) mice at 45 days of age resulted in sustained expression of single-chain antibodies in the spinal cord, and it delayed disease onset and extension of life span by up to 28%, in direct correlation with scFv titers in the spinal cord. The treatment caused attenuation of neuronal stress signals and reduction in levels of misfolded SOD1 in the spinal cord of SOD1(G93A) mice. From these results, we propose that an immunotherapy based on intrathecal inoculation of AAV encoding a secretable scFv against misfolded SOD1 should be considered as potential treatment for ALS, especially for individuals carrying SOD1 mutations.


The impact of Parkinson's disease (PD) dementia is substantial and has major functional and socioeconomic consequences. Early prediction of future cognitive impairment would help target future interventions. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), and fluency tests were administered to 486 patients with PD within 3.5 years of diagnosis, and the results were compared with those from 141 controls correcting for age, sex, and educational years. Eighteen-month longitudinal assessments were performed in 155 patients with PD. The proportion of patients classified with normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and dementia varied considerably, depending on the MoCA and MMSE thresholds used. With the MoCA total score at screening threshold, 47.7%, 40.5%, and 11.7% of patients with PD were classified with normal cognition, MCI, and dementia, respectively; by comparison, 78.7% and 21.3% of controls had normal cognition and MCI, respectively. Cognitive impairment was predicted by lower education, increased age, male sex, and quantitative motor and non-motor (smell, depression, and anxiety) measures. Longitudinal data from 155 patients with PD over 18 months showed significant reductions in MoCA scores, but not in MMSE scores, with 21.3% of patients moving from normal cognition to MCI and 4.5% moving from MCI to dementia, although 13.5% moved from MCI to normal; however, none of the patients with dementia changed their classification. The MoCA may be more sensitive than the MMSE in detecting early baseline and longitudinal cognitive impairment in PD, because it identified 25.8% of those who experienced significant cognitive decline over 18 months. Cognitive decline was associated with worse motor and non-motor features, suggesting that this reflects a faster progressive phenotype.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients are treated with levodopa (L-dopa) to help stabilize their impaired motor abilities; however, L-dopa leads to increased homocysteine (Hcy) levels, which may have a deleterious effect on brain structure and function. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of increased Hcy concentration on global brain atrophy as determined by magnetic resonance imaging in PD patients and controls. The effect of high Hcy level on ventricular dilatation (percentage of intracranial volume [%ICV]) and total tissue volume (%ICV) was examined at baseline and longitudinally at 36 months. Age, sex, education, and L-dopa duration (in PD patients) were included as covariates. Elevated Hcy levels correlated positively with ventricular dilatation (%ICV) in the whole sample (P = 0.004) and in the PD group (P = 0.008). At baseline, adults with a high Hcy level (&gt;14 mol/L) had higher ventricular volume (%ICV) than adults with a low Hcy level ( 14 mol/L) in the whole sample (P = 0.006) and in the PD group (P = 0.03), which persisted over 36 months in both the whole sample (P = 0.004) and the PD group (P = 0.03). PD patients with high Hcy concentrations had a greater rate of ventricular enlargement (%ICV) over time compared with those with low Hcy concentration (P = 0.02). Elevated Hcy concentration was associated with increased ventricular dilatation (%ICV) in PD patients. A larger sample with a broader age range and longer follow-up is needed to establish the consequences of high Hcy level, including interactions with genetic and environmental risk factors, in PD.



On the basis of previous studies demonstrating that a breach of the colonic epithelial barrier is associated with a microbiota-dependent increase in lamina propria (LP) regulatory cells, we investigated if the lack of spontaneous intestinal inflammation observed in nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain 2 (Nod2)-/- mice was due to enhanced intestinal regulatory function. We found that the LP CD4+ T-cell population of Nod2-/- mice contains an increased percentage of CD4+ regulatory T cells bearing transforming growth factor -/latency peptide (LP CD4+LAP (latency-associated peptide) + T cells) both under baseline conditions and following an intentional breach of the colonic barrier induced by ethanol administration. In addition, we found that Nod2-/- mice manifest decreased severity of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-colitis and that TNBS-colitis in Nod2-/- or Nod2+/+ mice is ameliorated by adoptive transfer of LP cells from ethanol-treated mice before, but not after, depletion of LAP+ T cells. This increased regulatory T-cell response in Nod2-/- mice could explain why NOD2 polymorphisms in humans are not in themselves sufficient to establish inflammatory lesions.



Distinguishing between allostery and competition among modulating ligands is challenging for large target molecules. Out of practical necessity, inferences are often drawn from in vitro assays on target fragments, but such inferences may belie actual mechanisms. One key example of such ambiguity concerns calcium-binding proteins (CaBPs) that tune signaling molecules regulated by calmodulin (CaM). As CaBPs resemble CaM, CaBPs are believed to competitively replace CaM on targets. Yet, brain CaM expression far surpasses that of CaBPs, raising questions as to whether CaBPs can exert appreciable biological actions. Here, we devise a live-cell, holomolecule approach that reveals an allosteric mechanism for calcium channels whose CaM-mediated inactivation is eliminated by CaBP4. Our strategy is to covalently link CaM and/or CaBP to holochannels, enabling live-cell fluorescence resonance energy transfer assays to resolve a cyclical allosteric binding scheme for CaM and CaBP4 to channels, thus explaining how trace CaBPs prevail. This approach may apply generally for discerning allostery in live cells.

Particle tracking is of key importance for quantitative analysis of intracellular dynamic processes from time-lapse microscopy image data. Because manually detecting and following large numbers of individual particles is not feasible, automated computational methods have been developed for these tasks by many groups. Aiming to perform an objective comparison of methods, we gathered the community and organized an open competition in which participating teams applied their own methods independently to a commonly defined data set including diverse scenarios. Performance was assessed using commonly defined measures. Although no single method performed best across all scenarios, the results revealed clear differences between the various approaches, leading to notable practical conclusions for users and developers.
Working memory is widely considered to be limited in capacity, holding a fixed, small number of items, such as Miller's 'magical number' seven or Cowan's four. It has recently been proposed that working memory might better be conceptualized as a limited resource that is distributed flexibly among all items to be maintained in memory. According to this view, the quality rather than the quantity of working memory representations determines performance. Here we consider behavioral and emerging neural evidence for this proposal.
Every year in the United States, an estimated 500,000 babies are born preterm (before 37 completed weeks of gestation), and this number is rising, along with the recognition of brain injuries due to preterm delivery. A common underlying pathogenesis appears to be perinatal hypoxia induced by immature lung development, which causes injury to vulnerable neurons and glia. Abnormal growth and maturation of susceptible cell types, particularly neurons and oligodendrocytes, in preterm babies with very low birth weight is associated with decreased cerebral and cerebellar volumes and increases in cerebral ventricular size. Here we reconcile these observations with recent studies using models of perinatal hypoxia that show perturbations in the maturation and function of interneurons, oligodendrocytes and astroglia. Together, these findings suggest that the global mechanism by which perinatal hypoxia alters development is through a delay in maturation of affected cell types, including astroglia, oligodendroglia and neurons.

Mormyrid electric fish are a model system for understanding how neural circuits predict the sensory consequences of motor acts. Medium ganglion cells in the electrosensory lobe create negative images that predict sensory input resulting from the fish's electric organ discharge (EOD). Previous studies have shown that negative images can be created through plasticity at granule cell-medium ganglion cell synapses, provided that granule cell responses to the brief EOD command are sufficiently varied and prolonged. Here we show that granule cells indeed provide such a temporal basis and that it is well-matched to the temporal structure of self-generated sensory inputs, allowing rapid and accurate sensory cancellation and explaining paradoxical features of negative images. We also demonstrate an unexpected and critical role of unipolar brush cells (UBCs) in generating the required delayed responses. These results provide a mechanistic account of how copies of motor commands are transformed into sensory predictions.
Hunger arouses sensory perception, eventually leading to an increase in food intake, but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. We found that cannabinoid type-1 (CB1) receptors promote food intake in fasted mice by increasing odor detection. CB1 receptors were abundantly expressed on axon terminals of centrifugal cortical glutamatergic neurons that project to inhibitory granule cells of the main olfactory bulb (MOB). Local pharmacological and genetic manipulations revealed that endocannabinoids and exogenous cannabinoids increased odor detection and food intake in fasted mice by decreasing excitatory drive from olfactory cortex areas to the MOB. Consistently, cannabinoid agonists dampened in vivo optogenetically stimulated excitatory transmission in the same circuit. Our data indicate that cortical feedback projections to the MOB crucially regulate food intake via CB1 receptor signaling, linking the feeling of hunger to stronger odor processing. Thus, CB1 receptor-dependent control of cortical feedback projections in olfactory circuits couples internal states to perception and behavior.
Microglia are phagocytic cells that infiltrate the brain during development and have a role in the elimination of synapses during brain maturation. Changes in microglial morphology and gene expression have been associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. However, it remains unknown whether these changes are a primary cause or a secondary consequence of neuronal deficits. Here we tested whether a primary deficit in microglia was sufficient to induce some autism-related behavioral and functional connectivity deficits. Mice lacking the chemokine receptor Cx3cr1 exhibit a transient reduction of microglia during the early postnatal period and a consequent deficit in synaptic pruning. We show that deficient synaptic pruning is associated with weak synaptic transmission, decreased functional brain connectivity, deficits in social interaction and increased repetitive-behavior phenotypes that have been previously associated with autism and other neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders. These findings open the possibility that disruptions in microglia-mediated synaptic pruning could contribute to neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders.
Neural circuits must perform computations and then selectively output the results to other circuits. Yet synapses do not change radically at millisecond timescales. A key question then is: how is communication between neural circuits controlled? In motor control, brain areas directly involved in driving movement are active well before movement begins. Muscle activity is some readout of neural activity, yet it remains largely unchanged during preparation. Here we find that during preparation, while the monkey holds still, changes in motor cortical activity cancel out at the level of these population readouts. Motor cortex can thereby prepare the movement without prematurely causing it. Further, we found evidence that this mechanism also operates in dorsal premotor cortex, largely accounting for how preparatory activity is attenuated in primary motor cortex. Selective use of 'output-null' vs. 'output-potent' patterns of activity may thus help control communication to the muscles and between these brain areas.
Recent evidence in vitro suggests that the tuft dendrites of pyramidal neurons are capable of evoking local NMDA receptor-dependent electrogenesis, so-called NMDA spikes. However, it has so far proved difficult to demonstrate their existence in vivo. Moreover, it is not clear whether NMDA spikes are relevant to the output of pyramidal neurons. We found that local NMDA spikes occurred in tuft dendrites of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons both spontaneously and following sensory input, and had a large influence on the number of output action potentials. Using two-photon activation of an intracellular caged NMDA receptor antagonist (tc-MK801), we found that isolated NMDA spikes typically occurred in multiple branches simultaneously and that sensory stimulation substantially increased their probability. Our results demonstrate that NMDA receptors have a vital role in coupling the tuft region of the layer 2/3 pyramidal neuron to the cell body, enhancing the effectiveness of layer 1 input.
Sensory experience is critical to development and plasticity of neural circuits. Here we report a new form of plasticity in neonatal mice, where early sensory experience cross-modally regulates development of all sensory cortices via oxytocin signaling. Unimodal sensory deprivation from birth through whisker deprivation or dark rearing reduced excitatory synaptic transmission in the correspondent sensory cortex and cross-modally in other sensory cortices. Sensory experience regulated synthesis and secretion of the neuropeptide oxytocin as well as its level in the cortex. Both in vivo oxytocin injection and increased sensory experience elevated excitatory synaptic transmission in multiple sensory cortices and significantly rescued the effects of sensory deprivation. Together, these results identify a new function for oxytocin in promoting cross-modal, experience-dependent cortical development. This link between sensory experience and oxytocin is particularly relevant to autism, where hypersensitivity or hyposensitivity to sensory inputs is prevalent and oxytocin is a hotly debated potential therapy.
The microtubule-associated protein tau is involved in a number of neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. Previous studies have linked oxidative stress and subsequent DNA damage to neuronal death in Alzheimer's disease and related tauopathies. Given that DNA damage can substantially alter chromatin structure, we examined epigenetic changes in tau-induced neurodegeneration. We found widespread loss of heterochromatin in tau transgenic Drosophila and mice and in human Alzheimer's disease. Notably, genetic rescue of tau-induced heterochromatin loss substantially reduced neurodegeneration in Drosophila. We identified oxidative stress and subsequent DNA damage as a mechanistic link between transgenic tau expression and heterochromatin relaxation, and found that heterochromatin loss permitted aberrant gene expression in tauopathies. Furthermore, large-scale analyses from the brains of individuals with Alzheimer's disease revealed a widespread transcriptional increase in genes that were heterochromatically silenced in controls. Our results establish heterochromatin loss as a toxic effector of tau-induced neurodegeneration and identify chromatin structure as a potential therapeutic target in Alzheimer's disease.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is enriched in the striatal projection neurons (SPNs). We found that LRRK2 negatively regulates protein kinase A (PKA) activity in the SPNs during synaptogenesis and in response to dopamine receptor Drd1 activation. LRRK2 interacted with PKA regulatory subunit II (PKARII). A lack of LRRK2 promoted the synaptic translocation of PKA and increased PKA-mediated phosphorylation of actin-disassembling enzyme cofilin and glutamate receptor GluR1, resulting in abnormal synaptogenesis and transmission in the developing SPNs. Furthermore, PKA-dependent phosphorylation of GluR1 was also aberrantly enhanced in the striatum of young and aged Lrrk2(-/-) mice after treatment with a Drd1 agonist. Notably, a Parkinson's disease-related Lrrk2 R1441C missense mutation that impaired the interaction of LRRK2 with PKARII also induced excessive PKA activity in the SPNs. Our findings reveal a previously unknown regulatory role for LRRK2 in PKA signaling and suggest a pathogenic mechanism of SPN dysfunction in Parkinson's disease.
Chunking allows the brain to efficiently organize memories and actions. Although basal ganglia circuits have been implicated in action chunking, little is known about how individual elements are concatenated into a behavioral sequence at the neural level. Using a task in which mice learned rapid action sequences, we uncovered neuronal activity encoding entire sequences as single actions in basal ganglia circuits. In addition to neurons with activity related to the start/stop activity signaling sequence parsing, we found neurons displaying inhibited or sustained activity throughout the execution of an entire sequence. This sustained activity covaried with the rate of execution of individual sequence elements, consistent with motor concatenation. Direct and indirect pathways of basal ganglia were concomitantly active during sequence initiation, but behaved differently during sequence performance, revealing a more complex functional organization of these circuits than previously postulated. These results have important implications for understanding the functional organization of basal ganglia during the learning and execution of action sequences.
There is growing interest in using antibodies as auxiliary tools to crystallize proteins. Here we describe a general protocol for the generation of Nanobodies to be used as crystallization chaperones for the structural investigation of diverse conformational states of flexible (membrane) proteins and complexes thereof. Our technology has a competitive advantage over other recombinant crystallization chaperones in that we fully exploit the natural humoral response against native antigens. Accordingly, we provide detailed protocols for the immunization with native proteins and for the selection by phage display of in vivo-matured Nanobodies that bind conformational epitopes of functional proteins. Three representative examples illustrate that the outlined procedures are robust, making it possible to solve by Nanobody-assisted X-ray crystallography in a time span of 6-12 months.
Speciation is a fundamental evolutionary process, the knowledge of which is crucial for understanding the origins of biodiversity. Genomic approaches are an increasingly important aspect of this research field. We review current understanding of genome-wide effects of accumulating reproductive isolation and of genomic properties that influence the process of speciation. Building on this work, we identify emergent trends and gaps in our understanding, propose new approaches to more fully integrate genomics into speciation research, translate speciation theory into hypotheses that are testable using genomic tools and provide an integrative definition of the field of speciation genomics.
Diffuse axonal injury after traumatic brain injury (TBI) produces neurological impairment by disconnecting brain networks. This structural damage can be mapped using diffusion MRI, and its functional effects can be investigated in large-scale intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs). Here, we review evidence that TBI substantially disrupts ICN function, and that this disruption predicts cognitive impairment. We focus on two ICNs--the salience network and the default mode network. The activity of these ICNs is normally tightly coupled, which is important for attentional control. Damage to the structural connectivity of these networks produces predictable abnormalities of network function and cognitive control. For example, the brain normally shows a 'small-world architecture' that is optimized for information processing, but TBI shifts network function away from this organization. The effects of TBI on network function are likely to be complex, and we discuss how advanced approaches to modelling brain dynamics can provide insights into the network dysfunction. We highlight how structural network damage caused by axonal injury might interact with neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, which are late complications of TBI. Finally, we discuss how network-level diagnostics could inform diagnosis, prognosis and treatment development following TBI.
Left-handers are often excluded from study cohorts in neuroscience and neurogenetics in order to reduce variance in the data. However, recent investigations have shown that the inclusion or targeted recruitment of left-handers can be informative in studies on a range of topics, such as cerebral lateralization and the genetic underpinning of asymmetrical brain development. Left-handed individuals represent a substantial portion of the human population and therefore left-handedness falls within the normal range of human diversity; thus, it is important to account for this variation in our understanding of brain functioning. We call for neuroscientists and neurogeneticists to recognize the potential of studying this often-discarded group of research subjects.
Highly psychopathic women are rare in the context of forensic psychiatry; however, the concept of psychopathy plays an important role in diagnostics, for court expertises as well as for treatment. Another so far neglected yet relevant field is the business world. The so-called successful female psychopaths are characterized by highly psychopathic traits but low antisocial behavior, at least with reference to criminal behavior. The basis for investigating and interpreting gender differences is the assessment of psychopathy. Gender differences have been repeatedly demonstrated, especially in the assessment of antisocial behavior and the differentiation of borderline personality disorder and psychopathy which have to be addressed. Group comparisons based on these diagnostic methods found lower inhibitory deficits but less aggressive behavior in female participants with respect to the first main symptom category. For the second symptom category, emotional detachment, so far there are almost no findings reporting gender differences but only few direct gender comparisons have been carried out. However, highly psychopathic women from the general population demonstrate a stronger correlation between psychopathic traits and self-perception as negotiation partner compared to men: they make more use of manipulation and perceive themselves as more powerful in negotiation situations. Future studies should address the diagnostic variability, direct gender comparisons in experimental tasks and the relationship between psychopathic traits, the core symptom categories and career-related success.
Several studies in clinical neuroscience have focused on the analysis of expression of emotions, identification of emotions and experience of emotions. These empirical studies produced certain insights into emotional competency in different mental diseases, most of them in schizophrenia. The current article gives a description of the scientific data about alterations in emotional competency in several mental diseases (e.g. schizophrenia, depression, bipolar and borderline diseases) and links the data, if possible, with clinical relevance with a special focus on emotional competency in prodromal schizophrenia.
Speech recognition in noisy conditions is a major challenge for computer systems, but the human brain performs it routinely and accurately. Automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems that are inspired by neuroscience can potentially bridge the performance gap between humans and machines. We present a system for noise-robust isolated word recognition that works by decoding sequences of spikes from a population of simulated auditory feature-detecting neurons. Each neuron is trained to respond selectively to a brief spectrotemporal pattern, or feature, drawn from the simulated auditory nerve response to speech. The neural population conveys the time-dependent structure of a sound by its sequence of spikes. We compare two methods for decoding the spike sequences--one using a hidden Markov model-based recognizer, the other using a novel template-based recognition scheme. In the latter case, words are recognized by comparing their spike sequences to template sequences obtained from clean training data, using a similarity measure based on the length of the longest common sub-sequence. Using isolated spoken digits from the AURORA-2 database, we show that our combined system outperforms a state-of-the-art robust speech recognizer at low signal-to-noise ratios. Both the spike-based encoding scheme and the template-based decoding offer gains in noise robustness over traditional speech recognition methods. Our system highlights potential advantages of spike-based acoustic coding and provides a biologically motivated framework for robust ASR development.

In Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid plaques are surrounded by reactive astrocytes with an increased expression of intermediate filaments including glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Different GFAP isoforms have been identified that are differentially expressed by specific subpopulations of astrocytes and that impose different properties to the intermediate filament network. We studied transcript levels and protein expression patterns of all known GFAP isoforms in human hippocampal AD tissue at different stages of the disease. Ten different transcripts for GFAP isoforms were detected at different abundancies. Transcript levels of most isoforms increased with AD progression. GFAP-immunopositive astrocytes were observed in subgranular zone, hilus, and stratum-lacunosum-moleculare. GFAP-positive cells also stained for GFAP. In AD donors, astrocytes near plaques displayed increased staining of both GFAP and GFAP. The reading-frame-shifted isoform, GFAP(+1), staining was confined to a subset of astrocytes with long processes, and their number increased in the course of AD. In conclusion, the various GFAP isoforms show differential transcript levels and are upregulated in a concerted manner in AD. The GFAP(+1) isoform defines a unique subset of astrocytes, with numbers increasing with AD progression. These data indicate the need for future exploration of underlying mechanisms concerning the functions of GFAP and GFAP(+1) isoforms in astrocytes and their possible role in AD pathology.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia and marked by deposition of amyloid- (A) within the brain. Alterations of A transporters at the neurovasculature may play a role in the disease process. We investigated the expression of ABC transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer related protein (BCRP) in non-neurologic controls, AD, and severe capillary cerebral amyloid angiopathy (capCAA) cases, which are characterized by deposition of A within cerebral capillaries. Our data show that microvascular expression of P-gp and BCRP is strikingly decreased in capCAA-affected vessels but not in AD and control samples. Messenger RNA levels of P-gp, but not of BCRP, were downregulated in brain endothelial cells on exposure to oligomeric A42, but not fibrillar A42 or A40. Coincubating A42 together with clusterin, an amyloid-associated protein highly expressed in capCAA-affected vessels, strongly reduced levels of P-gp. In conclusion, accumulation of A, in combination with clusterin, within and around cerebral capillaries, may further aggravate the disease process in AD by affecting P-gp expression. Loss of P-gp expression or activity may serve as a selective biomarker for ongoing capCAA.
Olfactory perceptual learning reflects an ongoing process by which animals learn to discriminate odorants thanks to repeated stimulations by these odorants. Adult neurogenesis is required for this learning to occur in young adults. The experiments reported here showed that olfactory perceptual learning is impaired with aging and that this impairment is associated with a reduction of neurogenesis and a decrease in granule cell responsiveness to the learned odorant in the olfactory bulb. Interestingly, we showed that the pharmacological stimulation of the noradrenergic system using dexefaroxan mimics olfactory perceptual learning in old mice, which is accompanied by an increase of granule cell responsiveness in response to the learned odorant without any improvement in neurogenesis. We provide the first published evidence that, in contrast to young adult mice, the improvement of olfactory performances in old mice is independent of the overall level of neurogenesis. In addition, restoring behavioral performances in old mice by stimulation of the noradrenergic system underlies the importance of this neuromodulatory system in regulating bulbar network plasticity.
Biomarkers associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like brain atrophy in healthy individuals may identify mechanisms involved in early stage AD. Aside from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) -amyloid42 (A42) and tau, no studies have tested associations between CSF proteins and AD-like brain atrophy. We studied 90 healthy elders, who underwent lumbar puncture at baseline, and serial magnetic resonance imaging scans for up to 4 years. We tested statistical effects of baseline CSF proteins (N= 70 proteins related to A42-metabolism, microglial activity, and synaptic/neuronal function) on atrophy rates in 7 AD-related regions. Besides the effects of A42 and phosphorylated tau (P-tau) that were seen in several regions, novel CSF proteins were found to have effects in inferior and middle temporal cortex (including apolipoprotein CIII, apolipoprotein D, and apolipoprotein H). Several proteins (including S100 and matrix metalloproteinase-3) had effects that depended on the presence of brain A pathology, as measured by CSF A42. Other proteins (including P-tau and apolipoprotein D) had effects even after adjusting for CSF A42. The statistical effects in this exploratory study were mild and not significant after correction for multiple comparisons, but some of the identified proteins may be associated with brain atrophy in healthy persons. Proteins interacting with CSF A42 may be related to A brain pathology, whereas proteins associated with atrophy even after adjusting for CSF A42 may be related to A-independent mechanisms.
Multiple system atrophy is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease characterized by parkinsonism, ataxia, autonomic dysfunction, and accumulation of -synuclein in oligodendrocytes. To understand how -synuclein aggregates impact oligodendroglial homeostasis, we investigated an oligodendroglial cell model of -synuclein dependent degeneration and identified responses linked to the NF-B transcription factor stress system. Coexpression of human -synuclein and the oligodendroglial protein p25 increased the expression of IB mRNA and protein early during the degenerative process and this was dependent on both aggregation and Ser129 phosphorylation of -synuclein. This response was prodegenerative because blocking IB expression by siRNA rescued the cells. IB is an inhibitor of NF-B and acts by binding and retaining NF-B p65 in the cytoplasm. The protection obtained by silencing IB was accompanied by a strong increase in nuclear p65 translocation indicating that NF-B activation protects against -synuclein aggregate stress. In the cellular model, two different phenotypes were observed; degenerating cells retracting their microtubules and resilient cells tolerating the coexpression of -synuclein and p25. The resilient cells displayed a significant higher nuclear translocation of p65 and activation of the NF-B system relied on stress elicited by aggregated and Ser129 phosphorylated -synuclein. To validate the relationship between oligodendroglial -synuclein expression and IB, we analyzed two different lines of transgenic mice expressing human -synuclein under the control of the oligodendrocytic MBP promotor (intermediate-expresser line 1 and high-expresser line 29). IB mRNA expression was increased in both lines and immunofluorescence microscopy and in situ hybridization revealed that IB mRNA and protein is expressed in oligodendrocytes. IB mRNA expression was demonstrated prior to activation of microglia and astrocytes in line 1. Human brain tissue affected by MSA displayed increased expression of IB and NF-B p65 in some oligodendrocytes containing glial cytoplasmic inclusions. Our data suggest that oligodendroglial IB expression and NF-B are activated early in the course of MSA and their balance contributes to the decision of cellular demise. Favoring oligodendroglial NF-B activation may represent a therapeutic strategy for this devastating disease.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) plays an important role in the homeostasis of the brain. BBB dysfunction has been implicated in the pathophysiology of various neurological disorders, including epilepsy in which it may contribute to disease progression. Precise understanding of BBB dynamics during epileptogenesis may be of importance for the assessment of future therapies, including BBB leakage blocking-agents. Longitudinal changes in BBB integrity can be studied with in vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in combination with paramagnetic contrast agents. Although this approach has shown to be suitable to detect major BBB leakage during the acute phase in experimental epilepsy models, so far no studies have provided information on dynamics of the extent of BBB leakage towards later phases. Therefore a sensitive and quantitative approach was used in the present study, involving fast T1 mapping (dynamic approach) during a steady-state infusion of gadobutrol, as well as pre- and post-contrast T1-weighted MRI (post-pre approach). This was applied in an experimental epilepsy model in which previous MRI studies failed to detect BBB leakage during epileptogenesis. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with kainic acid to induce status epilepticus (SE). MRI experiments were performed before SE (control) and during the acute (1 day) and chronic epileptic phases (6 weeks after SE). BBB leakage was quantified by fast T1 mapping (Look-Locker gradient echo MRI) with a time resolution of 48 s from 5 min before up to 45 min after 20 min step-down infusion of 0.2M gadobutrol. In addition, T1-weighted MRI was acquired before and 45 min after infusion. MRI data were compared to post-mortem microscopic analysis using the BBB tracer fluorescein. Our MRI data showed BBB leakage, which was evident at 1 day and 6 weeks after SE in the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, amygdala and piriform cortex. These findings were confirmed by microscopic analysis of fluorescein leakage. Furthermore, our MRI data revealed non-uniform BBB leakage throughout epileptogenesis. This study demonstrates BBB leakage in specific brain regions during epileptogenesis, which can be quantified using MRI. Therefore, MRI may be a valuable tool for experimental or clinical studies to elucidate the role of the BBB in epileptogenesis.
PCP4/PEP19 is a modulator of Ca(2+)-CaM signaling. In the brain, it is expressed in a very specific pattern in postmitotic neurons. In particular, Pcp4 is highly expressed in the Purkinje cell, the sole output neuron of the cerebellum. PCP4, located on human chromosome 21, is present in three copies in individuals with Down syndrome (DS). In a previous study using a transgenic mouse model (TgPCP4) to evaluate the consequences of 3 copies of this gene, we found that PCP4 overexpression induces precocious neuronal differentiation during mouse embryogenesis. Here, we report combined analyses of the cerebellum at postnatal stages (P14 and adult) in which we identified age-related molecular, electrophysiological, and behavioral alterations in the TgPCP4 mouse. While Pcp4 overexpression at P14 induces an earlier neuronal maturation, at adult stage it induces increase in cerebellar CaMK2alpha and in cerebellar LTD, as well as learning impairments. We therefore propose that PCP4 contributes significantly to the development of Down syndrome phenotypes through molecular and functional changes.
Progressive disruption of circadian rhythmicity associated with disturbance of the sleep-wake cycle is one of the most insidious symptoms of Huntington's disease (HD) and represents a critical management issue for both patients and their care takers. The R6/2 mouse model of HD shows a progressive disruption of the circadian rhythmicity at both behavioral and molecular levels, although the intrinsic cellular machinery that drives circadian rhythmicity in individual cells appears to be fundamentally intact. Circadian rhythms are controlled by a master clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) and can be synchronized by light and non-photic factors such as exercise. Here, we aimed to test whether or not stimulating the SCN directly could prevent the loss of circadian rhythmicity in R6/2 mice. We used combinations of bright light therapy and voluntary exercise as our treatment regimes. We found that all treatments had some beneficial effects, as measured by delayed disintegration of the rest-activity rhythm and improved behavioral synchronization to the light-dark cycle. The best effects were observed in mice treated with a combination of bright light therapy and restricted periods of voluntary exercise. Neither the cause nor the consequence of deteriorating sleep-wake activity in HD patients is known. Nevertheless, our findings can be translated immediately to human patients with little cost or risk, since both light therapy and restricted exercise regimes are non-pharmacological interventions that are relatively easy to schedule. Improved circadian rhythmicity is likely to have beneficial knock-on effects on mood and general health in HD patients. Until effective treatments are found for HD, strategies that reduce deleterious effects of disordered physiology should be part of HD patient treatment programs.
In the present study, we investigated the role of the main intracellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), in the in vitro neurotoxicity of -synuclein (ASYN), one of the key culprits in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The loss of viability in retinoic acid-differentiated SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells inducibly overexpressing wild-type ASYN was associated with the reduced activation of AMPK and its activator LKB1, as well as AMPK target Raptor. ASYN-overexpressing rat primary neurons also displayed lower activity of LKB1/AMPK/Raptor pathway. Restoration of AMPK activity by metformin or AICAR reduced the in vitro neurotoxicity of ASYN overexpression, acting independently of the prosurvival kinase Akt or the induction of autophagic response. The conditioned medium from ASYN-overexpressing cells, containing secreted ASYN, as well as dopamine-modified or nitrated recombinant ASYN oligomers, all inhibited AMPK activation in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells and reduced their viability, but not in the presence of metformin or AICAR. The RNA interference-mediated knockdown of AMPK increased the sensitivity of SH-SY5Y cells to the harmful effects of secreted ASYN. AMPK-dependent protection from extracellular ASYN was also observed in rat neuron-like pheochromocytoma cell line PC12. These data demonstrate the protective role of AMPK against the toxicity of both intracellular and extracellular ASYN, suggesting that modulation of AMPK activity may be a promising therapeutic strategy in Parkinson's disease.
Down syndrome (DS) is the most common genetic disorder associated with mental retardation. It has been repeatedly shown that Ts65Dn mice, the major animal model for DS, have severe cognitive and synaptic plasticity dysfunctions caused by excessive inhibition in their temporal lobe structures. Here we employed a multidisciplinary approach spanning from the behavioral to the electrophysiological and molecular level to investigate the effects elicited by fluoxetine on cognitive abilities, hippocampal synaptic plasticity and GABA release in adult Ts65Dn mice. We report that a chronic treatment with fluoxetine administered in the drinking water normalizes GABA release and promotes recovery of spatial memory abilities, spatial working memory for alternation, and hippocampal synaptic plasticity in adult Ts65Dn mice. Our findings might encourage new experimental attempts aimed at investigating the potential of fluoxetine for application in the treatment of major functional deficits in adult people with DS.
Schizophrenia is a devastating neurodevelopmental disorder that affects approximately 1% of the population. Reduced expression of the 67-kDa protein isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) is a hallmark of the disease and is encoded by the GAD1 gene. In schizophrenia, GAD67 downregulation occurs in multiple interneuronal subpopulations, including the cannabinoid receptor type 1 positive (CNR1+) cells, but the functional consequences of these disturbances are not well understood. To investigate the role of the CNR1-positive GABA-ergic interneurons in behavioral and molecular processes, we employed a novel, miRNA-mediated transgenic mouse approach. We silenced the Gad1 transcript using a miRNA engineered to specifically target Gad1 mRNA under the control of Cnr1 bacterial artificial chromosome. Behavioral characterization of our transgenic mice showed elevated and persistent conditioned fear associated with an auditory cue and a significantly altered response to an amphetamine challenge. These deficits could not be attributed to sensory deficits or changes in baseline learning and memory. Furthermore, HPLC analyses revealed that Cnr1/Gad1 mice have enhanced serotonin levels, but not dopamine levels in response to amphetamine. Our findings demonstrate that dysfunction of a small subset of interneurons can have a profound effect on behavior and that the GABA-ergic, monoamine, and cannabinoid systems are functionally interconnected. The results also suggest that understanding the function of various interneuronal subclasses might be essential to develop knowledge-based treatment strategies for various mental disorders including schizophrenia and substance abuse.
Although several findings indicate an association between adolescent cannabis abuse and the risk to develop schizophrenia later in life, the evidence for a causal relationship is still inconclusive. In the present study, we investigated the emergence of psychotic-like behavior in adult female rats chronically exposed to delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) during adolescence. To this aim, female Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with THC during adolescence (PND 35-45) and, in adulthood (PND 75), a series of behavioral tests and biochemical assays were performed in order to investigate the long-term effects of adolescent THC exposure. Adolescent THC pretreatment leads to long-term behavioral alterations, characterized by recognition memory deficits, social withdrawal, altered emotional reactivity and sensitization to the locomotor activating effects of acute PCP. Moreover, since cortical disinhibition seems to be a key feature of many different animal models of schizophrenia and GABAergic hypofunction in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) has been observed in postmortem brains from schizophrenic patients, we then investigated the long-lasting consequences of adolescent THC exposure on GABAergic transmission in the adult rat PFC. Biochemical analyses revealed that adolescent THC exposure results in reduced GAD67 and basal GABA levels within the adult PFC. GAD67 expression is reduced both in parvalbumin (PV)- and cholecystokinin (CCK)-containing interneurons; this alteration may be related to the altered emotional reactivity triggered by adolescent THC, as silencing PFC GAD67 expression through a siRNA-mediated approach is sufficient to impact rats' behavior in the forced swim test. Finally, the cellular underpinnings of the observed sensitized response to acute PCP in adult THC-treated rats could be ascribed to the increased cFos immunoreactivity and glutamate levels in the PFC and dorsal striatum. The present findings support the hypothesis that adolescent THC exposure may represent a risk factor for the development of a complex psychotic-like behavior in adulthood.
Acute nicotine enhances hippocampus-dependent learning through nicotine binding to 2-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), but it is unclear if nicotine is targeting processes involved in short-term memory (STM) leading to a strong long-term memory (LTM) or directly targeting LTM. In addition, the molecular mechanisms involved in the effects of nicotine on learning are unknown. Previous research indicates that protein kinase A (PKA), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), and protein synthesis are crucial for LTM. Therefore, the present study examined the effects of nicotine on STM and LTM and the involvement of PKA, ERK1/2, and protein synthesis in the nicotine-induced enhancement of hippocampus-dependent contextual learning in C57BL/6J mice. The protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin impaired contextual conditioning assessed at 4 h but not 2 h post-training, delineating time points for STM (2 h) and LTM (4 h and beyond). Nicotine enhanced contextual conditioning at 4, 8, and 24 h but not 2 h post-training, indicating nicotine specifically enhances LTM but not STM. Furthermore, nicotine did not rescue deficits in contextual conditioning produced by anisomycin, suggesting that the nicotine enhancement of contextual conditioning occurs through a protein synthesis-dependent mechanism. In addition, inhibition of dorsal hippocampal PKA activity blocked the effect of acute nicotine on learning, and nicotine shifted the timing of learning-related PKA and ERK1/2 activity in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. Thus, the present results suggest that nicotine specifically enhances LTM through altering the timing of PKA and ERK1/2 signaling in the hippocampus, and suggests that the timing of PKA and ERK1/2 activity could contribute to the strength of memories.
We examined the temporal profile of pharmacologically enhanced episodic memory, using the object recognition task. Male Wistar rats were tested at different retention intervals ranging from 1 h to 24 h. The object discrimination performance of all groups (untreated, placebo, drug treatment) gradually decreased up to an interval (8 h). Interestingly, only after this 8 h interval the memory improving effects of vardenafil and rolipram started to emerge. This time-dependent memory performance shows similarities with the Kamin effect. The delayed manifestation of drug-enhanced memory suggests that two separate memory mechanisms are at play, a quick transient form of memory and a more stable memory form that requires several hours to develop. It is important to take this into account when testing treatments intended for long-term memory enhancement.
Sleep deprivation disrupts hippocampal function and plasticity. In particular, long-term memory consolidation is impaired by sleep deprivation, suggesting that a specific critical period exists following learning during which sleep is necessary. To elucidate the impact of sleep deprivation on long-term memory consolidation and synaptic plasticity, long-term memory was assessed when mice were sleep deprived following training in the hippocampus-dependent object place recognition task. We found that 3h of sleep deprivation significantly impaired memory when deprivation began 1h after training. In contrast, 3 h of deprivation beginning immediately post-training did not impair spatial memory. Furthermore, a 3-h sleep deprivation beginning 1h after training impaired hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), whereas sleep deprivation immediately after training did not affect LTP. Together, our findings define a specific 3-h critical period, extending from 1 to 4h after training, during which sleep deprivation impairs hippocampal function.
Stress and stress hormones are known to affect learning and memory processes. However, although effects of stress on hippocampus-dependent declarative learning and memory are well-documented, relatively little attention has been paid to the impact of stress on striatum-dependent stimulus-response (S-R) learning and memory. Recent evidence indicates that glucocorticoid stress hormones shortly after learning enhance S-R memory consolidation, whereas stress prior to retention testing impairs S-R memory retrieval. Whether stress affects also the acquisition of S-R memories in humans remains unclear. For this reason, we examined here the effects of acute stress on S-R memory formation and contrasted these stress effects with those on hippocampus-dependent spatial memory. Healthy men and women underwent a stressor (socially evaluated cold pressor test, SECPT) or a control manipulation before they completed an S-R task and two spatial learning tasks. Memory was assessed one week later. Our data showed that stress impaired S-R memory performance in men but not in women. Conversely, spatial memory was impaired by stress in women but not in men. These findings provide further evidence that stress may alter learning and memory processes beyond the hippocampus. Moreover, our data underline that participants' sex may play a critical role in the impact of stress on multiple memory systems.
Recent studies on the effect of stress on modulation of fear memory in our laboratory have uncovered endogenous opioid and adrenergic based modulation systems, working in concert, that limit the strengthening or weakening of newly acquired fear memory during consolidation under conditions of mild or intense stress, respectively. The present study sought to determine if similar stress-dependent modulation, mediated by endogenous opioid and adrenergic systems, occurs during reconsolidation of newly retrieved fear memory. Rats underwent contextual fear conditioning followed 24h later by reactivation of fear memory; a retention test was administered the next day. Stress was manipulated by varying duration of recall of fear memory during reactivation. In the first experiment, vehicle or the opioid-receptor blocker naloxone was administered immediately after varied durations (30 or 120 s) of reactivation. The results indicate that (1) reactivation, in the absence of drug, has a marked effect on freezing behavior-as duration of reactivation increases from 30 to 120 s, freezing behavior and presumably fear-induced stress increases and (2) naloxone, administered immediately after 30 s (mild stress) or 120 s (intense stress) of reactivation, enhances or impairs retention, respectively, the next day. In the second experiment, naloxone and the -adrenergic blocker propranolol were administered either separately or in combination immediately after 120 s (intense stress) reactivation. The results indicate that separate administration of propranolol and naloxone impairs retention, while the combined administration fails to do so. Taken together the results of the two experiments are consistent with a protective mechanism, mediated by endogenous opioid and adrenergic systems working in concert, that limits enhancement and impairment of newly retrieved fear memory during reactivation in a stress-dependent manner.
Two forms of brainstem plasticity are known to occur: an immediate stimulus probability-based and learning-dependent plasticity. Whether these kinds of plasticity interact is unknown. We examined this question in a training experiment involving three phases: (1) an initial baseline measurement, (2) a 9-session training paradigm, and (3) a retest measurement. At the outset of the experiment, auditory brainstem responses (ABR) were recorded to two unfamiliar pitch patterns presented in an oddball paradigm. Then half the participants underwent sound-to-meaning training where they learned to match these pitch patterns to novel words, with the remaining participants serving as controls who received no auditory training. Nine days after the baseline measurement, the pitch patterns were re-presented to all participants using the same oddball paradigm. Analysis of the baseline recordings revealed an effect of probability: when a sound was presented infrequently, the pitch contour was represented less accurately in the ABR than when it was presented frequently. After training, pitch tracking was more accurate for infrequent sounds, particularly for the pitch pattern that was encoded more poorly pre-training. However, the control group was stable over the same interval. Our results provide evidence that probability-based and learning-dependent plasticity interact in the brainstem.
Prior to the advent of fMRI, the primary means of examining the mechanisms underlying learning were restricted to studying human behavior and non-human neural systems. However, recent advances in neuroimaging technology have enabled the concurrent study of human behavior and neural activity. We propose that the integration of behavioral response with brain activity provides a powerful method of investigating the process through which internal representations are formed or changed. Nevertheless, a review of the literature reveals that many fMRI studies of learning either (1) focus on outcome rather than process or (2) are built on the untested assumption that learning unfolds uniformly over time. We discuss here various challenges faced by the field and highlight studies that have begun to address them. In doing so, we aim to encourage more research that examines the process of learning by considering the interrelation of behavioral measures and fMRI recording during learning.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is a large, widely expressed protein of largely unknown function. Mutations in the gene encoding LRRK2 have been linked to multiple diseases, including a prominent association with familial and sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD), as well as inflammatory bowel disorders such as Crohn's disease. The LRRK2 protein possesses both kinase and GTPase signaling domains, as well as multiple protein interaction domains. Experimental studies in both cellular and in vivo models of mutant LRRK2-induced neurodegeneration have given clues to potential function(s) of LRRK2, yet much remains unknown. For example, while it is known that intact kinase and GTPase activity are required for mutant forms of the protein to trigger cell death, the specific targets of these enzymatic activities that mediate the death of neurons are not known. In this review, we discuss the evidence linking LRRK2 to various cellular/neuronal activities such as extrinsic death and inflammatory signaling, lysosomal protein degradation, the cytoskeletal system and neurite outgrowth, vesicle trafficking, mitochondrial dysfunction, as well as multiple points of interaction with several other genes linked to the pathogenesis of PD. In order for more effective therapeutic strategies to be envisioned and implemented, the mechanisms underlying LRRK2-mediated neurodegeneration need to be better characterized. Furthermore, insights into LRRK2-associated PD pathogenesis can potentially advance our understanding of the more common sporadic forms of PD.
Presenilins (PSs) are catalytic components of the -secretase complex that produces A peptides. Substrates of -secretase are membrane-bound protein fragments deriving from the cleavage of extracellular sequence of cell surface proteins. APP-derived -secretase substrates are cleaved at gamma () sites to produce A while cleavage at the epsilon () site produces AICD proposed to function in transcription. In addition to APP, -secretase promotes the -cleavage of a large number of cell surface proteins producing cytosolic peptides shown to function in cell signaling. A common hypothesis suggests that Alzheimer's disease (AD) is caused by A peptides or their products. Treatment of patients with inhibitors of A production however, showed no therapeutic benefits while inducing cytotoxicity. Similarly, treatments with anti-A antibodies yielded disappointing results. Importantly, recent evidence shows that PS familial AD (FAD) mutations cause a loss of -secretase cleavage activity at  site of substrates thus inhibiting production of biologically important cell signaling peptides while promoting accumulation of membrane-bound cytotoxic substrates. These data support a hypothesis that FAD mutations may increase neurotoxicity by inhibiting the -secretase-catalyzed  cleavage of substrates thus interfering with cell signaling while also promoting accumulation of cytotoxic peptides. Similar mechanisms may explain -secretase inhibitor-associated toxicities observed in clinical trials. Here we discuss evidence that FAD neurodegeneration may be caused by loss of -secretase cleavage function at  sites of substrates.
This is part one of a two part series of articles describing the staffing model utilized for neurotelemetry and epilepsy unit monitoring. After peer review, many administrative and technical questions were left unanswered which will be addressed in the second article. Indiana University Health Neuroscience is a facility that provides all levels of care for adult and pediatric patients regarding their specific neurological needs. The facility currently has 24/7 monitoring at Methodist Hospital and Riley Hospital for Children, consisting of adult and pediatric patients for neurotelemetry and epilepsy unit monitoring. Each unit must have staffing models as well as specific protocols in order to adequately monitor each patient's EEG and maintain safety. Specific recommendations, protocols, and requirements have been drafted by administration to maintain a safe patient to neurodiagnostic technologist ratio of 4:1.



Neurogenetic tests are increasingly requested by clinical neurologists without any formal training in clinical genetics. The aim of our study was to assess the documentation of consent and disclosure of genetic test results in a large regional clinical neuroscience centre. Documentation of some form of consent was evident in only 26/132 (20%) of tests. However, the higher proportion of both positive and negative results disclosed (50/132, 38%) suggest that the former figure may underestimate actual rates of undocumented consent within the clinical setting. Our findings highlight the need for a review of established practices surrounding consent in clinical neurology.
Idiopathic basal ganglia calcification (IBGC) is characterized by bilateral calcification of the basal ganglia associated with a spectrum of neuropsychiatric and motor syndromes. In this study, we set out to determine the frequency of the recently identified IBGC gene SLC20A2 in 27 IBGC cases from the Mayo Clinic Florida Brain Bank using both Sanger sequencing and TaqMan copy number analysis to cover the complete spectrum of possible mutations. We identified SLC20A2 pathogenic mutations in two of the 27 cases of IBGC (7%). Sequencing analysis identified a p.S113* nonsense mutation in SLC20A2 in one case. TaqMan copy number analysis of SLC20A2 further revealed a genomic deletion in a second case, which was part of a large previously reported Canadian IBGC family with dystonia. Subsequent whole-genome sequencing in this family revealed a 563,256-bp genomic deletion with precise breakpoints on chromosome 8 affecting multiple genes including SLC20A2 and the known dystonia-related gene THAP1. The deletion co-segregated with disease in all family members. The deletion of THAP1 in addition to SLC20A2 in the Canadian IBGC family may contribute to the severe and early onset dystonia in this family. The identification of an SLC20A2 genomic deletion in a familial form of IBGC demonstrates that reduced SLC20A2 in the absence of mutant protein is sufficient to cause neurodegeneration and that previously reported SLC20A2 mutation frequencies may be underestimated.
Extraction and separation of functionally different event-related potentials (ERPs) from electroencephalography (EEG) is a long-standing problem in cognitive neuroscience. In this paper, we propose a Bayesian spatio-temporal model for estimating ERP components from multichannel EEG recorded under multiple experimental conditions. The model isolates the spatially and temporally overlapping ERP components by utilizing their phase-locking structure and the inter-condition non-stationarity structure of their amplitudes and latencies. Critically, unlike in previous multilinear algorithms, the non-phase-locked background EEGs are modeled as spatially correlated and non-isotropic signals. A variational algorithm was developed for approximate Bayesian inference of the proposed model, with the effective number of ERP components automatically determined as a part of the algorithm. The utility of the algorithm is demonstrated with applications to synthetic data and the EEG data collected from 13 subjects during a face inversion experiment. The results show that our algorithm more accurately and reliably estimates the spatio-temporal patterns, amplitudes, and latencies of the underlying ERP components in comparison with several state-of-the-art algorithms.
Cognitive dysfunction in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is closely related to altered functional brain network topology. Conventional network analyses to compare groups are hampered by differences in network size, density and suffer from normalization problems. We therefore computed the Minimum Spanning Tree (MST), a sub-graph of the original network, to counter these problems. We hypothesize that functional network changes analysed with MSTs are important for understanding cognitive changes in MS and that changes in MST topology also represent changes in the critical backbone of the original brain networks. Here, resting-state magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings from 21 early MS patients and 17 age-, gender-, and education-matched controls were projected onto atlas-based regions-of-interest (ROIs) using beamforming. The phase lag index was applied to compute functional connectivity between regions, from which a graph and subsequently the MST was constructed. Results showed lower global integration in the alpha2 (10-13Hz) and beta (13-30Hz) bands in MS patients, whereas higher global integration was found in the theta band. Changes were most pronounced in the alpha2 band where a loss of hierarchical structure was observed, which was associated with poorer cognitive performance. Finally, the MST in MS patients as well as in healthy controls may represent the critical backbone of the original network. Together, these findings indicate that MST network analyses are able to detect network changes in MS patients, which may correspond to changes in the core of functional brain networks. Moreover, these changes, such as a loss of hierarchical structure, are related to cognitive performance in MS.
Puberty is characterized by hormonal, physical and psychological transformation. The human brain undergoes significant changes between childhood and adulthood, but little is known about how puberty influences its structural development. Using a longitudinal sample of 711 magnetic resonance imaging scans from 275 individuals aged 7-20years, we examined how subcortical brain regions change in relation to puberty. Our regions of interest included the amygdala, hippocampus and corpus striatum including the nucleus accumbens (NA), caudate, putamen and globus pallidus (GP). Pubertal development was significantly related to structural volume in all six regions in both sexes. Pubertal development and age had both independent and interactive influences on volume for the amygdala, hippocampus and putamen in both sexes, and the caudate in females. There was an interactive puberty-by-age effect on volume for the NA and GP in both sexes, and the caudate in males. These findings suggest a significant role for puberty in structural brain development.



Background: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) helps in the diagnosis of neurologic Wilson's disease (WD). The literature regarding MR spectroscopy (MRS) and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in WD is limited. Objectives: To evaluate the clinical features and neuroimaging findings in drug-nave neurologic WD and to find correlation between clinical stage and disease duration with different imaging findings. Materials and Methods: The study subjects included consecutive and follow-up neurologic WD patients attending movement disorder clinic. The initial clinical and MRI features before commencement of chelation therapy were noted. Of 78 patients, 34 underwent DWI study and MRS was done in 38 patients and in 32 control subjects. Results: Dystonia, dysarthria, tremor, and behavioral abnormality were common presenting features. All patients had MRI abnormality with major affection of basal ganglia. The clinical severity and anatomical extent of MRI abnormalities were positively correlated (P &lt; 0.001; r s = 0.709). Presence of diffusion restriction was inversely related to duration of disease (P &lt; 0.001; r s = 0.760). WD patients had reduced N-acetylaspartate/creatine (Cr) and choline (Cho)/Cr ratio (P &lt; 0.001) as compared with control subjects in MRS study. Conclusion: Dystonia, dysarthria and tremor are common neurological features of WD. In this study, MRI abnormalities were positively correlated with disease severity; diffusion restriction was inversely correlated with the duration of the disease process. MRS was also a sensitive tool for diagnosing patient of neurologic WD.
The NLRP3 inflammasome forms in response to a diverse range of stimuli and is responsible for the processing and release of interleukin-1 (IL-1) from the immunocompetent cells of the brain. The pathological peptide of Alzheimer's disease, amyloid beta (A), induces formation of the NLRP3 inflammasome in a manner dependent on the family of proteases, cathepsins; however, the pathway by which cathepsins induce formation of the inflammasome has not yet been elucidated. In this study, we show that A treatment of primary rat glial cultures increases cathepsin activation in the cytosol, formation of the NLRP3 inflammasome, caspase 1 activation and IL-1 release. We also show that a second NOD-like protein, NLRP10, is found bound to apoptosis-associated speck-like protein under resting conditions; however, with A treatment, both in vitro and in vivo, NLRP10 is decreased. Further to these data, we show that cathepsins are capable of degrading NLRP10 and that treatment of glial cultures with recombinant NLRP10 reduces A-induced caspase 1 activation and IL-1 release. We propose that A-induced cathepsin released into the cytosol degrades NLRP10, thus allowing dissociation of NLRP3 and formation of the inflammasome.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes the survival and growth of neurons during brain development and mediates activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and associated learning and memory in the adult. BDNF levels are reduced in brain regions affected in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases, and elevation of BDNF levels can ameliorate neuronal dysfunction and degeneration in experimental models of these diseases. Because neurons accumulate oxidative lesions in their DNA during normal activity and in neurodegenerative disorders, we determined whether and how BDNF affects the ability of neurons to cope with oxidative DNA damage. We found that BDNF protects cerebral cortical neurons against oxidative DNA damage-induced death by a mechanism involving enhanced DNA repair. BDNF stimulates DNA repair by activating cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB), which, in turn, induces the expression of apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1), a key enzyme in the base excision DNA repair pathway. Suppression of either APE1 or TrkB by RNA interference abolishes the ability of BDNF to protect neurons against oxidized DNA damage-induced death. The ability of BDNF to activate CREB and upregulate APE1 expression is abolished by shRNA of TrkB as well as inhibitors of TrkB, PI3 kinase, and Akt kinase. Voluntary running wheel exercise significantly increases levels of BDNF, activates CREB, and upregulates APE1 in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of mice, suggesting a novel mechanism whereby exercise may protect neurons from oxidative DNA damage. Our findings reveal a previously unknown ability of BDNF to enhance DNA repair by inducing the expression of the DNA repair enzyme APE1.
The Performance of Upper Limb was specifically designed to assess upper limb function in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The aim of this study was to assess (1) a cohort of typically developing children from the age of 3years onwards in order to identify the age when the activities assessed in the individual items are consistently achieved, and (2) a cohort of 322 Duchenne children and young adults to establish the range of findings at different ages. We collected normative data for the scale validation on 277 typically developing subjects from 3 to 25years old. A full score was consistently achieved by the age of 5years. In the Duchenne cohort there was early involvement of the proximal muscles and a proximal to distal progressive involvement. The scale was capable of measuring small distal movements, related to activities of daily living, even in the oldest and weakest patients. Our data suggest that the assessment can be reliably used in both ambulant and non ambulant Duchenne patients in a multicentric setting and could therefore be considered as an outcome measure for future trials.
Patients with myotonic dystrophy type 1 suffer from gait difficulties including stumbles and falls. To identify factors of importance for balance impairment and fall-risk a mapping of functional balance was performed, in a cross-sectional study of 51 adults. Walking, balance, falls and muscle force were self-assessed and measured. Reference values of balance were established through measurements of 220 healthy subjects. Falls were more frequently observed in the patients who were more severely affected of muscle weakness than in mildly affected patients, p=0.014. The number of falls showed negative correlation with balance confidence (rs=-0.516, p&lt;0.001). The ankle dorsiflexor force together with the time difference between comfortable and maximum speed in 10m-walk proved to be significant factors for fall frequency. A ten Newton muscle force decrease showed 15% increase in odds ratio for frequent falls. One-second increase in time difference between comfortable and maximum walking speed showed 42% increase in odds ratio for frequent falls. In conclusion, assessing the ankle muscle force and the time difference in different walking speeds is important to detect risk of falling. The activities-specific balance confidence score reflects the consequences of the muscle force decrease. Certain patient strategies to diminish risk of falling could be due.
Adult polyglucosan body disease is a rare autosomal recessive disease, caused by glycogen branching enzyme gene mutations, characterised by urinary dysfunction, spastic paraplegia with vibration sense loss, peripheral neuropathy, and cognitive impairment. Fabry's disease is an X-linked lysosomal storage disorder caused by -galactosidase A gene mutations; neurological manifestations include cerebrovascular accidents, small-fibre neuropathy and autonomic dysfunction. Here, we report the case of a 44-year-old Sicilian male with stroke-like episodes, hypohidrosis and mild proteinuria, which led to the diagnosis of Fabry's disease after a hemizygous mutation (p.Ala143Thr) in -galactosidase A gene was detected. Subsequently, he developed progressive walking difficulties and dementia, which were considered atypical for Fabry's disease. Therefore, we performed additional investigations that eventually led to the diagnosis of adult polyglucosan body disease caused by two novel missense mutations (p.Asp413His and p.Gly534Val) in the glycogen branching enzyme gene. Recently, the pathogenic role of the p.Ala143Thr mutation in causing Fabry's disease has been questioned. This case underlines the importance of performing further investigations when facing with atypical features even in the presence of a genetic diagnosis of a rare disease.

Homeostatic synaptic downscaling is a negative feedback response to chronic elevated network activity to reduce the firing rate of neurons. This form of synaptic plasticity decreases the strength of individual synapses to the same proportion, or in a multiplicative manner. Because of this, synaptic downscaling has been hypothesized to counter the potential run-away excitation due to Hebbian type of long term potentiation (LTP), while preserving relative synaptic weight encoded in individual synapses and thus memory information. In this article, we will review the current knowledge on the signaling and molecular mechanisms of synaptic downscaling. Specifically, we focus on three general areas. First the functional roles of several immediate early genes such as Plk2, Homer1a, Arc and Narp are discussed. Secondly, we examine the current knowledge on the regulation of synaptic protein levels by ubiquitination and transcriptional repression in synaptic downscaling. Thirdly, we review the dynamics of signaling molecules such as kinases and phosphatases critical for synaptic downscaling, and their regulation of synaptic scaffolding proteins. Finally we briefly discuss the heterogeneity of homeostatic synaptic downscaling mechanisms. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Homeostatic Synaptic Plasticity'.
Homeostatic synaptic plasticity refers to a set of negative-feedback mechanisms that are used by neurons to maintain activity within a functional range. While it is becoming increasingly clear that homeostatic regulation of synapse function is a key principle in the nervous system, the molecular details of this regulation are only beginning to be uncovered. Recent evidence implicates molecules classically associated with the peripheral immune system in the modulation of homeostatic synaptic plasticity. In particular, the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF, class I major histocompatibility complex, and neuronal pentraxin 2 are essential in the regulation of the compensatory synaptic response that occurs in response to prolonged neuronal inactivity. This review will present and discuss current evidence implicating neuroimmune molecules in the homeostatic regulation of synapse function. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Homeostatic Synaptic Plasticity'.
At synapses, pre- and post-synaptic cells get in direct contact with each other via cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). Several CAMs have been identified at the neuromuscular junction and at central synapses, where they regulate synaptic strength, by recruiting scaffolding proteins, neurotransmitter receptors and synaptic vesicles in response to the binding of counter-receptors across the synaptic cleft. Many synapses are also surrounded by astrocytic processes and embedded in conspicuous extracellular matrix (ECM). It is now widely recognized that astrocytes play a central role in regulating the synaptic machinery by exchanging information with the neuronal elements via diffusible molecules and direct physical interactions; this has lead to the concept of the 'tri-partite synapse'. More recently, the term 'tetra-partite synapse' has been introduced to underlie the importance of ECM in shaping synaptic function by mediating interaction and signaling between neurons and astrocytes. Here, we will review how this integrated view of the synapse can help us understand homeostatic synaptic plasticity at the neuromuscular junction and in the central nervous system. We will explore how synaptic CAMs regulate two forms of homeostatic plasticity: (i) postsynaptic scaling of synaptic currents to counteract changes in neuronal network activity and (ii) the compensatory modulation of presynaptic neurotransmitter release in response to changes in postsynaptic efficacy. We will discuss recent findings on activity-dependent trans-synaptic signaling events and the role of cell adhesion in the feedback control of network activity. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Homeostatic Synaptic Plasticity'.
Neurons are endowed with the remarkable ability to integrate activity levels over time and tune their excitability such that action potential firing is maintained within a computationally optimal range. These feedback mechanisms, collectively referred to as &quot;homeostatic plasticity&quot;, enable neurons to respond and adapt to prolonged alterations in neuronal activity by regulating several determinants of cellular excitability. Perhaps the best-characterized of these homeostatic responses involves the regulation of excitatory glutamatergic transmission. This homeostatic synaptic plasticity (HSP) operates bidirectionally, thus providing a means for neurons to tune cellular excitability in response to either elevations or reductions in net activity. The last decade has seen rapid growth in interest and efforts to understand the mechanistic underpinnings of HSP in part because of the theoretical stabilization that HSP confers to neural network function. Since the initial reports describing HSP in central neurons, innovations in experimental approaches have permitted the mechanistic dissection of this cellular adaptive response and, as a result, key advances have been made in our understanding of the cellular and molecular basis of HSP. Here, we review recent evidence that outline the presence of distinct forms of HSP at excitatory glutamatergic synapses which operate at different sub-cellular levels. We further present theoretical considerations on the potential computational roles afforded by local, synapse-specific homeostatic regulation. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Homeostatic Synaptic Plasticity'.
The organism's ability to adapt to the changing sensory environment is due in part to the ability of the nervous system to change with experience. Input and synapse specific Hebbian plasticity, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), are critical for sculpting the nervous system to wire its circuit in tune with the environment and for storing memories. However, these synaptic plasticity mechanisms are innately unstable and require another mode of plasticity that maintains homeostasis to allow neurons to function within a desired dynamic range. Several modes of homeostatic adaptation are known, some of which work at the synaptic level. This review will focus on the known mechanisms of experience-induced homeostatic synaptic plasticity in the neocortex and their potential function in sensory cortex plasticity. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Homeostatic Synaptic Plasticity'.
One of the defining features of the nervous system is its ability to modify synaptic strength in an experience-dependent manner. Chronic elevation or reduction of network activity activates compensatory mechanisms that modulate synaptic strength in the opposite direction (i.e. reduced network activity leads to increased synaptic strength), a process called homeostatic synaptic plasticity. Among the many mechanisms that mediate homeostatic synaptic plasticity, retinoic acid (RA) has emerged as a novel signaling molecule that is critically involved in homeostatic synaptic plasticity induced by blockade of synaptic activity. In neurons, silencing of synaptic transmission triggers RA synthesis. RA then acts at synapses by a non-genomic mechanism that is independent of its well-known function as a transcriptional regulator, but operates through direct activation of protein translation in neuronal dendrites. Protein synthesis is activated by RA-binding to its receptor RAR, which functions locally in dendrites in a non-canonical manner as an RNA-binding protein that mediate RA's effect on translation. The present review will discuss recent progress in our understanding of the novel role of RA, which led to the identification of RA as a critical synaptic signaling molecule that mediates activity-dependent regulation of protein synthesis in neuronal dendrites. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Homeostatic Synaptic Plasticity'.

We have previously shown that mental rehearsal can replace up to 75% of physical practice for learning a visuomotor task (Allami, Paulignan, Brovelli, &amp; Boussaoud, (2008). Experimental Brain Research, 184, 105-113). Presumably, mental rehearsal must induce brain changes that facilitate motor learning. We tested this hypothesis by recording scalp electroencephalographic activity (EEG) in two groups of subjects. In one group, subjects executed a reach to grasp task for 240 trials. In the second group, subjects learned the task through a combination of mental rehearsal for the initial 180 trials followed by the execution of 60 trials. Thus, one group physically executed the task for 240 trials, the other only for 60 trials. Amplitudes and latencies of event-related potentials (ERPs) were compared across groups at different stages during learning. We found that ERP activity increases dramatically with training and reaches the same amplitude over the premotor regions in the two groups, despite large differences in physically executed trials. These findings suggest that during mental rehearsal, neuronal changes occur in the motor networks that make physical practice after mental rehearsal more effective in configuring functional networks for skilful behaviour.
Following the princeps investigations of Marc Jeannerod on action-perception, specifically, goal-directed movement, this review article addresses visual and non-visual processes involved in guiding the hand in reaching or grasping tasks. The contributions of different sources of correction of ongoing movements are considered; these include visual feedback of the hand, as well as the often-neglected but important spatial updating and sharpening of goal localization following gaze-saccade orientation. The existence of an automatic online process guiding limb trajectory toward its goal is highlighted by a series of princeps experiments of goal-directed pointing movements. We then review psychophysical, electrophysiological, neuroimaging and clinical studies that have explored the properties of these automatic corrective mechanisms and their neural bases, and established their generality. Finally, the functional significance of automatic corrective mechanisms-referred to as motor flexibility-and their potential use in rehabilitation are discussed.
Non-verbal group dynamics are often opaque to a formal quantitative analysis of communication flow. In this context, ensemble musicians can be a reliable model of expert group coordination. In fact, bodily motion is a critical component of inter-musician coordination and thus could be used as a valuable index of sensorimotor communication. Here we measured head movement kinematics of an expert quartet of musicians and, by applying Granger Causality analysis, we numerically described the causality patterns between participants. We found a clear positive relationship between the amount of communication and complexity of the score segment. Furthermore, we also applied temporal and dynamical changes to the musical score, known by the first violin only. The perturbations were devised in order to force unidirectional communication between the leader of the quartet and the other participants. Results show that in these situations, unidirectional influence from the leader decreased, thus implying that effective leadership may require prior sharing of information between participants. In conclusion, we could measure the amount of information flow and sensorimotor group dynamics suggesting that the fabric of leadership is not built upon exclusive information knowledge but rather on sharing it.
Patient DF, an extensively-tested woman with visual form agnosia from ventral-stream damage, is able to scale her grip aperture to match a goal object's geometry when reaching out to pick it up, despite being unable to explicitly distinguish amongst objects on the basis of their different geometries. Using evidence from a range of sources, including functional MRI, we have proposed that she does this through a functionally intact visuomotor system housed within the dorsal stream of the posterior parietal lobe. More recently, however, Schenk (2012a). The Journal of Neuroscience, 32(6), 2013-2017; Schenk (2012b). Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 16(5), 258-259. has argued that DF performs well in visually guided grasping, not through spared and functioning visuomotor networks in the dorsal stream, but because haptic feedback about the locations of the edges of the target is available to calibrate her grasps in such tasks, whereas it is not available in standard visual perceptual tasks. We have tested this 'calibration hypothesis' directly, by presenting DF with a grasping task in which the visible width of a target varied from trial to trial while its actual width remained the same. According to the calibration hypothesis, because haptic feedback was completely uninformative, DF should be unable to calibrate her grip aperture in this task. Contrary to this prediction, we found that DF continued to scale her grip aperture to the visual width of the targets and did so well within the range of healthy controls. We also found that DF's inability to distinguish shapes perceptually is not improved by providing haptic feedback. These findings strengthen the notion that DF's spared visuomotor abilities are driven largely by visual feedforward processing of the geometric properties of the target. Crucially, these findings also indicate that simple tactile contact with an object is needed for the visuomotor dorsal stream to be engaged, and accordingly enables DF to execute visually guided grasping successfully. This need for actions to have a tangible endpoint provides an important new modification of the Two Visual Systems theory.
Part 1 provides Arbib's reflections on the influence of Marc Jeannerod on his career. Part 2 recalls the Mirror System Hypothesis (MSH) for the evolution of the language-ready brain, a theory which emphasizes the role of manual action in grounding language evolution, thus giving one meaning for &quot;language is handy&quot;. Part 3 then joins in current debates over the notion of whether or not language is embodied. Our overall argument is that embodiment is a graded rather than binary concept, and that embodiment provides the evolutionary and developmental core of concepts and language, but that the modern human brain supports abstraction processes that make embodiment little relevant in a wide range of language use. We urge that, rather than debate the extent of embodiment, attention should turn to the integration of empirical studies with computational modeling to delineate in detail processes of abstraction, generalization, metaphor and more, bridging between modeling of neural mechanisms in macaque that may be posited for the brain of the last monkey-human common ancestor (LCA-m) and computational modeling of human language processing. Part 4 suggests that variants of construction grammar are well-suited to the latter task.
Successful non-verbal social interaction between human beings requires dynamic and efficient encoding of others' gestures. Our study aimed at identifying neural markers of social interaction and goal variations in a non-verbal task. For this, we recorded simultaneously the electroencephalogram from two participants (dual-EEG), an actor and an observer, and their arm/hand kinematics in a real face-to-face paradigm. The observer watched &quot;biological actions&quot; performed by the human actor and &quot;non-biological actions&quot; performed by a robot. All actions occurred within an interactive or non-interactive context depending on whether the observer had to perform a complementary action or not (e.g., the actor presents a saucer and the observer either places the corresponding cup or does nothing). We analysed the EEG signals of both participants (i.e., beta (~20 Hz) oscillations as an index of cortical motor activity and motor related potentials (MRPs)). We identified markers of social interactions by synchronising EEG to the onset of the actor's movement. Movement kinematics did not differ in the two context conditions and the MRPs of the actor were similar in the two conditions. For the observer, however, an observation-related MRP was measured in all conditions but was more negative in the interactive context over fronto-central electrodes. Moreover, this feature was specific to biological actions. Concurrently, the suppression of beta oscillations was observed in the actor's EEG and the observer's EEG rapidly after the onset of the actor's movement. Critically, this suppression was stronger in the interactive than in the non-interactive context despite the fact that movement kinematics did not differ in the two context conditions. For the observer, this modulation was observed independently of whether the actor was a human or a robot. Our results suggest that acting in a social context induced analogous modulations of motor and sensorimotor regions in observer and actor. Sharing a common goal during an interaction seems thus to evoke a common representation of the global action that includes both actor and observer movements.
Through his whole life Marc Jeannerod was fascinated by Freud's thinking. His interest in Freud is witnessed by several of his writings in which he expresses interest in building a bridge between psychoanalysis and cognitive neuroscience. Following Jeannerod's ideas we discuss here a fundamental point of Freud's construction, the concept of ego, from a neurophysiological point of view. We maintain that, in order both to act coherently and to have a basic, first person, understanding of the behavior of others, it is necessary to posit the existence of a neurophysiological &quot;motor&quot; ego similar to the &quot;rider&quot; of the Freudian metaphor. We review then a series of neurophysiological findings showing that the systems underlying the organization of action and conscious perception are both mediated by a cortical motor network formed by parieto-frontal circuits. In conclusion, we show that the activity of this network has strong similarities to that postulated by Freud for the conscious part of ego. We also propose that the default-mode network might represent that part of ego that is mostly involved in unconscious processes.
Research in social cognition has mainly focused on the detection and comprehension of others' mental and emotional states. Doing so, past studies have adopted a &quot;contemplative&quot; view of the role of the observer engaged in a social interaction. However, the adaptive problem posed by the social environment is first and foremost that of coordination, which demands more of social cognition beyond mere detection and comprehension of others' hidden states. Offering a theoretical framework that takes into account the dynamical aspect of social interaction - notably by accounting for constant interplay between emotional appraisal and motor processes in socially engaged human brain - thus constitutes an important challenge for the field of social cognition. Here, we propose that our social environment can be seen as presenting opportunities for actions regarding others. Within such a framework, non-verbal social signals such as emotional displays are considered to have evolved to influence the observer in consistent ways. Consequently, social signals can modulate motor responses in observers. In line with this theoretical framework we provide evidence that emotional and motor processes are actually tightly linked during the perception of threat signals. This is ultimately reflected in the human brain by constant interplay between limbic and motor areas.
This study investigated the motor control mechanisms that enable healthy individuals to adapt their pointing movements during prism exposure to a rightward optical shift. In the prism adaptation literature, two processes are typically distinguished. Strategic motor adjustments are thought to drive the pattern of rapid endpoint error correction typically observed during the early stage of prism exposure. This is distinguished from so-called 'true sensorimotor realignment', normally measured with a different pointing task, at the end of prism exposure, which reveals a compensatory leftward 'prism after-effect'. Here, we tested whether each mode of motor compensation - strategic adjustments versus 'true sensorimotor realignment' - could be distinguished, by analyzing patterns of kinematic change during prism exposure. We hypothesized that fast feedforward versus slower feedback error corrective processes would map onto two distinct phases of the reach trajectory. Specifically, we predicted that feedforward adjustments would drive rapid compensation of the initial (acceleration) phase of the reach, resulting in the rapid reduction of endpoint errors typically observed early during prism exposure. By contrast, we expected visual-proprioceptive realignment to unfold more slowly and to reflect feedback influences during the terminal (deceleration) phase of the reach. The results confirmed these hypotheses. Rapid error reduction during the early stage of prism exposure was achieved by trial-by-trial adjustments of the motor plan, which were proportional to the endpoint error feedback from the previous trial. By contrast, compensation of the terminal reach phase unfolded slowly across the duration of prism exposure. Even after 100 trials of pointing through prisms, adaptation was incomplete, with participants continuing to exhibit a small rightward shift in both the reach endpoints and in the terminal phase of reach trajectories. Individual differences in the degree of adaptation of the terminal reach phase predicted the magnitude of prism after-effects. In summary, this study identifies distinct kinematic signatures of fast strategic versus slow sensorimotor realignment processes, which combine to adjust motor performance to compensate for a prismatic shift.
How do we know whether our own actions were voluntary or involuntary? Intentional theories of sense of agency suggest that we consciously perceive the intentions that accompany our actions, but reconstructive theories suggest that we perceive our actions only through the body movements and other effects that they produce. Intentions would then be mere confabulations, and not bona fide experiences. Previous work on voluntary action has focused on immediate experiences of authorship, and few studies have considered memory for voluntary actions. We devised an experiment in which both voluntary action and involuntary movement always occurred at the same time, but could either involve the same hand (congruent condition), or different hands (incongruent condition). When signals from the voluntary and involuntary movements involved different hands, they could therefore potentially interfere in memory. We found that recall of a voluntary action was unaffected by an incongruent involuntary movement. In contrast, recall of an involuntary movement was strongly influenced by an incongruent voluntary action. Our results demonstrate an &quot;intentional capture&quot; of body movement by voluntary actions, in support of intentional theories of agency, but contrary to reconstructive theories. When asked to recall both actions and movements, people's responses are shaped by memory of what they intended to do, rather than by how their body moved.



Ammonia has been identified to have a significant role in the long-term damage to dopamine and serotonin terminals produced by methamphetamine (METH), but how ammonia contributes to this damage is unknown. Experiments were conducted to identify whether increases in brain ammonia affect METH-induced increases in glutamate and subsequent excitotoxicity. Increases in striatal glutamate were measured using in vivo microdialysis. To examine the role of ammonia in mediating changes in extracellular glutamate after METH exposure, lactulose was used to decrease plasma and brain ammonia. Lactulose is a non-absorbable disaccharide, which alters the intestinal lumen through multiple mechanisms that lead to the increased peripheral excretion of ammonia. METH caused a significant increase in extracellular glutamate that was prevented by lactulose. Lactulose had no effect on METH-induced hyperthermia. To determine if ammonia contributed to excitotoxicity, the effect of METH and lactulose treatment on calpain-mediated spectrin proteolysis was measured. METH significantly increased calpain-specific spectrin breakdown products, and this increase was prevented with lactulose treatment. To examine if ammonia-induced increases in extracellular glutamate were mediated by excitatory amino-acid transporters, the reverse dialysis of ammonia, the glutamate transporter inhibitor, DL-threo--benzyloxyaspartic acid (TBOA), or the combination of the two directly into the striatum of awake, freely moving rats was conducted. TBOA blocked the increases in extracellular glutamate produced by the reverse dialysis of ammonia. These findings demonstrate that ammonia mediates METH-induced increases in extracellular glutamate through an excitatory amino-acid transporter to cause excitotoxicity.
Overcoming specific fears and subsequent anxiety can be greatly enhanced by the presence of familiar social partners, but the neural circuitry that controls this phenomenon remains unclear. To overcome this, the social interaction (SI) habituation test was developed in this lab to systematically investigate the effects of social familiarity on anxiety-like behavior in rats. Here, we show that social familiarity selectively reduced anxiety-like behaviors induced by an ethological anxiogenic stimulus. The anxiolytic effect of social familiarity could be elicited over multiple training sessions and was specific to both the presence of the anxiogenic stimulus and the familiar social partner. In addition, socially familiar conspecifics served as a safety signal, as anxiety-like responses returned in the absence of the familiar partner. The expression of the social familiarity-induced anxiolysis (SFiA) appears dependent on the prefrontal cortex (PFC), an area associated with cortical regulation of fear and anxiety behaviors. Inhibition of the PFC, with bilateral injections of the GABAA agonist muscimol, selectively blocked the expression of SFiA while having no effect on SI with a novel partner. Finally, the effect of D-cycloserine, a cognitive enhancer that clinically enhances behavioral treatments for anxiety, was investigated with SFiA. D-cycloserine, when paired with familiarity training sessions, selectively enhanced the rate at which SFiA was acquired. Collectively, these outcomes suggest that the PFC has a pivotal role in SFiA, a complex behavior involving the integration of social cues of familiarity with contextual and emotional information to regulate anxiety-like behavior.
Successful available treatments to quit smoking remain scarce. Recently, the potential of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) as a tool to reduce craving for nicotine has gained interest. However, there is no documented animal model to assess the neurobiological mechanisms of tDCS on addiction-related behaviors. To address this topic, we have developed a model of repeated tDCS in mice and used it to validate its effectiveness in relieving nicotine addiction. Anodal repeated tDCS was applied over the frontal cortex of Swiss female mice. The stimulation electrode (anode) was fixed directly onto the cranium, and the reference electrode was placed onto the ventral thorax. A 2  20 min/day stimulation paradigm for five consecutive days was used (0.2 mA). In the first study, we screened for behaviors altered by the stimulation. Second, we tested whether tDCS could alleviate abnormal behaviors associated with abstinence from nicotine consumption. In naive animals, repeated tDCS had antidepressant-like properties 3 weeks after the last stimulation, improved working memory, and decreased conditioned place preference for nicotine without affecting locomotor activity and anxiety-related behavior. Importantly, abnormal behaviors associated with chronic nicotine exposure (ie, depression-like behavior, increase in nicotine-induced place preference) were normalized by repeated tDCS. Our data show for the first time in an animal model that repeated tDCS is a promising, non-expensive clinical tool that could be used to reduce smoking craving and facilitate smoking cessation. Our animal model will be useful to investigate the mechanisms underlying the effects of tDCS on addiction and other psychiatric disorders.
Addictive drugs such as cocaine induce synaptic plasticity in discrete regions of the reward circuit. The aim of the present study is to investigate whether cocaine-evoked synaptic plasticity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) is causally linked. Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a central regulator of long-term synaptic plasticity, learning, and drug addiction. We examined whether blocking CaMKII activity in the VTA affected cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP) and cocaine-evoked synaptic plasticity in its target brain region, the NAc. TatCN21 is a CaMKII inhibitory peptide that blocks both stimulated and autonomous CaMKII activity with high selectivity. We report that intra-VTA microinjections of tatCN21 before cocaine conditioning blocked the acquisition of cocaine CPP, whereas intra-VTA microinjections of tatCN21 before saline conditioning did not significantly affect cocaine CPP, suggesting that the CaMKII inhibitor blocks cocaine CPP through selective disruption of cocaine-cue-associated learning. Intra-VTA tatCN21 before cocaine conditioning blocked cocaine-evoked depression of excitatory synaptic transmission in the shell of the NAc slices ex vivo. In contrast, intra-VTA microinjection of tatCN21 just before the CPP test did not affect the expression of cocaine CPP and cocaine-induced synaptic plasticity in the NAc shell. These results suggest that CaMKII activity in the VTA governs cocaine-evoked synaptic plasticity in the NAc during the time window of cocaine conditioning.
Methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity results in long-lasting depletions of monoamines and changes in basal ganglia function. We previously reported that rats with METH-induced neurotoxicity no longer engage dorsomedial striatum during a response-reversal learning task, as their performance is insensitive to acute disruption of dorsomedial striatal function by local infusion of an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist or an antisense oligonucleotide against the activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated (Arc) gene. However, METH-pretreated rats perform the task as well as controls. Therefore, we hypothesized that the neural circuitry involved in the learning had changed in METH-pretreated rats. To test this hypothesis, rats were pretreated with a neurotoxic regimen of METH or with saline. After 3-5 weeks, rats were trained on the reversal-learning task and in situ hybridization for Arc was performed. A significant correlation between Arc expression and performance on the task was found in nucleus accumbens shell of METH-, but not saline-, pretreated rats. Consistent with the idea that the correlation between Arc expression in a brain region and behavioral performance implicates that brain region in the learning, infusion of an antisense oligonucleotide against Arc into the shell impaired consolidation of reversal learning in METH-, but not saline-, pretreated rats. These findings provide novel evidence suggesting that METH-induced neurotoxicity leads to a shift from dorsal to ventral striatal involvement in the reversal-learning task. Such reorganization of neural circuitry underlying learning and memory processes may contribute to impaired cognitive function in individuals with METH-induced neurotoxicity or others with striatal dopamine loss, such as patients with Parkinson's disease.
Poor decision making and elevated risk taking, particularly during adolescence, have been strongly linked to drug use; however the causal relationships among these factors are not well understood. To address these relationships, a rat model (the Risky Decision-making Task; RDT) was used to determine whether individual differences in risk taking during adolescence predict later propensity for cocaine self-administration and/or whether cocaine self-administration causes alterations in risk taking. In addition, the RDT was used to determine how risk taking is modulated by dopamine signaling, particularly in the striatum. Results from these experiments indicated that greater risk taking during adolescence predicted greater intake of cocaine during acquisition of self-administration in adulthood, and that adult cocaine self-administration in turn caused elevated risk taking that was present following 6 weeks of abstinence. Greater adolescent risk taking was associated with lower striatal D2 receptor mRNA expression, and pharmacological activation of D2/3 receptors in the ventral, but not dorsal, striatum induced a decrease in risk taking. These findings indicate that the relationship between elevated risk taking and cocaine self-administration is bi-directional, and that low striatal D2 receptor expression may represent a predisposing factor for both maladaptive decision making and cocaine use. Furthermore, these findings suggest that striatal D2 receptors represent a therapeutic target for attenuating maladaptive decision making when choices include risk of adverse consequences.
We previously reported linkage of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder to 13q32-34 in the European descent Afrikaner population from South Africa. The nature of genetic variation underlying linkage peaks in psychiatric disorders remains largely unknown and both rare and common variants may be contributing. Here, we examine the contribution of common variants located under the 13q32-34 linkage region. We used densely spaced SNPs to fine map the linkage peak region using both a discovery sample of 415 families and a meta-analysis incorporating two additional replication family samples. In a second phase of the study, we use one family-based data set with 237 families and independent case-control data sets for fine mapping of the common variant association signal using HapMap SNPs. We report a significant association with a genetic variant (rs9583277) within the gene encoding for the myosin heavy-chain Myr 8 (MYO16), which has been implicated in neuronal phosphoinositide 3-kinase signaling. Follow-up analysis of HapMap variation within MYO16 in a second set of Afrikaner families and additional case-control data sets of European descent highlighted a region across introns 2-6 as the most likely region to harbor common MYO16 risk variants. Expression analysis revealed a significant increase in the level of MYO16 expression in the brains of schizophrenia patients. Our results suggest that common variation within MYO16 may contribute to the genetic liability to schizophrenia.
Most psychiatric disorders are characterized by emotional memory or learning disturbances. Chronic mild stress (CMS) is a common animal model for stress-induced depression. Here we examined whether 3 days of treatment using the CB1/2 receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 could ameliorate the effects of CMS on emotional learning (ie, conditioned avoidance and extinction), long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampal-accumbens pathway, and depression-like symptoms (ie, coping with stress behavior, anhedonia, and weight changes). We also examined whether the ameliorating effects of WIN55,212-2 on behavior and physiology after CMS are mediated by CB1 and glucocorticoid receptors (GRs). Rats were exposed to CMS or handled on days 1-21. The agonist WIN55,212-2 or vehicle were administered on days 19-21 (IP; 0.5 mg/kg) and behavioral and electrophysiological measures were taken on days 23 and 28. The CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 (IP; 0.3 mg/kg) or the GR antagonist RU-38486 (IP; 10 mg/kg) were co-administered with WIN55,212-2. Our results show that CMS significantly modified physiological and behavioral reactions, as observed by the impairment in avoidance extinction and LTP in the hippocampal-accumbens pathway, and the alterations in depression-like symptoms, such as coping with stress behavior, weight gain, and sucrose consumption. The most significant effect observed in this study was that 3 days of WIN55,212-2 administration prevented the CMS-induced alterations in emotional memory (ie, extinction) and plasticity. This effect was mediated by CB1 receptors as the CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 prevented the ameliorating effects of WIN55,212-2 on extinction and LTP. The GR antagonist RU-38486 also prevented the CMS-induced alterations in extinction and plasticity, and when co-administered with WIN55,212-2, the preventive effects after CMS were maintained. The findings suggest that enhancing cannabinoid signaling could represent a novel approach to the treatment of cognitive deficits that accompany stress-related depression.
Dysfunctional connectivity within the hippocampal-prefrontal circuit (HC-PFC) is associated with schizophrenia, major depression, and neurodegenerative disorders, and both the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex have dense populations of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Ketamine, a potent NMDA receptor antagonist, is of substantial current interest as a mechanistic model of glutamatergic dysfunction in animal and human studies, a psychotomimetic agent and a rapidly acting antidepressant. In this study, we sought to understand the modulatory effect of acute ketamine administration on functional connectivity in the HC-PFC system of the rat brain using resting-state fMRI. Sprague-Dawley rats in four parallel groups (N=9 per group) received either saline or one of three behaviorally relevant, sub-anesthetic doses of S-ketamine (5, 10, and 25 mg/kg, s.c.), and connectivity changes 15- and 30-min post-injection were studied. The strongest effects were dose- and exposure-dependent increases in functional connectivity within the prefrontal cortex and in anterior-posterior connections between the posterior hippocampus and retrosplenial cortex, and prefrontal regions. The increased prefrontal connectivity is consistent with ketamine-induced increases in HC-PFC electroencephalographic gamma band power, possibly reflecting a psychotomimetic aspect of ketamine's effect, and is contrary to the data from chronic schizophrenic patients suggesting that ketamine effect does not necessarily parallel the disease pattern but might rather reflect a hyperglutamatergic state. These findings may help to clarify the brain systems underlying different dose-dependent behavioral profiles of ketamine in the rat.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in mammalian brain. GABA receptor are involved in a number of complex disorders, including substance abuse. No variants of the commonly studied GABA receptor genes that have been associated with substance dependence have been determined to be functional or pathogenic. To reconcile the conflicting associations with substance dependence traits, we performed a meta-analysis of variants in the GABAA receptor genes (GABRB2, GABRA6, GABRA1, and GABRG2 on chromosome 5q and GABRA2 on chromosome 4p12) using genotype data from 4739 cases of alcohol, opioid, or methamphetamine dependence and 4924 controls. Then, we combined the data from candidate gene association studies in the literature with two alcohol dependence (AD) samples, including 1691 cases and 1712 controls from the Study of Addiction: Genetics and Environment (SAGE), and 2644 cases and 494 controls from our own study. Using a Bonferroni-corrected threshold of 0.007, we found strong associations between GABRA2 and AD (P=9  10(-6) and odds ratio (OR) 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.27 (1.15, 1.4) for rs567926, P=4  10(-5) and OR=1.21 (1.1, 1.32) for rs279858), and between GABRG2 and both dependence on alcohol and dependence on heroin (P=0.0005 and OR=1.22 (1.09, 1.37) for rs211014). Significant association was also observed between GABRA6 rs3219151 and AD. The GABRA2 rs279858 association was observed in the SAGE data sets with a combined P of 9  10(-6) (OR=1.17 (1.09, 1.26)). When all of these data sets, including our samples, were meta-analyzed, associations of both GABRA2 single-nucleotide polymorphisms remained (for rs567926, P=7  10(-5) (OR=1.18 (1.09, 1.29)) in all the studies, and P=8  10(-6) (OR=1.25 (1.13, 1.38)) in subjects of European ancestry and for rs279858, P=5  10(-6) (OR=1.18 (1.1, 1.26)) in subjects of European ancestry. Findings from this extensive meta-analysis of five GABAA receptor genes and substance abuse support their involvement (with the best evidence for GABRA2) in the pathogenesis of AD. Further replications with larger samples are warranted.
Neuroticism involves a tendency for enhanced emotional and cognitive processing of negative affective stimuli and a propensity to worry and be anxious. It is known that this trait modulates fear learning and the activation of brain regions involved in it such as the amygdala, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex and their connectivity. Thirty-nine (21 female) 14-year-old healthy adolescents participated in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of aversive pavlovian differential delay conditioning. An unpleasant sound served as unconditioned stimulus (US) and pictures of neutral male faces as conditioned stimuli (CS+ followed by the US in 50% of the cases; CS- never followed by the US). During acquisition (CS+/- differentiation), higher levels of neuroticism were associated with a stronger interaction between the right amygdala and the right hippocampus as well as the right amygdala and prefrontal cortical regions, specifically ventromedial prefrontal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and anterior cingulate cortex. The association of stronger conditionability of fear and connectivity of brain regions related to consolidation of fear associations and neuroticism points to underlying mechanisms of the enhanced propensity for anxiety disorders in highly neurotic participants. This is especially important in adolescence, a vulnerable time for the onset of mental disorders such as anxiety disorders.
Alcoholism is one of the most prevalent neuropsychiatric diseases, having an enormous health and socioeconomic impact. Along with a few other medications, acamprosate (Campral-calcium-bis (N-acetylhomotaurinate)) is clinically used in many countries for relapse prevention. Although there is accumulated evidence suggesting that acamprosate interferes with the glutamate system, the molecular mode of action still remains undefined. Here we show that acamprosate does not interact with proposed glutamate receptor mechanisms. In particular, acamprosate does not interact with NMDA receptors or metabotropic glutamate receptor group I. In three different preclinical animal models of either excessive alcohol drinking, alcohol-seeking, or relapse-like drinking behavior, we demonstrate that N-acetylhomotaurinate by itself is not an active psychotropic molecule. Hence, the sodium salt of N-acetylhomotaurinate (i) is ineffective in alcohol-preferring rats to reduce operant responding for ethanol, (ii) is ineffective in alcohol-seeking rats in a cue-induced reinstatement paradigm, (iii) and is ineffective in rats with an alcohol deprivation effect. Surprisingly, calcium salts produce acamprosate-like effects in all three animal models. We conclude that calcium is the active moiety of acamprosate. Indeed, when translating these findings to the human situation, we found that patients with high plasma calcium levels due to acamprosate treatment showed better primary efficacy parameters such as time to relapse and cumulative abstinence. We conclude that N-acetylhomotaurinate is a biologically inactive molecule and that the effects of acamprosate described in more than 450 published original investigations and clinical trials and 1.5 million treated patients can possibly be attributed to calcium.
Neuroimaging has consistently documented reductions in the brain tissue of alcoholics. Inability to control comorbidity, environmental insult, and nutritional deficiency, however, confound the ability to assess whether ethanol itself is neurotoxic. Here we report monkey oral ethanol self-administration combined with MR imaging to characterize brain changes over 15 months in 18 well-nourished rhesus macaques. Significant brain volume shrinkage occurred in the cerebral cortices of monkeys drinking  3 g/kg ethanol/day (12 alcoholic drinks) at 6 months, and this persisted throughout the period of continuous access to ethanol. Correlation analyses revealed a cerebral cortical volumetric loss of ~0.11% of the intracranial vault for each daily drink (0.25 g/kg), and selective vulnerability of cortical and non-cortical brain regions. These results demonstrate for the first time a direct relation between oral ethanol intake and measures of decreased brain gray matter volume in vivo in primates. Notably, greater volume shrinkage occurred in monkeys with younger drinking onset that ultimately became heavier drinkers than monkeys with older drinking onset. The pattern of volumetric changes observed in nonhuman primates following 15 months of drinking suggests that cerebral cortical gray matter changes are the first macroscopic manifestation of chronic ethanol exposure in the brain.
Methamphetamine (meth) addicts often exhibit enduring cognitive and neural deficits that likely contribute to persistent drug seeking and the high rates of relapse. These deficits may be related to changes in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and its glutamatergic projections to the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Here, we performed in vivo microdialysis in the PFC and NAc in rats following either meth self-administration or yoked-saline control histories to assess baseline glutamate (GLU) levels, or reinstatement-evoked GLU and dopamine (DA) efflux in both regions simultaneously under cue-induced, meth-primed, or combined cues+meth reinstatement conditions. Our results show that meth self-administration (1) reduced basal GLU levels in both the dmPFC and NAc, (2) concurrently increased dmPFC and NAc GLU efflux during reinstatement, and (3) increased DA efflux in the dmPFC, but not in the NAc, under all reinstatement conditions when compared with yoked-saline controls. These data demonstrate for the first time that a history of psychostimulant self-administration alters GLU homeostasis not only in the NAc, but also in the dmPFC, its primary GLU projection source. Furthermore, combined cues+meth-primed reinstatement conditions produced the most pronounced increases in mPFC and NAc extracellular GLU, suggesting that the cue and meth prime conditions are additive in promoting reinstatement. Finally, increased efflux of DA in the dmPFC, but not in the NAc, across reinstatement conditions suggests that DA release in the dmPFC may be an important mediator of drug seeking initiated by multiple relapse triggers.

Depression is a leading contributor to the global burden of diseases. Despite advances in research, challenges still exist in managing this disorder. Sufferers of autoimmune diseases are often observed to suffer from depression more often than healthy individuals, an association that cannot be completely accounted for by the impact of the disease on the individual. An association between autoimmunity and depressive symptoms also appears to exist in populations with subclinical symptoms. Moreover, researchers have successfully developed murine models illustrating the ability of autoantibodies to induce depressive-like symptoms. This paper will provide an overview of the association between autoantibodies and occurrence of depressive symptoms. Though current evidence appears to support a role for autoantibodies in the pathogenesis of depression, the majority of studies have examined this relationship cross-sectionally, therefore failing to establish a temporal association. Nonetheless, this novel theory meshes with older and newer neurochemical theories of depression. A better understanding of the immuno-pathogenesis underlying depression presents opportunities for more targeted treatment approaches and more timely and appropriate measures of detection.
This review consolidates research employing human correlational and experimental work across brain and body with experimental animal models to provide a more complete representation of how circadian rhythms influence almost all aspects of life. In doing so, we will cover the morphological and biochemical pathways responsible for rhythm generation as well as interactions between these systems and others (e.g., stress, feeding, reproduction). The effects of circadian disruption on the health of humans, including time of day effects, cognitive sequelae, dementia, Alzheimer's disease, diet, obesity, food preferences, mood disorders, and cancer will also be discussed. Subsequently, experimental support for these largely correlational human studies conducted in non-human animal models will be described.
While the detrimental impact of inflammation on adult hippocampal neurogenesis and associated behaviors has recently gained credence, the effects of inflammation on the developing brain is an area of research which is quickly gaining momentum, and a growing number of research articles on this topic have been published in recent years. Indeed, we now know that pro-inflammatory mediators negatively influence both hippocampal neurogenesis and neuronal cytoarchitecture during brain development. Here we present a comprehensive review of the current literature on inflammation-induced changes in hippocampal neurogenesis during early life and the consequent behavioral deficits which may ensue in later life. We also offer insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the hippocampal-dependant behavioral changes observed in neurodevelopmental disorders, particularly in those where cognitive dysfunction plays a major role. We further consider whether early-life inflammation-induced changes in hippocampal neurogenesis may contribute to the onset of mood and cognitive deficits in later life.
Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is one of the most common mental disorders and is characterized by a pervasive pattern of emotional lability, impulsivity, interpersonal difficulties, identity disturbances, and disturbed cognition. Here, we performed a systematic review of the literature concerning the genetics of BPD, including familial and twin studies, association studies, and gene-environment interaction studies. Moreover, meta-analyses were performed when at least two case-control studies testing the same polymorphism were available. For each gene variant, a pooled odds ratio (OR) was calculated using fixed or random effects models. Familial and twin studies largely support the potential role of a genetic vulnerability at the root of BPD, with an estimated heritability of approximately 40%. Moreover, there is evidence for both gene-environment interactions and correlations. However, association studies for BPD are sparse, making it difficult to draw clear conclusions. According to our meta-analysis, no significant associations were found for the serotonin transporter gene, the tryptophan hydroxylase 1 gene, or the serotonin 1B receptor gene. We hypothesize that such a discrepancy (negative association studies but high heritability of the disorder) could be understandable through a paradigm shift, in which &quot;plasticity&quot; genes (rather than &quot;vulnerability&quot; genes) would be involved. Such a framework postulates a balance between positive and negative events, which interact with plasticity genes in the genesis of BPD.
The underrepresentation of female mice in neuroscience and biomedical research is based on the assumption that females are intrinsically more variable than males and must be tested at each of four stages of the estrous cycle to generate reliable data. Neither belief is empirically based. In a meta-analysis of 293 articles, behavioral, morphological, physiological, and molecular traits were monitored in male mice and females tested without regard to estrous cycle stage; variability was not significantly greater in females than males for any endpoint and was substantially greater in males for several traits. Group housing of mice increased variability in both males and females by 37%. Utilization of female mice in neuroscience research does not require monitoring of the estrous cycle. The prevalence of sex differences at all levels of biological organization, and limitations in generalizing findings obtained with males to females, argue for the routine inclusion of female rodents in most research protocols.
Functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS), which is compact, portable, and tolerant of body movement, is suitable for monitoring infant brain functions. Nevertheless, fNIRS also poses a technical problem in that it cannot provide structural information. Supplementation with structural magnetic resonance images (MRI) is not always feasible for infants who undergo fNIRS measurement. Probabilistic registration methods using an MRI database instead of subjects' own MRIs are optimized for adult studies and offer only limited resources for infant studies. To overcome this, we used high-quality infant MRI data for a 12-month-old infant and manually delineated segmented gyri from among the highly visible macroanatomies on the lateral cortical surface. These macroanatomical regions are primarily linked to the spherical coordinate system based on external cranial landmarks, and further to traditional 10-20-based head-surface positioning systems. While macroanatomical structures were generally comparable between adult and infant atlases, differences were found in the parietal lobe, which was positioned posteriorly at the vertex in the infant brain. The present study provides a referential framework for macroanatomical analyses in infant fNIRS studies. With this resource, multichannel fNIRS functional data could be analyzed in reference to macroanatomical structures through virtual and probabilistic registrations without acquiring subject-specific MRIs.
Because genetic manipulation occasionally disrupts the expression of the neighboring genes, the chromosomal locus where the transgene has been integrated should be identified in the use of transgenic organisms. By using a new blend of thermostable DNA polymerase, we established a highly efficient method of inverse polymerase chain reaction for this purpose. By using this protocol, we successfully determined the vector integration sites of 2 mouse lines, NSE-tTA and tetO-Cre, the combination of which is a useful tool in neuroscience research. On the basis of this information, we quantified the relative expression amount of the chromosomal genes adjacent to these transgenes and found that the insertion of the tetO-Cre vector significantly altered the mRNA level of one of the examined genes. Considering the potential risk of the insertion effect, we recommend that the vector integration sites of any transgenic lines should be determined routinely by using this method, and that the expression levels of their neighboring genes should be determined.





Previous work has shown that exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) can affect anxiety behavior. However, no studies have examined whether administration of this endocrine disruptor during the perinatal period has the potential to induce alterations in cognitive behavior in both adult males and females as assessed in an appetitive task. The goal of the current study was to determine whether exposure to different doses of BPA during early development alters performance on the 17-arm radial maze in adulthood in Long-Evans rats. Oral administration of corn oil (vehicle), 4 g/kg, 40 g/kg, or 400 g/kg BPA to the dams occurred daily throughout pregnancy, and the pups received direct oral administration of BPA between postnatal days 1-9. Blood was collected from offspring at weaning age to determine levels of several hormones (thyroxine, thyroid stimulating hormone, follicle stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone). One male and one female from each litter were evaluated on the 17-arm radial maze, a working/reference memory task, in adulthood. Results indicated that after exposure to BPA at both 4 and 400 g/kg/day, rats of both sexes had decreased levels of FSH at weaning. There were no significant effects of BPA on performance on the radial arm maze in males or females. In conclusion, exposure to BPA during early development had modest effects on circulating hormones but did not affect performance on a spatial learning and memory task.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate quality parameters, metabolite concentrations and concentration ratios, and to investigate the reproducibility of quantitative proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging ((1)H-MRSI) of selected white and gray matter regions of healthy adults. 2D-quantitative short-TE (1)H-MRSI spectra were obtained at 1.5T from the healthy human brain. Subjects (n=12) were scanned twice with an interval of six months. Absolute metabolite concentrations were obtained based on coil loading, taking into account differences in sensitivity of the phased-array head coil. Spectral quality parameters, absolute metabolite concentrations, concentration ratios, and their reproducibility were determined and compared between time-points using a repeated measures general linear model. The quality of the spectra of selected brain areas was good, as determined by a mean spectral linewidth between 4.8 and 7.3 Hz (depending on the region). No significant differences between the two time-points were observed for spectral quality, concentrations, or concentration ratios. The mean intrasubject coefficient of variation (CoV) varied between 4.0 and 8.5% for total N-acetylaspartate, 7.2 and 10.8% for total creatine, 5.9 and 9.8% for myo-inositol, and 8.0 and 13.3% for choline, and remained below 20% for glutamate. CoV was generally lower when concentration ratios were considered. The study shows that longitudinal quantitative short-TE (1)H-MRSI generates reproducible absolute metabolite concentrations in healthy human white and gray matter. This may serve as a background for longitudinal clinical studies in adult patients.





An 84-year-old man presented with a tumor of the right caruncle causing epiphora due to insufficient eyelid closure. The tumor was cystic and mucinous in appearance. MRI showed a solitary tumor of the caruncle with no adhesions to neighboring tissue. The mass was removed by carunculectomy. Histopathologic examination revealed a tumor composed of epithelial cells with intervening strands of hyalinized stroma. Solid areas were predominant but a cribriform area could also be distinguished. Periodic acid-Schiff positive, diastase-labile material (glycogen) was detected in many tumor cells. Immunohistochemical staining of the tumor cells demonstrated positive staining with antibodies against CK-CAM 5.2, BER-EP4, p63, and smooth muscle actin-positive cells in some areas. The tumor was diagnosed as a nodular hidradenoma of the caruncle, which has never been reported before and should be included in the diagnoses of caruncular tumors.
Although amblyopia typically manifests itself as a monocular condition, its origin has long been linked to unbalanced neural signals from the two eyes during early postnatal development, a view confirmed by studies conducted on animal models in the last 50 years. Despite recognition of its binocular origin, treatment of amblyopia continues to be dominated by a period of patching of the non-amblyopic eye that necessarily hinders binocular co-operation. This review summarizes evidence from three lines of investigation conducted on an animal model of deprivation amblyopia to support the thesis that treatment of amblyopia should instead focus upon procedures that promote and enhance binocular co-operation. First, experiments with mixed daily visual experience in which episodes of abnormal visual input were pitted against normal binocular exposure revealed that short exposures of the latter offset much longer periods of abnormal input to allow normal development of visual acuity in both eyes. Second, experiments on the use of part-time patching revealed that purposeful introduction of episodes of binocular vision each day could be very beneficial. Periods of binocular exposure that represented 30-50% of the daily visual exposure included with daily occlusion of the non-amblyopic could allow recovery of normal vision in the amblyopic eye. Third, very recent experiments demonstrate that a short 10 day period of total darkness can promote very fast and complete recovery of visual acuity in the amblyopic eye of kittens and may represent an example of a class of artificial environments that have similar beneficial effects. Finally, an approach is described to allow timing of events in kitten and human visual system development to be scaled to optimize the ages for therapeutic interventions.






Pain relief by touch has been studied for decades in pain neuroscience. Human perceptual studies revealed analgesic effects of segmental tactile stimulation, as compared to extrasegmental touch. However, the spatial organisation of touch-pain interactions within a single human dermatome has not been investigated yet. In 2 experiments we tested whether, how, and where within a dermatome touch modulates the perception of laser-evoked pain. We measured pain perception using intensity ratings, qualitative descriptors, and signal detection measures of sensitivity and response bias. Touch concurrent with laser pulses produced a significant analgesia, and reduced the sensitivity in detecting the energy of laser stimulation, implying a functional loss of information within the ascending A pathway. Touch also produced a bias to judge laser stimuli as less painful. This bias decreased linearly when the distance between the laser and tactile stimuli increased. Thus, our study provides evidence for a spatial organisation of intrasegmental touch-pain interactions.
This study investigated the short-term memory of dynamic changes in acute pain using psychophysical methods. Pain intensity or unpleasantness induced by painful contact-heat stimuli of 8, 9, or 10s was rated continuously during the stimulus or after a 14-s delay using an electronic visual analog scale in 10 healthy volunteers. Because the continuous visual analog scale time courses contained large amounts of redundant information, a principal component analysis was applied to characterize the main features inherent to both the concurrent rating and retrospective evaluations. Three components explained about 90% of the total variance across all trials and subjects, with the first component reflecting the global perceptual profile, and the second and third components explaining finer perceptual aspects (eg, changes in slope at onset and offset and shifts in peak latency). We postulate that these 3 principal components may provide some information about the structure of the mental representations of what one perceives, stores, and remembers during the course of few seconds. Analysis performed on the components confirmed significant memory distortions and revealed that the discriminative information about pain dimensions in concurrent ratings was partly or completely lost in retrospective ratings. Importantly, our results highlight individual differences affecting these memory processes. These results provide further evidence of the important transformations underlying the processing of pain in explicit memory and raise fundamental questions about the conversion of dynamic nociceptive signals into a mental representation of pain in perception and memory.

Chronic neuropathic pain is often refractory to current pharmacotherapies. The rodent Mas-related G-protein-coupled receptor subtype C (MrgC) shares substantial homogeneity with its human homologue, MrgX1, and is located specifically in small-diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons. However, evidence regarding the role of MrgC in chronic pain conditions has been disparate and inconsistent. Accordingly, the therapeutic value of MrgX1 as a target for pain treatment in humans remains uncertain. Here, we found that intrathecal injection of BAM8-22 (a 15-amino acid peptide MrgC agonist) and JHU58 (a novel dipeptide MrgC agonist) inhibited both mechanical and heat hypersensitivity in rats after an L5 spinal nerve ligation (SNL). Intrathecal JHU58-induced pain inhibition was dose dependent in SNL rats. Importantly, drug efficacy was lost in Mrg-cluster gene knockout (Mrg KO) mice and was blocked by gene silencing with intrathecal MrgC siRNA and by a selective MrgC receptor antagonist in SNL rats, suggesting that the drug action is MrgC dependent. Further, in a mouse model of trigeminal neuropathic pain, microinjection of JHU58 into ipsilateral subnucleus caudalis inhibited mechanical hypersensitivity in wild-type but not Mrg KO mice. Finally, JHU58 attenuated the miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents frequency both in medullary dorsal horn neurons of mice after trigeminal nerve injury and in lumbar spinal dorsal horn neurons of mice after SNL. We provide multiple lines of evidence that MrgC agonism at spinal but not peripheral sites may constitute a novel pain inhibitory mechanism that involves inhibition of peripheral excitatory inputs onto postsynaptic dorsal horn neurons in different rodent models of neuropathic pain.
Pain is a highly personal experience that varies substantially among individuals. In search of an anatomical correlate of pain sensitivity, we used voxel-based morphometry to investigate the relationship between grey matter density across the whole brain and interindividual differences in pain sensitivity in 116 healthy volunteers (62 women, 54 men). Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and psychophysical data from 10 previous functional MRI studies were used. Age, sex, unpleasantness ratings, scanner sequence, and sensory testing location were added to the model as covariates. Regression analysis of grey matter density across the whole brain and thermal pain intensity ratings at 49C revealed a significant inverse relationship between pain sensitivity and grey matter density in bilateral regions of the posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus, intraparietal sulcus, and inferior parietal lobule. Unilateral regions of the left primary somatosensory cortex also exhibited this inverse relationship. No regions showed a positive relationship to pain sensitivity. These structural variations occurred in areas associated with the default mode network, attentional direction and shifting, as well as somatosensory processing. These findings underscore the potential importance of processes related to default mode thought and attention in shaping individual differences in pain sensitivity and indicate that pain sensitivity can potentially be predicted on the basis of brain structure.
The 2-1 protein is an auxiliary subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels, critical for neurotransmitter release. It is upregulated in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons following sensory nerve injury, and is also the therapeutic target of the gabapentinoid drugs, which are efficacious in both experimental and human neuropathic pain conditions. 2-1 has 3 spliced regions: A, B, and C. A and C are cassette exons, whereas B is introduced via an alternative 3' splice acceptor site. Here we have examined the presence of 2-1 splice variants in DRG neurons, and have found that although the main 2-1 splice variant in DRG is the same as that in brain (2-1 A+B+C), there is also another 2-1 splice variant (A+BC), which is expressed in DRG neurons and is differentially upregulated compared to the main DRG splice variant 2-1 A+B+C following spinal nerve ligation. Furthermore, this differential upregulation occurs preferentially in a small nonmyelinated DRG neuron fraction, obtained by density gradient separation. The 2-1 A+BC splice variant supports CaV2 calcium currents with unaltered properties compared to 2-1 A+B+C, but shows a significantly reduced affinity for gabapentin. This variant could therefore play a role in determining the efficacy of gabapentin in neuropathic pain.
The formalin test still surprises with its biphasic pain-related behavior resulting from a quiescent interphase that does not occur with other algogenic compounds and remains unexplained. The first phase has been attributed to TRPA1-mediated excitation of nociceptors, the second phase to their inflammatory and/or spinal sensitization. We show that the second and interphase require higher formaldehyde concentrations to emerge, and that from 12 mM on calcium influx is induced in TRPA1-deficient sensory neurons as well as in native HEK293T cells. After a short depolarizing and excitatory period in a subset, all wild-type neurons showed a concentration-dependent hyperpolarization, a reduction of voltage-activated sodium currents, and a progressive increase of the input resistance, which, after about 10 min restored the transiently lost excitability, enabling smaller and wider action potentials to be evoked than before formaldehyde (30 mM). The hyperpolarizing effect was absent if extracellular sodium was replaced, and largely prevented by a high but not low concentration of tetrodotoxin. In rat skin in vivo, the spatiotemporal redistribution of injected formalin and the plasma extravasation were studied using Evans blue. The parameters gained were entered into a computational model to predict the activation pattern of primary afferents. The model supports a peripherally generated biphasic response, the time course matching the behavioral results. In conclusion, the interphase is a result of hyperpolarization and transient inactivation by formaldehyde of the surviving neurons; their recovery and the centrifugal spread of formalin in the skin induce a second phase of nociceptive activity before the formalin concentration falls below threshold.
The analgesic effect of heterotopic noxious counter-stimulation (HNCS; &quot;pain inhibits pain&quot;) has been shown to decrease in older persons, while some neuropsychological studies have suggested a reduction in cognitive inhibition with normal aging. Taken together, these findings may reflect a generalized reduction in inhibitory processes. The present study assessed whether the decline in the efficacy of pain inhibition processes is associated with decreased cognitive inhibition in older persons. Healthy young (18-46 years old; n=21) and older (56-75 years old; n=23) adult volunteers participated in one experimental session to assess the effect of HNCS (cold pain applied on the left forearm) on shock pain and RIII reflex induced by transcutaneous electrical stimulation of the right sural nerve. In the same session, participants also performed a modified Stroop task, including a target condition requiring the frequent switching between inhibition and no inhibition of the meaning of color words. The analgesic effect induced by HCNS was significantly smaller in older participants for both shock-pain ratings (P&lt;0.001) and RIII-reflex amplitude (P&lt;0.05). The Stroop effect was significantly larger in elderly participants in the inhibition trials of the switching condition. Increased cognitive interference (ie, larger Stroop effect) correlated with smaller inhibition of the RIII reflex by HNCS across groups (r=-.34, P=0.025). This association was independent from the age-related slowing observed in control reading and naming tasks. These results suggest a generalized age-related reduction in inhibitory processes affecting both executive functions and cerebrospinal processes involved in the regulation of pain-related responses induced by competing nociceptive threats.
Use of experimental pain is vital for addressing research questions that would otherwise be impossible to examine in the real world. Experimental induction of pain in children is highly scrutinized given the potential for harm and lack of direct benefit to a vulnerable population. However, its use has critically advanced our understanding of the mechanisms, assessment and treatment of pain in both healthy and chronically ill children. This article introduces various experimental pain modalities, including the cold pressor task, the water load symptom provocation test, thermal pain, pressure pain and conditioned pain modulation, and discusses their application for use with children and adolescents. It addresses practical implementation and ethical issues, as well as the advantages and disadvantages offered by each task. The incredible potential for future research is discussed given the array of experimental pain modalities now available to pediatric researchers.







Bacillus thuringiensis Cyt proteins are pore-forming toxins that have insecticidal activity mainly against dipteran insects. However, certain Cyt proteins have toxicity to some insect orders, but not toxicity of Cyt1Aa against lepidopteran larvae has been found. Insect specificity has been proposed to rely in specific binding to certain lipids on the brush border membrane of midgut cells since no protein receptors have been described so far. To determine the molecular basis of Cyt1Aa insect specificity we compared different steps of Cyt1Aa mode of action in a susceptible insect as the dipteran Aedes aegypti and also in the non-susceptible lepidopteran Manduca sexta. Our data shows that the lack toxicity of Cyt1Aa to M. sexta larvae does not rely on protoxin processing, membrane binding interaction, and oligomerization of Cyt1Aa since these steps were similar in the two insect species analyzed.
Transient receptor potential melastatin 4 (TRPM4) is a voltage-dependent, nonselective cation channel. Under pathological conditions, sustained activation of TRPM4 leads to oncotic cell death. Here, we report the upregulation of TRPM4 in vascular endothelium following hypoxia/ischemia in vitro and in vivo. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells, TRPM4 expression was increased at both the mRNA and protein levels following oxygen-glucose deprivation. Blocking TRPM4 with 9-phenanthrol greatly enhanced tube formation on Matrigel. In a rat permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion model, TRPM4 was upregulated in the vascular endothelium within the penumbra region after stroke. TRPM4 expression peaked 1day post-occlusion and gradually decreased. In vivo siRNA-mediated TRPM4 silencing enhanced angiogenesis and improved capillary integrity. A twofold reduction in infarct volume and a substantial recovery of motor function were observed in animals receiving the siRNA treatment. Interestingly, the protective effect of TRPM4 suppression disappeared 5days after stroke induction, indicating that TRPM4 upregulation is critical for cerebral damage during the acute phase of stroke. TRPM4 could be a potential therapeutic target for ischemic stroke.
While the opioid system is predominantly known for its properties governing nociception, it has also been found to play a role in learning and memory. Opioid involvement in task acquisition and retention has been examined using various associative paradigms. These analyses have demonstrated that depending upon the associative paradigm and timing of opioid modulation relative to the task, it can either impair acquisition or facilitate memory consolidation. However, opioid involvement in forebrain-dependent trace-associative learning paradigms has never been examined. In associative paradigms, a subject learns to associate two stimuli, while in trace paradigms the two stimuli are separated in time, which is thought to increase task difficulty due to utilization of forebrain structures. The current analysis utilized the trace paradigm whisker-trace-eyeblink (WTEB) conditioning with a trace interval of 250 ms, in conjunction with pre- and post-training opioid inhibition with naloxone, a well-characterized nonspecific opioid antagonist. Naloxone administration prior to training (pre-training) was found to significantly impair acquisition of the WTEB association; however, administration following training (post-training) did not significantly differ from saline controls. These findings demonstrate that opioid inhibition impairs acquisition of forebrain-dependent trace-associations, further suggesting that opioid activation plays a modulatory role in trace-acquisition. Prior behavioral analyses have suggested that hippocampal -opioid receptors are most likely facilitating this effect; however, subsequent analyses will be needed to determine the specific brain region(s) and opioid receptor subtype(s) mediating this effect.
Despite high rates of marijuana abuse in schizophrenia, the physiological interactions between tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and antipsychotic medications are poorly understood. A well-characterized feature of schizophrenia is poor gating of the P50 auditory-evoked potential. This feature has been translationally modeled by the DBA/2 mouse, which exhibits poor suppression of the P20-N40 AEP, the rodent analog of the human P50. Previous work has demonstrated that this deficit is reversed by the antipsychotic clozapine. It is unknown, however, if this effect is altered by THC administration. Using a conditioning-testing paradigm with paired auditory stimuli, the effects of clozapine and dronabinol (a pharmaceutical THC formulation) on inhibitory P20-N40 AEP processing were assessed from in vivo hippocampal CA3 recordings in anesthetized DBA/2 mice. The effects of clozapine (0.33 mg/kg) and dronabinol (10 mg/kg) were assessed alone and in combination (0.33, 1 or 1.83 mg/kg clozapine with 10mg/kg dronabinol). Improved P20-N40 AEP gating was observed after acute administration of 0.33 mg/kg clozapine. Co-injection of 0.33 mg/kg clozapine and 10 mg/kg THC, however, did not improve gating relative to baseline. This effect was overcome by higher doses of clozapine (1 and 1.83 mg/kg), as these doses improved gating relative to baseline in the presence of 10 mg/kg THC. 10 mg/kg THC alone did not affect gating. In conclusion, THC does not prevent improvement of P20-N40 gating by clozapine.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) are two major areas for the mesolimbic dopaminergic system which are strongly involved in the development of behavioral sensitization. In the present study, we investigated the role of D1/D2 dopaminergic receptors within the NAc or VTA in response to sensitization to morphine by the tail-flick test as a model of acute pain. Sensitization was induced by subcutaneous (SC) injection of morphine (5 mg/kg), once daily for three days followed by 5 days free of drug. After the sensitization period, antinociceptive responses induced by an ineffective dose of morphine (1 mg/kg; SC) were obtained by the tail-flick test, and represented as maximal possible effect (%MPE). In experimental groups, D1 and D2 receptor antagonists, SCH-23390 and sulpiride (0.25, 1 and 4 g/rat), were separately microinjected into the NAc or VTA, 10 min before morphine administration during the sensitization period, respectively. Results showed that injection of morphine during the sensitization period (development of sensitization) increased %MPE of the ineffective dose of morphine from 2.431.4% in naive to 47.754.01% in sensitized animals (P&lt;0.001). Unilateral microinjections of different doses of the D1/D2 receptor antagonists, SCH-23390 and sulpiride, into the NAc dose-dependently decreased %MPEs in morphine-sensitized animals. Nonetheless, %MPEs were only affected by intra-VTA administration of SCH-23390 in morphine-sensitized animals (P&lt;0.05). Our findings suggest that both the D1/D2 dopamine receptors in the NAc and the D1 receptors in the VTA may be of more important in the development of sensitization to morphine in rats.
The use of animal models to investigate experimental questions about impulsive behavior can provide valuable insight into problems that affect human health. The delay-discounting paradigm involves subjects choosing between smaller reinforcers delivered immediately and larger reinforcers that are delivered after a delay. This is an important experimental paradigm for examining impulsive choice in both laboratory species and humans. However, a shortcoming of previously published delay-discounting studies in animals is that typically only males were studied, reducing the applicability of these studies to human populations. In the present study, both female and male adult Long-Evans rats were trained to perform a delay-discounting task, with delays of 0, 5, 10, 20 and 40 s before delivery of the larger reinforcer. Because dopaminergic signaling is important in mediating this task, the effects of d-amphetamine and the dopamine receptor antagonist, cis-flupenthixol, on task performance were then examined. The main experimental measure was percent larger-reinforcer choice, which was defined as the percentage of experimental trials at each delay in which the delayed, larger reinforcer was chosen. There was no sex difference in percent larger-reinforcer choice during baseline performance of the task. However, d-amphetamine administration disrupted choice in females, as evidenced by &lt;80% larger-reinforcer choice in half of the females, but none of the males, at 0.5 mg/kg. D-Amphetamine also differentially altered the latency to choose between immediate versus delayed reinforcers in females compared to males. In contrast, cis-flupenthixol did not have a sex-related effect on percent larger-reinforcer choice. These findings parallel the sex differences in response to amphetamine seen in human delay-discounting studies and underscore the importance of evaluating sex-based differences in baseline performance and in response to pharmacologic agents when utilizing animal models.
Until recently, neuroscience has given sleep research and discovery of better treatments of sleep disturbances little attention, despite the fact that disturbed sleep has overwhelming impact on human health. Sleep is a complex phenomenon in which specific psychological, electrophysiological, neurochemical, endocrinological, immunological and genetic factors are involved. The brain as both the generator and main object of sleep is obviously of particular interest, which makes a neuroscience-driven view the most promising approach to evaluate clinical implications and applications of sleep research. Polysomnography as the gold standard of sleep research, complemented by brain imaging, neuroendocrine testing, genomics and other laboratory measures can help to create composite biomarkers that allow maximizing the effects of individualized therapies while minimizing adverse effects. Here we review the current state of the neuroscience of sleep, sleep disorders and sleep therapeutics and will give some leads to promote the discovery and development of sleep medicines that are better than those we have today.
The nature of consciousness, the mechanism by which it occurs in the brain, and its ultimate place in the universe are unknown. We proposed in the mid 1990's that consciousness depends on biologically 'orchestrated' coherent quantum processes in collections of microtubules within brain neurons, that these quantum processes correlate with, and regulate, neuronal synaptic and membrane activity, and that the continuous Schrdinger evolution of each such process terminates in accordance with the specific Disi-Penrose (DP) scheme of 'objective reduction' ('OR') of the quantum state. This orchestrated OR activity ('Orch OR') is taken to result in moments of conscious awareness and/or choice. The DP form of OR is related to the fundamentals of quantum mechanics and space-time geometry, so Orch OR suggests that there is a connection between the brain's biomolecular processes and the basic structure of the universe. Here we review Orch OR in light of criticisms and developments in quantum biology, neuroscience, physics and cosmology. We also introduce a novel suggestion of 'beat frequencies' of faster microtubule vibrations as a possible source of the observed electro-encephalographic ('EEG') correlates of consciousness. We conclude that consciousness plays an intrinsic role in the universe.
We explore both analytically and numerically an ensemble of coupled phase oscillators governed by a Kuramoto-type system of differential equations. However, we have included the effects of time delay (due to finite signal-propagation speeds) and network plasticity (via dynamic coupling constants) inspired by the Hebbian learning rule in neuroscience. When time delay and learning effects combine, interesting synchronization phenomena are observed. We investigate the formation of spatiotemporal patterns in both one- and two-dimensional oscillator lattices with periodic boundary conditions and comment on the role of dimensionality.
Using a stochastic nonlinear phase oscillator model, we study the effect of event-triggered feedback on the statistics of interevent intervals. Events are associated with the entering of a new cycle. The feedback is modeled by an instantaneous increase (positive feedback) or decrease (negative feedback) of the oscillator frequency whenever an event occurs followed by an exponential decay on a slow time scale. In addition to the known excitable and oscillatory regimes, which are separated by a saddle node on invariant circle bifurcation, positive feedback can lead to bistable dynamics and a change of the system's excitability. The feedback has also a strong effect on noise-induced phenomena like coherence resonance or anticoherence resonance. Both positive and negative feedback can lead to more regular output for particular noise strengths. Finally, we investigate serial correlations in the sequence of interevent intervals that occur due to the additional slow dynamics. We derive approximations for the serial correlation coefficient and show that positive feedback results in extended positive interval correlations, whereas negative feedback yields short-ranging negative correlations. Investigating the interplay of feedback and the nonlinear phase dynamics close to the bifurcation, we find that correlations are most pronounced for optimal feedback strengths.
A wide range of networked systems exhibit highly connected nodes (hubs) as prominent structural elements. The functional roles of hubs in the collective nonlinear dynamics of many such networks, however, are not well understood. Here, we propose that hubs in neural circuits may activate local signal transmission along sequences of specific subnetworks. Intriguingly, in contrast to previous suggestions of the functional roles of hubs, here, not the hubs themselves, but nonhub subnetworks transfer the signals. The core mechanism relies on hubs and nonhubs providing activating feedback to each other. It may, thus, induce the propagation of specific pulse and rate signals in neuronal and other communication networks.
Cognitive and behavioral disorders are thought to be a result of neuronal dysfunction, but the underlying molecular defects remain largely unknown. An important signaling pathway involved in the regulation of neuronal function is the cyclic AMP/Protein kinase A pathway. We here show an essential role for coronin 1, which is encoded in a genomic region associated with neurobehavioral dysfunction, in the modulation of cyclic AMP/PKA signaling. We found that coronin 1 is specifically expressed in excitatory but not inhibitory neurons and that coronin 1 deficiency results in loss of excitatory synapses and severe neurobehavioral disabilities, including reduced anxiety, social deficits, increased aggression, and learning defects. Electrophysiological analysis of excitatory synaptic transmission in amygdala revealed that coronin 1 was essential for cyclic-AMP-protein kinase A-dependent presynaptic plasticity. We further show that upon cell surface stimulation, coronin 1 interacted with the G protein subtype Gs to stimulate the cAMP/PKA pathway. The absence of coronin 1 or expression of coronin 1 mutants unable to interact with Gs resulted in a marked reduction in cAMP signaling. Strikingly, synaptic plasticity and behavioral defects of coronin 1-deficient mice were restored by in vivo infusion of a membrane-permeable cAMP analogue. Together these results identify coronin 1 as being important for cognition and behavior through its activity in promoting cAMP/PKA-dependent synaptic plasticity and may open novel avenues for the dissection of signal transduction pathways involved in neurobehavioral processes.
Glucocorticoids are essential for life, but are also implicated in disease pathogenesis and may produce unwanted effects when given in high doses. Glucocorticoid receptor (GR) transcriptional activity and clinical outcome have been linked to its oligomerization state. Although a point mutation within the GR DNA-binding domain (GRdim mutant) has been reported as crucial for receptor dimerization and DNA binding, this assumption has recently been challenged. Here we have analyzed the GR oligomerization state in vivo using the number and brightness assay. Our results suggest a complete, reversible, and DNA-independent ligand-induced model for GR dimerization. We demonstrate that the GRdim forms dimers in vivo whereas adding another mutation in the ligand-binding domain (I634A) severely compromises homodimer formation. Contrary to dogma, no correlation between the GR monomeric/dimeric state and transcriptional activity was observed. Finally, the state of dimerization affected DNA binding only to a subset of GR binding sites. These results have major implications on future searches for therapeutic glucocorticoids with reduced side effects.
The survival of animals depends critically on prioritizing responses to motivationally salient stimuli. While it is generally believed that motivational salience increases decision speed, the quantitative relationship between motivational salience and decision speed, measured by reaction time (RT), remains unclear. Here we show that the neural correlate of motivational salience in the basal forebrain (BF), defined independently of RT, is coupled with faster and also more precise decision speed. In rats performing a reward-biased simple RT task, motivational salience was encoded by BF bursting response that occurred before RT. We found that faster RTs were tightly coupled with stronger BF motivational salience signals. Furthermore, the fraction of RT variability reflecting the contribution of intrinsic noise in the decision-making process was actively suppressed in faster RT distributions with stronger BF motivational salience signals. Artificially augmenting the BF motivational salience signal via electrical stimulation led to faster and more precise RTs and supports a causal relationship. Together, these results not only describe for the first time, to our knowledge, the quantitative relationship between motivational salience and faster decision speed, they also reveal the quantitative coupling relationship between motivational salience and more precise RT. Our results further establish the existence of an early and previously unrecognized step in the decision-making process that determines both the RT speed and variability of the entire decision-making process and suggest that this novel decision step is dictated largely by the BF motivational salience signal. Finally, our study raises the hypothesis that the dysregulation of decision speed in conditions such as depression, schizophrenia, and cognitive aging may result from the functional impairment of the motivational salience signal encoded by the poorly understood noncholinergic BF neurons.
Neuropilin-1 (Nrp1) guides the development of the nervous and vascular systems, but its role in the mature brain remains to be explored. Here we report that the expression of the 65 kDa isoform of Sema3A, the ligand of Nrp1, by adult vascular endothelial cells, is regulated during the ovarian cycle and promotes axonal sprouting in hypothalamic neurons secreting gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), the neuropeptide controlling reproduction. Both the inhibition of Sema3A/Nrp1 signaling and the conditional deletion of Nrp1 in GnRH neurons counteract Sema3A-induced axonal sprouting. Furthermore, the localized intracerebral infusion of Nrp1- or Sema3A-neutralizing antibodies in vivo disrupts the ovarian cycle. Finally, the selective neutralization of endothelial-cell Sema3A signaling in adult Sema3aloxP/loxP mice by the intravenous injection of the recombinant TAT-Cre protein alters the amplitude of the preovulatory luteinizing hormone surge, likely by perturbing GnRH release into the hypothalamo-hypophyseal portal system. Our results identify a previously unknown function for 65 kDa Sema3A-Nrp1 signaling in the induction of axonal growth, and raise the possibility that endothelial cells actively participate in synaptic plasticity in specific functional domains of the adult central nervous system, thus controlling key physiological functions such as reproduction.
Several domains of neuroscience offer map-like models that link location on the cortical surface to properties of sensory representation. Within cortical visual areas V1, V2, and V3, algebraic transformations can relate position in the visual field to the retinotopic representation on the flattened cortical sheet. A limit to the practical application of this structure-function model is that the cortex, while topologically a two-dimensional surface, is curved. Flattening of the curved surface to a plane unavoidably introduces local geometric distortions that are not accounted for in idealized models. Here, we show that this limitation is overcome by correcting the geometric distortion induced by cortical flattening. We use a mass-spring-damper simulation to create a registration between functional MRI retinotopic mapping data of visual areas V1, V2, and V3 and an algebraic model of retinotopy. This registration is then applied to the flattened cortical surface anatomy to create an anatomical template that is linked to the algebraic retinotopic model. This registered cortical template can be used to accurately predict the location and retinotopic organization of these early visual areas from cortical anatomy alone. Moreover, we show that prediction accuracy remains when extrapolating beyond the range of data used to inform the model, indicating that the registration reflects the retinotopic organization of visual cortex. We provide code for the mass-spring-damper technique, which has general utility for the registration of cortical structure and function beyond the visual cortex.
The macaque brain serves as a model for the human brain, but its suitability is challenged by unique human features, including connectivity reconfigurations, which emerged during primate evolution. We perform a quantitative comparative analysis of the whole brain macroscale structural connectivity of the two species. Our findings suggest that the human and macaque brain as a whole are similarly wired. A region-wise analysis reveals many interspecies similarities of connectivity patterns, but also lack thereof, primarily involving cingulate regions. We unravel a common structural backbone in both species involving a highly overlapping set of regions. This structural backbone, important for mediating information across the brain, seems to constitute a feature of the primate brain persevering evolution. Our findings illustrate novel evolutionary aspects at the macroscale connectivity level and offer a quantitative translational bridge between macaque and human research.
The voltage trace of neuronal activities can follow multiple timescale dynamics that arise from correlated membrane conductances. Such processes can result in power-law behavior in which the membrane voltage cannot be characterized with a single time constant. The emergent effect of these membrane correlations is a non-Markovian process that can be modeled with a fractional derivative. A fractional derivative is a non-local process in which the value of the variable is determined by integrating a temporal weighted voltage trace, also called the memory trace. Here we developed and analyzed a fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model in which the exponent of the fractional derivative can vary from 0 to 1, with 1 representing the normal derivative. As the exponent of the fractional derivative decreases, the weights of the voltage trace increase. Thus, the value of the voltage is increasingly correlated with the trajectory of the voltage in the past. By varying only the fractional exponent, our model can reproduce upward and downward spike adaptations found experimentally in neocortical pyramidal cells and tectal neurons in vitro. The model also produces spikes with longer first-spike latency and high inter-spike variability with power-law distribution. We further analyze spike adaptation and the responses to noisy and oscillatory input. The fractional model generates reliable spike patterns in response to noisy input. Overall, the spiking activity of the fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model deviates from the spiking activity of the Markovian model and reflects the temporal accumulated intrinsic membrane dynamics that affect the response of the neuron to external stimulation.
Regulatory proteins can bind to different sets of genomic targets in various cell types or conditions. To reliably characterize such condition-specific regulatory binding we introduce MultiGPS, an integrated machine learning approach for the analysis of multiple related ChIP-seq experiments. MultiGPS is based on a generalized Expectation Maximization framework that shares information across multiple experiments for binding event discovery. We demonstrate that our framework enables the simultaneous modeling of sparse condition-specific binding changes, sequence dependence, and replicate-specific noise sources. MultiGPS encourages consistency in reported binding event locations across multiple-condition ChIP-seq datasets and provides accurate estimation of ChIP enrichment levels at each event. MultiGPS's multi-experiment modeling approach thus provides a reliable platform for detecting differential binding enrichment across experimental conditions. We demonstrate the advantages of MultiGPS with an analysis of Cdx2 binding in three distinct developmental contexts. By accurately characterizing condition-specific Cdx2 binding, MultiGPS enables novel insight into the mechanistic basis of Cdx2 site selectivity. Specifically, the condition-specific Cdx2 sites characterized by MultiGPS are highly associated with pre-existing genomic context, suggesting that such sites are pre-determined by cell-specific regulatory architecture. However, MultiGPS-defined condition-independent sites are not predicted by pre-existing regulatory signals, suggesting that Cdx2 can bind to a subset of locations regardless of genomic environment. A summary of this paper appears in the proceedings of the RECOMB 2014 conference, April 2-5.
Investigating the relationship between brain structure and function is a central endeavor for neuroscience research. Yet, the mechanisms shaping this relationship largely remain to be elucidated and are highly debated. In particular, the existence and relative contributions of anatomical constraints and dynamical physiological mechanisms of different types remain to be established. We addressed this issue by systematically comparing functional connectivity (FC) from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data with simulations from increasingly complex computational models, and by manipulating anatomical connectivity obtained from fiber tractography based on diffusion-weighted imaging. We hypothesized that FC reflects the interplay of at least three types of components: (i) a backbone of anatomical connectivity, (ii) a stationary dynamical regime directly driven by the underlying anatomy, and (iii) other stationary and non-stationary dynamics not directly related to the anatomy. We showed that anatomical connectivity alone accounts for up to 15% of FC variance; that there is a stationary regime accounting for up to an additional 20% of variance and that this regime can be associated to a stationary FC; that a simple stationary model of FC better explains FC than more complex models; and that there is a large remaining variance (around 65%), which must contain the non-stationarities of FC evidenced in the literature. We also show that homotopic connections across cerebral hemispheres, which are typically improperly estimated, play a strong role in shaping all aspects of FC, notably indirect connections and the topographic organization of brain networks.
Absence epilepsy is believed to be associated with the abnormal interactions between the cerebral cortex and thalamus. Besides the direct coupling, anatomical evidence indicates that the cerebral cortex and thalamus also communicate indirectly through an important intermediate bridge-basal ganglia. It has been thus postulated that the basal ganglia might play key roles in the modulation of absence seizures, but the relevant biophysical mechanisms are still not completely established. Using a biophysically based model, we demonstrate here that the typical absence seizure activities can be controlled and modulated by the direct GABAergic projections from the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) to either the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) or the specific relay nuclei (SRN) of thalamus, through different biophysical mechanisms. Under certain conditions, these two types of seizure control are observed to coexist in the same network. More importantly, due to the competition between the inhibitory SNr-TRN and SNr-SRN pathways, we find that both decreasing and increasing the activation of SNr neurons from the normal level may considerably suppress the generation of spike-and-slow wave discharges in the coexistence region. Overall, these results highlight the bidirectional functional roles of basal ganglia in controlling and modulating absence seizures, and might provide novel insights into the therapeutic treatments of this brain disorder.
Following earlier studies which showed that a sparse coding principle may explain the receptive field properties of complex cells in primary visual cortex, it has been concluded that the same properties may be equally derived from a slowness principle. In contrast to this claim, we here show that slowness and sparsity drive the representations towards substantially different receptive field properties. To do so, we present complete sets of basis functions learned with slow subspace analysis (SSA) in case of natural movies as well as translations, rotations, and scalings of natural images. SSA directly parallels independent subspace analysis (ISA) with the only difference that SSA maximizes slowness instead of sparsity. We find a large discrepancy between the filter shapes learned with SSA and ISA. We argue that SSA can be understood as a generalization of the Fourier transform where the power spectrum corresponds to the maximally slow subspace energies in SSA. Finally, we investigate the trade-off between slowness and sparseness when combined in one objective function.
Parent-of-origin effects comprise a range of genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of inheritance. Recently, detection of such effects implicated epigenetic mechanisms in the etiology of multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system. We here sought to dissect the magnitude and the type of parent-of-origin effects in the pathogenesis of experimental neuroinflammation under controlled environmental conditions. We investigated inheritance of an MS-like disease in rat, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), using a backcross strategy designed to identify the parental origin of disease-predisposing alleles. A striking 37-54% of all detected disease-predisposing loci depended on parental transmission. Additionally, the Y chromosome from the susceptible strain contributed to disease susceptibility. Accounting for parent-of-origin enabled more powerful and precise identification of novel risk factors and increased the disease variance explained by the identified factors by 2-4-fold. The majority of loci displayed an imprinting-like pattern whereby a gene expressed only from the maternal or paternal copy exerts an effect. In particular, a locus on chromosome 6 comprises a well-known cluster of imprinted genes including the paternally expressed Dlk1, an atypical Notch ligand. Disease-predisposing alleles at the locus conferred lower Dlk1 expression in rats and, together with data from transgenic overexpressing Dlk1 mice, demonstrate that reduced Dlk1 drives more severe disease and modulates adaptive immune reactions in EAE. Our findings suggest a significant epigenetic contribution to the etiology of EAE. Incorporating these effects enables more powerful and precise identification of novel risk factors with diagnostic and prognostic implications for complex disease.
As in many species, gustatory pheromones regulate the mating behavior of Drosophila. Recently, several ppk genes, encoding ion channel subunits of the DEG/ENaC family, have been implicated in this process, leading to the identification of gustatory neurons that detect specific pheromones. In a subset of taste hairs on the legs of Drosophila, there are two ppk23-expressing, pheromone-sensing neurons with complementary response profiles; one neuron detects female pheromones that stimulate male courtship, the other detects male pheromones that inhibit male-male courtship. In contrast to ppk23, ppk25, is only expressed in a single gustatory neuron per taste hair, and males with impaired ppk25 function court females at reduced rates but do not display abnormal courtship of other males. These findings raised the possibility that ppk25 expression defines a subset of pheromone-sensing neurons. Here we show that ppk25 is expressed and functions in neurons that detect female-specific pheromones and mediates their stimulatory effect on male courtship. Furthermore, the role of ppk25 and ppk25-expressing neurons is not restricted to responses to female-specific pheromones. ppk25 is also required in the same subset of neurons for stimulation of male courtship by young males, males of the Tai2 strain, and by synthetic 7-pentacosene (7-P), a hydrocarbon normally found at low levels in both males and females. Finally, we unexpectedly find that, in females, ppk25 and ppk25-expressing cells regulate receptivity to mating. In the absence of the third antennal segment, which has both olfactory and auditory functions, mutations in ppk25 or silencing of ppk25-expressing neurons block female receptivity to males. Together these results indicate that ppk25 identifies a functionally specialized subset of pheromone-sensing neurons. While ppk25 neurons are required for the responses to multiple pheromones, in both males and females these neurons are specifically involved in stimulating courtship and mating.
The olfactory systems of insects are fundamental to all aspects of their behaviour, and insect olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) exhibit exquisite specificity and sensitivity to a wide range of environmental cues. In Drosophila melanogaster, ORN responses are determined by three different receptor families, the odorant (Or), ionotropic-like (IR) and gustatory (Gr) receptors. However, the precise mechanisms of signalling by these different receptor families are not fully understood. Here we report the unexpected finding that the type 4 P-type ATPase phospholipid transporter dATP8B, the homologue of a protein associated with intrahepatic cholestasis and hearing loss in humans, is crucial for Drosophila olfactory responses. Mutations in dATP8B severely attenuate sensitivity of odorant detection specifically in Or-expressing ORNs, but do not affect responses mediated by IR or Gr receptors. Accordingly, we find dATP8B to be expressed in ORNs and localised to the dendritic membrane of the olfactory neurons where signal transduction occurs. Localisation of Or proteins to the dendrites is unaffected in dATP8B mutants, as is dendrite morphology, suggesting instead that dATP8B is critical for Or signalling. As dATP8B is a member of the phospholipid flippase family of ATPases, which function to determine asymmetry in phospholipid composition between the outer and inner leaflets of plasma membranes, our findings suggest a requirement for phospholipid asymmetry in the signalling of a specific family of chemoreceptor proteins.
One of the three most frequently documented copy number variations associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a 1q21.1 duplication that encompasses sequences encoding DUF1220 protein domains, the dosage of which we previously implicated in increased human brain size. Further, individuals with ASD frequently display accelerated brain growth and a larger brain size that is also associated with increased symptom severity. Given these findings, we investigated the relationship between DUF1220 copy number and ASD severity, and here show that in individuals with ASD (n = 170), the copy number (dosage) of DUF1220 subtype CON1 is highly variable, ranging from 56 to 88 copies following a Gaussian distribution. More remarkably, in individuals with ASD CON1 copy number is also linearly associated, in a dose-response manner, with increased severity of each of the three primary symptoms of ASD: social deficits (p = 0.021), communicative impairments (p = 0.030), and repetitive behaviors (p = 0.047). These data indicate that DUF1220 protein domain (CON1) dosage has an ASD-wide effect and, as such, is likely to be a key component of a major pathway underlying ASD severity. Finally, these findings, by implicating the dosage of a previously unexamined, copy number polymorphic and brain evolution-related gene coding sequence in ASD severity, provide an important new direction for further research into the genetic factors underlying ASD.
Bipolar disorder is a common, heritable mental illness characterized by recurrent episodes of mania and depression. Despite considerable effort to elucidate the genetic underpinnings of bipolar disorder, causative genetic risk factors remain elusive. We conducted a comprehensive genomic analysis of bipolar disorder in a large Old Order Amish pedigree. Microsatellite genotypes and high-density SNP-array genotypes of 388 family members were combined with whole genome sequence data for 50 of these subjects, comprising 18 parent-child trios. This study design permitted evaluation of candidate variants within the context of haplotype structure by resolving the phase in sequenced parent-child trios and by imputation of variants into multiple unsequenced siblings. Non-parametric and parametric linkage analysis of the entire pedigree as well as on smaller clusters of families identified several nominally significant linkage peaks, each of which included dozens of predicted deleterious variants. Close inspection of exonic and regulatory variants in genes under the linkage peaks using family-based association tests revealed additional credible candidate genes for functional studies and further replication in population-based cohorts. However, despite the in-depth genomic characterization of this unique, large and multigenerational pedigree from a genetic isolate, there was no convergence of evidence implicating a particular set of risk loci or common pathways. The striking haplotype and locus heterogeneity we observed has profound implications for the design of studies of bipolar and other related disorders.
Little is known about how changes in DNA methylation mediate risk for human diseases including dementia. Analysis of genome-wide methylation patterns in patients with two forms of tau-related dementia--progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD)--revealed significant differentially methylated probes (DMPs) in patients versus unaffected controls. Remarkably, DMPs in PSP were clustered within the 17q21.31 region, previously known to harbor the major genetic risk factor for PSP. We identified and replicated a dose-dependent effect of the risk-associated H1 haplotype on methylation levels within the region in blood and brain. These data reveal that the H1 haplotype increases risk for tauopathy via differential methylation at that locus, indicating a mediating role for methylation in dementia pathophysiology.
Receptors of the signalling lymphocyte-activation molecules (SLAM) family are involved in the functional regulation of a variety of immune cells upon engagement through homotypic or heterotypic interactions amongst them. Here we show that murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) dampens the surface expression of several SLAM receptors during the course of the infection of macrophages. By screening a panel of MCMV deletion mutants, we identified m154 as an immunoevasin that effectively reduces the cell-surface expression of the SLAM family member CD48, a high-affinity ligand for natural killer (NK) and cytotoxic T cell receptor CD244. m154 is a mucin-like protein, expressed with early kinetics, which can be found at the cell surface of the infected cell. During infection, m154 leads to proteolytic degradation of CD48. This viral protein interferes with the NK cell cytotoxicity triggered by MCMV-infected macrophages. In addition, we demonstrate that an MCMV mutant virus lacking m154 expression results in an attenuated phenotype in vivo, which can be substantially restored after NK cell depletion in mice. This is the first description of a viral gene capable of downregulating CD48. Our novel findings define m154 as an important player in MCMV innate immune regulation.

Since the mid 1990s, the intriguing dynamics of the brain at rest has been attracting a growing body of research in neuroscience. Neuroimaging studies have revealed distinct functional networks that slowly activate and deactivate, pointing to the existence of an underlying network dynamics emerging spontaneously during rest, with specific spatial, temporal and spectral characteristics. Several theoretical scenarios have been proposed and tested with the use of large-scale computational models of coupled brain areas. However, a mechanistic explanation that encompasses all the phenomena observed in the brain during rest is still to come. In this review, we provide an overview of the key findings of resting-state activity covering a range of neuroimaging modalities including fMRI, EEG and MEG. We describe how to best define and analyze anatomical and functional brain networks and how unbalancing these networks may lead to problems with mental health. Finally, we review existing large-scale models of resting-state dynamics in health and disease. An important common feature of resting-state models is that the emergence of resting-state functional networks is obtained when the model parameters are such that the system operates at the edge of a bifurcation. At this critical working point, the global network dynamics reveals correlation patterns that are spatially shaped by the underlying anatomical structure, leading to an optimal fit with the empirical BOLD functional connectivity. However, new insights coming from recent studies, including faster oscillatory dynamics and non-stationary functional connectivity, must be taken into account in future models to fully understand the network mechanisms leading to the resting-state activity.


The retinal circadian system represents a unique structure. It contains a complete circadian system and thus the retina represents an ideal model to study fundamental questions of how neural circadian systems are organized and what signaling pathways are used to maintain synchrony of the different structures in the system. In addition, several studies have shown that multiple sites within the retina are capable of generating circadian oscillations. The strength of circadian clock gene expression and the emphasis of rhythmic expression are divergent across vertebrate retinas, with photoreceptors as the primary locus of rhythm generation in amphibians, while in mammals clock activity is most robust in the inner nuclear layer. Melatonin and dopamine serve as signaling molecules to entrain circadian rhythms in the retina and also in other ocular structures. Recent studies have also suggested GABA as an important component of the system that regulates retinal circadian rhythms. These transmitter-driven influences on clock molecules apparently reinforce the autonomous transcription-translation cycling of clock genes. The molecular organization of the retinal clock is similar to what has been reported for the SCN although inter-neural communication among retinal neurons that form the circadian network is apparently weaker than those present in the SCN, and it is more sensitive to genetic disruption than the central brain clock. The melatonin-dopamine system is the signaling pathway that allows the retinal circadian clock to reconfigure retinal circuits to enhance light-adapted cone-mediated visual function during the day and dark-adapted rod-mediated visual signaling at night. Additionally, the retinal circadian clock also controls circadian rhythms in disk shedding and phagocytosis, and possibly intraocular pressure. Emerging experimental data also indicate that circadian clock is also implicated in the pathogenesis of eye disease and compelling experimental data indicate that dysfunction of the retinal circadian system negatively impacts the retina and possibly the cornea and the lens.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) may result in significant emotional and behavioral changes, such as depression, impulsivity, anxiety, aggressive behavior, and posttraumatic stress disorder. Apathy has been increasingly recognized as a relevant sequela of TBI, with a negative impact on the patients' quality of life as well as their participation in rehabilitation activities. This article reviews the nosologic and phenomenological aspects of apathy in TBI, diagnostic issues, frequency and prevalence, relevant comorbid conditions, potential mechanisms, and treatment.
Given the upsurge of research in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and traumatic brain injury (TBI), much of which has focused on military samples who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, the purpose of this article is to review the literature published after September 11th, 2001 that addresses the epidemiology, pathophysiology, evaluation, and treatment of PTSD in the context of TBI.

The goals and strategies of treatment in schizophrenia may vary according to the phase and severity of the illness. Antipsychotics remain the cornerstone in the acute phase treatment, in the long-term maintenance therapy and in the prevention of relapse of schizophrenia. This paper is intended to review the current practice in the management of the acute treatment of schizophrenia based on the recently published guidelines from the World Federation of Societies of Biological Psychiatry (WFSBP). Both first generation antipsychotics (FGAs) and second generation antipsychotics (SGAs) are effective in the acute treatment of schizophrenia and in relapse prevention. Clinicians must keep in mind that most patients are likely to require long-term, if not life-long, treatment which determines treatment strategy with an optimal balance between efficacy, side effects and compliance. In this regards, SGAs do have some advantages, but the risk of metabolic syndrome must be taken into account and carefully checked at regular intervals during the follow-up.


The 10-item Emotion Regulation Questionnaire (ERQ) was developed by Gross and John (2003) to measure the habitual use of 2 emotion regulation strategies: reappraisal and suppression. Several studies using student samples have provided validation for the ERQ, although the only article (Wiltink et al., 2011) that evaluated the ERQ in a community sample was unable to replicate the original factor structure. Before using the ERQ in non-student samples, it is important to validate the scale in a sample broadly representative of the adult population and to determine the influence of demographic variables. The current study examined the psychometric properties of the ERQ in 2 community samples (Australia, N = 550; United Kingdom, N = 483; 17-95 years of age) using confirmatory analysis. The original ERQ factor structure was not supported by either the Australian or United Kingdom samples. However, with the removal of 1 item, a strong model fit was obtained for both samples (9-item ERQ [ERQ-9]). Using measurement invariance tests, the revised ERQ-9 was found to be equivalent across the samples and demographics (age, gender, and education). Gender, depression, anxiety, and stress were the only factors that were significantly associated with reappraisal and suppression use. Overall, the ERQ-9 provides better fit of the data than the 10-item ERQ. The utility of this measure is enhanced by the provision of normative data for males and females.





Performance in the Stroop task reflects two conflicts--informational (between the incongruent word and ink color) and task (between relevant color naming and irrelevant word reading). Neuroimaging findings support the existence of task conflict in congruent trials. A behavioral indication for task conflict--Stroop reverse facilitation--was found in previous studies under low task-control conditions. Task switching also causes reduction in task control because the task set frequently changes. We hypothesized that it would be harder to efficiently manage task conflicts in switching situations and, specifically, as cue-target interval (CTI) decreases. This suggestion was examined in two experiments using a combined Stroop task-switching design. We found a large interference effect and reverse facilitation that decreased with elongation of CTI. Results imply that task switching reduces pro-active task control and thereby enhances the informational and the task conflicts. This calls for a revision of recent control models to include task conflict.
In this article, we present the results of an 11-month longitudinal study (beginning when children were 6 years old) focusing on measures of the approximate number sense (ANS) and knowledge of the Arabic numeral system as possible influences on the development of arithmetic skills. Multiple measures of symbolic and nonsymbolic magnitude judgment were shown to define a unitary factor that appears to index the efficiency of an ANS system, which is a strong longitudinal correlate of arithmetic skills. However, path models revealed that knowledge of Arabic numerals at 6 years was a powerful longitudinal predictor of the growth in arithmetic skills, whereas variations in magnitude-comparison ability played no additional role in predicting variations in arithmetic skills. These results suggest that verbal processes concerned with learning the labels for Arabic numerals, and the ability to translate between Arabic numerals and verbal codes, place critical constraints on arithmetic development.
Both emotional facial expressions and markers of racial-group belonging are ubiquitous signals in social interaction, but little is known about how these signals together affect future behavior through learning. To address this issue, we investigated how emotional (threatening or friendly) in-group and out-group faces reinforced behavior in a reinforcement-learning task. We asked whether reinforcement learning would be modulated by intergroup attitudes (i.e., racial bias). The results showed that individual differences in racial bias critically modulated reinforcement learning. As predicted, racial bias was associated with more efficiently learned avoidance of threatening out-group individuals. We used computational modeling analysis to quantitatively delimit the underlying processes affected by social reinforcement. These analyses showed that racial bias modulates the rate at which exposure to threatening out-group individuals is transformed into future avoidance behavior. In concert, these results shed new light on the learning processes underlying social interaction with racial-in-group and out-group individuals.
Observational studies have suggested that with time, some diseases result in a characteristic odor emanating from different sources on the body of a sick individual. Evolutionarily, however, it would be more advantageous if the innate immune response were detectable by healthy individuals as a first line of defense against infection by various pathogens, to optimize avoidance of contagion. We activated the innate immune system in healthy individuals by injecting them with endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide). Within just a few hours, endotoxin-exposed individuals had a more aversive body odor relative to when they were exposed to a placebo. Moreover, this effect was statistically mediated by the individuals' level of immune activation. This chemosensory detection of the early innate immune response in humans represents the first experimental evidence that disease smells and supports the notion of a &quot;behavioral immune response&quot; that protects healthy individuals from sick ones by altering patterns of interpersonal contact.
Stress is known to exert considerable impact on learning and memory processes. Typically, human studies have investigated memory for single items (e.g., pictures, words), but it remains unresolved how exactly stress may alter the storage of memories into their original encoding context (i.e., memory contextualization). Since neurocircuitry underlying memory contextualization processes is sensitive to the well-known stress hormone cortisol, we here investigated whether cortisol mediates stress effects on memory contextualization. Forty healthy young men were randomly assigned to a psychosocial stress or control group. Ten minutes after stress manipulation offset, participants were instructed to learn and remember neutral and negative words, each of which was depicted against a unique background picture. Approximately 24h later, memory was tested by means of cued retrieval and recognition tasks. To assess memory contextualization half of the words were tested in intact item-contexts pairs, and half in rearranged item-context combinations. Recognition data showed that cortisol, but no other indices of stress such as heart rate or subjective stress, mediated the effects of stress on contextualization of neutral and negative memories. The mediation analysis further showed that stress resulted in increases in cortisol and that cortisol was positively related to memory contextualization, but unrelated to other measures of memory. Thus, there seems to be a specific role for cortisol in the integration of a central memory into its surrounding context.
The stress hormone cortisol reduces retrieval of emotional memories, which has been suggested to support the treatment of psychiatric disorders characterized by exaggerated fear-related memories. Indeed, studies in patients with anxiety disorders have indicated that the success of exposure therapy can be enhanced with accompanying cortisol administration. Fear renewal refers to the clinically relevant phenomenon that successfully extinguished fear can return after a context change. It remains to be investigated whether the effects of stress hormones on fear retrieval also generalize across different contexts. Healthy men were exposed to a fear renewal design with fear acquisition in context A and extinction in context B. Pictures of rooms served as contexts, coloured lights were introduced as conditioned stimuli (CS), and an electrical stimulation served as the unconditioned stimulus (UCS). On the next day, participants were randomly assigned to a stress (Socially Evaluated Cold Pressor Test) or a control condition (n=20 each). We tested for fear retrieval in contexts A and B during peak cortisol concentrations after stress induction. Overall, a contextstress interaction occurred, revealing that stress attenuated skin conductance responses in the extinction context B. Stress also reduced UCS expectancy in context B. Additionally, stress abolished the renewal effect (differentiation between CS in context A) at the electrodermal level. These results demonstrate a decreased return of fear after acute exposure to stress. Stress interferes with the retrieval of the original fear memory which in turn affects extinction responding. Thus, acute stress reduces rather than promotes the return of fear.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is under tight regulation by strong GABAergic inhibition onto corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. CRH neurons receive two forms of GABAergic inhibition, phasic and tonic, but the specific roles of these two types of signaling have not yet been studied in this cell type. Our lab recently demonstrated a role for the GABAAR  subunit in the tonic GABAergic regulation of CRH neurons. Using a floxed Gabrd mouse model established in our laboratory, we generated mice in which the GABAAR  subunit is selectively removed from CRH neurons (Gabrd/Crh mice), resulting in a loss of tonic GABAergic inhibition in these neurons. Interestingly, the loss of this tonic GABAergic constraint did not significantly alter basal levels of corticosterone (CORT). However, the loss of the GABAAR  subunit in CRH neurons blunted the CORT response to stress, likely due to the loss of the disinhibitory effect of GABA following acute stress. This blunting of HPA axis reactivity was associated with a decrease in depression-like and anxiety-like behaviors. Exogenous CORT was sufficient to increase anxiety-like and depression-like behaviors in Gabrd/Crh mice. Together, these results show the importance of the GABAAR  subunit in the regulation of CRH neurons, and thus the HPA axis, and demonstrate that dysregulation of CRH neurons alters stress-related behaviors.
One of the most consistent findings in the biology of depression is an altered activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. However, data concerning this issue have never been examined with a focus on the older population. Here we present a systematic review and meta-analysis, based on studies investigating levels of cortisol, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in depressed participants older than 60 and compared with healthy controls. We found 20 studies, for a total of 43 comparisons on different indices of HPA axis functioning. Depression had a significant effect (Hedges' g) on basal cortisol levels measured in the morning (0.89), afternoon (0.83) and night (1.39), but a smaller effect on cortisol measured continuously (0.51). The effect of depression was even higher on post-dexamethasone cortisol levels (3.22), whereas it was non-significant on morning ACTH and CRH levels. Subgroup analyses indicated that various methodological and clinical factors can influence the study results. Overall, older participants suffering from depression show a high degree of dysregulation of HPA axis activity, with differences compared with younger adults. This might depend on several mechanisms, including physical illnesses, alterations in the CNS and immune-endocrinological alterations. Further studies are needed to clarify the implications of altered HPA axis activity in older patients suffering from depression. Novel pharmacological approaches might be effective in targeting this pathophysiological feature, thus improving the clinical outcomes.








The establishment of robust and replicable behavioural testing paradigms with translational value for psychiatric diseases is a major step forward in developing and testing etiology-directed treatment for these complex disorders. Based on the existing literature, we have generated an inventory of applied rodent behavioural testing paradigms relevant to autism spectrum disorders (ASD). This inventory focused on previously used paradigms that assess behavioural domains that are affected in ASD, such as social interaction, social communication, repetitive behaviours and behavioural inflexibility, cognition as well as anxiety behaviour. A wide range of behavioural testing paradigms for rodents were identified. However, the level of face and construct validity is highly variable. The predictive validity of these paradigms is unknown, as etiology-directed treatments for ASD are currently not on the market. To optimise these studies, future efforts should address aspects of reproducibility and take into account data about the neurodevelopmental underpinnings and trajectory of ASD. In addition, with the increasing knowledge of processes underlying ASD, such as sensory information processes and synaptic plasticity, phenotyping efforts should include multi-level automated analysis of, for example, representative task-related behavioural and electrophysiological read-outs.

Until now, models of psychiatric diseases have typically been animal models. Whether they were to be used to further understand the pathophysiology of the disorder, or as drug discovery tools, animal models have been the choice of preference in mimicking psychiatric disorders in an experimental setting. While there have been cellular models, they have generally been lacking in validity. This situation is changing with the advent of patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). In this article, we give a methodological evaluation of the current state of the iPS technology with reference to our own work in generating patient-specific iPSCs for the study of autistic spectrum disorder (ASD). In addition, we will give a broader perspective on the validity of this technology and to what extent it can be expected to complement animal models of ASD in the coming years.
Many studies have used the P300 as an index for cognitive processing and neurological/psychiatric disorders. Here, we combined the source separation and source localization methods to investigate the cortical origins of the P300 elicited in a facial attractiveness judgment task. For each participant, we applied second-order blind identification (SOBI) to continuous EEG data to decompose the mixture of brain signals and noise. We then used the equivalent current dipole (ECD) models to estimate the centrality of the SOBI-recovered P300. We found that the ECD models, consisting of dipoles in the frontal and posterior association cortices, account for 96.50.5% of variance in the scalp projection of the component. Given that the recovered dipole activities in different brain regions share the same time course with different weights, we conclude that the P300 originates from synchronized activity between anterior and posterior parts of the brain.
Purinergic signalling plays major roles in the physiology and pathophysiology of digestive organs. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), together with nitric oxide and vasoactive intestinal peptide, is a cotransmitter in non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic inhibitory neuromuscular transmission. P2X and P2Y receptors are widely expressed in myenteric and submucous enteric plexuses and participate in sympathetic transmission and neuromodulation involved in enteric reflex activities, as well as influencing gastric and intestinal epithelial secretion and vascular activities. Involvement of purinergic signalling has been identified in a variety of diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease, ischaemia, diabetes and cancer. Purinergic mechanosensory transduction forms the basis of enteric nociception, where ATP released from mucosal epithelial cells by distension activates nociceptive subepithelial primary afferent sensory fibres expressing P2X3 receptors to send messages to the pain centres in the central nervous system via interneurons in the spinal cord. Purinergic signalling is also involved in salivary gland and bile duct secretion.
Purinergic signalling is involved in both the physiology and pathophysiology of the liver. Hepatocytes, Kupffer cells, vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells, stellate cells and cholangiocytes all express purinoceptor subtypes activated by adenosine, adenosine 5'-triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate, uridine 5'-triphosphate or UDP. Purinoceptors mediate bile secretion, glycogen and lipid metabolism and indirectly release of insulin. Mechanical stress results in release of ATP from hepatocytes and Kupffer cells and ATP is also released as a cotransmitter with noradrenaline from sympathetic nerves supplying the liver. Ecto-nucleotidases play important roles in the signalling process. Changes in purinergic signalling occur in vascular injury, inflammation, insulin resistance, hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, diabetes, hepatitis, liver regeneration following injury or transplantation and cancer. Purinergic therapeutic strategies for the treatment of these pathologies are being explored.
There are multiple roles for purinergic signalling in both male and female reproductive organs. ATP, released as a cotransmitter with noradrenaline from sympathetic nerves, contracts smooth muscle via P2X1 receptors in vas deferens, seminal vesicles, prostate and uterus, as well as in blood vessels. Male infertility occurs in P2X1 receptor knockout mice. Both short- and long-term trophic purinergic signalling occurs in reproductive organs. Purinergic signalling is involved in hormone secretion, penile erection, sperm motility and capacitation, and mucous production. Changes in purinoceptor expression occur in pathophysiological conditions, including pre-eclampsia, cancer and pain.
The involvement of purinergic signalling in kidney physiology and pathophysiology is rapidly gaining recognition and this is a comprehensive review of early and recent publications in the field. Purinergic signalling involvement is described in several important intrarenal regulatory mechanisms, including tuboglomerular feedback, the autoregulatory response of the glomerular and extraglomerular microcirculation and the control of renin release. Furthermore, purinergic signalling influences water and electrolyte transport in all segments of the renal tubule. Reports about purine- and pyrimidine-mediated actions in diseases of the kidney, including polycystic kidney disease, nephritis, diabetes, hypertension and nephrotoxicant injury are covered and possible purinergic therapeutic strategies discussed.
There is widespread involvement of purinergic signalling in endocrine biology. Pituitary cells express P1, P2X and P2Y receptor subtypes to mediate hormone release. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) regulates insulin release in the pancreas and is involved in the secretion of thyroid hormones. ATP plays a major role in the synthesis, storage and release of catecholamines from the adrenal gland. In the ovary purinoceptors mediate gonadotrophin-induced progesterone secretion, while in the testes, both Sertoli and Leydig cells express purinoceptors that mediate secretion of oestradiol and testosterone, respectively. ATP released as a cotransmitter with noradrenaline is involved in activities of the pineal gland and in the neuroendocrine control of the thymus. In the hypothalamus, ATP and adenosine stimulate or modulate the release of luteinising hormone-releasing hormone, as well as arginine-vasopressin and oxytocin. Functionally active P2X and P2Y receptors have been identified on human placental syncytiotrophoblast cells and on neuroendocrine cells in the lung, skin, prostate and intestine. Adipocytes have been recognised recently to have endocrine function involving purinoceptors.
Purinergic signalling is involved in a number of physiological and pathophysiological activities in the lower urinary tract. In the bladder of laboratory animals there is parasympathetic excitatory cotransmission with the purinergic and cholinergic components being approximately equal, acting via P2X1 and muscarinic receptors, respectively. Purinergic mechanosensory transduction occurs where ATP, released from urothelial cells during distension of bladder and ureter, acts on P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors on suburothelial sensory nerves to initiate the voiding reflex, via low threshold fibres, and nociception, via high threshold fibres. In human bladder the purinergic component of parasympathetic cotransmission is less than 3%, but in pathological conditions, such as interstitial cystitis, obstructed and neuropathic bladder, the purinergic component is increased to 40%. Other pathological conditions of the bladder have been shown to involve purinoceptor-mediated activities, including multiple sclerosis, ischaemia, diabetes, cancer and bacterial infections. In the ureter, P2X7 receptors have been implicated in inflammation and fibrosis. Purinergic therapeutic strategies are being explored that hopefully will be developed and bring benefit and relief to many patients with urinary tract disorders.
Vascular and endovascular procedures are typically very &quot;clean&quot; procedures, with a very low infection rate. However, these complications, although rare, are unfortunately associated with a high rate of morbidity and mortality. The first rule to effectively treat the infection is always prevention, but when the infection has been established the only solution is given by an early diagnosis and proper medical care and often surgical treatment. The hardest thing is to obtain is an early and correct diagnosis, especially for low-grade infections. The purpose of our work was to strengthen the conviction that only an integrated work as a team will enable effective and quick management of this serious complication.

Diffusion tensor imaging is a magnetic resonance imaging technique that provides insight into the anatomy and integrity of white matter pathways in the brain. Further processing of these data can help map individual tracts, which can aid in surgical planning. Understanding the basics of this technique can improve characterization of white matter development and disorders.
Radicular pain is an important health care problem, with only limited evidence-based treatments available. Treatment selection should ideally target documented pathophysiological pathways. In herniated discs, a sequence in the inflammatory cascade can be observed that initiates and maintains increased nociceptive signal input. Inflammatory mediators including tumor necrosis factor  are released from the nucleus pulposus and the degenerating peripheral nerve, which, in turn, induces production of neurotrophins like nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Neurotrophins interfere not only with the generation of ectopic firing of nociceptive neurons in the dorsal root ganglion but also with the excitability and sensitization of neuronal transmission in the dorsal spinal horn. Radicular pain is further characterized by the electrophysiological spreading of the afferent nociceptive input over different spinal nerve roots. Both the complex pathophysiological pathways involved and the spreading of the nociceptive signal make radicular pain difficult to treat. Pulsed radiofrequency (PRF) is considered an option in treatment of radicular pain. To understand and increase the efficiency of PRF interventional treatments in radicular pain, both in vitro and in vivo studies aiming at elucidating part of the mechanism of action of PRF are described. Potential factors that may improve the efficacy of PRF treatment in radicular pain are discussed.

As the worldwide population grows and life expectancies continue to increase, degenerative diseases of the bones, muscles, and connective tissue are a growing problem for society. Current therapies for osteodegenerative disorders such as hormone replacement therapies, calcium/vitamin D supplements and oral bisphosphonates are often inadequate to stop degeneration and/or have serious negative side effects. Thus, there is an urgent need in the medical community for more effective and safer treatments. Stem cell therapies for osteodegenerative disorders have been rigorously explored over the last decade and are yielding some promising results in animal models and clinical trials. Although much work still needs to be done to ensure the safety and efficacy of these therapies, stem cells represent a new frontier of exciting possibilities for bone and cartilage regeneration.

We investigated the early socio-communicative development of individuals with fragile X syndrome (FXS) by undertaking a retrospective analysis of family videos. Videos were analyzed to identify existing communicative forms and functions. Analyses were undertaken on seven children who were later diagnosed with FXS. The children were filmed when they were 9-12 months old and before being diagnosed. Fourteen different communicative forms and six different communicative functions were observed. All participants were observed to express the functions of 'Attention to self' and 'Answering', but none indicated 'Requesting action', 'Requesting information', 'Choice making', or 'Imitating'. Results suggest that children with FXS may have a limited range of communicative forms and functions when they are from 9 to 12 months of age. However, further research is necessary to gain a specific developmental profile of socio-communicative forms and functions in FXS.
It has been asserted that children with mathematics learning difficulties (MLD) constitute a heterogeneous group. To date, most researchers have investigated differences between predefined MLD subtypes. Specifically MLD children are frequently categorized a priori into groups based on the presence or absence of an additional disorder, such as a reading disorder, to examine cognitive differences between MLD subtypes. In the current study 226 third to six grade children (M age=131 months) with MLD completed a selection of number specific and general cognitive measures. The data driven approach was used to identify the extent to which performance of the MLD children on these measures could be clustered into distinct groups. In particular, after conducting a factor analysis, a 200 times repeated K-means clustering approach was used to classify the children's performance. Results revealed six distinguishable clusters of MLD children, specifically (a) a weak mental number line group, (b) weak ANS group, (c) spatial difficulties group, (d) access deficit group, (e) no numerical cognitive deficit group and (f) a garden-variety group. These findings imply that different cognitive subtypes of MLD exist and that these can be derived from data-driven approaches to classification. These findings strengthen the notion that MLD is a heterogeneous disorder, which has implications for the way in which intervention may be tailored for individuals within the different subtypes.
A new analysis of the relationship between cardiac output (Q) and oxygen consumption VO2 is presented (Q-VO2 diagram). Data from different sources in the literature have been used for validation in three conditions: exercise and rest in normoxia, and exercise in hypoxia. The effects of changes in arterial oxygen concentration CaO2 on Q are discussed, as well as the effects of predominant sympathetic or vagal stimulation. Differences appear depending on whether CaO2 is varied by means of changes in blood haemoglobin concentration or changes in arterial oxygen saturation. The present Q-VO2 diagram allows comprehensive description of oxygen transport in exercising humans; it expands applicability of the historical Q-VO2 relationship to include CaO2 variations; it opens new pathways for understanding underlying mechanisms; it allows computation of Q from CaO2 and VO2 measurements, when Q cannot be measured.

Biofeedback is a complementary non-pharmacological and non-surgical therapeutic developed over the last thirty years in the management of drug-resistant epilepsy. Biofeedback allows learning cognitive and behavioral strategies via a psychophysiological feedback loop. Firstly, this paper describes the different types of biofeedback protocols used for the treatment of drug-refractory epilepsy and their physiological justifications. Secondly, this paper analyzes the evidence of effectiveness, from a medical point of view, on reducing the numbers of seizures, and from a neurophysiological point of view, on the changing brain activity. Electroencephalography (EEG) biofeedback (neurofeedback) protocol on sensorimotor rhythms (SMR) has been investigated in many studies, the main limitation being small sample sizes and lack of control groups. The newer neurofeedback protocol on slow cortical potential (SCP) and galvanic skin response (GSR) biofeedback protocols have been used in a smaller number of studies. But, these studies are more rigorous with larger sized samples, matched control groups, and attempts to control the placebo effect. These protocols also open the way for innovative neurophysiological researches and may predict a renewal of biofeedback techniques. Biofeedback would have legitimacy in the field of clinical drug-resistant epilepsy at the interface between therapeutic and clinical neurophysiology.


Trials of novel compounds for the treatment of schizophrenia are typically tested in patients following brief withdrawal of ongoing medication despite known long-term changes in the dopamine (DA) system following chronic antipsychotic drug therapy. The present study explored the impact of withdrawal from repeated haloperidol (HAL) treatment, as well as the response to a novel 5 gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor positive allosteric modulator (5PAM), on the activity of the DA system in the methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia. Electrophysiological recordings were conducted from DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area of MAM and saline (SAL) rats following 7-day withdrawal from repeated HAL (21 d, 0.6 mg/kg, orally). In separate animals, amphetamine-induced locomotion was measured to assess changes in DA behavioral sensitivity. SAL rats withdrawn from HAL demonstrated reduced spontaneous DA neuron activity along with an enhanced locomotor response to amphetamine, indicative of the development of DA supersensitivity. Both 5PAM treatment and ventral hippocampal (vHPC) inactivation reversed the DA neuron depolarization block following HAL withdrawal in SAL rats. In contrast, MAM rats withdrawn from HAL exhibited reduced spontaneous DA activity and enhanced locomotor response to amphetamine compared with untreated SAL rats; however, this condition was unresponsive to 5PAM treatment or vHPC inactivation. Withdrawal from prior HAL treatment interferes with the therapeutic actions of this novel treatment in the MAM model of schizophrenia. Consequently, testing novel compounds on chronically treated schizophrenia patients may be ineffective.
Schizophrenia has been conceptualized as a disorder of brain connectivity. Recent studies suggest that brain connectivity may be disproportionally impaired among the so-called rich club. This small core of densely interconnected hub regions has been hypothesized to form an important infrastructure for global brain communication and integration of information across different systems of the brain. Given the heritable nature of the illness, we hypothesized that connectivity disturbances, including abnormal rich club connectivity, may be related to familial vulnerability for schizophrenia. To test this hypothesis, both schizophrenia patients and unaffected siblings of patients were investigated. Rich club organization was examined in networks derived from diffusion-weighted imaging in 40 schizophrenia patients, 54 unaffected siblings of patients, and 51 healthy control subjects. Connectivity between rich club hubs was differentially reduced across groups (P = .014), such that it was highest in controls, intermediate in siblings (7.9% reduced relative to controls), and lowest in patients (19.6% reduced compared to controls). Furthermore, in patients, lower levels of rich club connectivity were found to be related to longer duration of illness and worse overall functioning. Together, these findings suggest that impaired rich club connectivity is related to familial, possibly reflecting genetic, vulnerability for schizophrenia. Our findings support a central role for abnormal rich club organization in the etiology of schizophrenia.
MIR137, transcribed as the microRNA miR-137, is one of the leading candidate schizophrenia susceptibility genes to arise from large genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of the disorder. Recent data suggest that miR-137 modulates the expression of other schizophrenia susceptibility genes. Although bioinformatic resources are available with which to predict genes regulated by individual microRNA, there has been a lack of empirical data on genome-wide gene expression changes following miR-137 manipulation. We have therefore performed a genome-wide assessment of transcriptional changes in a human neural progenitor cell line after miR-137 over-expression and inhibition in order to elucidate molecular pathways by which genetic perturbation of miR-137 could promote susceptibility to schizophrenia. Bioinformatically-predicted miR-137 targets showed a small but highly significant down-regulation following miR-137 over-expression. Genes that were significantly down-regulated in association with miR-137 over-expression were enriched for involvement in neuronal differentiation. Differentially expressed genes that were confirmed by qPCR included others at genome-wide significant risk loci for schizophrenia (MAD1L1 and DPYD) and BDNF. These data point to molecular pathways through which genetic variation at the MIR137 locus could confer risk for schizophrenia.
The regional neuronal changes taking place between before and after cognitive rehabilitation are still not characterized in schizophrenia patients. In addition, it is not known whether these regional changes are predictive or correlated with treatment response. We conducted a preliminary quasi-experimental study to investigate the effects of a Neuropsychological Educational Approach to Cognitive Remediation (NEAR), one of the cognitive remediation therapies, on neurocognitive functioning assessed by the Japanese version of the Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia (BACS-J), and on prefrontal and temporal hemodynamic responses during working memory (WM) task (2-back, letter version) using 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). We assessed 19 patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder twice with an interval of 6months. Moreover, taking into consideration the possible practice effect, we assessed 12 control patients twice with an interval of 6months. The NEAR group, in comparison with the control group, showed significant improvement in two subcomponents of BACS-J, that is, motor speed and executive function along with the composite scores. The NEAR group also showed a significant increase in brain activation in the bilateral cortical regions associated with WM, and in comparison with the control group the between-group differences were restricted to the right frontopolar area. In addition, the amount of enhancement in some cognitive subcomponents was positively correlated with the magnitude of an increase in hemodynamic response during WM task predominantly in the right hemispheres. These findings suggest that neurocognitive deficits in schizophrenia and their neural dysfunction may be improved by NEAR, and NIRS may be a useful tool to assess the changes of the neural activity underlying the improvement of neurocognitive functioning elicited by neurocognitive rehabilitation.
Studies have suggested that the endocannabinoid system is implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. We have recently reported that Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats (SHRs) present a deficit in social interaction that is ameliorated by atypical antipsychotics. In addition, SHRs display hyperlocomotion - reverted by atypical and typical antipsychotics. These results suggest that this strain could be useful to study negative symptoms (modeled by a decrease in social interaction) and positive symptoms (modeled by hyperlocomotion) of schizophrenia and the effects of potential drugs with an antipsychotic profile. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of WIN55-212,2 (CB1/CB2 agonist), ACEA (CB1 agonist), rimonabant (CB1 inverse agonist), AM404 (anandamide uptake/metabolism inhibitor), capsaicin (agonist TRPV1) and capsazepine (antagonist TRPV1) on the social interaction and locomotion of control animals (Wistar rats) and SHRs. The treatment with rimonabant was not able to alter either the social interaction or the locomotion presented by Wistar rats (WR) and SHR at any dose tested. The treatment with WIN55-212,2 decreased locomotion (1mg/kg) and social interaction (0.1 and 0.3mg/kg) of WR, while the dose of 1mg/kg increased social interaction of SHR. The treatment with ACEA increased (0.3mg/kg) and decreased (1mg/kg) locomotion of both strain. The administration of AM404 increased social interaction and decreased locomotion of SHR (5mg/kg), and decreased social interaction and increased locomotion in WR (1mg/kg). The treatment with capsaicin (2.5mg/kg) increased social interaction of both strain and decreased locomotion of SHR (2.5mg/kg) and WR (0.5mg/kg and 2.5mg/kg). In addition, capsazepine (5mg/kg) decreased locomotion of both strains and increased (5mg/kg) and decreased (10mg/kg) social interaction of WR. Our results indicate that the schizophrenia-like behaviors displayed by SHR are differently altered by cannabinoid and vanilloid drugs when compared to control animals and suggest the endocannabinoid and the vanilloid systems as a potential target for the treatment of schizophrenia.
The study objective was to examine childhood adversity in association with intra-individual changes and inter-individual differences in subclinical psychosis in a representative community cohort over a 30-year period of observation. We analyzed two psychosis syndromes derived from the SCL-90-R - schizotypal signs and schizophrenia nuclear symptoms - in 335 participants. Participants were repeatedly assessed between 1978 (around age 20) and 2008 (around age 50). We focused specifically on inter-individual differences and intra-individual changes over time by applying structural equation modeling, generalized linear models, and generalized estimating equations. Several weak inter-individual differences revealed that increased schizotypal signs are related to various childhood adversities, such as being repeatedly involved in fights and parents having severe conflicts among themselves. We also found a significant positive association between schizotypal signs and the total number of adversities a subject experienced. This pointed toward a modest dose-response relationship. The intra-individual change in schizotypal signs over time was rather weak, although some adjustment did occur. In contrast, inter-individual schizophrenia nuclear symptoms were mainly unrelated to childhood adversity. However, some striking intra-individual changes in distress were noted over time, especially those linked with severe punishment and the total adversity score. In conclusion, we have confirmed previous positive findings about the association between childhood adversity and subsequent subclinical psychosis symptoms: An increase in adversity is weakly related to an increase of the psychosis symptom load. However, depending on the kind of adversity experienced the psychosis symptom load decreases gradually in adult life.
22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) is associated with high rates of psychotic disorder, particularly schizophrenia. The deletion is considered to be a biological model for understanding this debilitating psychiatric disorder. It is unclear whether the psychotic manifestations in 22q11.2DS are similar to those in schizophrenia patients without the deletion. Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), a positional candidate gene for schizophrenia, resides within the 22q11.2 region. It remains unknown whether hemizygosity for this gene is associated with risk of psychotic disorder. This study includes 83 adults with 22q11.2DS, 90 non-deleted individuals with schizophrenia, and 316 normal controls. Psychopathology was assessed using the Schedules for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry, the Schedules for the Assessment of Positive and Negative Symptoms and the Global Assessment Scale. Schizotypy was assessed with the Kings Schizotypy Questionnaire and Oxford Liverpool Inventory of Feelings and Emotions. IQ estimates were also obtained. Adults with 22q11.2DS were genotyped for a number of COMT polymorphisms as well as the Ashkenazi risk haplotype. This study confirms high rates of psychotic disorder (29%) in individuals with 22q11.2DS of which the majority had schizophrenia (22%). There does not appear to be a differential expression of schizophrenic symptom clusters in 22q11.2DS in relation to sporadic schizophrenia, though schizophrenia in 22q11.2DS seems to be less severe in terms of global assessment scores. Psychosis proneness seems to be of genetic origin in 22q11.2DS as individuals with 22q11.2DS without schizophrenia had higher schizotypy scores than normal controls. Finally, COMT was not associated with schizophrenia status or schizotypy.
A shallow olfactory sulcus has been reported in schizophrenia, possibly reflecting abnormal forebrain development during early gestation. However, it remains unclear whether this anomaly exists prior to the onset of psychosis and/or differs according to illness stage. In the current study, magnetic resonance imaging was used to investigate the length and depth of the olfactory sulcus in 135 ultra high-risk (UHR) individuals [of whom 52 later developed psychosis (UHR-P) and 83 did not (UHR-NP)], 162 patients with first-episode psychosis (FEP), 89 patients with chronic schizophrenia, and 87 healthy controls. While there was no group difference in the length of the sulcus, UHR-P subjects had significantly shallower olfactory sulcus at baseline as compared with UHR-NP and control subjects. The depth of this sulcus became increasingly more superficial as one moved from UHR-P subjects to FEP patients to chronic schizophrenia patients. Finally, the depth of the olfactory sulcus in the UHR-P subjects was negatively correlated with the severity of negative symptoms. These findings suggest that the altered depth of the olfactory sulcus, which exists before psychosis onset, could be predictive of transition to psychosis, but also suggest ongoing changes of the sulcus morphology during the course of the illness.
Diffuse structural abnormalities in the prefrontal cortex have been reported in both schizophrenia patients and their nonpsychotic biological relatives. Additionally, working memory difficulties have long been documented in schizophrenia patients and have been associated with the genetic liability for the disorder. The present analysis investigated the relationship between prefrontal regional gray matter volumes and two facets of working memory in schizophrenia using a family study. Structural neuroimaging scans provided measurements of rostral middle, superior, and inferior prefrontal cortical gray matter volumes. Participants also completed a spatial working memory task that measured both short-term maintenance and manipulation of material in memory. Both schizophrenia patients and relatives had reduced superior and inferior frontal gray matter volumes. Schizophrenia patients demonstrated a spatial working memory deficit compared to both controls and relatives, with no greater impairment when required to manipulate material. Smaller prefrontal volumes in schizophrenia patients were associated with worse working memory performance. These relationships were absent in the nonpsychotic relatives and controls. Despite normative behavioral performance, nonpsychotic relatives demonstrated abnormalities in brain structure similar to those found in schizophrenia patients. Manipulation abilities were not more impaired than maintenance in schizophrenia patients. Consistent with other neuroimaging research, our results suggest that direct measures of the underlying biology may be more sensitive to the effects of the genetic liability for schizophrenia than behavioral measures.
Increasing studies have implicated the thalamus in schizophrenia, supporting the view that this structure has an important role in this disorder. Given that extensive reciprocal connections exist between the thalamus and the cerebral cortex, it is believed that disruptions of the thalamo-cortical connections may underlie the multiplicity of schizophrenic symptoms. Therefore, assessing the relationship between the thalamus and the neocortex may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. We analyzed magnetic resonance images from a sample of 101 schizophrenic patients and 101 healthy controls. By assessing the correlation between the thalamic volume and cortical thickness at each vertex on the cortical surface, a thalamo-cortical network was obtained for each group. We compared the patterns of thalamo-cortical connectivity between the two groups. Compared with healthy controls, less distributed cortical regions were identified in the thalamo-cortical network in patients with schizophrenia. Vertex-wise comparison revealed decreased thalamo-cortical connectivity in bilateral inferior frontal gyrus, the left superior temporal gyrus and the right parieto-occipital region in schizophrenia. The observed disruptions in thalamo-cortical connectivity might be the substrate underlying the wide range of schizophrenic symptoms and provide further evidence to support the notion of schizophrenia as a disorder of brain dysconnectivity.



We tested the hypothesis that family risk for psychosis (FR) and clinical risk for psychosis (CR) are associated with structural brain abnormalities, with increased deficits in those at both family risk and clinical risk for psychosis (FRCR). The study setting was the Oulu Brain and Mind Study, with subjects drawn from the Northern Finland 1986 Birth Cohort (n=9479) using register and questionnaire based screening, and interviews using the Structured Interview for Prodromal Symptoms. After this procedure, 172 subjects were included in the study, classified as controls (n=73) and three risk groups: FR excluding CR (FR, n=60), CR without FR (CR, n=26), and individuals at both FR and CR (FRCR, n=13). T1-weighted brain scans were acquired and processed in a voxel-based analysis using permutation-based statistics. In the comparison between FRCR versus controls, we found lower grey matter volume (GMV) in a cluster (1689 voxels at -4.00, -72.00, -18.00mm) covering both cerebellar hemispheres and the vermis. This cluster was subsequently used as a mask to extract mean GMV in all four groups: FR had a volume intermediate between controls and FRCR. Within FRCR there was an association between cerebellar cluster brain volume and motor function. These findings are consistent with an evolving pattern of cerebellar deficits in psychosis risk with the most pronounced deficits in those at highest risk of psychosis.
Schizophrenia is associated with abnormalities in using meaningful stimuli to activate or prime related concepts in semantic long-term memory. A neurophysiological index of this activation is the N400, an event-related brain potential (ERP) waveform elicited by meaningful stimuli, which is normally reduced (made less negative) by relatedness between the eliciting stimulus and preceding ones (N400 semantic priming). Schizophrenia patients exhibit N400 semantic priming deficits, suggesting impairment in using meaningful context to activate related concepts. To address whether this abnormality is a trait-like marker of liability to schizophrenia or, alternatively, a biomarker of the illness itself, we tested for its presence in schizophrenia patients' unaffected biological relatives. We recorded ERPs from 12 unaffected first-degree relatives of schizophrenia patients, 12 schizophrenia patients, and 12 normal control participants (NCPs) who viewed prime words each followed at 300- or 750-ms stimulus-onset asynchrony (SOA) by an unrelated or related target word, or a nonword, in a lexical-decision task. As expected, across SOAs, NCPs exhibited smaller (less negative) N400 amplitudes for related versus unrelated targets. The same pattern held in relatives, whose N400 amplitudes for related and unrelated targets did not differ from NCPs'. In contrast, consistent with previous results, schizophrenia patients exhibited larger N400 amplitudes than NCPs (and relatives) for related targets, such that patients' N400 amplitudes for related and unrelated targets did not differ. N400 amplitudes for unrelated targets did not differ between the three groups. Thus, N400 semantic priming deficits in a visual word-pair paradigm may be an illness biomarker for schizophrenia.
Assessment of depression in individuals who are considered to be at clinical high risk (CHR) for psychosis is important as high rates of depression have been reported in CHR individuals. The Calgary Depression Scale (CDSS) is the most widely used scale for assessing depression in schizophrenia. It has excellent psychometric properties, internal consistency, inter-rater reliability, sensitivity, specificity, and discriminant and convergent validity. The aim of this study was to test the reliability and validity of the CDSS in a sample of youth at CHR for psychosis. Participants were assessed for depression, presence of axis 1 mood disorders, and prodromal symptoms using the CDSS, the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Disorders (SCID-1), and the Scale of Prodromal Symptoms (SOPS). The CDSS total score as well as all individual items, except &quot;guilty ideas of reference,&quot; were significantly associated with the presence of a major depressive disorder. Significant correlations were observed between CDSS total score and the dysphoric mood item on the SOPS. There was some evidence of overlap between the CDSS and both attenuated positive symptoms and negative symptoms as assessed by the SOPS. It is concluded that CDSS is a reliable scale suitable for assessing depression in individuals considered to be at CHR for psychosis.
The n-butanol extract of the roots of Glyphaea brevis was analysed. HPLC analysis suggested the presence of phenolic compounds like protocatechuic acid (PCA). The extract showed moderate cytotoxic activity against C6 glioma cells (EC50 &gt; 1 mg/ml).






Children with epilepsy who reside in the African continent are faced with some of the greatest challenges of receiving adequate care. The burden of disease is exacerbated by the high incidence of acquired causes and the large treatment gap. Skilled teams to identify and care for children with epilepsy are lacking. Many patients are managed through psychiatric services, thus potentially compounding the stigma associated with the condition. Little data exist to assess the true proportion of comorbidities suffered by children with epilepsy, the assumption is that this is high, further aggravated by delayed interventions and adverse responses to some of the more commonly used antiepileptic drugs.
Malnutrition is a risk factor for infection, compromising immune response. Glutamine (Gln) protects the lungs and distal organs in well-nourished septic and nonseptic conditions; however, no study to date has analyzed the effects of Gln in the presence of sepsis and malnutrition. In the present work, we tested the hypothesis that early therapy with intravenous Gln prevents lung and distal organ damage in septic malnourished rats. Protein-energy malnutrition was induced in male Wistar rats for 4 weeks. At the end of 4 weeks, malnourished animals were assigned to a sepsis-inducing cecal ligation and puncture group or a sham surgery group. One hour after surgery, animals were given saline (Sal) or L-alanyl-L-glutamine (Gln) intravenously. In addition, a control group (C) was set up with rats fed ad libitum, not submitted to surgery or treatment. Forty-eight hours after surgery, in malnutrition-sham rats, Gln therapy lessened neutrophil lung infiltration and apoptosis in lung and liver. In malnutrition-cecal ligation and puncture rats, Gln therapy yielded (a) reduced static lung elastance, alveolar collapse, inflammation (neutrophil infiltration, interleukin 6), and collagen deposition; (b) repair of types I and II epithelial cells; (c) no significant changes in heat shock protein 70 expression or heat shock factor 1 phosphorylation; (d) a greater number of M1 and M2 macrophages in lung tissue; and (e) less apoptosis in the lung, kidney, small intestine, and liver. In conclusion, early therapy with intravenous Gln reduced inflammation, fibrosis, and apoptosis, minimizing lung and distal organ injury, in septic malnourished rats. These beneficial effects may be associated with macrophage activation in the lung.








Event-related potential (ERP) approaches to social cognitive and affective neuroscience (SCAN) are not as widely used as other neuroimaging techniques, yet they offer several unique advantages. In particular, the high temporal resolution of ERP measures of neural activity make them ideally suited for studying the dynamic interplay of rapidly unfolding cognitive and affective processes. In this article, we highlight the utility of ERP methods for scientists investigating questions of SCAN. We begin with a brief description of the physiological basis of ERPs and discussion of methodological practices. We then discuss how ERPs may be used to address a range of questions concerning social perception, social cognition, attitudes, affect and self-regulation, with examples of research that has used the ERP approach to contribute important theoretical advances in these areas. Whether used alone or in combination with other techniques, the ERP is an indispensable part of the social and affective neuroscientist's methodological toolkit.
It has been shown that the effectiveness with which unpleasant events are encoded into memory is related to brain activity set in train before the events. Here, we assessed whether encoding-related activity before an aversive event can be modulated by emotion regulation. Electrical brain activity was recorded from the scalps of healthy women while they performed an incidental encoding task on randomly intermixed unpleasant and neutral visual scenes. A cue presented 1.5 s before each picture indicated the upcoming valence. In half of the blocks of trials, the instructions emphasized to let emotions arise in a natural way. In the other half, participants were asked to decrease their emotional response by adopting the perspective of a detached observer. Memory for the scenes was probed 1 day later with a recognition memory test. Brain activity before unpleasant scenes predicted later memory of the scenes, but only when participants felt their emotions and did not detach from them. The findings indicate that emotion regulation can eliminate the influence of anticipatory brain activity on memory encoding. This may be relevant for the understanding and treatment of psychiatric diseases with a memory component.
Mental effort is a limited resource which must be invested to perform mental tasks. The amount of mental effort investment that an individual experiences during task performance can be measured afterwards with the help of self-rating scales. Earlier research suggests that integration of information about somatic state changes is crucial for the self-evaluation of mental effort investment. Damage to the pathways which convey information about somatic state changes can lead to an inability to self-evaluate mental effort investment, while conceptually similar evaluations of task difficulty can still be performed. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate brain activation, while subjects rated their mental effort investment and the difficulty of a previously performed task. Our results show stronger activation of the left anterior insular cortex (aIC) during evaluation of mental effort. Additionally, the activity in left aIC during task performance was modulated by changes in task demand in a similar way as the self-ratings of mental effort. We argue that aIC does not only play a role in the integration of self-related information during self-evaluation of mental effort investment, but that left aIC might also be involved in the experience of mental effort during task performance.
Group membership is an important aspect of our everyday behavior. Recently, we showed that existing relevant in-group labels increased activation in the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) compared with out-group labels, suggesting a role of the MPFC in social categorization. However, the question still remains whether this increase in MPFC activation for in-group representation is solely related with previous experience with the in-group. To test this, we randomly assigned participants to a red or blue team and in a subsequent functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment they categorized red and blue team words as belonging to either the in-group or the out-group. Results showed that even under these minimal conditions increased activation was found in the MPFC when participants indicated that they belonged to a group, as compared with when they did not. This effect was found to be associated with the level of group identification. These results confirm the role of MPFC in social categorization.
Cognitive neuroscience has made considerable progress in understanding the neural architecture of human intelligence, identifying a broadly distributed network of frontal and parietal regions that support goal-directed, intelligent behavior. However, the contributions of this network to social and emotional aspects of intellectual function remain to be well characterized. Here we investigated the neural basis of emotional intelligence in 152 patients with focal brain injuries using voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping. Latent variable modeling was applied to obtain measures of emotional intelligence, general intelligence and personality from the Mayer, Salovey, Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT), the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and the Neuroticism-Extroversion-Openness Inventory, respectively. Regression analyses revealed that latent scores for measures of general intelligence and personality reliably predicted latent scores for emotional intelligence. Lesion mapping results further indicated that these convergent processes depend on a shared network of frontal, temporal and parietal brain regions. The results support an integrative framework for understanding the architecture of executive, social and emotional processes and make specific recommendations for the interpretation and application of the MSCEIT to the study of emotional intelligence in health and disease.




To elucidate detailed functional mechanisms of key fate-determining transcription factors (eg, Nurr1, Pitx3, and Lmx1a) and their functional interplay for midbrain dopamine (mDA) neurons, we developed highly efficient gain-of-function system by transducing the neural progenitors (NPs) derived from embryonic stem cells (ESCs) with retroviral vectors, allowing the analysis of downstream molecular and cellular effects. Overexpression of each factors, Nurr1, Pitx3, and Lmx1a robustly promoted the dopaminergic differentiation of ESC-NP cells exposed to sonic hedgehog (SHH) and fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8). In addition, each of these factors directly interacts with potential binding sites within the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene and activated its promoter activity. Interestingly, however, overexpression of Nurr1, but not of Pitx3 or Lmx1a, generated a significant number of nonneuronal TH-positive cells. In line with this, Pitx3 and Lmx1a, but not Nurr1, induced expression of the Ngn2 gene, which is critical for neurogenesis. We also observed that Pitx3 directly bound to its potential binding sites within the Ngn2 gene and the pan-neuronal marker -tubulin III gene, suggesting that Pitx3 contributes to mDA neurogenesis by directly regulating these genes. Taken together, our data demonstrate that key mDA regulators (Nurr1, Pitx3, and Lmx1a) play overlapping as well as distinct roles during neurogenesis and neurotransmitter phenotype determination of mDA neurons.
Human oral mucosa stem cells (hOMSC) are a recently described neural crest-derived stem cell population. Therapeutic quantities of potent hOMSC can be generated from small biopsies obtained by minimally invasive procedures. Our objective was to evaluate the potential of hOMSC to differentiate into astrocyte-like cells and provide peripheral neuroprotection. We induced hOMSC differentiation into cells showing an astrocyte-like morphology that expressed characteristic astrocyte markers as glial fibrillary acidic protein, S100, and the excitatory amino acid transporter 1 and secreted neurotrophic factors (NTF) such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor, vascular endothelial growth factor, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, and insulin-like growth factor 1. Conditioned medium of the induced cells rescued motor neurons from hypoxia or oxidative stress in vitro, suggesting a neuroprotective effect mediated by soluble factors. Given the neuronal support (NS) ability of the cells, the differentiated cells were termed hOMSC-NS. Rats subjected to sciatic nerve injury and transplanted with hOMSC-NS showed improved motor function after transplantation. At the graft site we found the transplanted cells, increased levels of NTF, and a significant preservation of functional neuromuscular junctions, as evidenced by colocalization of -bungarotoxin and synaptophysin. Our findings show for the first time that hOMSC-NS generated from oral mucosa exhibit neuroprotective effects in vitro and in vivo and point to their future therapeutic use in neural disorders.
Evidence is emerging of the role of membrane progestin receptors (referred to as mPRs herein: members of Progestin and AdipoQ Receptor (Paqr) family) as a novel brain target in mammals, such as rats. In the present study, the role of mPRs in mice was assessed to further elucidate the conservation of this mechanism across species. The brain target investigated was the midbrain ventral tegmental area (VTA) given its described role for rapid actions of progestins for reproduction. Studies tested the hypothesis that if mPRs are required for progestin-facilitated lordosis through actions in the VTA, then knockdown of mPRs in the VTA will attenuate lordosis. Ovariectomized (OVX) mice were subcutaneously injected with estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4), and infused with antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (AS-ODNs) to mPR (Paqr7) and/or mPR (Paqr8) or vehicle to the lateral ventricle or VTA. Mice were assessed for reproductive behavior (lordosis and aggression/rejection quotients) in a standard mating task. Results supported our hypothesis. E2+P4-facilitated lordosis was significantly reduced, and aggression/rejection increased, with infusions of mPR, mPR, or mPR AS-ODNs to the lateral ventricle, compared to vehicle. E2+P4-facilitated lordosis was significantly decreased, and aggression/rejection increased, with mPR or mPR AS-ODNs to the VTA of C57/BL6 mice. Both mPR and mPR AS-ODNs reduced lordosis, and increased aggression/rejection, of wildtype (C57/BL6x129) mice, but not nuclear PR knockout mice. Thus, mPRs may be a novel target of progestins for reproductive behavior of mice.
Two populations of cells within the hypothalamus exert opposite actions on food intake: proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons decrease it, while neuropeptide Y (NPY)/agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons increase it. 17-Estradiol (E2) is a potent anorexigenic hormone that exerts both genomic and non-genomic, rapid actions on these metabolic neurons. This review focuses on the rapid membrane effects of E2 in both POMC and NPY/AgRP neurons and how these combined effects mediate the anorexigenic effects of this steroid.
Corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG) is a glycoprotein synthesized in liver and secreted in the blood where it binds with a high affinity but low capacity glucocorticoid hormones, cortisol in humans and corticosterone in laboratory rodents. In mammals, 95% of circulating glucocorticoids are bound to either CBG (80%) or albumin (15%) and only the 5% free fraction is able to enter the brain. During stress, the concentration of glucocorticoids rises significantly and the free fraction increases even more because CBG becomes saturated. However, glucocorticoids unbound to CBG are cleared from the blood more quickly. Our studies on mice totally devoid of CBG (Cbg k.o.) showed that during stress these mutant mice display a lower rise of glucocorticoids than the wild-type controls associated with altered emotional reactivity. These data suggested that CBG played a role in the fast actions of glucocorticoids on behavior. Further analyses demonstrated that stress-induced memory retrieval impairment, an example of the fast action of glucocorticoids on the brain is abolished in the Cbg k.o. mice. This effect of stress on memory retrieval could be restored in the Cbg k.o. mice by infusing corticosterone directly in the hippocampus. The mechanisms explaining these effects involved an increased clearance but no difference in corticosterone production. Thus, CBG seems to have an important role in maintaining in blood a glucocorticoid pool that will be able to access the brain for the fast effects of glucocorticoids.
The GPR30, a former orphan GPCR, is a putative membrane estrogen receptor that can activate rapid signaling pathways such as extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) in a variety of cells and may contribute to estrogen's effects in the central nervous system. The distribution of GPR30 in the limbic system predicts a role for this receptor in the regulation of learning and memory and anxiety by estrogens. Though acute G-1 treatment is reported to be anxiogenic in ovariectomised female mice and in gonadally intact male mice, the effect of GPR30 activation is unknown in gonadectomised male mice. In this study, we show that an acute administration of G-1 to gonadectomised male mice, but not female mice, was anxiolytic on an elevated plus maze task, without affecting locomotor activity. In addition, though G-1 treatment did not regulate ERK, it was associated with increased estrogen receptor (ER) phosphorylation in the ventral, but not dorsal, hippocampus of males. In the female, G-1 increased the ERK activation solely in the dorsal hippocampus, independent of state anxiety. This is the first study to report an anxiolytic effect of GPR30 activation in male mice, in a rapid time frame that is commensurate with non-genomic signaling by estrogen.





Taking up the view that semi-institutional gatherings such as clubs, societies, research schools, have been instrumental in creating sheltered spaces from which many a 20th-century project-driven interdisciplinary research programme could develop and become established within the institutions of science, the paper explores the history of one such gathering from its inception in the early 1980s into the 2000s, the Helmholtz Club, which brought together scientists from such various research fields as neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, psychophysics, computer science and engineering, who all had an interest in the study of the visual system and of higher cognitive functions relying on visual perception such as visual consciousness. It argues that British molecular biologist turned South Californian neuroscientist Francis Crick had an early and lasting influence over the Helmholtz Club of which he was a founding pillar, and that from its inception, the club served as a constitutive element in his long-term plans for a neuroscience of vision and of cognition. Further, it argues that in this role, the Helmholtz Club served many purposes, the primary of which was to be a social forum for interdisciplinary discussion, where 'discussion' was not mere talk but was imbued with an epistemic value and as such, carefully cultivated. Finally, it questions what counts as 'doing science' and in turn, definitions of success and failure-and provides some material evidence towards re-appraising the successfulness of Crick's contribution to the neurosciences.
According to the reward-prediction error hypothesis (RPEH) of dopamine, the phasic activity of dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain signals a discrepancy between the predicted and currently experienced reward of a particular event. It can be claimed that this hypothesis is deep, elegant and beautiful, representing one of the largest successes of computational neuroscience. This paper examines this claim, making two contributions to existing literature. First, it draws a comprehensive historical account of the main steps that led to the formulation and subsequent success of the RPEH. Second, in light of this historical account, it explains in which sense the RPEH is explanatory and under which conditions it can be justifiably deemed deeper than the incentive salience hypothesis of dopamine, which is arguably the most prominent contemporary alternative to the RPEH.
Both central and peripheral cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1R) have been considered to be among the key targets for obesity treatment. First generation CB1R antagonists/inverse agonists such as rimonabant and taranabant exhibited severe CNS side effects such as anxiety and depression, which are considered to be related to the compounds' ability to access central CB1R. Recently, several compounds have been developed as second generation antagonists with a profile of restriction to peripheral CB1R. We evaluated the distribution of TM38837, a second generation CB1R antagonist, using brain and whole body PET in three cynomolgus monkeys, and established the relationship between CB1R occupancy and dose/plasma concentration of TM38837 in comparison with rimonabant. A brain PET study was performed using [(11) C]MePPEP, a PET radioligand for CB1R, to evaluate the brain CB1R occupancy of TM38837 at various plasma concentrations in comparison with rimonabant at known efficacious plasma concentrations. A whole body PET study was performed to investigate the change of peripheral distribution of [(11) C]MePPEP by TM38837 administration, which indirectly estimated the effects to the peripheral CB1R by TM38837. CB1R occupancy by both TM38837 and rimonabant increased in a dose/plasma concentration-dependent manner. However, in vivo affinity by plasma level was more than 100 times lower for TM38837. Peripherally, [(11) C]MePPEP accumulation decreased in gall bladder and brown adipose tissue by TM38837 administration. TM38837 showed rather lower CB1R occupancy than rimonabant at the expected therapeutic plasma level, which is expected to reduce CNS side effects in clinical situations. Further clinical development of TM38837 is warranted.


The aim of this systematic review was to summarize the improvements in balance after robot-assisted gait training (RAGT) in stroke patients. Two databases were searched: PubMed and Web of Knowledge. The most important key words are &quot;stroke,&quot; &quot;RAGT,&quot; &quot;balance,&quot; &quot;Lokomat,&quot; and &quot;gait trainer.&quot; Studies were included if stroke patients were involved in RAGT protocols, and balance was determined as an outcome measurement. The articles were checked for methodological quality by 2 reviewers (Cohen's  = 0.72). Nine studies were included (7 true experimental and 2 pre-experimental studies; methodological quality score, 56%-81%). In total, 229 subacute or chronic stroke patients (70.5% male) were involved in RAGT (3 to 5 times per week, 3 to 10 weeks, 12 to 25 sessions). In 5 studies, the gait trainer was used; in 2, the Lokomat was used; in 1 study, a single-joint wearable knee orthosis was used; and in 1 study, the AutoAmbulator was used. Eight studies compared RAGT with other gait rehabilitation methods. Significant improvements (no to large effect sizes, Cohen's d = 0.01 to 3.01) in balance scores measured with the Berg Balance Scale, the Tinetti test, postural sway tests, and the Timed Up and Go test were found after RAGT. No significant differences in balance between the intervention and control groups were reported. RAGT can lead to improvements in balance in stroke patients; however, it is not clear whether the improvements are greater compared with those associated with other gait rehabilitation methods. Because a limited number of studies are available, more specific research (eg, randomized controlled trials with larger, specific populations) is necessary to draw stronger conclusions.
Partition and localization of C60 and its derivative C60(OH)18-22 in lipid membranes and their impact on mitochondrial activity were studied, attempting to correlate those events with fullerene characteristics (size, surface chemistry, and surface charge). Fluorescence quenching studies suggested that C60(OH)18-22 preferentially populated the outer regions of the bilayer, whereas C60 preferred to localize in deeper regions of the bilayer. Partition coefficient values indicated that C60 exhibited higher affinity for dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine and mitochondrial membranes than C60(OH)18-22. Both fullerenes affected the mitochondrial function, but the inhibitory effects promoted by C60 were more pronounced than those induced by C60(OH)18-22 (up to 20 nmol/mg of mitochondrial protein). State 3 and p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone-uncoupled respirations are inhibited by both fullerenes when glutamate/malate or succinate was used as substrate. Phosphorylation system and electron transport chain of mitochondria are affected by both fullerenes, but only C60 increased the inner mitochondrial membrane permeability to protons, suggesting perturbations in the structure and dynamics of that membrane. At concentrations of C60(OH)18-22 above 20 nmol/mg of mitochondrial protein, the activity of FoF1-ATP synthase was also decreased. The evaluation of transmembrane potential showed that the mitochondria phosphorylation cycle decreased upon adenosine diphosphate addition with increasing fullerenes concentration and the time of the repolarization phase increased as a function of C60(OH)18-22 concentration. Our results suggest that the balance between hydrophilicity and hydrophobicity resulting from the surface chemistry of fullerene nanoparticles, rather than the cluster size or the surface charge acquired by fullerenes in water, influences their membrane interactions and consequently their effects on mitochondrial bioenergetics.
Even though Buthus occitanus scorpions are found throughout the Mediterranean region, a lack of distinctive characteristics has hampered their classification into different subspecies. Yet, stings from this particular scorpion family are reported each year to result in pain followed by various toxic symptoms. In order to determine the toxicity origin of the rare French B. occitanus Amoreux scorpion, we collected several specimens and studied their venom composition using a nano ultra high performance liquid chromatography and matrix assisted laser desorption/ionisation time-of-flight mass spectrometry (nano UHPLC/MALDI-TOF-MS) automated workflow combined with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) approach. Moreover, we compared this dataset to that obtained from highly lethal Androctonus australis and Androctonus mauretanicus scorpions collected in North Africa. As a result, we found that the B. occitanus Amoreux venom is toxic to mice, an observation that is most likely caused by venom components that inhibit voltage-gated sodium channel inactivation. Moreover, we identified similarities in venom composition between B. occitanus scorpions living in the South of France and other Buthidae collected in Morocco and Algeria. As such, the results of this study should be taken into consideration when treating stings from the B. occitanus species living in the South of France.
Sleep, specifically sleep slow-wave activity (SWA), contributes to global synaptic homeostasis in neocortical networks by downscaling synaptic connections that were potentiated during prior wakefulness. In parallel, SWA supports the consolidation of hippocampus-dependent episodic memory, a process linked to local increases in synaptic connectivity. During development, both SWA and episodic memory show parallel time courses: distinct SWA and capabilities to form episodic memory become established during infancy and then profoundly increase across childhood until puberty. We propose that the parallel increases across childhood reflect an imbalance in the underlying regulation of synaptic connectivity during sleep; although memory consolidation favoring synaptic potentiation is enhanced, global synaptic downscaling during sleep SWA does not attain complete recovery of homeostatic baseline levels.
A new paper shows that a characteristic feature of the arrangement of brain networks, their modular organization across several scales, is responsible for an expanded range of critical neural dynamics. This finding solves several puzzles in computational neuroscience and links fundamental aspects of neural network organization and brain dynamics.
Understanding the principles of neuronal computation that underlie our cognitive abilities is a fundamental goal of neuroscience. Microcircuits are thought to be computational units embedded in a brain-wide neuronal network. Recent progress in experimental and analytical techniques has enabled the exploration of information flow in operating microcircuits of behaving monkeys. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that crucial transformations of neuronal codes for the representation and memory retrieval of visual objects occur in cortical microcircuits. Particularly, microcircuit comparisons across cortical areas provide novel principles for object processing, in which precursor codes for object features are constructed in a lower-order area before prevalence in a higher-order area. We review recent findings on microcircuit operations in macaque temporal cortex that enable object processing, and discuss future research directions.
Histamine appears early during brain development, has been shown to regulate fetal and adult brain-derived stem cells in a receptor type-dependent manner, and has widespread actions on systems involved in arousal and movement. Developmental studies in both rodents and zebrafish have elucidated the spatiotemporal patterning of the histaminergic system and, in zebrafish, have revealed the mechanisms whereby histamine regulates the number of hypocretin/orexin (hcrt) neurons, which in turn may regulate the number of histaminergic cells. Recent demonstrations of increased numbers of histaminergic neurons in patients with narcolepsy highlight the importance, for our understanding of both normal and pathological brain function, of understanding these interactions. Here, we review recent research into the developmental roles of histamine and suggest key areas for future research.
The unitary firing fields of hippocampal place cells are commonly assumed to be generated by input from entorhinal grid cell modules with differing spatial scales. Here, we review recent research that brings this assumption into doubt. Instead, we propose that place cell spatial firing patterns are determined by environmental sensory inputs, including those representing the distance and direction to environmental boundaries, while grid cells provide a complementary self-motion related input that contributes to maintaining place cell firing. In this view, grid and place cell firing patterns are not successive stages of a processing hierarchy, but complementary and interacting representations that work in combination to support the reliable coding of large-scale space.

Sodium channel inhibitors have been developed and approved as drugs to treat a variety of indications. By contrast, sodium channel activators have not previously been considered relevant in a therapeutic setting owing to their high risk of toxicity and side effects. Here we present an opinion that selective activators of the Na(V)1.1 sodium channel may hold therapeutic potential for diseases such as epilepsy, schizophrenia, and Alzheimer's disease. Central to this novel avenue of sodium channel drug discovery is that fact that Na(V)1.1 comprises the majority of the sodium current in specific inhibitory interneurons. Conversely, it plays only a modest role in excitatory neurons owing to the high redundancy of other types of sodium channels in these cells. We discuss the biological background and rationale and present reflections on how to identify activators of Na(V)1.1.


Explanations for color phenomena are often sought in the retina, lateral geniculate nucleus, and V1, yet it is becoming increasingly clear that a complete account will take us further along the visual-processing pathway. Working out which areas are involved is not trivial. Responses to S-cone activation are often assumed to indicate that an area or neuron is involved in color perception. However, work tracing S-cone signals into extrastriate cortex has challenged this assumption: S-cone responses have been found in brain regions, such as the middle temporal (MT) motion area, not thought to play a major role in color perception. Here, we review the processing of S-cone signals across cortex and present original data on S-cone responses measured with fMRI in alert macaque, focusing on one area in which S-cone signals seem likely to contribute to color (V4/posterior inferior temporal cortex) and on one area in which S signals are unlikely to play a role in color (MT). We advance a hypothesis that the S-cone signals in color-computing areas are required to achieve a balanced neural representation of perceptual color space, whereas those in noncolor-areas provide a cue to illumination (not luminance) and confer sensitivity to the chromatic contrast generated by natural daylight (shadows, illuminated by ambient sky, surrounded by direct sunlight). This sensitivity would facilitate the extraction of shape-from-shadow signals to benefit global scene analysis and motion perception.
The short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cones play an important role in color vision of primates, and may also contribute to the coding of other visual features, such as luminance and motion. The color signals carried by the S cones and other cone types are largely separated in the subcortical visual pathway. Studies on nonhuman primates or humans have suggested that these signals are combined in the striate cortex (V1) following a substantial amplification of the S-cone signals in the same area. In addition to reviewing these studies, this review describes the circuitry in V1 that may underlie the processing of the S-cone signals and the dynamics of this processing. It also relates the interaction between various cone signals in V1 to the results of some psychophysical and physiological studies on color perception, which leads to a discussion of a previous model, in which color perception is produced by a multistage processing of the cone signals. Finally, I discuss the processing of the S-cone signals in the extrastriate area V2.
Fast spike correlation is a signature of neural ensemble activity thought to underlie perception, cognition, and action. To relate spike correlation to tuning and other factors, we focused on spontaneous activity because it is the common 'baseline' across studies that test different stimuli, and because variations in correlation strength are much larger across cell pairs than across stimuli. Is the probability of spike correlation between two neurons a graded function of lateral cortical separation, independent of functional tuning (e.g. orientation preferences)? Although previous studies found a steep decline in fast spike correlation with horizontal cortical distance, we hypothesized that, at short distances, this decline is better explained by a decline in receptive field tuning similarity. Here we measured macaque V1 tuning via parametric stimuli and spike-triggered analysis, and we developed a generalized linear model (GLM) to examine how different combinations of factors predict spontaneous spike correlation. Spike correlation was predicted by multiple factors including color, spatiotemporal receptive field, spatial frequency, phase and orientation but not ocular dominance beyond layer 4. Including these factors in the model mostly eliminated the contribution of cortical distance to fast spike correlation (up to our recording limit of 1.4mm), in terms of both 'correlation probability' (the incidence of pairs that have significant fast spike correlation) and 'correlation strength' (each pair's likelihood of fast spike correlation). We suggest that, at short distances and non-input layers, V1 fast spike correlation is determined more by tuning similarity than by cortical distance or ocular dominance.
Previous attempts to measure localization bias around a right-angle turn (L-trajectory) have found either no spatial bias off the trajectory (Whitney, Cavanagh, &amp; Murakami, 2000) or a bias, in different experiments, both 'inside' and 'outside' the trajectory (Nieman, Sheth, &amp; Shimojo, 2010). However, Eagleman and Sejnowski (2007) presented data showing that the perceived location of a brief feature on two moving stimuli could be predicted from the vector sum of their directions after the feature appeared. Such a vector sum with an L-trajectory could predict that the perceived position before the turn should be biased 'sideways' off the trajectory, in the direction of the final motion. With stimuli that particularly facilitated accurate vernier judgments, and measuring bias via the flash-lag illusion, this is indeed what we observed. Our data thus favour Eagleman and Sejnowski's (2007) supposition. Further, the bias occurred before the change in direction, rather than after it, supporting the contention that it is motion after a point being sampled that affects its perception (Bachmann et al., 2003; Eagleman &amp; Sejnowski, 2007; Krekelberg &amp; Lappe, 2000; Nieman, Sheth, &amp; Shimojo, 2010).
In masked priming, a briefly presented prime can facilitate or inhibit responses to a subsequent target. In most instances, targets with an associated response that is congruent with the prime direction speed up reaction times to the target (a positive compatibility effect; PCE). However, under certain circumstances, slower responses for compatible primes are obtained (a negative compatibility effect; NCE). NCEs can be found when a long pre-target delay is used. During the delay, inhibition is assumed to take place, and therefore an effect on saccade trajectories may also be expected. In a previous study, we found the effects of inhibition on response times and trajectories to be dissociated, but this experiment varied the timing of several aspects of the stimulus sequence and it is therefore unclear what caused the dissociation. In the present study, we varied only one aspect of the timing, but replicated the dissociation. By varying just the pre-target delay, we found a PCE for a short delay, and an NCE for a long delay, but saccade trajectories deviated away from prime directions in both conditions. This suggests dissociated inhibitory effects of primes on response times and saccade trajectories.
Antisaccades produce longer reaction times (RT) than their prosaccade counterparts and this latency increase has been linked to an oculomotor 'pre-setting' that prevents the evocation of a stimulus-driven prosaccade. Moreover, a consequence of oculomotor pre-setting is a lengthening of the RTs associated with a subsequent prosaccade. The goal of the present study was to determine whether the constituent elements associated with planning a correct antisaccade (i.e., response suppression and vector inversion) imparts a residual delay that inhibits the planning of a subsequent prosaccade. To that end, participants alternated between pro- and antisaccades in a pseudo-randomized task-switching schedule (e.g., AABBAAB) and responses were cued via a paradigm that was designed to evoke frequent error antisaccades (i.e., a saccade initially, and incorrectly, planned to the target stimulus). Results showed that RTs for correct antisaccades were longer than error antisaccades and that prosaccades preceded by the former, but not the latter, trial-type were associated with a reliable increase in RT (i.e., prosaccade switch-cost). In other words, error antisaccades were associated with a failure to withhold a stimulus-driven prosaccade and did not delay the planning of a subsequent prosaccade. Based on these findings we propose that the prosaccade switch-cost is not related to an explicit awareness of task goals; rather, our results are consistent with the assertion that a consequence of response suppression and vector inversion is a residual inhibition of stimulus-driven oculomotor planning networks.
Inhibition of return (IOR) most often describes the finding of increased response times to cued as compared to uncued targets in the standard covert orienting paradigm. A perennial question in the IOR literature centers on whether the effect of IOR is on motoric/decision-making processes (output-based IOR), attentional/perceptual processes (input-based IOR), or both. Recent data converge on the idea that IOR is an output-based effect when eye movements are required or permitted whereas IOR is an input-based effect when eye movements are monitored and actively discouraged. The notion that the effects of IOR may be fundamentally different depending on the activation state of the oculomotor system has been challenged by several studies demonstrating that IOR exists as an output-, or output- plus input-based effect in simple keypress tasks not requiring oculomotor responses. Problematically, experiments in which keypress responses are required to visual events rarely use eye movement monitoring let alone the active discouragement of eye movement errors. Here, we return to an experimental method implemented by Ivanoff and Klein (2001) whose results demonstrated that IOR affected output-based processes when, ostensibly, only keypress responses occurred. Unlike Ivanoff and Klein, however, we assiduously monitor and discourage eye movements. We demonstrate that actively discouraging eye movements in keypress tasks changes the form of IOR from output- to input-based and, as such, we strongly encourage superior experimental control over or consideration of the contribution of eye movement activity in simple keypress tasks exploring IOR.

The proper assembly of a cohort of distinct cell types is a prerequisite for building a functional hippocampus. In this review, we describe the major molecular events of the developmental program leading to the cellular construction of the hippocampus. Data from rodent studies are used here to elaborate on our understanding of these processes.
A case of acinic cell carcinoma of the right parotid gland metastasizing to the right iliac crest is presented. Generally, for this rare low-grade malignant salivary gland neoplasm, 20% of cases may have local recurrences whereas about 10% of cases have distant metastases. They may arise many years after the initial presentation of the original tumor. The most frequent locations are the cervical lymph nodes, liver, lungs, contralateral orbit and bones. Occurrence in the appendicular skeleton is very rare and in our knowledge this is the first report of metastases to the pelvis.
I considered this commitment, assigned to me for 2013, a prestigious form of recognition, and I have tried to give this distinguished auditorium the sense of the work that has been evolving throughout my years of neurosurgery. Since the late 1970s, surgery via a transsphenoidal approach had been used in our medical school to treat pituitary adenomas. As a result of transsphenoidal surgery, we have been able ascend to a new level, which has been our center of gravity and our model for renovation and improvement. We created a team committed to meticulous hard work, with each member in his or her own field and with his or her own techniques striving to turn projects into reality. This is a team of people who refuse to remain where they are, with respect for and always in favor of better outcomes for patients. This attitude has permitted the development of an efficient system of care and has made Naples a center of excellence for pituitary and skull base surgery.





The objective of this article is to provide a systematic review of the efficacy of electrical stimulation in healing pressure ulcer and to review its mechanism of action. The Cochrane Library, PubMed, CINAHL, Medline, EMBASE, and NHS EED were searched for relevant interventional studies including randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and observational studies. A best-evidence synthesis was performed to summarize the results of the included studies. A total of seven RCTs and two observational studies met the inclusion criteria. Moderate level of evidence of efficacy with low risk of bias was shown in all seven RCTs. Although some studies have used continuous direct current, most other investigators opted to use high-voltage pulsed current to minimize the risk of skin burn and to achieve greater current penetration. Overall, the incidence of adverse effects was very low. Two studies that assessed the economic impacts of electrical stimulation revealed substantial health care cost savings. The mechanisms through which electrical stimulation exerts a positive effect on pressure ulcer healing are reasonably well established. Clinical trials have revealed a moderate level of evidence to support its use as an ancillary treatment modality for healing pressure ulcer. Recommendations regarding the optimal electrical stimulation parameters and dosage of use are provided. Further studies to investigate potential barriers that may impede widespread use in different clinical settings are needed.
The application of next generation sequencing (NGS) technique has a great impact on epigenetic studies. Coupled with NGS, a number of sequencing-based methodologies have been developed and applied in epigenetic studies, such as Whole Genome Bisulfite Sequencing (WGBS), Reduced Representation Bisulfite Sequencing (RRBS), Methylated DNA Immunoprecipitation Sequencing (MeDIP-seq), Chromatin Immunoprecipitation-Sequencing (ChIP-seq), TAB-seq (Tet-assisted Bisulfite Sequencing), Chromosome Conformation Capture Sequencing (3C-seq) and various of 3C-seq de-rivatives, DNase1-seq/MNase-seq/FAIRE-seqand RNA Sequencing (RNA-seq). These new techniques were used to iden-tify DNA methylation patterns and a broad range of protein/nucleic acid interactions, and to analyze chromatin conforma-tion.With these new technologies, researchers have gained a broader view and better tools to investigate the distributions and dynamic changes of epigenetic markers affected by both internal and external factors. The principles and characteristics of major applications of NGS technologies on epigenetics were summarized; and the recent advances and the future direc-tions in NGS-based epigenetic studies were further discussed.


The goal of the work was to evaluate an anti-tubercular strategy based on breathable Solid Lipid Microparticles (SLM) to target alveolar macrophages and to increase the effectiveness of the conventional tuberculosis (TB) therapy. Rifampicin loaded SLM composed of stearic acid and sodium taurocholate were characterized for aerodynamic diameter, surface charge, physical state of the components, drug loading and release as well as drug biological activity on Bacillus subtilis strain. Moreover, SLM cytotoxicity and cell internalization ability were evaluated on murine macrophages J774 cell lines by MTT test, cytofluorimetry and confocal laser microscopy. SLM exhibited aerodynamic diameter proper to be transported up to the alveolar epithelium, negative charged surface able to promote uptake by the macrophages and preserved drug antimicrobial activity. The negligible in vitro release of rifampicin indicated the capacity of the microparticle matrix to entrap the drug preventing its spreading over the lung fluid. In vitro studies on J774 cell lines demonstrated SLM non-cytotoxicity and ability to be taken up by cell cytoplasm. The microparticulate carrier, showing features suitable for the inhaled therapy and for inducing endocytosis by alveolar macrophages, could be considered promising in a perspective of an efficacious TB inhaled therapy by means of a Dry Powder Inhaler device.
This paper highlights the use of hydrogels in controlled drug delivery, and their application in stimuli responsive, especially electro-responsive, drug release. electro-conductive hydrogels (ECHs) displaying electro-responsive drug release were synthesized from semi-interpenetrating networks (semi-IPNs) containing a poly(ethyleneimine) (PEI) and 1-vinylimidazole (VI) polymer blend as the novel electro-active species. The semi-IPNs are systems comprised of polyacrylic acid (PAA) and poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA). This paper attempts to investigate the various attributes of the electro-responsive ECHs, through institution of a statistical experimental design. The construction of a Box-Behnken design model was employed for the systematic optimization of the ECH composition. The design model comprised of three variables, viz. poly(ethyleneimine) volume; 1-vinylimidazole volume; and applied voltage, critical to the success of the formulation. Electro-responsive drug release was determined on formulations exposed to varying environments to ascertain the optimal environment for the said desired release. A comparison method of formulation water content and swelling through gravimetric analysis was also conducted. Matrix resilience profiles were obtained as an insight to the ability of the ECH to revert to its original structure following applied stress. Response surface and contour plots were constructed for various response variables, namely electro-responsive drug release, matrix resilience and degree of swelling. The outcomes of the study demonstrated the success of electro-responsive drug release. The findings of the study can be utilized for the development of electro-responsive delivery systems of other drugs for the safer and effective drug delivery. Volumes of poly(ethyleneimine) (&gt;2.6 mL) and 1-vinylimidazole (&gt;0.7 mL), resulted in ideal therapeutic electro-responsive drug release (0.8 mg) for indomethacin. Lower amounts of poly(ethyleneimine) and amounts of 1-vinylimidazole ranging from 0.2 to 0.74 mL are consistent with greater than 1.6 mg release per stimulation. Swelling of &lt;25-45% was seen.

Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type III (PI4KA) is a host factor essential for hepatitis C virus replication and hence is a target for drug development. PI4KA has also been linked to endoplasmic reticulum exit sites and generation of plasma membrane phosphoinositides. Here, we developed highly specific and potent inhibitors of PI4KA and conditional knock-out mice to study the importance of this enzyme in vitro and in vivo. Our studies showed that PI4KA is essential for the maintenance of plasma membrane phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate pools but only during strong stimulation of receptors coupled to phospholipase C activation. Pharmacological blockade of PI4KA in adult animals leads to sudden death closely correlating with the drug's ability to induce phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate depletion after agonist stimulation. Genetic inactivation of PI4KA also leads to death; however, the cause in this case is due to severe intestinal necrosis. These studies highlight the risks of targeting PI4KA as an anti-hepatitis C virus strategy and also point to important distinctions between genetic and pharmacological studies when selecting host factors as putative therapeutic targets.
The -site amyloid precursor protein (APP)-cleaving enzyme 1 (-secretase, BACE1) initiates amyloidogenic processing of APP to generate amyloid  (A), which is a hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology. Cerebral levels of BACE1 are elevated in individuals with AD, but the molecular mechanisms are not completely understood. We demonstrate that Rheb GTPase (Ras homolog enriched in brain), which induces mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activity, is a physiological regulator of BACE1 stability and activity. Rheb overexpression depletes BACE1 protein levels and reduces A generation, whereas the RNAi knockdown of endogenous Rheb promotes BACE1 accumulation, and this effect by Rheb is independent of its mTOR signaling. Moreover, GTP-bound Rheb interacts with BACE1 and degrades it through proteasomal and lysosomal pathways. Finally, we demonstrate that Rheb levels are down-regulated in the AD brain, which is consistent with an increased BACE1 expression. Altogether, our study defines Rheb as a novel physiological regulator of BACE1 levels and A generation, and the Rheb-BACE1 circuitry may have a role in brain biology and disease.



Previous studies have suggested that -pinene, a common volatile plant metabolite, may have anti-inflammatory effects in human chondrocytes, thus exhibiting potential antiosteoarthritic activity. The objective of this study was to further characterize the potential antiosteoarthritic activity of selected pinene derivatives by evaluating their ability to modulate inflammation and extracellular matrix remodeling in human chondrocytes and to correlate the biological and chemical properties by determining whether the effects are isomer- and/or enantiomer-selective. To further elucidate chemicopharmacological interactions, the activities of other naturally occurring monoterpenes with the pinane nucleus were also investigated. At noncytotoxic concentrations, (+)--pinene (1) elicited the most potent inhibition of the IL-1-induced inflammatory and catabolic pathways, namely, NF-B and JNK activation and the expression of the inflammatory (iNOS) and catabolic (MMP-1 and -13) genes. (-)--Pinene (2) was less active than the (+)-enantiomer (1), and -pinene (3) was inactive. E-Pinane (4) and oxygenated pinane-derived compounds, pinocarveol (5), myrtenal (6), (E)-myrtanol (7), myrtenol (8), and (Z)-verbenol (9), were less effective or even completely inactive and more cytotoxic than the pinenes tested (1-3). The data obtained show isomer- and enantiomer-selective anti-inflammatory and anticatabolic effects of -pinene in human chondrocytes, (+)--pinene (1) being the most promising for further studies to determine its potential value as an antiosteoarthritic drug.



A body of evidence suggests that aberrant metabolism of amyloid- peptide (A) underlies the aetiology of Alzheimer disease (AD). Recently, a single-nucleotide polymorphism in phosphatidylinositol binding clathrin assembly protein (PICALM/CALM) gene, which encodes a protein implicated in the clathrin-mediated endocytosis, was identified as a genetic protective factor for AD, although its mechanistic details have little been explored. Here we show that loss of CALM leads to the selective decrease in the production ratio of the pathogenic A species, A42. Active form of -secretase is constitutively endocytosed via the clathrin-mediated pathway in a CALM dependent manner. Alteration in the rate of clathrin-mediated endocytosis of -secretase causes a shift in its steady-state localization, which consequently impacts on the production ratio of A42. Our study identifies CALM as an endogenous modulator of -secretase activity by regulating its endocytosis and also as an excellent target for A42-lowering AD therapeutics.


Spontaneous depolarizations around the core are a consistent feature of focal cerebral ischemia, but the associated regional hemodynamic changes are heterogeneous. We determined how the features of depolarizations relate to subsequent cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes in global forebrain ischemia. Forebrain ischemia was produced in halothane-anesthetized rats (n=13) by common carotid artery occlusion and hypovolemic hypotension. Mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) was monitored via a femoral catheter. Specific illuminations allowed the capture of image sequences through a cranial window to visualize: changes in membrane potential (voltage-sensitive dye method); CBF (laser speckle contrast imaging); cerebral blood volume (intrinsic optical signal, IOS at 540-550nm); and hemoglobin deoxygenation (IOS at 620-640nm). A depolarization occurred (n=9) when CBF fell below 43.45% of control (414mmHg MABP), and propagated with a distinct wave front at a rate of 2.8mm/min. Depolarizations were either persistent (n=4), intermediate (n=3) or short, transient depolarization (n=2). Persistent and intermediate depolarizations were associated with sustained hypoperfusion (-11.75.1%) and transient hypoperfusion (-17.45.2, relative to CBF before depolarization). Short, transient depolarizations did not generate clear CBF responses. Depolarizations during incomplete global ischemia occurred at the lower limit of CBF autoregulation, propagated similar to spreading depolarization (SD), and the hemodynamic responses indicated inverse neurovascular coupling. Similar to SDs associated with focal stroke, the propagating event can be persistent or transient.
The 5-HT (5-hydroxytryptamine) system has been assigned a key role in the development of 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-l-alanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia, mainly due to 5-HT neuronal ability to decarboxylate l-DOPA into dopamine. Nevertheless, knowledge of l-DOPA-induced events that could lead to development of dyskinesias are limited and therefore the present work has evaluated (i) the role of the 5-HT system in l-DOPA-derived dopamine synthesis when dopamine neurons are present, (ii) l-DOPA-induced effects on striatal dopamine release and clearance, and on 5-HT nerve fiber density, and (iii) the behavioral outcome of altered 5-HT transmission in dyskinetic rats. Chronoamperometric recordings demonstrated attenuated striatal l-DOPA-derived dopamine release (30%) upon removal of 5-HT nerve fibers in intact animals. Interestingly, four weeks of daily l-DOPA treatment yielded similar-sized dopamine peak amplitudes in intact animals as found after a 5-HT-lesion. Moreover, chronic l-DOPA exposure attenuated striatal 5-HT nerve fiber density in the absence of dopamine nerve terminals. Furthermore, fluoxetine-induced altered 5-HT transmission blocked dyskinetic behavior via action on 5-HT1A receptors. Taken together, the results indicate a central role for the 5-HT system in l-DOPA-derived dopamine synthesis and in dyskinesia, and therefore potential l-DOPA-induced deterioration of 5-HT function might reduce l-DOPA efficacy as well as promote the upcoming of motor side effects.
Hippocampus is one of the brain regions in which neuroplastic changes occur. Paradigms such as environmental enrichment (ENR) have been used to prevent or delay the neuroplastic changes of the hippocampus during aging. Here, we investigated the beneficial effects of ENR on dendritic spines and hippocampal neurogenesis in middle age BalbC mice. ENR increased the number of dendritic spines, cell survival, and intermediate stages of the hippocampal neurodevelopment process. Also, ENR alters the distribution of cells involved in the neurogenic process along the dorsal-ventral dentate gyrus. In addition, ENR increased the proportion of cells with more mature dendritic morphology and net hippocampal neurogenesis. Whole-hippocampus protein extracts revealed that ENR increases the levels of BDNF, phospho-Akt and phospho-MAPK1/2, suggesting that the positive effects of ENR on neuroplasticity in middle age BalbC mice involve the participation of these key-signaling proteins. Our results suggest that ENR is a relevant strategy to prevent neuroplastic decline by increasing the formation of both dendritic spines and new neurons in the hippocampus during middle age.

High fructose intake is associated with increased plasma triglyceride concentration, hepatic steatosis, impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, and high blood pressure. In addition, increased fructose intake has recently been supposed to be a risk factor for dementia. However, direct effects of fructose on the brain function remain to be clarified. The localization of glucose transporter 5 (Glut5), a representative transporter of fructose, was immunohistochemically examined in the brains of humans, rats, and mice to clarify whether fructose was transported from the blood into the brain. Glut5 immunoreactivity was demonstrated to be located in the epithelial cells of the choroid plexus and the ependymal cells in the brains of humans and rats using commercial antibodies for Glut5. In addition, mRNA expression of mouse Glut5 was confirmed in the brains of mice. Immunohistochemical examination using a custom-made antibody against two regions of amino acid sequences of mouse Glut5 revealed that Glut5 immunoreactivity was also seen in the epithelial cells of the choroid plexus and the ependymal cells in the brains of mice. These findings show that Glut5 immunoreactivity is located in the epithelial cells of the choroid plexus and the ependymal cells, suggesting the possibility of the direct transportation of intravascular fructose into the brain parenchyma.
Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) is a transcription factor involved in the orchestration of antioxidant responses. Although its pharmacological activation has been largely hypothesized as a promising tool to ameliorate the progression of neurodegenerative events, the actual knowledge about its modulation in neurotoxic paradigms remains scarce. In this study, we investigated the early profile of Nrf2 modulation in striatal slices of rodents incubated in the presence of the toxic kynurenine pathway metabolite, quinolinic acid (QUIN). Tissue slices from rats and mice were obtained and used throughout the experiments in order to compare inter-species responses. Nuclear Nrf2 protein levels and oxidative damage to lipids were compared. Time- and concentration-response curves of all markers were explored. Nrf2 nuclear activation was corroborated through phase 2 antioxidant protein expression. The effects of QUIN on Nrf2 modulation and oxidative stress were also compared between slices of wild-type (Nrf2(+/+)) and Nrf2 knock-out (Nrf2(-/-)) mice. The possible involvement of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAr) in the Nrf2 modulation and lipid peroxidation was further explored in mice striatal slices. In rat striatal slices, QUIN stimulated the Nrf2 nuclear translocation. This effect was accompanied by augmented lipid peroxidation. In the mouse striatum, QUIN per se exerted an induction of Nrf2 factor only at 1h of incubation, and a concentration-response effect on lipid peroxidation after 3h of incubation. QUIN stimulated the striatal content of phase 2 enzymes. Nrf2(-/-) mice were slightly more responsive than Nrf2(+/+) mice to the QUIN-induced oxidative damage, and completely unresponsive to the NMDAr antagonist MK-801 when tested against QUIN. Findings of this study indicate that: (1) Nrf2 is modulated in rodent striatal tissue in response to QUIN; (2) Nrf2(-/-) striatal tissue was moderately more vulnerable to oxidative damage than the Wt condition; and (3) early Nrf2 up-regulation reflects a compensatory response to the QUIN-induced oxidative stress in course as part of a general defense system, whereas Nrf2 down-regulation might contribute to more intense oxidative cell damage.
Inflammation-induced chemoattraction plays a major role in adult subventricular zone (SVZ)-derived precursor cell migration following neural cell loss, in particular through the release of chemokines by activated microglia and macrophages. We previously demonstrated that monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) (chemokine (c-c motif) ligand (CCL)2), macrophage inflammatory protein-1 (MIP-1) (CCL3) and growth regulatory protein- (GRO-) (chemokine (c-x-c motif) ligand (CXCL)1) are up-regulated following neural cell loss in the adult striatum and act as potent chemoattractants for SVZ-derived precursor cells in vitro. Based on these observations, the current study aimed to examine the individual effect of MCP-1, MIP-1 and GRO- on the migration of adult SVZ-derived neural precursor cells in vivo. To address this without the confounding effects of injury-induced chemotactic cues, adeno-associated viral (AAV)2-mediated in vivo gene transfer was used to ectopically express either MCP-1, MIP-1 or GRO-, or the control red fluorescent protein (RFP) in the normal adult rat striatum. The extent of doublecortin (Dcx)-positive cell recruitment from the SVZ into the striatal parenchyma was then determined at 4 and 8weeks following AAV2 injection. Ectopic expression either of MCP-1 or MIP-1 in the normal adult rat brain significantly increased the number of Dcx-positive cells and the extent of their migration into the striatum at both 4 and 8weeks after vector injection but did not promote either precursor cell proliferation or neural differentiation. In contrast, while over-expression of GRO- 4weeks after vector injection induced a significant increase in Dcx-positive cell migration compared to control, this effect was reduced to control levels by 8weeks post injection. Further, direct comparison between MCP-1, MIP-1 and GRO- at both 4 and 8weeks post vector injection indicated that GRO- may have a reduced effect in inducing Dcx-positive cell migration when compared to MCP-1. Combined, these results confirm that over-expression of the chemokines MCP-1, MIP-1 and GRO- can override cues directing precursor cell migration along the rostral migratory stream (RMS) and provides a mechanism by which neural precursor cell migration can be redirected into a non-neurogenic region. Differences in the migratory effect observed between individual chemokine may be due to ligand-binding affinity and/or receptor expression on SVZ-derived precursor cells.
Brain injury due to neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is more homogenously severe in male than in female mice. Because, necrostatin-1 (nec-1) prevents injury progression only in male mice, we hypothesized that changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling after HI and nec-1 are also sex-specific providing differential conditions to promote recovery of those more severely injured. The increased aromatization of testosterone in male mice during early development and the link between 17--estradiol (E2) levels and BDNF transcription substantiate this hypothesis. Hence, we aimed to investigate if sexual differences in BDNF signaling existed in forebrain and diencephalon after HI and HI/nec-1 and their correlation with estrogen receptors (ER). C57B6 mice (p7) received nec-1 (0.1l [8M]) or vehicle (veh) intracerebroventricularly after HI. At 24h after HI, BDNF levels increased in both sexes in forebrain without evidence of tropomyosin-receptor-kinase B (TrkB) activation. At 96h after HI, BDNF levels in forebrain decreased below those seen in control mice of both sexes. Additionally, only in female mice, truncated TrkB (Tc.TrkB) and p75 neurotrophic receptor (p75ntr) levels increased in forebrain and diencephalon. In both, forebrain and diencephalon, nec-1 treatment increased BDNF levels and TrkB activation in male mice while, nec-1 prevented Tc.TrkB and p75ntr increases in female mice. While E2 levels were unchanged by HI or HI/nec-1 in either sex or treatment, ER:ER ratios were increased in diencephalon of nec-1-treated male mice and directly correlated with BDNF levels. Neonatal HI produces sex-specific signaling changes in the BDNF system, that are differentially modulated by nec-1. The regional differences in BDNF levels may be a consequence of injury severity after HI, but sexual differences in response to nec-1 after HI may represent a differential thalamo-cortical preservation or alternatively off-target regional effect of nec-1. The biological significance of ER predominance and its correlation with BDNF levels is still unclear.
Our laboratory has previously described the characteristics of neuronal injury in a rat compression model of spinal cord injury (SCI), focussing on the impact of this injury on the gray matter. However, white matter damage is known to play a critical role in functional outcome following injury. Therefore, in the present study, we used immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to examine the alterations to the white matter that are initiated by compression SCI applied at T12 vertebral level. A significant loss of axonal and dendritic cytoskeletal proteins was observed at the injury epicenter within 1day of injury. This was accompanied by axonal dysfunction, as demonstrated by the accumulation of -amyloid precursor protein (-APP), with a peak at 3days post-SCI. A similar, acute loss of cytoskeletal proteins was observed up to 5mm away from the injury epicenter and was particularly evident rostral to the lesion site, whereas -APP accumulation was prominent in tracts proximal to the injury. Early myelin loss was confirmed by myelin basic protein (MBP) immunostaining and by electron microscopy, which also highlighted the infiltration of inflammatory and red blood cells. However, 6weeks after injury, areas of new Schwann cell and oligodendrocyte myelination were observed. This study demonstrates that substantial white matter damage occurs following compression SCI in the rat. Moreover, the loss of cytoskeletal proteins and accumulation of -APP up to 5mm away from the lesion site within 1day of injury indicates the rapid manner in which the axonal damage extends in the rostro-caudal axis. This is likely due to both Wallerian degeneration and spread of secondary cell death, with the latter affecting axons both proximal and distal to the injury.
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) has protective effects on many neurological diseases. Here, we aimed to test G-CSF's effects on perihematomal tissue injuries following intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and examine whether the effects were functionally dependent on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and aquaporin-4 (AQP4). We detected the expression of perihematomal VEGF, VEGF receptors (VEGFRs) and AQP4 at 1, 3 and 7days after ICH. Also, we examined the effects of G-CSF on tissue injuries by ICH in wild type mice, and tested whether such effects were VEGF and AQP4 dependent by using VEGFR inhibitor - SU5416 and AQP4 knock-out (AQP4(-/-)) mice. Furthermore, we assessed the related signal transduction pathways via astrocyte cultures. We found G-CSF highly increased perihematomal VEGF, VEGFR-2 and AQP4. Importantly, G-CSF led to neurological functional improvement in both types of mice by associating with reduction of brain edema, blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability and neuronal death and apoptosis and statistical analysis suggested AQP4 was required for these effects. Besides, except BBB leakage alleviation, the above effects were attenuated but not counteracted by SU5416, suggesting involvement of VEGF. G-CSF up-regulated phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) as well as VEGF and AQP4 proteins in cultured astrocytes. The latter was inhibited by ERK and STAT3 inhibitors respectively. Our data suggest the protective effects of G-CSF on perihematomal tissue injuries after ICH are highly associated with the increased levels of VEGF and AQP4, possibly act through C-Jun amino-terminal kinase and ERK pathways respectively.
Adenosine is a wide-spread endogenous neuromodulator. In the central nervous system it activates A1 and A2A receptors (A1Rs and A2ARs) which have differential distributions, different affinities to adenosine, are coupled to different G-proteins, and have opposite effects on synaptic transmission. Although effects of adenosine are studied in detail in several brain areas, such as the hippocampus and striatum, the heterogeneity of the effects of A1R and A2AR activation and their differential distribution preclude generalization over brain areas and cell types. Here we study adenosine's effects on excitatory synaptic transmission to layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in slices of the rat visual cortex. We measured effects of bath application of adenosine receptor ligands on evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), miniature excitatory postsynaptic potentials (mEPSPs), and membrane properties. Adenosine reduced the amplitude of evoked EPSPs and excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), and reduced frequency of mEPSPs in a concentration-dependent and reversible manner. Concurrent with EPSP/C amplitude reduction was an increase in the paired-pulse ratio. These effects were blocked by application of the selective A1R antagonist DPCPX (8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine), suggesting that activation of presynaptic A1Rs suppresses excitatory transmission by reducing release probability. Adenosine (20M) hyperpolarized the cell membrane from -65.31.5 to -67.71.8mV, and reduced input resistance from 396.544.4 to 314.036.3MOhm (20%). These effects were also abolished by DPCPX, suggesting postsynaptic A1Rs. Application of the selective A2AR antagonist SCH-58261 (2-(2-furanyl)-7-(2-phenylethyl)-7H-pyrazolo[4,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5-a-mine) on the background of high adenosine concentrations revealed an additional decrease in EPSP amplitude. Moreover, application of the A2AR agonist CGS-21680 (4-[2-[[6-amino-9-(N-ethyl--d-ribofuranuronamidosyl)-9H-purin-2-yl]amino]ethyl]benzenepropanoic acid hydrochloride) led to an A1R-dependent increase in mEPSP frequency. Dependence of the A2AR effects on the A1R availability suggests interaction between these receptors, whereby A2ARs exert their facilitatory effect on synaptic transmission by inhibiting the A1R-mediated suppression. Our results demonstrate functional pre and postsynaptic A1Rs and presynaptic A2ARs in layer 2/3 of the visual cortex, and suggest interaction between presynaptic A2ARs and A1Rs.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the mammalian hypothalamus contains a circadian clock for timing of diverse neuronal, endocrine, and behavioral rhythms, such as the cycle of sleep and wakefulness. Using extracellular single unit recordings, we have determined, for the first time, the discharge activity of individual SCN neurons during the complete wake-sleep cycle in non-anesthetized, head restrained mice. SCN neurons (n=79) were divided into three types according to their regular (type I; n=38) or irregular (type II; n=19) discharge activity throughout the wake-sleep cycle or their quiescent activity during waking and irregular discharge activity during sleep (type III; n=22). The type I and II neurons displayed a long-duration action potential, while the type III neurons displayed either a short-duration or long-duration action potential. The type I neurons discharged exclusively as single isolated spikes, whereas the type II and III neurons fired as single isolated spikes, clusters, or bursts. The type I and II neurons showed wake-active, wake/paradoxical (or rapid eye movement) sleep-active, or state-unrelated activity profiles and were, respectively, mainly located in the ventral or dorsal region of the SCN. In contrast, the type III neurons displayed sleep-active discharge profiles and were mainly located in the lateral region of the SCN. The majority of type I and II neurons tested showed an increase in discharge rate following application of light to the animal's eyes. Of the 289 extra-SCN neurons recorded, those displaying sleep-active discharge profiles were mainly located dorsal to the SCN, whereas those displaying wake-active discharge profiles were mainly located lateral or dorsolateral to the SCN. This study shows heterogeneity of mouse SCN and surrounding anterior hypothalamic neurons and suggests differences in their topographic organization and roles in mammalian circadian rhythms and the regulation of sleep and wakefulness.

The neuropeptide vasopressin (AVP; arginine-vasopressin) is produced in a handful of brain nuclei located in the hypothalamus and extended amygdala and is released both peripherally as a hormone and within the central nervous system as a neurotransmitter. Central projections have been associated with a number of functions including regulation of physiological homeostasis, control of circadian rhythms, and modulation of social behavior. The AVP neurons located in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial amygdala (i.e., extended amygdala) in particular have been associated with affiliative social behavior in multiple species. It was recently demonstrated that in the mouse AVP projections emanating from extended amygdala neurons innervate a number of forebrain and midbrain brain regions including the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR), the site of origin of most forebrain-projecting serotonin neurons. Based on the presence of AVP fibers in the DR, we hypothesized that AVP would alter the physiology of serotonin neurons via AVP 1A receptor (V1AR) activation. Using whole-cell electrophysiology techniques, we found that AVP increased the frequency and amplitude of excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs) in serotonin neurons of male mice. The indirect stimulation of serotonin neurons was AMPA/kainate receptor dependent and blocked by the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin, suggesting an effect of AVP on glutamate neurons. Further, the increase in EPSC frequency induced by AVP was blocked by selective V1AR antagonists. Our data suggest that AVP had an excitatory influence on serotonin neurons. This work highlights a new target (i.e., V1AR) for manipulating serotonin neuron excitability. In light of our data, we propose that some of the diverse effects of AVP on physiology and behavior, including social behavior, may be due to activation of the DR serotonin system.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is implicated in the pathophysiology of psychiatric conditions including major depression and schizophrenia. Mice lacking activity-driven BDNF expression through promoter IV (knock-in promoter IV: KIV) exhibit depression-like behavior, inflexible learning, and impaired response inhibition. Monoamine systems (serotonin, dopamine, and noradrenaline) are suggested to be involved in depression and schizophrenia since many of the current antidepressants and antipsychotics increase the brain levels of monoamines and/or act on monoamine receptors. To elucidate the impact of activity-driven BDNF on the monoamine systems, we examined mRNA levels for 30 monoamine-related genes, including receptors, transporters, and synthesizing enzymes, in KIV and control wild-type mice by using quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). mRNA levels were measured in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, which are regions related to depression and schizophrenia and where promoter IV is active. The frontal cortex of KIV mice showed reduced levels of mRNA expression for serotonin receptors 1b, 2a, and 5b (5HTR1b, 5HTR2a, 5HTR5b), dopamine D2 receptors (DRD2), and adrenergic receptors alpha 1a and 1d (AdR1a and AdR1b), but increased levels for serotonin synthesizing enzyme, tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), and dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) when compared to control wild-type mice. The hippocampus of KIV mice showed decreased levels of 5HTR5b. Our results provide causal evidence that lack of promoter IV-driven BDNF disturbs expression of monoaminergic genes in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. These disturbed expression changes in the monoamine systems may mediate the depression- and schizophrenia-like behavior of KIV mice. Our results also suggest that antidepressant and antipsychotic treatments may actually interfere with and normalize the disturbed monoamine systems caused by reduced activity-dependent BDNF, while the treatment responses to these drugs may differ in the subject with reduced BDNF levels caused by stress and lack of neuronal activity.
Extinction is a well-known and important behavioral phenomenon that allows an organism to adapt its behavior to its environment. Previous studies have shown that the expression of extinction is highly context dependent, meanwhile, conditioning context, as part of fear memory, might have influence on extinction formation. To this end, we have conducted four different extinction paradigms in this study: extinction conducted in the conditioning context but tested in another, novel context (AAB); conditioning in one context and extinction and testing in the second (ABB); conditioning in context A, extinction training in context B, but test back to context A (ABA); and extinction training in a third context, context C (ACB). Additionally, a low dose of the GABAA agonist muscimol was used to temporarily inactivate CA1 to observe its effect in extinction. Our results showed that rats under the AAB, but not the ACB or ABA condition, showed a similar level of freezing compared with the typical ABB extinction paradigm. Moreover, muscimol infused into CA1 before extinction training resulted in impaired extinction and down-regulation of NR2B activity and phosphorylated GluR1 (at Ser845) in CA1, and the expression levels of NR2B and GluR1 were decreased significantly in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Thus, CA1 may play an important role in the context-specific expression of fear extinction, and Ser845 may be a phosphorylation site in GluR1 in CA1, triggering the context-specific response of extinction memory.
The study describes for the first time the colocalization pattern of calbindin (CB) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) in the mammillary body (MB) and anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) - structures connected in a topographically organized manner by the mammillothalamic tract (mtt). Immunohistochemical study was performed on fetal (E40, E50, E60), newborn (P0) and postnatal (P20, P80) brains of the guinea pig, but the coexistence pattern of the substances was invariable throughout the examined developmental stages. CB and CART colocalized in the perikarya of the lateral part of the medial mammillary nucleus (MMl), whereas in its medial part (MMm) only CB was detected. In the mtt, which originates from the MB, both the substances were present and colocalized in single fibers. Next, fibers from the mtt spread toward the ATN in a particular way: fibers containing CB ran to both the anteromedial thalamic nucleus (AM) and anteroventral thalamic nucleus (AV), while fibers containing CART ran mostly to the latter one. In the ventral part of AV, CB and CART colocalized vastly in the neuropil. The lateral mammillary nucleus and anterodorsal thalamic nucleus were virtually devoid of CB- and CART-positive structures. Based on the known connections between the MB and ATN, we conclude that the studied substances may cooperate in the MMl-AV part of the axis and CB plays a significant role in the MMm-AM part.
-Tocopherol (vitamin E) is an essential dietary antioxidant with important neuroprotective functions. -Tocopherol deficiency manifests primarily in neurological pathologies, notably cerebellar dysfunctions such as spinocerebellar ataxia. To study the roles of -tocopherol in the cerebellum, we used the -tocopherol transfer protein for the murine version (Ttpa(-/)(-)) mice which lack the -tocopherol transfer protein (TTP) and are a faithful model of vitamin E deficiency and oxidative stress. When fed vitamin E-deficient diet, Ttpa(-/)(-) mice had un-detectable levels of -tocopherol in plasma and several brain regions. Dietary supplementation with -tocopherol normalized plasma levels of the vitamin, but only modestly increased its levels in the cerebellum and prefrontal cortex, indicating a critical function of brain TTP. Vitamin E deficiency caused an increase in cerebellar oxidative stress evidenced by increased protein nitrosylation, which was prevented by dietary supplementation with the vitamin. Concomitantly, vitamin E deficiency precipitated cellular atrophy and diminished dendritic branching of Purkinje neurons, the predominant output regulator of the cerebellar cortex. The anatomic decline induced by vitamin E deficiency was paralleled by behavioral deficits in motor coordination and cognitive functions that were normalized upon vitamin E supplementation. These observations underscore the essential role of vitamin E and TTP in maintaining CNS function, and support the notion that -tocopherol supplementation may comprise an effective intervention in oxidative stress-related neurological disorders.
To maintain perception of the world around us during body motion, the brain must update the spatial presentation of visual stimuli, known as space updating. Previous studies have demonstrated that vestibular signals contribute to space updating. Nonetheless, when being passively rotated in the dark, the ability to keep track of a memorized earth-fixed target (EFT) involves learning mechanism(s). We tested whether such learning generalizes across different EFT eccentricities. Furthermore, we ascertained whether learning transfers to similar target eccentricities but in the opposite direction. Participants were trained to predict the position of an EFT (located at 45 to their left) while being rotated counterclockwise (i.e., they press a push button when they perceived that their body midline have cross the position of the target). Overall, the results indicated that learning transferred to other target eccentricity (30 and 60) for identical body rotation direction. In contrast, vestibular learning partly transferred to target location's matching body rotation but in the opposite rotation direction. Generalization of learning implies that participants do not adopt cognitive strategies to improve their performance during training. We argue that the brain learned to use vestibular signals for space updating. Generalization of learning while being rotated in the opposite direction implies that some parts of the neural networks involved in space updating is shared between trained and untrained direction.
Bipolar disorder is a neuropsychiatric disease characterized by states of mania with or without depression. Pharmacological treatments can be inadequate at regulating mood for many individuals. Melatonin therapy and aerobic exercise are independent prospective therapies for bipolar disorder that have shown potential as mood stabilizers in humans. Myshkin mice (Myk/+) carry a heterozygous missense mutation in the neuronal Na(+),K(+)-ATPase 3 and model mania-related symptoms of bipolar disorder including increased activity, risk-taking behavior and reductions in sleep. One cohort of Myk/+ and wild-type littermates (+/+) was treated with melatonin and a separate cohort was treated with voluntary exercise. Mania-related behavior was assessed in both cohorts. The effect of melatonin on sleep and the effect of exercise on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the hippocampus were assayed. Melatonin and voluntary wheel running were both effective at reducing mania-related behavior in Myk/+ but did not affect behavior in +/+. Melatonin increased sleep in Myk/+ and did not change sleep in +/+. Myk/+ showed higher baseline levels of BDNF protein in the hippocampus than +/+. Exercise increased BDNF protein in +/+ hippocampus, while it did not significantly affect BDNF levels in Myk/+ hippocampus. These findings support initial studies in humans indicating that melatonin and exercise are useful independent adjunct therapies for bipolar disorder. Their effects on mood regulation should be further examined in randomized clinical trials. Our results also suggest that hippocampal BDNF may not mediate the effects of exercise on mania-related behavior in the Myk/+ model of mania.
Age-related hearing loss (presbycusis) is caused mainly by the hypofunction of the inner ear, but recent findings point also toward a central component of presbycusis. We used MR morphometry and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) with a 3T MR system with the aim to study the state of the central auditory system in a group of elderly subjects (&gt;65years) with mild presbycusis, in a group of elderly subjects with expressed presbycusis and in young controls. Cortical reconstruction, volumetric segmentation and auditory pathway tractography were performed. Three parameters were evaluated by morphometry: the volume of the gray matter, the surface area of the gyrus and the thickness of the cortex. In all experimental groups the surface area and gray matter volume were larger on the left side in Heschl's gyrus and planum temporale and slightly larger in the gyrus frontalis superior, whereas they were larger on the right side in the primary visual cortex. Almost all of the measured parameters were significantly smaller in the elderly subjects in Heschl's gyrus, planum temporale and gyrus frontalis superior. Aging did not change the side asymmetry (laterality) of the gyri. In the central part of the auditory pathway above the inferior colliculus, a trend toward an effect of aging was present in the axial vector of the diffusion (L1) variable of DTI, with increased values observed in elderly subjects. A trend toward a decrease of L1 on the left side, which was more pronounced in the elderly groups, was observed. The effect of hearing loss was present in subjects with expressed presbycusis as a trend toward an increase of the radial vectors (L2L3) in the white matter under Heschl's gyrus. These results suggest that in addition to peripheral changes, changes in the central part of the auditory system in elderly subjects are also present; however, the extent of hearing loss does not play a significant role in the central changes.
We have shown previously that the netrin-1 receptor, unc-5 homologue C (UNC5C), is expressed by ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neurons of rodents, but only from adolescence onwards (Manitt et al., 2010; Auger et al., 2013). The goal of this study was to characterize the expression of UNC5C by these neurons. Specifically, we assessed whether UNC5C expression is selective to DA neurons that project to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), which undergo significant maturation during the adolescent period. To this end, we injected fluorescent retrograde tracer beads into the mPFC, nucleus accumbens (NAcc) core, or NAcc lateral shell of adult male wild-type C57Bl/6J mice and processed their brains for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and UNC5C immunofluorescence 2-3weeks later. VTA neurons with any combination of these immunolabels were visualized and counted using optical fractionator stereology. Our analysis revealed two main findings: (1) there are no differences in the proportions of UNC5C-positive DA neurons projecting to the mPFC, NAcc core, or NAcc lateral shell, and (2) the proportion of non-DA UNC5C-positive neurons targeting the mPFC is greater than the proportions of non-DA UNC5C-positive neurons targeting the NAcc core or lateral shell. These findings show that, contrary to our hypothesis, DA neurons projecting to the mPFC do not express UNC5C selectively. However, UNC5C expression by non-DA VTA neurons is predominantly found in those projecting to the mPFC and, as such, may play a role in their function.
Enkephalin (ENK) has been postulated to play important roles in modulating nociceptive transmission, and it has been proved that ENKergic neurons acted as a critical component of sensory circuit in the adult spinal cord. Revealing the developmental characteristics of spinal ENKergic neurons will be helpful for understanding the formation and alteration of the sensory circuit under pain status. However, the relationship between the embryonic birth date and the adult distribution of ENKergic neurons has remained largely unknown due to the difficulties in visualizing the ENKergic neurons clearly. Taking advantage of the preproenkephalin-green fluorescent protein (PPE-GFP) transgenic mice in identifying ENKergic neurons, we performed the current birth-dating study and examined the spinal ENKergic neurogenesis. The ENKergic neurons born on different developmental stages and their final location during adulthood were investigated by combining bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation and GFP labeling. The spinal ENKergic neurogenesis was restricted at E9.5 to E14.5, and fitted in the same pattern of spinal neurogenesis. Further comparative analysis revealed that spinal ENKergic neurons underwent heterogeneous characteristics. Our study also indicated that the laminar arrangement of ENKergic neurons in the superficial spinal dorsal horn depended on the neurogenesis stages. Taken together, the present study suggested that the birth date of ENKergic neurons is one determinant for their arrangement and function.
The dystonias are a group of disorders defined by sustained or intermittent muscle contractions that result in involuntary posturing or repetitive movements. There are many different clinical manifestations and causes. Although they traditionally have been ascribed to dysfunction of the basal ganglia, recent evidence has suggested dysfunction may originate from other regions, particularly the cerebellum. This recent evidence has led to an emerging view that dystonia is a network disorder that involves multiple brain regions. The new network model for the pathogenesis of dystonia has raised many questions, particularly regarding the role of the cerebellum. For example, if dystonia may arise from cerebellar dysfunction, then why are there no cerebellar signs in dystonia? Why are focal cerebellar lesions or degenerative cerebellar disorders more commonly associated with ataxia rather than dystonia? Why is dystonia more commonly associated with basal ganglia lesions rather than cerebellar lesions? Can answers obtained from animals be extrapolated to humans? Is there any evidence that the cerebellum is not involved? Finally, what is the practical value of this new model of pathogenesis for the neuroscientist and clinician? This article explores potential answers to these questions.
Sub-threshold psychotic symptoms are quite commonly present in general population. Among these, Magical Ideation (MI) has been proved to be a valid predictor of psychosis. However, the genetic and environmental influences on the interplay between MI and personality have not fully been explored. A total of 534 adult twins from the population-based Italian Twin Register were assessed for MI using the MI Scale (MIS) and for personality with the temperament and character inventory (TCI). A Multivariate Cholesky model was applied with Mx statistical program. The best-fitting model showed that additive genetic and unshared environmental factors explain approximately the same proportion of variance in MI, whereas a less strong genetic influence on personality traits emerged. Relevant correlations between MI and specific personality traits (novelty seeking, cooperativeness, self-directedness, self-transcendence) were found, suggesting shared influences for MI and these traits. Both genetic and environmental factors explained these correlations, with genetic factors playing a predominant role. Moderate-to-substantial genetic effects on MI and personality were found. Shared genetic and environmental effects underlie the phenotypic correlation between MI (psychosis-proneness) and personality traits, i.e. self-directedness (negative association) and self-transcendence (positive association), potentially representing predictive markers of psychosis liability related to schizotypy and personality.
A meta-analysis study reported serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels as a potential biomarker for schizophrenia. However, at the time, commercially available human ELISA kits were unable to distinguish between pro-BDNF (precursor BDNF) and mature BDNF, because of limited antibody specificity. Here, we used new ELISA kits, to examine serum levels of mature BDNF and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which converts pro-BDNF to mature BDNF in schizophrenia. Sixty-three patients with chronic schizophrenia and 52 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were enrolled. Patients were evaluated using the Brief Psychiatry Rating Scale, the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS) and neuropsychological tests. Neither serum mature BDNF nor MMP-9 levels differed between patients and controls. In male subgroups, serum MMP-9 levels of smoking patients were higher than those of non-smoking patients, but this was not observed in male controls or the female subgroup. In patients, serum mature BDNF levels were associated with SANS total scores and the Information subtest scores of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Revised (WAIS-R), while serum MMP-9 levels were associated with smoking and category fluency scores. These findings suggest that neither mature BDNF nor MMP-9 is a suitable biomarker for schizophrenia, although further studies using large samples are needed.
Cross-cultural differences in attitudes toward schizophrenia are suggested, while no studies have compared such attitudes between the United States and Japan. In our previous study in Japan (Hori et al., 2011), 197 subjects in the general population and 112 physicians (excluding psychiatrists) enrolled in a web-based survey using an Internet-based questionnaire format. Utilizing the identical web-based survey method in the United States, the present study enrolled 172 subjects in the general population and 45 physicians. Participants' attitudes toward schizophrenia were assessed with the English version of the 18-item questionnaire used in our previous Japanese survey. Using exploratory factor analysis, we identified four factors labeled &quot;social distance,&quot; &quot;belief of dangerousness,&quot; &quot;underestimation of patients' abilities,&quot; and &quot;skepticism regarding treatment.&quot; The two-way multivariate analysis of covariance on the four factors, with country and occupation as the between-subject factors and with potentially confounding demographic variables as the covariates, revealed that the general population in the US scored significantly lower than the Japanese counterparts on the factors &quot;social distance&quot; and &quot;skepticism regarding treatment&quot; and higher on &quot;underestimation of patients' abilities.&quot; Our results suggest that culture may have an important role in shaping attitudes toward mental illness. Anti-stigma campaigns that target culture-specific biases are considered important.
Anhedonia is present in Parkinson's Disease (PD) as well as in addictive behaviors. Pathological Gambling (PG) and other Impulse Control Disorders (ICDs) have emerged as iatrogenic complications associated with dopamine replacement therapy. We studied 154 PD patients, divided into three groups: 11 with PG, 23 with other ICDs (compulsive buying, hypersexuality, binge eating), 120 without ICDs. All patients underwent a thorough clinical, neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluation. The PG-group, compared to the ICDs-group and PD-controls, reported a significantly higher incidence of anhedonia (45% vs. 9% vs. 14% respectively), higher Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale (SHAPS) scores (2.01.3 vs. 1.01.1 vs. 1.01.2), higher levels of impulsivity traits as measured by the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (70.010.6 vs. 64.811 vs. 60.99.3) and more severe frontal dysfunctions (Frontal Assessment Battery, FAB: 12.44.9 vs. 15.51.6 vs. 14.43). A model for PG (incorporating anhedonia, impulsivity levels and frontal impairment) is discussed in the context of the pathophysiology of addictive behaviors. The impairment of hedonic capacity, possibly resulting from an underlying neuropsychological dysfunction, might facilitate loss of control over reward-related behavior, thus favoring the shift towards predominantly habit-based compulsive behaviors.
The prevalence of postpartum depression is approximately 13%. Postpartum depression is associated with a higher maternal morbidity and mortality, and also with pervasive effects on the emotional, cognitive and behavioral development of the child. The aim of our study was to identify socio-demographic, psychosocial and obstetrical risk factors of postpartum depression in a middle class community sample, using a prospective design. We enrolled consecutively 312 pregnant outpatients in a single maternity unit. The first assessment was conducted between 32 and 41 weeks gestation, and a second time between 6 and 8 weeks after delivery. Depressive symptoms were measured using the French version of the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS). A cut-off score of 12/30 or above was considered as indicative of Major Depression. Of the initial sample of 312 women, 264 (84.6%) were followed-up between 6 and 8 weeks after delivery and considered for analysis. Depression during pregnancy, migrant status, and physical abuse by the partner were independently associated with postpartum depression when considered together, whereas physical complications were significantly associated with postpartum depression only when adjusting for antenatal depression. Depression during pregnancy, history of physical abuse, migrant status and postpartum physical complications are four major risk factors for postpartum depression.
Accommodation of symptoms by families and expressed emotion (EE) may have a negative impact on the outcome of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The study examines the effect of family accommodation (FA) and EE on the 1-year naturalistic outcome of OCD. Patients with OCD who met the criteria for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV, text revision (DSM-IV TR; N=94) were followed up for 1 year and assessed every 3 months. Assessments included measurement of symptom severity, FA, EE and family burden. By the 12th month, the cumulative probability of remission was 58%. Non-remitters compared with remitters had a significantly higher FA, EE and family burden at the baseline and did not report significant reductions on any of the family variables over the year. In a Cox proportional hazard regression analysis, a higher FA at the baseline significantly predicted time to remission. FA of symptoms has a significant negative impact on the naturalistic outcome of OCD. This emphasises the need to design specific interventions to reduce FA for a better outcome.
The neurobiological basis of bipolar disorder (BD) remains unknown; nevertheless, mitochondrial dysfunction has been identified in this disorder. Inactivation of any step in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle can impair mitochondrial ATP production. There is recent evidence indicating that PKC is an important therapeutic target for bipolar disorder. Therefore, we evaluated the effects of tamoxifen (TMX--a PKC inhibitor) on the activities of enzymes in the TCA cycle of rat brains subjected to an animal model of mania induced by amphetamine. In the reversal treatment, Wistar rats were first treated with d-AMPH or saliratsne (Sal) for 14 days. Thereafter, between days 8 and 14, the rats were administered TMX or Sal. The citrate synthase, succinate dehydrogenase, and malate dehydrogenase were evaluated in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. The d-AMPH administration inhibited TCA cycle enzymes activity in all analyzed structures, and TMX reversed d-AMPH-induced dysfunction. In addition, we observed a negative correlation between d-AMPH-induced hyperactivity and the activity of these enzymes in the rat's brain. These findings suggested that TCA cycle enzymes inhibition can be an important link for the mitochondrial dysfunction seen in BD, and TMX exert protective effects against the d-AMPH-induced TCA cycle enzymes dysfunction.
Alterations in the number and functional status of mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR) may contribute to vulnerability to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Corticosteroid receptors are chaperoned by heat shock proteins Hsp90 and Hsp70. We examined relations between corticosteroid receptor and heat shock protein expression levels, and related them with war trauma exposure, PTSD and resilience to PTSD. Relative levels of MR, Hsp90 and Hsp70 were determined by immunoblotting in lymphocytes from war trauma-exposed men with current PTSD (current PTSD group, n=113), with life-time PTSD (life-time PTSD group, n=61) and without PTSD (trauma control group, n=88), and from non-traumatized healthy controls (healthy control group, n=85). Between-group differences in MR, Hsp90 and Hsp70 levels and in MR/GR ratio were not observed. The level of MR was correlated with both Hsp90 and Hsp70 levels in trauma control and healthy control groups. On the other hand, GR level was correlated only with Hsp90 level, and this correlation was evident in current PTSD and trauma control groups. In conclusion, PTSD and exposure to trauma are not related to changes in lymphocyte MR, Hsp90 or Hsp70 levels, but may be associated with disturbances in corticosteroid receptors interaction with heat shock proteins.
Psychotic disorders are characterized by significant deficits in attentional control, but the neurobiological mechanisms underlying these deficits early in the course of illness prior to extensive pharmacotherapy are not well understood. Moreover, little is known regarding the symptom and brain changes associated with amelioration of attentional impairments through antipsychotic pharmacotherapy. In this study 14 male patients experiencing a first-episode of psychosis with minimal prior antipsychotic treatment completed an attentional control task while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging at the onset of treatment with a second generation antipsychotic (risperidone or aripiprazole) in a double blind randomized clinical trial and then again following approximately 12 weeks of treatment. In addition, 14 age-, and performance-matched healthy male volunteers who were not treated completed the same task at a baseline timepoint and then again following 12 weeks. Patients showed significantly greater activation than healthy volunteers in the right globus pallidus, left thalamus, and right thalamus at the time of the baseline scan. Among patients there was a significant reduction in right globus pallidus blood-oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response following antipsychotic treatment that correlated significantly with improvement in response accuracy and reductions in thought disturbance. No changes in globus pallidus activation were observed in healthy volunteers over this time period. These preliminary findings suggest that improvement in attentional control and concomitant reductions in thought disturbance in first-episode psychosis may be associated with reductions in subcortical activity following administration of second-generation antipsychotics early in the course of illness. These findings have implications for understanding how changes in basal ganglia activity may be linked to improvements in attentional control through antipsychotics.



During speech perception, linguistic elements such as consonants and vowels are extracted from a complex acoustic speech signal. The superior temporal gyrus (STG) participates in high-order auditory processing of speech, but how it encodes phonetic information is poorly understood. We used high-density direct cortical surface recordings in humans while they listened to natural, continuous speech to reveal the STG representation of the entire English phonetic inventory. At single electrodes, we found response selectivity to distinct phonetic features. Encoding of acoustic properties was mediated by a distributed population response. Phonetic features could be directly related to tuning for spectrotemporal acoustic cues, some of which were encoded in a nonlinear fashion or by integration of multiple cues. These findings demonstrate the acoustic-phonetic representation of speech in human STG.








Mosquitoes are a great threat to human health. Fortunately, they have a weakness: they utilize their sense of smell to target a human host. Recent studies examine the effectiveness of protecting humans from attack by ablating or odorant targeting mosquito olfactory receptors. The results are both promising and alarming.
Transformation of pluripotent epiblast cells into a cup-shaped epithelium as the mouse blastocyst implants is a poorly understood and yet key developmental step. Studies of morphogenesis in embryoid bodies led to the current belief that it is programmed cell death that shapes the epiblast. However, by following embryos developing invivo and invitro, we demonstrate that not cell death but a previously unknown morphogenetic event transforms the amorphous epiblast into a rosette of polarized cells. This transformation requires basal membrane-stimulated integrin signaling that coordinates polarization of epiblast cells and their apical constriction, a prerequisite for lumenogenesis. We show that basal membrane function can be substituted invitro by extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and that ES cells can be induced to form similar polarized rosettes that initiate lumenogenesis. Together, these findings lead to a completely revised model for peri-implantation morphogenesis inwhich ECM triggers the self-organization of the embryo's stem cells.
Excitatory transmission in the brain is commonly mediated by the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), AMPA receptors allow cytotoxic levels of calcium into neurons, contributing to motor neuron injury. We have previously shown that oculomotor neurons resistant to the disease process in ALS show reduced AMPA-mediated inward calcium currents compared with vulnerable spinal motor neurons. We have also shown that PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10) knockdown via siRNA promotes motor neuron survival in models of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and ALS. It has been reported that inhibition of PTEN attenuates the death of hippocampal neurons post injury by decreasing the effective translocation of the GluR2 subunit into the membrane. In addition, leptin can regulate AMPA receptor trafficking via PTEN inhibition. Thus, we speculate that manipulation of AMPA receptors by PTEN may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for neuroprotective intervention in ALS and other neurodegenerative disorders. To this end, the first step is to establish a fibroblast-iPS-motor neuron in vitro cell model to study AMPA receptor manipulation. Here we report that iPS-derived motor neurons from human fibroblasts express AMPA receptors. PTEN depletion decreases AMPA receptor expression and AMPA-mediated whole-cell currents, resulting in inhibition of AMPA-induced neuronal death in primary cultured and iPS-derived motor neurons. Taken together, our results imply that PTEN depletion may protect motor neurons by inhibition of excitatory transmission that represents a therapeutic strategy of potential benefit for the amelioration of excitotoxicity in ALS and other neurodegenerative disorders.
Necroptosis is a newly described form of regulated necrosis that contributes to neuronal death in experimental models of stroke and brain trauma. Although much work has been done elucidating initiating mechanisms, signaling events governing necroptosis remain largely unexplored. Akt is known to inhibit apoptotic neuronal cell death. Mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a downstream effector of Akt that controls protein synthesis. We previously reported that dual inhibition of Akt and mTOR reduced acute cell death and improved long term cognitive deficits after controlled-cortical impact in mice. These findings raised the possibility that Akt/mTOR might regulate necroptosis. To test this hypothesis, we induced necroptosis in the hippocampal neuronal cell line HT22 using concomitant treatment with tumor necrosis factor  (TNF) and the pan-caspase inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone. TNF/zVAD treatment induced cell death within 4h. Cell death was preceded by RIPK1-RIPK3-pAkt assembly, and phosphorylation of Thr-308 and Thr473 of AKT and its direct substrate glycogen synthase kinase-3, as well as mTOR and its direct substrate S6 ribosomal protein (S6), suggesting activation of Akt/mTOR pathways. Pretreatment with Akt inhibitor viii and rapamycin inhibited Akt and S6 phosphorylation events, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production, and necroptosis by over 50% without affecting RIPK1-RIPK3 complex assembly. These data were confirmed using small inhibitory ribonucleic acid-mediated knockdown of AKT1/2 and mTOR. All of the aforementioned biochemical events were inhibited by necrostatin-1, including Akt and mTOR phosphorylation, generation of oxidative stress, and RIPK1-RIPK3-pAkt complex assembly. The data suggest a novel, heretofore unexpected role for Akt and mTOR downstream of RIPK1 activation in neuronal cell death.
Neural plasticity requires protein synthesis, but theidentity of newly synthesized proteins generated in response to plasticity-inducing stimuli remains unclear. We used invivo bio-orthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) with the methionine analog azidohomoalanine (AHA) combined with themultidimensional protein identification technique (MudPIT) to identify proteins that are synthesized inthe tadpole brain over 24hr. We induced conditioning-dependent plasticity of visual avoidance behavior, which required N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and Ca(2+)-permeable -Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors, CaMKII, and rapid protein synthesis. Combining BONCAT with western blots revealed that proteins including CaMKII, MEK1, CPEB, and GAD65 are synthesized during conditioning. Acute synthesis of CPEB during conditioning is required for behavioral plasticity as well asconditioning-induced synaptic and structural plasticity in the tectal circuit. We outline a signaling pathway that regulates protein-synthesis-dependent behavioral plasticity in intact animals, identify newly synthesized proteins induced by visual experience, and demonstrate a requirement for acute synthesis of CPEB in plasticity.







Amphetamines are a class of psychostimulant drugs that are widely abused for their stimulant, euphoric, empathogenic and hallucinogenic properties. Many of these effects result from acute increases in dopamine and serotonin neurotransmission. Subsequent to these acute effects, methamphetamine and 3,4 methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) produce persistent damage to dopamine and serotonin nerve terminals. This review summarizes the numerous interdependent mechanisms including excitotoxicity, mitochondrial damage and oxidative stress that have been demonstrated to contribute to this damage. Emerging non-neuronal mechanisms by which the drugs may contribute to monoaminergic terminal damage, as well as the neuropsychiatric consequences of this terminal damage are also presented. Methamphetamine and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) have similar chemical structures and pharmacologic properties compared to other abused substances including cathinone (khat), as well as a relatively new class of novel synthetic amphetamines known as 'bath salts' that have gained popularity among drug abusers.

A transcriptional programme initiated by the proneural factors Neurog2 and Ascl1 controls successive steps of neurogenesis in the embryonic cerebral cortex. Previous work has shown that proneural factors also confer a migratory behaviour to cortical neurons by inducing the expression of the small GTP-binding proteins such as Rnd2 and Rnd3. However, the directionality of radial migration suggests that migrating neurons also respond to extracellular signal-regulated pathways. Here we show that the Plexin B2 receptor interacts physically and functionally with Rnd3 and stimulates RhoA activity in migrating cortical neurons. Plexin B2 competes with p190RhoGAP for binding to Rnd3, thus blocking the Rnd3-mediated inhibition of RhoA and also recruits RhoGEFs to directly stimulate RhoA activity. Thus, an interaction between the cell-extrinsic Plexin signalling pathway and the cell-intrinsic Ascl1-Rnd3 pathway determines the level of RhoA activity appropriate for cortical neuron migration.









The N170 response differs when positive versus negative facial expressions are viewed. This neural response could be associated with the perception of emotions, or some feature of the stimulus. We used an aftereffect paradigm to clarify. Consistent with previous reports of emotional aftereffects, a neutral face was more likely to be described as happy following a sad face adaptation, and more likely to be described as sad following a happy face adaptation. In addition, similar to previous observations with actual emotional faces, we found differences in the latency of the N170 elicited by the neutral face following sad versus happy face adaptation, demonstrating that the emotion-specific effect on the N170 emerges even when emotion expressions are perceptually different but physically identical. The re-entry of emotional information from other brain regions may be driving the emotional aftereffects and the N170 latency differences.
Repeated blast exposures commonly induce traumatic brain injury (TBI) characterized by diffuse axonal injury (DAI). We hypothesized that degradation of cytoskeletal proteins in the brain can lead to DAI, and evaluated -II spectrin degradation in the pathophysiology of blast-induced TBI using the tightly-coupled three repetitive blast exposure mice model with a 1-30 min window in between exposures. Degradation of -II spectrin and the expression profiles of caspase-3 and calpain-2, the major enzymes involved in the degradation were analyzed in the frontal cortex and cerebellum using Western blotting with specific antibodies. DAI at different brain regions was evaluated by neuropathology with silver staining. Repeated blast exposures resulted in significant increases in the -II spectrin degradation products in the frontal cortex and cerebellum compared to sham controls. Expression of active caspase-3, which degrades -II spectrin, showed significant increase in the frontal cortex after blast exposure at all the time points studied, while cerebellum showed an acute increase which was normalized over time. The expression of another -II spectrin degrading enzyme, calpain-2, showed a rapid increase in the frontal cortex after blast exposure and it was significantly higher in the cerebellum at later time points. Neuropathological analysis showed significant levels of DAI at the frontal cortex and cerebellum at multiple time points after repeated blast injury. In summary, repeated blast exposure results in specific degradation of -II spectrin in the brain along with differential expression of caspase-3/calpain-2 suggesting cytoskeletal breakdown as a possible contributor of DAI after repeated blast exposure.











The neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR) has been implicated in mediating neuronal apoptosis after injury to the CNS. Despite its frequent induction in pathologic states, there is limited understanding of the mechanisms that regulate p75(NTR) expression after injury. Here, we show that after focal cerebral ischemia in vivo or oxygen-glucose deprivation in organotypic hippocampal slices or neurons, p75(NTR) is rapidly induced. A concomitant induction of proNGF, a ligand for p75(NTR), is also observed. Induction of this ligand/receptor system is pathologically relevant, as a decrease in apoptosis, after oxygen-glucose deprivation, is observed in hippocampal neurons or slices after delivery of function-blocking antibodies to p75(NTR) or proNGF and in p75(NTR) and ngf haploinsufficient slices. Furthermore, a significant decrease in infarct volume was noted in p75(NTR)-/- mice compared with the wild type. We also investigated the regulatory mechanisms that lead to post-ischemic induction of p75(NTR). We demonstrate that induction of p75(NTR) after ischemic injury is independent of transcription but requires active translation. Basal levels of p75(NTR) in neurons are maintained in part by the expression of microRNA miR-592, and an inverse correlation is seen between miR-592 and p75(NTR) levels in the adult brain. After cerebral ischemia, miR-592 levels fall, with a corresponding increase in p75(NTR) levels. Importantly, overexpression of miR-592 in neurons decreases the level of ischemic injury-induced p75(NTR) and attenuates activation of pro-apoptotic signaling and cell death. These results identify miR-592 as a key regulator of p75(NTR) expression and point to a potential therapeutic candidate to limit neuronal apoptosis after ischemic injury.
Pruning of structural synapses occurs with development and learning. A deficit in pruning of cortical excitatory synapses and the resulting hyperconnectivity is hypothesized to underlie the etiology of fragile X syndrome (FXS) and related autistic disorders. However, clear evidence for pruning in neocortex and its impairment in FXS remains elusive. Using simultaneous recordings of pyramidal neurons in the layer 5A neocortical network of the wild-type (WT) mouse to observe cell-to-cell connections in isolation, we demonstrate here a specific form of &quot;connection pruning.&quot; Connection frequency among pyramidal neurons decreases between the third and fifth postnatal weeks, indicating a period of connection pruning. Over the same interval in the FXS model mouse, the Fmr1 knock-out (KO), connection frequency does not decrease. Therefore, connection frequency in the fifth week is higher in the Fmr1 KO compared with WT, indicating a state of hyperconnectivity. These alterations are due to postsynaptic deletion of Fmr1. At early ages (2 weeks), postsynaptic Fmr1 promoted the maturation of cell-to-cell connections, but not their number. These findings indicate that impaired connection pruning at later ages, and not an excess of connection formation, underlies the hyperconnectivity in the Fmr1 KO mouse. FMRP did not appear to regulate synapses individually, but instead regulated cell-to-cell connectivity in which groups of synapses mediating a single cell-to-cell connection are uniformly removed, retained, and matured. Although we do not link connection pruning directly to the pruning of structurally defined synapses, this study nevertheless provides an important model system for studying altered pruning in FXS.
Neuronal activity in the deep layers of the macaque (Macaca mulatta) superior colliculus (SC) and the underlying reticular formation is correlated with the initiation and execution of arm movements (Werner, 1993). Although the correlation of this activity with EMGs of proximal arm muscles is as strong as in motor cortex (Werner et al., 1997a; Stuphorn et al., 1999), little is known about the influence of electrical microstimulation in the SC on the initiation and trajectories of arm movements. Our experiments on three macaque monkeys clearly show that arm movements can be elicited by electrical microstimulation in the deep layers of the lateral SC and underlying reticular formation. The most extensively trained monkey, M1, extended his arm toward the screen in front of him more or less stereotypically upon electrical SC stimulation. In two other monkeys, M2 and M3, a larger repertoire of arm movements were elicited, categorized into three movement types, and compared before (M3) and after (M2 and M3) training: twitch (56% vs. 62%), lift (6% vs. 5%), and extend (37% vs. 32%), respectively. Therefore, arm movements induced by electrical stimulation in the monkey SC represent a further component of the functional repertoire of the SC using its impact on motoneurons in the spinal cord, probably via premotor neurons in the brainstem, as well as on structures involved in executing more complex movements such as target-directed reaching. Therefore, the macaque SC could be involved directly in the initiation, execution, and amendment of arm and hand movements.
Overexpression and/or abnormal cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) are linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD) development and progression. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating cellular levels of APP or its processing, and the physiological and pathological consequences of altered processing are not well understood. Here, using mouse and human cells, we found that neuronal damage induced by UV irradiation leads to specific APP, APLP1, and APLP2 decline by accelerating their secretase-dependent processing. Pharmacological inhibition of endosomal/lysosomal activity partially protects UV-induced APP processing implying contribution of the endosomal and/or lysosomal compartments in this process. We found that a biological consequence of UV-induced -secretase processing of APP is impairment of APP axonal transport. To probe the functional consequences of impaired APP axonal transport, we isolated and analyzed presumptive APP-containing axonal transport vesicles from mouse cortical synaptosomes using electron microscopy, biochemical, and mass spectrometry analyses. We identified a population of morphologically heterogeneous organelles that contains APP, the secretase machinery, molecular motors, and previously proposed and new residents of APP vesicles. These possible cargoes are enriched in proteins whose dysfunction could contribute to neuronal malfunction and diseases of the nervous system including AD. Together, these results suggest that damage-induced APP processing might impair APP axonal transport, which could result in failure of synaptic maintenance and neuronal dysfunction.
The anterior caudate nucleus is essential for goal-directed behavior because it links outcome information to actions. It is well known that caudate neurons provide a variety of reward-related and action signals. However, it is still unclear how the two signals are integrated. We investigated whether and how outcome risk modulates spatial representation. We recorded neural activity in the anterior caudate nucleus while monkeys made saccades to multiple spatial targets, each associated with either fixed (safe) or variable (risky) amount of reward. We report that individual neurons combined the outcome reward signal with spatial information about the direction of saccades. These signals could be reliably read out from the populations of neurons. Moreover, the prospect of a risky outcome improved the quality of spatial information. These results provide direct evidence that global spatial representation in the caudate is modulated by outcome, which can be important for flexible control of behavior, particularly during learning and habit formation, when outcomes vary.
Growing evidence suggests that the main olfactory epithelium contains a subset of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) responding to pheromones. One candidate subpopulation expresses the calcium activated cation channel TRPM5 (transient receptor potential channel M5). Using GFP driven by the TRPM5 promoter in mice, we show that this subpopulation responds to putative pheromones, urine, and major histocompatibility complex peptides, but not to regular odors or a pheromone detected by other species. In addition, this subpopulation of TRPM5-GFP+ OSNs uses novel transduction. In regular OSNs, odorants elicit activation of the cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel, leading to Ca2+ gating of Cl- channels; in TRPM5-GFP+ OSNs, the Ca2+ -activated Cl- ANO2 (anoctamin 2) channel is not expressed, and pheromones elicit activation of the CNG channel leading to Ca2+ gating of TRPM5. In conclusion, we show that OSNs expressing TRPM5 respond to pheromones, but not to regular odors through the opening of CNG channels leading to Ca2+ gating of TRPM5.
Of the five muscarinic receptor subtypes, the M5 receptor is the only one detectable in midbrain dopaminergic neurons, making it an attractive potential therapeutic target for treating disorders in which dopaminergic signaling is disrupted. However, developing an understanding of the role of M5 in regulating midbrain dopamine neuron function has been hampered by a lack of subtype-selective compounds. Here, we extensively characterize the novel compound VU0238429 and demonstrate that it acts as a positive allosteric modulator with unprecedented selectivity for the M5 receptor. We then used VU0238429, along with M5 knock-out mice, to elucidate the role of this receptor in regulating substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) neuron physiology in both mice and rats. In sagittal brain slices that isolate the SNc soma from their striatal terminals, activation of muscarinic receptors induced Ca2+ mobilization and inward currents in SNc dopamine neurons, both of which were potentiated by VU0238429 and absent in M5 knock-out mice. Activation of M5 also increased the spontaneous firing rate of SNc neurons, suggesting that activation of somatodendritic M5 increases the intrinsic excitability of SNc neurons. However, in coronal slices of the striatum, potentiation of M5 with VU0238429 resulted in an inhibition in dopamine release as monitored with fast scan cyclic voltammetry. Accordingly, activation of M5 can lead to opposing physiological outcomes depending on the location of the receptor. Although activation of somatodendritic M5 receptors on SNc neurons leads to increased neuronal firing, activation of M5 receptors in the striatum induces an inhibition in dopamine release.
In the auditory system, large somatic synapses convey strong excitation that supports temporally precise information transfer. The information transfer of such synapses has predominantly been investigated in the endbulbs of Held in the anterior ventral cochlear nucleus and the calyx of Held in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body. These large synapses either work as relays or integrate over a small number of inputs to excite the postsynaptic neuron beyond action potential (AP) threshold. In the monaural system, another large somatic synapse targets neurons in the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (VNLL). Here, we comparatively analyze the mechanisms of synaptic information transfer in endbulbs in the VNLL and the calyx of Held in juvenile Mongolian gerbils. We find that endbulbs in the VNLL are functionally surface-scaled versions of the calyx of Held with respect to vesicle availability, release efficacy, and synaptic peak currents. This functional scaling is achieved by different calcium current kinetics that compensate for the smaller AP in VNLL endbulbs. However, the average postsynaptic current in the VNLL fails to elicit APs in its target neurons, even though equal current suffices to generate APs in neurons postsynaptic to the calyx of Held. In the VNLL, a postsynaptic A-type outward current reduces excitability and prevents AP generation upon a single presynaptic input. Instead, coincidence detection of inputs from two converging endbulbs is ideal to reliably trigger APs. Thus, even large endbulbs do not guarantee one-to-one AP transfer. Instead, information flow appears regulated by circuit requirements.
The neocortex is organized into macroscopic functional maps. However, at the microscopic scale, the functional preference and degree of feature selectivity between neighboring neurons can vary considerably. In the primary visual cortex, adjacent neurons in iso-orientation domains share the same orientation preference, whereas neighboring neurons near pinwheel centers are tuned to different stimulus orientations. Moreover, several studies have found greater orientation selectivity in iso-orientation domains than in pinwheel centers. These differences suggest that neurons sample local inputs in a spatially homogenous fashion and independently of the location of their soma on the orientation map. Here we determine whether dendritic geometry is affected by neuronal position on the orientation map. We labeled individual layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons with fluorescent dyes in specific domains of the orientation map in cat primary visual cortex and imaged their dendritic trees in vivo by two-photon microscopy. We found that the circularity and uniformity of dendritic trees is independent of somatic position on the orientation map. Moreover, the dendrites of neurons located close to pinwheel centers extend across all orientation domains in an unbiased fashion. Thus, unbiased dendritic trees appear to provide an anatomical substrate for the systematic variations in feature selectivity across the orientation map.
In addition to the well-known signals of retinal image slip, floccular complex spikes (CSs) also convey nonvisual signals. We recorded eye movement and CS activity from Purkinje cells in awake rabbits sinusoidally oscillated in the dark on a vestibular turntable. The stimulus frequency ranged from 0.2 to 1.2 Hz, and the velocity amplitude ranged from 6.3 to 50/s. The average CS modulation was evaluated at each combination of stimulus frequency and amplitude. More than 75% of the Purkinje cells carried nonvisual CS signals. The amplitude of this modulation remained relatively constant over the entire stimulus range. The phase response of the CS modulation in the dark was opposite to that during the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) in the light. With increased frequency, the phase response systematically shifted from being aligned with contraversive head velocity toward peak contralateral head position. At fixed frequency, the phase response was dependent on peak head velocity, indicating a system nonlinearity. The nonvisual CS modulation apparently reflects a competition between eye movement and vestibular signals, resulting in an eye movement error signal inferred from nonvisual sources. The combination of this error signal with the retinal slip signal in the inferior olive results in a net error signal reporting the discrepancy between the actual visually measured eye movement error and the inferred eye movement error derived from measures of the internal state. The presence of two error signals requires that the role of CSs in models of the floccular control of VOR adaption be expanded beyond retinal slip.
It is critical for survival to quickly respond to environmental stimuli with the most appropriate action. This task becomes most challenging when response tendencies induced by relevant and irrelevant stimulus features are in conflict, and have to be resolved in real time. Inputs from the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) to the subthalamic nucleus (STN) are thought to support this function, but the connectivity and causality of these regions in calibrating motor control has not been delineated. In this study, we combined off-line noninvasive brain stimulation and functional magnetic resonance imaging, while young healthy human participants performed a modified version of the Simon task. We show that impairing pre-SMA function by noninvasive brain stimulation improved control over impulsive response tendencies, but only when participants were explicitly rewarded for fast and accurate responses. These effects were mediated by enhanced activation and connectivity of the IFG-STN pathway. These results provide causal evidence for a pivotal role of the IFG-STN pathway during action control. Additionally, they suggest a parallel rather than hierarchical organization of the pre-SMA-STN and IFG-STN pathways, since interruption of pre-SMA function can enhance IFG-STN connectivity and improve control over inappropriate responses.
GABA receptors (GABAARs) mediate inhibition in the adult brain. These channels are heteropentamers and their ligand binding sites are localized at the + / - interfaces. As expected, mutations of binding-site residues affect binding kinetics but accumulating evidence indicates that gating is also altered, although the underlying mechanisms are unclear. We investigated the impact of the hydrophobic box residue localized at 1(-), F64 (1F64), on the binding and gating of rat recombinant 112 receptors. The analysis of current responses to rapid agonist applications confirmed a marked effect of 1F64 mutations on agonist binding and revealed surprisingly strong effects on gating, including the disappearance of rapid desensitization, the slowing of current onset, and accelerated deactivation. Moreover, nonstationary variance analysis revealed that the 1F64C mutation dramatically reduced the maximum open probability without altering channel conductance. Interestingly, for wild-type receptors, responses to saturating concentration of a partial agonist, P4S, showed no rapid desensitization, similar to GABA-evoked responses mediated by 1F64C mutants. For the 1F64L mutation, the application of the high-affinity agonist muscimol partially rescued rapid desensitization compared with responses evoked by GABA. These findings suggest that 1F64 mutations do not disrupt desensitization mechanisms but rather affect other gating features that obscure it. Model simulations indicated that all of our observations related to 1F64 mutations could be properly reproduced by altering the flipped state transitions that occurred after agonist binding but preceded opening. In conclusion, we propose that the 1F64 residue may participate in linking binding and gating by influencing flipping kinetics.
The discovery that even small changes in extracellular acidity can alter the excitability of neuronal networks via activation of acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) could have therapeutic application in a host of neurological and psychiatric illnesses. Recent evidence suggests that activation of ASIC1a, a subtype of ASICs that is widely distributed in the brain, is necessary for the expression of fear and anxiety. Antagonists of ASIC1a, therefore, have been proposed as a potential treatment for anxiety. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is central to fear generation, and anxiety disorders are characterized by BLA hyperexcitability. To better understand the role of ASIC1a in anxiety, we attempted to provide a direct assessment of whether ASIC1a activation increases BLA excitability. In rat BLA slices, activation of ASIC1a by low pH or ammonium elicited inward currents in both interneurons and principal neurons, and increased spontaneous IPSCs recorded from principal cells significantly more than spontaneous EPSCs. Epileptiform activity induced by high potassium and low magnesium was suppressed by ammonium. Antagonism of ASIC1a decreased spontaneous IPSCs more than EPSCs, and increased the excitability of the BLA network, as reflected by the pronounced increase of evoked field potentials, suggesting that ASIC1a channels are active in the basal state. In vivo activation or blockade of ASIC1a in the BLA suppressed or increased, respectively, anxiety-like behavior. Thus, in the rat BLA, ASIC1a has an inhibitory and anxiolytic function. The discovery of positive ASIC1a modulators may hold promise for the treatment of anxiety disorders.




Whether for fundamental biological research or for diagnostic and drug discovery applications, protein micro- and nanoarrays are attractive technologies because of their low sample consumption, high-throughput, and multiplexing capabilities. However, the arraying platforms developed so far are still not able to handle membrane proteins, and specific methods to selectively immobilize these hydrophobic and fragile molecules are needed to understand their function and structural complexity. Here we integrate two technologies, electropolymerization and amphipols, to demonstrate the electrically addressable functionalization of micro- and nanosurfaces with membrane proteins. Gold surfaces are selectively modified by electrogeneration of a polymeric film in the presence of biotin, where avidin conjugates can then be selectively immobilized. The method is successfully applied to the preparation of protein-multiplexed arrays by sequential electropolymerization and biomolecular functionalization steps. The surface density of the proteins bound to the electrodes can be easily tuned by adjusting the amount of biotin deposited during electropolymerization. Amphipols are specially designed amphipathic polymers that provide a straightforward method to stabilize and add functionalities to membrane proteins. Exploiting the strong affinity of biotin for streptavidin, we anchor distinct membrane proteins onto different electrodes via a biotin-tagged amphipol. Antibody-recognition events demonstrate that the proteins are stably immobilized and that the electrodeposition of polypyrrole films bearing biotin units is compatible with the protein-binding activity. Since polypyrrole films show good conductivity properties, the platform described here is particularly well suited to prepare electronically transduced bionanosensors.











In mouse hairy skin, lanceolate complexes associated with three types of hair follicles, guard, awl/auchene and zigzag, serve as mechanosensory end organs. These structures are formed by unique combinations of low-threshold mechanoreceptors (LTMRs), A RA-LTMRs, A-LTMRs, and C-LTMRs, and their associated terminal Schwann cells (TSCs). In this study, we investigated the organization, ultrastructure, and maintenance of longitudinal lanceolate complexes at each hair follicle subtype. We found that TSC processes at hair follicles are tiled and that individual TSCs host axonal endings of more than one LTMR subtype. Electron microscopic analyses revealed unique ultrastructural features of lanceolate complexes that are proposed to underlie mechanotransduction. Moreover, Schwann cell ablation leads to loss of LTMR terminals at hair follicles while, in contrast, TSCs remain associated with hair follicles following skin denervation in adult mice and, remarkably, become re-associated with newly formed axons, indicating a TSC-dependence of lanceolate complex maintenance and regeneration in adults. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01901.001.
Synaptotagmin (syt) 7 is one of three syt isoforms found in all metazoans; it is ubiquitously expressed, yet its function in neurons remains obscure. Here, we resolved Ca(2+)-dependent and Ca(2+)-independent synaptic vesicle (SV) replenishment pathways, and found that syt 7 plays a selective and critical role in the Ca(2+)-dependent pathway. Mutations that disrupt Ca(2+)-binding to syt 7 abolish this function, suggesting that syt 7 functions as a Ca(2+)-sensor for replenishment. The Ca(2+)-binding protein calmodulin (CaM) has also been implicated in SV replenishment, and we found that loss of syt 7 was phenocopied by a CaM antagonist. Moreover, we discovered that syt 7 binds to CaM in a highly specific and Ca(2+)-dependent manner; this interaction requires intact Ca(2+)-binding sites within syt 7. Together, these data indicate that a complex of two conserved Ca(2+)-binding proteins, syt 7 and CaM, serve as a key regulator of SV replenishment in presynaptic nerve terminals. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01524.001.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs), with an average length between 16 nt and 26 nt, are small non-coding RNAs that can repress gene expression on the post-transcriptional level. Macaca fascicularis (M. fascicularis), one of the most important nonhuman primate animal models, is widely used in basic and applied preclinical research, especially in studies that involve neuroscience and disease. However, due to the lack of a complete genome sequence, the miRNAs in M. fascicularis have not been completely characterized. In this study, 86 putative M. fascicularis miRNAs were identified using a strategy of our design. The expression of some of these miRNAs in the tissue was confirmed by qRT-PCR. The function and pathway of their targeted genes were analyzed to reveal the potential relevance of miRNA regulation on diseases and physiological processes. The current study provides insight into potential miRNAs and forms a useful knowledge base for the future understanding of the function of miRNAs in M. fascicularis.




Microsaccades, small involuntary eye movements that occur once or twice per second during attempted visual fixation, are relevant to perception, cognition, and oculomotor control and present distinctive characteristics in visual and oculomotor pathologies. Thus, the development of robust and accurate microsaccade-detection techniques is important for basic and clinical neuroscience research. Due to the diminutive size of microsaccades, however, automatic and reliable detection can be difficult. Current challenges in microsaccade detection include reliance on set, arbitrary thresholds and lack of objective validation. Here we describe a novel microsaccade-detecting method, based on unsupervised clustering techniques, that does not require an arbitrary threshold and provides a detection reliability index. We validated the new clustering method using real and simulated eye-movement data. The clustering method reduced detection errors by 62% for binocular data and 78% for monocular data, when compared to standard contemporary microsaccade-detection techniques. Further, the clustering method's reliability index was correlated with the microsaccade-detection error rate, suggesting that the reliability index may be used to determine the comparative precision of eye-tracking devices.
The cerebral cortex is characterized by multiple layers and many distinct cell-types that together as a network are responsible for many higher cognitive functions including decision making, sensory-guided behavior or memory. To understand how such intricate neuronal networks perform such tasks, a crucial step is to determine the function (or electrical activity) of individual cell types within the network, preferentially when the animal is performing a relevant cognitive task. Additionally, it is equally important to determine the anatomical structure of the network and the morphological architecture of the individual neurons to allow reverse engineering the cortical network. Technical breakthroughs available today allow recording cellular activity in awake, behaving animals with the valuable option of posthoc identifying the recorded neurons. Here, we demonstrate the juxtasomal biocytin labeling technique, which involves recording action potential spiking in the extracellular (or loose-patch) configuration using conventional patch pipettes. The juxtasomal recording configuration is relatively stable and applicable across behavioral conditions, including anesthetized, sedated, awake head-fixed, and even in the freely moving animal. Thus, this method allows linking cell-type specific action potential spiking during animal behavior to reconstruction of the individual neurons and ultimately, the entire cortical microcircuit. In this video manuscript, we show how individual neurons in the juxtasomal configuration can be labeled with biocytin in the urethane-anaesthetized rat for posthoc identification and morphological reconstruction.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to irreversible neuronal loss and glial scar formation, which ultimately result in persistent neurological dysfunction. Cellular regeneration could be an ideal approach to replenish the lost cells and repair the damage. However, the adult spinal cord has limited ability to produce new neurons. Here we show that resident astrocytes can be converted to doublecortin (DCX)-positive neuroblasts by a single transcription factor, SOX2, in the injured adult spinal cord. Importantly, these induced neuroblasts can mature into synapse-forming neurons in vivo. Neuronal maturation is further promoted by treatment with a histone deacetylase inhibitor, valproic acid (VPA). The results of this study indicate that in situ reprogramming of endogenous astrocytes to neurons might be a potential strategy for cellular regeneration after SCI.
Nuclear transcription factor-Y (NF-Y), a key regulator of cell-cycle progression, often loses its activity during differentiation into nonproliferative cells. In contrast, NF-Y is still active in mature, differentiated neurons, although its neuronal significance remains obscure. Here we show that conditional deletion of the subunit NF-YA in postmitotic mouse neurons induces progressive neurodegeneration with distinctive ubiquitin/p62 pathology; these proteins are not incorporated into filamentous inclusion but co-accumulated with insoluble membrane proteins broadly on endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The degeneration also accompanies drastic ER disorganization, that is, an aberrant increase in ribosome-free ER in the perinuclear region, without inducing ER stress response. We further perform chromatin immunoprecipitation and identify several NF-Y physiological targets including Grp94 potentially involved in ER disorganization. We propose that NF-Y is involved in a unique regulation mechanism of ER organization in mature neurons and its disruption causes previously undescribed novel neuropathology accompanying abnormal ubiquitin/p62 accumulation.







In insects, olfactory information received by peripheral olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) is conveyed from the antennal lobes (ALs) to higher brain regions by olfactory projection neurons (PNs). Despite the knowledge that multiple types of PNs exist, little is known about how these different neuronal pathways work cooperatively. Here we studied the Drosophila GABAergic mediolateral antennocerebral tract PNs (mlPNs), which link ipsilateral AL and lateral horn (LH), in comparison with the cholinergic medial tract PNs (mPNs). We examined the connectivity of mlPNs in ALs and found that most mlPNs received inputs from both ORNs and mPNs and participated in AL network function by forming gap junctions with other AL neurons. Meanwhile, mlPNs might innervate LH neurons downstream of mPNs, exerting a feedforward inhibition. Using dual-color calcium imaging, which enables a simultaneous monitoring of neural activities in two groups of PNs, we found that mlPNs exhibited robust odor responses overlapping with, but broader than, those of mPNs. Moreover, preferentially down-regulation of GABA in most mlPNs caused abnormal courtship and aggressive behaviors in male flies. These findings demonstrate that in Drosophila, olfactory information in opposite polarities are carried coordinately by two parallel and interacted pathways, which could be essential for appropriate behaviors.
Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder share a number of common features, both symptomatically and biologically. Abnormalities in the neuroimmune and the stress-signaling pathways have been previously identified in brains of individuals with both diseases. However, the possible relationship between abnormalities in stress and neuroimmune signaling within the cortex of people with psychotic illness has not been defined. To test the hypothesis that combined alterations in brain stress responsiveness and neuroimmune/inflammatory status are characteristic of some individuals suffering from major mental illness, we examined gene expression in the Stanley Array Cohort of 35 controls, 35 individuals with schizophrenia and 34 individuals with bipolar disorder. We used levels of 8 inflammatory-related transcripts, of which SERPINA3 was significantly elevated in individuals with schizophrenia (F(2,88)=4.137, P&lt;0.05), and 12 glucocorticoid receptor signaling (stress) pathway transcripts previously examined, to identify two clusters of individuals: a high inflammation/stress group (n=32) and a low (n=68) inflammation/stress group. The high inflammation/stress group has a significantly greater number of individuals with schizophrenia (n=15), and a trend toward having more bipolar disorder individuals (n=11), when compared with controls (n=6). Using these subgroups, we tested which microarray-assessed transcriptional changes may be associated with high inflammatory/stress groups using ingenuity analysis and found that an extended network of gene expression changes involving immune, growth factors, inhibitory signaling and cell death factors also distinguished these groups. Our work demonstrates that some of the heterogeneity in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder may be partially explained by inflammation/stress interactions, and that this biological subtype cuts across Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)-defined categories.


Regulation of cargo transport via adaptor molecules is essential for neuronal development. However, the role of PDZ scaffolding proteins as adaptors in neuronal cargo trafficking is still poorly understood. Here, we show by genetic deletion in mice that the multi-PDZ domain scaffolding protein glutamate receptor interacting protein 1 (GRIP1) is required for dendrite development. We identify an interaction between GRIP1 and 14-3-3 proteins that is essential for the function of GRIP1 as an adaptor protein in dendritic cargo transport. Mechanistically, 14-3-3 binds to the kinesin-1 binding region in GRIP1 in a phospho-dependent manner and detaches GRIP1 from the kinesin-1 motor protein complex thereby regulating cargo transport. A single point mutation in the Thr956 of GRIP1 in transgenic mice impairs dendritic development. Together, our results show a regulatory role for GRIP1 during microtubule-based transport and suggest a crucial function for 14-3-3 proteins in controlling kinesin-1 motor attachment during neuronal development.










Blood-brain barrier (BBB) models are often used to investigate BBB function and screen brain-penetrating therapeutics, but it has been difficult to construct a human model that possesses an optimal BBB phenotype and is readily scalable. To address this challenge, we developed a human in vitro BBB model comprising brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs), pericytes, astrocytes and neurons derived from renewable cell sources. First, retinoic acid (RA) was used to substantially enhance BBB phenotypes in human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-derived BMECs, particularly through adherens junction, tight junction, and multidrug resistance protein regulation. RA-treated hPSC-derived BMECs were subsequently co-cultured with primary human brain pericytes and human astrocytes and neurons derived from human neural progenitor cells (NPCs) to yield a fully human BBB model that possessed significant tightness as measured by transendothelial electrical resistance (~5,000xcm(2)). Overall, this scalable human BBB model may enable a wide range of neuroscience studies.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are neural crest cells which allow growth and regrowth of the primary olfactory neurons. Indeed, the primary olfactory system is characterized by its ability to give rise to new neurons even in adult animals. This particular ability is partly due to the presence of OECs which create a favorable microenvironment for neurogenesis. This property of OECs has been used for cellular transplantation such as in spinal cord injury models. Although the peripheral nervous system has a greater capacity to regenerate after nerve injury than the central nervous system, complete sections induce misrouting during axonal regrowth in particular after facial of laryngeal nerve transection. Specifically, full sectioning of the recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) induces aberrant axonal regrowth resulting in synkinesis of the vocal cords. In this specific model, we showed that OECs transplantation efficiently increases axonal regrowth. OECs are constituted of several subpopulations present in both the olfactory mucosa (OM-OECs) and the olfactory bulbs (OB-OECs). We present here a model of cellular transplantation based on the use of these different subpopulations of OECs in a RLN injury model. Using this paradigm, primary cultures of OB-OECs and OM-OECs were transplanted in Matrigel after section and anastomosis of the RLN. Two months after surgery, we evaluated transplanted animals by complementary analyses based on videolaryngoscopy, electromyography (EMG), and histological studies. First, videolaryngoscopy allowed us to evaluate laryngeal functions, in particular muscular cocontractions phenomena. Then, EMG analyses demonstrated richness and synchronization of muscular activities. Finally, histological studies based on toluidine blue staining allowed the quantification of the number and profile of myelinated fibers. All together, we describe here how to isolate, culture, identify and transplant OECs from OM and OB after RLN section-anastomosis and how to evaluate and analyze the efficiency of these transplanted cells on axonal regrowth and laryngeal functions.



This article reviews the contributions of Ivan Michailovich Sechenov [1829-1905] to the neurophysiological concept of central inhibition. He first studied this concept in the frog and on himself. Later his trainees extended the study of central inhibition to other mammalian species. Outside his own country, Sechenov is better known for his prescient contributions to physiological psychology. In Russia, however, he is also revered as &quot;the father of Russian physiology,&quot; because of his contributions to neurophysiology and other aspects of physiology including blood gases and respiration, the physiology and biomechanics of movement, and general physiology concepts that appeared in his textbooks and later works he helped translate from largely German sources. After graduation from Moscow University Medical School in 1856 he spent 3 years in Germany and Austria where he attended lectures and conducted research under the direction of several prominent physiologists and biochemists. In his subsequent academic career he held positions at universities in St. Petersburg (1860-1870; 1876-1888), Odessa (1871-1876) and Moscow (1890-1905). From 1860 onwards he was acclaimed as a physiologist in academic circles. He was also well known in Russian society for his public lectures on physiology and his views on physiological psychology. The latter resulted in him being branded &quot;politically unreliable&quot; by the tsarist bureaucracy from 1863 onwards. Sechenov's first (1862) study on central inhibition remains his most memorable. He delayed the withdrawal of a frog's foot from a weak acid solution by chemical or electrical stimulation of selected parts of the central nervous system. He also noted similar effects on his own hand during co-activation of other sensory inputs by tickling or teeth gnashing.















The objective of this study was to employ genetically engineered IGF-II analogs to establish which receptor(s) mediate the stemness promoting actions of IGF-II on mouse subventricular zone neural precursors. Neural precursors from the subventricular zone were propagated in vitro in culture medium supplemented with IGF-II analogs. Cell growth and identity were analyzed using sphere generation and further analyzed by flow cytometry. F19A, an analog of IGF-II that does not bind the IGF-2R, stimulated an increase in the proportion of neural stem cells (NSCs) while decreasing the proportion of the later stage progenitors at a lower concentration than IGF-II. V43M, which binds to the IGF-2R with high affinity but which has low binding affinity to the IGF-1R and to the A isoform of the insulin receptor (IR-A) failed to promote NSC growth. The positive effects of F19A on NSC growth were unaltered by the addition of a functional blocking antibody to the IGF-1R. Altogether, these data lead to the conclusion that IGF-II promotes stemness of NSCs via the IR-A and not through activation of either the IGF-1R or the IGF-2R.




Studies have reported an altered expression of pseudoneglect in patients with schizophrenia, but no study has examined pseudoneglect in schizophrenia at the neural level. We investigated pseudoneglect using the visual P3 event-related potential and the mental number bisection (MNB) task in 21 patients and 25 controls. Using an oddball task, participants were asked to discriminate an infrequent ('one' or 'nine') from a frequent written number ('five'). The P3 ERP components were delayed to the targets on the right of the MNL ('nine') compared to the targets on the left ('one') in controls. The effect of number magnitude on the P3 latency was not observed in the patients. In MNB task, the patients did not show the normal leftward bias observed in healthy individuals. Our findings indicate a lack of pseudoneglect and the presence of an anomalous brain asymmetry in schizophrenia.
The Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rat is genetically predisposed to increased sensitivity to psychological and physical stressors. Evidence points towards the importance of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), a peptide secreted by the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, in this strain's aberrant response to stress. CRF binds to CRF1 and 2 receptors (CRFR1 and CRFR2) which are expressed in both hypothalamic and extra-hypothalamic brain regions. Phosphorylation of the signal transduction molecule, extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 has been linked with stress and the actions of CRF. Western blotting techniques were employed to examine changes in protein expression of CRFR1 and phosphorylated ERK1/2 in hypothalamic and extra-hypothalamic brain regions of open field-stressed Sprague Dawley (SD) and WKY rats. Stress exposure resulted in increased hypothalamic ERK1/2 phosphorylation and subsequent increases in CRFR1 expression in SD but not WKY rats. In extra-hypothalamic brain regions, the stressor caused decreased or unchanged ERK 1/2 phosphorylation in both strains. A potentiated increase in CRFR1 expression was noted in the frontal cortex of WKY rats following the stressor and expression of CRFR1 was reduced in the hippocampus of WKY rats. These data demonstrate region-specific differences in stress-induced changes in expression of CRF receptors and intracellular signaling molecules in stress-sensitive WKY rats and stress-resilient SD rats.
Growth/differentiation factor (GDF)5 and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) are neurotrophic factors that promote the survival of midbrain dopaminergic neurons in vitro and in vivo. Both factors have potent neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects in rat models of Parkinson's disease (PD) and represent promising new therapies for PD. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of GDF5, GDNF and their receptors in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system in rat models of PD. It found that endogenous GDF5, GDNF and their receptors are differentially expressed in two 6-hydroxydopamine lesion models of PD. In both striatal and medial forebrain bundle (MFB) lesion models, striatal levels of GDF5 mRNA increased at 10 days post-lesion, while GDNF mRNA levels in the nigrostriatal system decreased after 10 and 28 days. Midbrain mRNA levels for both GDF5 receptors transiently increased after striatal lesion, whereas those of two GDNF receptors decreased at later time-points in both models. Despite the fact that exogenous GDF5 and GDNF have comparable effects on dopaminergic neurons in vitro and in vivo, their endogenous responses to neurotoxic injury are different. This highlights the importance of studying neurotrophic factor expression at distinct disease stages and in various animal models of PD.
Currently, the study of nociception in humans relies mainly on thermal stimulation of heat-sensitive nociceptive afferents. To circumvent some limitations of thermal stimulation, it was proposed that intra-epidermal electrical stimulation (IES) could be used as an alternative method to activate nociceptors selectively. The selectivity of IES relies on the fact that it can generate a very focal electrical current and, thereby, activate nociceptive free nerve endings located in the epidermis without concomitantly activating non-nociceptive mechanoreceptors located more deeply in the dermis. However, an important limitation of IES is that it is selective for nociceptors only when very low current intensities are used. At these intensities, the stimulus generates a very weak percept, and the signal-to-noise ratio of the elicited evoked potentials (EPs) is very low. To circumvent this limitation, it was proposed that the strength of the nociceptive afferent volley could be increased through temporal summation, using short trains of repeated IES. Here, we characterized the intensity of perception and EPs elicited by trains of 2, 3 and 4 IES delivered using a 5-ms inter-stimulus interval. We found that both the intensity of perception and the magnitude of EPs significantly increased with the number of pulses. In contrast, the latency of the elicited EPs was not affected by the number of pulses, indicating that temporal summation did not affect the type of activated fibers and, therefore, that trains of IES can be used to increase the reliability of stimulus-evoked responses while still preserving its selectivity for nociceptors.
Most cortical interneurons originate in a region of the embryonic subpallium called the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE). When MGE cells are transplanted into cerebral cortex, these progenitors migrate extensively and differentiate into functional inhibitory neurons. Although MGE progenitors have therapeutic potential following transplantation, it is unknown precisely how these cells distribute within neocortical lamina of the recipient brain. Here we transplanted mouse embryonic day 12.5 MGE progenitors into postnatal neocortex and evaluated laminar distribution of interneuron subtypes using double- and triple-label immunohistochemistry. Studies were performed using wild type (WT) or donor mice lacking a metabotropic GABA(B) receptor subunit (GABA(B1)R KO). MGE-derived neurons from WT and GABA(B1)R KO mice preferentially and densely distributed in neocortical layers 2/3, 5 and 6. As expected, MGE-derived neurons differentiated into parvalbumin+ and somatostatin+ interneurons within these neocortical lamina. Our findings provide insights into the anatomical integration of MGE-derived interneurons following transplantation.




Little is known about how microcircuits are organized in layer 2 of the medial entorhinal cortex. We visualized principal cell microcircuits and determined cellular theta-rhythmicity in freely moving rats. Non-dentate-projecting, calbindin-positive pyramidal cells bundled dendrites together and formed patches arranged in a hexagonal grid aligned to layer 1 axons, parasubiculum, and cholinergic inputs. Calbindin-negative, dentate-gyrus-projecting stellate cells were distributed across layer 2 but avoided centers of calbindin-positive patches. Cholinergic drive sustained theta-rhythmicity, which was twofold stronger in pyramidal than in stellate neurons. Theta-rhythmicity was cell-type-specific but not distributed as expected from cell-intrinsic properties. Layer 2 divides into a weakly theta-locked stellate cell lattice and spatiotemporally highly organized pyramidal grid. It needs to be assessed how these two distinct principal cell networks contribute to grid cell activity.





Fluorescence-based, genetically encodable biosensors are widely used tools for real-time analysis of biological processes. Over the last few decades, the number of available genetically encodable biosensors and the types of processes they can monitor have increased rapidly. Here, we aim to introduce the reader to general principles and practices in biosensor development and highlight ways in which biosensors can be used to illuminate outstanding questions of biological function. Specifically, we focus on sensors developed for monitoring kinase activity and use them to illustrate some common considerations for biosensor design. We describe several uses to which kinase and second-messenger biosensors have been put, and conclude with considerations for the use of biosensors once they are developed. Overall, as fluorescence-based biosensors continue to diversify and improve, we expect them to continue to be widely used as reliable and fruitful tools for gaining deeper insights into cellular and organismal function.



Injury to peripheral nerves can occur as a result of various surgical procedures, including oral and maxillofacial surgery. In the case of nerve transaction, the gold standard treatment is the end-to-end reconnection of the two nerve stumps. When it cannot be performed, the actual strategies consist of the positioning of a nerve graft between the two stumps. Guided nerve regeneration using nano-structured scaffolds is a promising strategy to promote axon regeneration. Biodegradable electrospun conduits composed of aligned nanofibers is a new class of devices used to improve neurite extension and axon outgrowth. Self assembled peptide nanofibrous scaffolds (SAPNSs) demonstrated promising results in animal models for central nervous system injuries, and, more recently, for peripheral nerve injury. Aims of this work are (1) to review electrospun and self-assembled nanofibrous scaffolds use in vitro and in vivo for peripheral nerve regeneration; and (2) its application in peripheral nerve injuries treatment. The review focused on nanofibrous scaffolds with a diameter of less than approximately 250 nm. The conjugation in a nano scale of a natural bioactive factor with a resorbable synthetic or natural material may represent the best compromise providing both biological and mechanical cues for guided nerve regeneration. Injured peripheral nerves, such as trigeminal and facial, may benefit from these treatments.




Neuropsychological tasks used in primates to investigate mechanisms of learning and memory are typically visually guided cognitive tasks. We have developed visual cognitive tasks for rats using the Floor Projection Maze(1,2) that are optimized for visual abilities of rats permitting stronger comparisons of experimental findings with other species. In order to investigate neural correlates of learning and memory, we have integrated electrophysiological recordings into fully automated cognitive tasks on the Floor Projection Maze(1,2). Behavioral software interfaced with an animal tracking system allows monitoring of the animal's behavior with precise control of image presentation and reward contingencies for better trained animals. Integration with an in vivo electrophysiological recording system enables examination of behavioral correlates of neural activity at selected epochs of a given cognitive task. We describe protocols for a model system that combines automated visual presentation of information to rodents and intracranial reward with electrophysiological approaches. Our model system offers a sophisticated set of tools as a framework for other cognitive tasks to better isolate and identify specific mechanisms contributing to particular cognitive processes.
In recent years, two-photon imaging has become an invaluable tool in neuroscience, as it allows for chronic measurement of the activity of genetically identified cells during behavior(1-6). Here we describe methods to perform two-photon imaging in mouse cortex while the animal navigates a virtual reality environment. We focus on the aspects of the experimental procedures that are key to imaging in a behaving animal in a brightly lit virtual environment. The key problems that arise in this experimental setup that we here address are: minimizing brain motion related artifacts, minimizing light leak from the virtual reality projection system, and minimizing laser induced tissue damage. We also provide sample software to control the virtual reality environment and to do pupil tracking. With these procedures and resources it should be possible to convert a conventional two-photon microscope for use in behaving mice.


A major challenge in human genetics is to devise a systematic strategy to integrate disease-associated variants with diverse genomic and biological data sets to provide insight into disease pathogenesis and guide drug discovery for complex traits such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here we performed a genome-wide association study meta-analysis in a total of &gt;100,000 subjects of European and Asian ancestries (29,880 RA cases and 73,758 controls), by evaluating 10 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms. We discovered 42 novel RA risk loci at a genome-wide level of significance, bringing the total to 101 (refs 2 - 4). We devised an in silico pipeline using established bioinformatics methods based on functional annotation, cis-acting expression quantitative trait loci and pathway analyses--as well as novel methods based on genetic overlap with human primary immunodeficiency, haematological cancer somatic mutations and knockout mouse phenotypes--to identify 98 biological candidate genes at these 101 risk loci. We demonstrate that these genes are the targets of approved therapies for RA, and further suggest that drugs approved for other indications may be repurposed for the treatment of RA. Together, this comprehensive genetic study sheds light on fundamental genes, pathways and cell types that contribute to RA pathogenesis, and provides empirical evidence that the genetics of RA can provide important information for drug discovery.
Neuroblastoma arises from sympathoadrenal progenitors of the neural crest and expression of the neurotrophin receptor TrkB and its ligand, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), is correlated with poor prognosis. Although activated TrkB signaling promotes a more aggressive phenotype in established neuroblastoma cell lines, whether TrkB signaling is sufficient to transform neural crest-derived cells has not been investigated. To address the role of TrkB signaling in malignant transformation, we removed two immunoglobulin-like domains from the extracellular domain of the full-length rat TrkB receptor to create a IgTrkB that is constitutively active. In the pheochromocytoma-derived cell line PC12, IgTrkB promotes differentiation by stimulating process outgrowth; however, in the rat neural crest-derived cell line NCM-1, IgTrkB signaling produces a markedly transformed phenotype characterized by increased proliferation, anchorage-independent cell growth, anoikis resistance and matrix invasion. Furthermore, expression of IgTrkB leads to the upregulation of many transcripts encoding cancer-associated genes including cyclind1, twist1 and hgf, as well as downregulation of tumor suppressors such as pten and rb1. In addition, IgTrkB NCM-1 cells show a 21-fold increase in mRNA for MYCN, the most common genetic marker for a poor prognosis in neuroblastoma. When injected into NOD SCID mice, control GFP NCM-1 cells fail to grow whereas IgTrkB NCM-1 cells form rapidly growing and invasive tumors necessitating euthanasia of all mice by 15 days post injection. In summary, these results indicate that activated TrkB signaling is sufficient to promote the formation of a highly malignant phenotype in neural crest-derived cells.



Alzheimer's disease is characterized by pathological aggregation of protein tau and amyloid- peptides, both of which are considered to be toxic to neurons. Naturally occurring dietary flavonoids have received considerable attention as alternative candidates for Alzheimer's therapy taking into account their antiamyloidogenic, antioxidative, and anti-inflammatory properties. Experimental evidence supports the hypothesis that certain flavonoids may protect against Alzheimer's disease in part by interfering with the generation and assembly of amyloid- peptides into neurotoxic oligomeric aggregates and also by reducing tau aggregation. Several mechanisms have been proposed for the ability of flavonoids to prevent the onset or to slow the progression of the disease. Some mechanisms include their interaction with important signaling pathways in the brain like the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways that regulate prosurvival transcription factors and gene expression. Other processes include the disruption of amyloid- aggregation and alterations in amyloid precursor protein processing through the inhibition of -secretase and/or activation of -secretase, and inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinase-5 and glycogen synthase kinase-3 activation, preventing abnormal tau phosphorylation. The interaction of flavonoids with different signaling pathways put forward their therapeutic potential to prevent the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease and to promote cognitive performance. Nevertheless, further studies are needed to give additional insight into the specific mechanisms by which flavonoids exert their potential neuroprotective actions in the brain of Alzheimer's disease patients.
2,3-Benzodiazepine compounds are synthesized as drug candidates for treatment of various neurological disorders involving excessive activity of AMPA receptors. Here we report that pairing a thiadiazole moiety with a 2,3-benzodiazepine scaffold via the N-3 position yields an inhibitor type with &gt;28-fold better potency and selectivity on AMPA receptors than the 2,3-benzodiazepine scaffold alone. Using whole-cell recording, we characterized two thiadiazolyl compounds, that is, one contains a 1,3,4-thiadiazole moiety and the other contains a 1,2,4-thiadiazole-3-one moiety. These compounds exhibit potent, equal inhibition of both the closed-channel and the open-channel conformations of all four homomeric AMPA receptor channels and two GluA2R-containing complex AMPA receptor channels. Furthermore, these compounds bind to the same receptor site as GYKI 52466 does, a site we previously termed as the &quot;M&quot; site. A thiadiazole moiety is thought to occupy more fully the side pocket of the receptor site or the &quot;M&quot; site, thereby generating a stronger, multivalent interaction between the inhibitor and the receptor binding site. We suggest that, as a heterocycle, a thiadiazole can be further modified chemically to produce a new class of even more potent, noncompetitive inhibitors of AMPA receptors.




Eight new oleanane-type triterpenoid saponins, named schefflesides A-H (1-8), were isolated from the aerial parts of Schefflera kwangsiensis. The structures of these new compounds were established on the basis of hydrolysis and spectroscopic evidence, including 1D- and 2D-NMR (HSQC, HMBC, ROESY and TOCSY) and HR-MS analyses.










Cholinergic interneurons are key components of striatal microcircuits. In primates, tonically active neurons (putative cholinergic interneurons) exhibit multiphasic responses to motivationally salient stimuli that mirror those of midbrain dopamine neurons and together these two systems mediate reward-related learning in basal ganglia circuits. Here, we addressed the potential contribution of cortical and thalamic excitatory inputs to the characteristic multiphasic responses of cholinergic interneurons in vivo. We first recorded and labeled individual cholinergic interneurons in anesthetized rats. Electron microscopic analyses of these labeled neurons demonstrated that an individual interneuron could form synapses with cortical and, more commonly, thalamic afferents. Single-pulse electrical stimulation of ipsilateral frontal cortex led to robust short-latency (&lt;20 ms) interneuron spiking, indicating monosynaptic connectivity, but firing probability progressively decreased during high-frequency pulse trains. In contrast, single-pulse thalamic stimulation led to weak short-latency spiking, but firing probability increased during pulse trains. After initial excitation from cortex or thalamus, interneurons displayed a &quot;pause&quot; in firing, followed by a &quot;rebound&quot; increase in firing rate. Across all stimulation protocols, the number of spikes in the initial excitation correlated positively with pause duration and negatively with rebound magnitude. The magnitude of the initial excitation, therefore, partly determined the profile of later components of multiphasic responses. Upon examining the responses of tonically active neurons in behaving primates, we found that these correlations held true for unit responses to a reward-predicting stimulus, but not to the reward alone, delivered outside of any task. We conclude that excitatory inputs determine, at least in part, the multiphasic responses of cholinergic interneurons under specific behavioral conditions.
Extended-access cocaine self-administration results in withdrawal-dependent incubation of cocaine craving. Rats evaluated after 1 month of withdrawal from such regimens (&quot;incubated rats&quot;) exhibit changes in medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) that include accumulation of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) and a switch in group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated suppression of synaptic transmission from mGluR5-dependent to mGluR1-dependent. To determine the role of protein synthesis in mediating these adaptations, we conducted whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in NAc core MSNs of &quot;incubated rats&quot; in the presence of translational inhibitors (anisomycin, cycloheximide, rapamycin) or the transcriptional inhibitor actinomycin-D. The contribution of CP-AMPARs to synaptic transmission was determined by the rectification index and the sensitivity to the CP-AMPAR antagonist 1-naphthyl acetyl spermine. We found that CP-AMPAR-mediated transmission in the NAc of &quot;incubated rats&quot; was reduced to levels comparable to those found in saline control rats when brain slices were treated with translational inhibitors, whereas actinomycin-D had no effect. We also investigated the effect of protein translation inhibitors on the switch of mGluR function in MSNs of &quot;incubated rats&quot; using the group I mGluR agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine in combination with either an mGluR1 (LY367385) or an mGluR5 (3-[(2-methyl-4-thiazolyl)ethynyl]pyridine) antagonist. Data revealed that inhibition of protein translation eliminated the mGluR1-mediated inhibition and restored the mGluR5 responsiveness to a state functionally similar to that of saline control rats. Together, these results suggest that aberrant regulation of local protein synthesis contributes to the maintenance of adaptations accrued at NAc MSN synapses during incubation of cocaine craving.
Sensory signals must be interpreted in the context of goals and tasks. To detect a target in an image, the brain compares input signals and goals to elicit the correct behavior. We examined how target detection modulates visual recognition signals by recording intracranial field potential responses from 776 electrodes in 10 epileptic human subjects. We observed reliable differences in the physiological responses to stimuli when a cued target was present versus absent. Goal-related modulation was particularly strong in the inferior temporal and fusiform gyri, two areas important for object recognition. Target modulation started after 250 ms post stimulus, considerably after the onset of visual recognition signals. While broadband signals exhibited increased or decreased power, gamma frequency power showed predominantly increases during target presence. These observations support models where task goals interact with sensory inputs via top-down signals that influence the highest echelons of visual processing after the onset of selective responses.
Visuomotor adaptation has been thought to be an implicit process that results when a sensory-prediction error signal is used to update a forward model. A striking feature of human competence is the ability to receive verbal instructions and employ strategies to solve tasks; such explicit processes could be used during visuomotor adaptation. Here, we used a novel task design that allowed us to obtain continuous verbal reports of aiming direction while participants learned a visuomotor rotation. We had two main hypotheses: the contribution of explicit learning would be modulated by instruction and the contribution of implicit learning would be modulated by the form of error feedback. By directly assaying aiming direction, we could identify the time course of the explicit component and, via subtraction, isolate the implicit component of learning. There were marked differences in the time courses of explicit and implicit contributions to learning. Explicit learning, driven by target error, was achieved by initially large then smaller explorations of aiming direction biased toward the correct solution. In contrast, implicit learning, driven by a sensory-prediction error, was slow and monotonic. Continuous error feedback reduced the amplitude of explicit learning and increased the contribution of implicit learning. The presence of instruction slightly increased the rate of initial learning and only had a subtle effect on implicit learning. We conclude that visuomotor adaptation, even in the absence of instruction, results from the interplay between explicit learning driven by target error and implicit learning of a forward model driven by prediction error.
An event-related potential (ERP) component reliably associated with feedback processing and well studied in humans is the feedback-related negativity (FRN), which is assumed to indicate activation of midcingulate cortex (MCC) neurons. However, recent approaches have conceptualized this frontocentral ERP component as reflecting at least partially a reward positivity associated with activation in reward-related brain regions, in line with fMRI studies investigating feedback processing in the context of reward evaluation. To discover convergence of electrophysiological and BOLD responses elicited by performance feedback, we concurrently recorded EEG and fMRI during a time-estimation task. The ERP showed relatively more negative amplitudes to negative than to positive feedback. Conventional analyses of fMRI data revealed activation of a number of areas, including ventral striatum, anterior cingulate cortex, and medial prefrontal cortex to positive versus negative feedback. Most importantly, when using single-trial amplitudes of electrophysiological feedback signals to estimate hemodynamic responses, we found feedback-related BOLD-responses in ventral striatum, midcingulate, and midfrontal cortices to positive but not to negative feedback associated with feedback signals in the time range of the FRN. Specifically, activation in these areas increased as amplitudes became more positive. These findings suggest that, in the time-estimation task, a positivity elicited by reward is associated with brain activation in several reward-related brain regions and is driving differential ERP responses in the time range of the FRN.
Axons in the vertebrate nervous system only expand beyond  1 m in diameter if they become myelinated. This expansion is due in large part to the accumulation of space-filling cytoskeletal polymers called neurofilaments, which are cargoes of axonal transport. One possible mechanism for this accumulation is a decrease in the rate of neurofilament transport. To test this hypothesis, we used a fluorescence photoactivation pulse-escape technique to compare the kinetics of neurofilament transport in contiguous myelinated and unmyelinated segments of axons in long-term myelinating cocultures established from the dorsal root ganglia of embryonic rats. The myelinated segments contained more neurofilaments and had a larger cross-sectional area than the contiguous unmyelinated segments, and this correlated with a local slowing of neurofilament transport. By computational modeling of the pulse-escape kinetics, we found that this slowing of neurofilament transport could be explained by an increase in the proportion of the time that the neurofilaments spent pausing and that this increase in pausing was sufficient to explain the observed neurofilament accumulation. Thus we propose that myelinating cells can regulate the neurofilament content and morphology of axons locally by modulating the kinetics of neurofilament transport.
Classical studies on the development of ocular dominance (OD) organization in primary visual cortex (V1) have revealed a postnatal critical period (CP), during which visual inputs between the two eyes are most effective in shaping cortical circuits through synaptic competition. A brief closure of one eye during CP caused a pronounced shift of response preference of V1 neurons toward the open eye, a form of CP plasticity in the developing V1. However, it remains unclear what particular property of binocular inputs during CP is responsible for mediating this experience-dependent OD plasticity. Using whole-cell recording in mouse V1, we found that visually driven synaptic inputs from the two eyes to binocular cells in layers 2/3 and 4 became highly coincident during CP. Enhancing cortical GABAergic transmission activity by brain infusion with diazepam not only caused a precocious onset of the high coincidence of binocular inputs and OD plasticity in pre-CP mice, but rescued both of them in dark-reared mice, suggesting a tight link between coincident binocular inputs and CP plasticity. In Thy1-ChR2 mice, chronic disruption of this binocular input coincidence during CP by asynchronous optogenetic activation of retinal ganglion cells abolished the OD plasticity. Computational simulation using a feed-forward network model further suggests that the coincident inputs could mediate this CP plasticity through a homeostatic synaptic learning mechanism with synaptic competition. These results suggest that the high-level correlation of binocular inputs is a hallmark of the CP of developing V1 and serves as neural substrate for the induction of OD plasticity.
A hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain is the amyloid  (A) plaque, which is comprised of A peptides. Multiple lines of evidence suggest that A oligomers are more toxic than other peptide forms. We sought to develop a robust assay to quantify oligomers from CSF. Antibody 19.3 was compared in one-site and competitive ELISAs for oligomer binding specificity. A two-site ELISA for oligomers was developed using 19.3 coupled to a sensitive, bead-based fluorescent platform able to detect single photons of emitted light. The two-site ELISA was &gt;2500 selective for A oligomers over A monomers with a limit of detection  0.09 pg/ml in human CSF. The lower limit of reliable quantification of the assay was 0.18 pg/ml and the antibody pairs recognized A multimers comprised of either synthetic standards, or endogenous oligomers isolated from confirmed human AD and healthy control brain. Using the assay, a significant 3- to 5-fold increase in A oligomers in human AD CSF compared with comparably aged controls was demonstrated. The increase was seen in three separate human cohorts, totaling 63 AD and 54 controls. CSF oligomers ranged between 0.1 and 10 pg/ml. A oligomer levels did not strongly associate with age or gender, but had an inverse correlation with MMSE score. The C statistic for the A oligomer ROC curve was 0.86, with 80% sensitivity and 88% specificity to detect AD, suggesting reasonable discriminatory power for the AD state and the potential for utility as a diagnostic marker.
The basal forebrain (BF) plays an important role in the control of cortical activation and attention. Understanding the modulation of BF neuronal activity is a prerequisite to treat disorders of cortical activation involving BF dysfunction, such as Alzheimer's disease. Here we reveal the interaction between cholinergic neurons and cortically projecting BF GABAergic neurons using immunohistochemistry and whole-cell recordings in vitro. In GAD67-GFP knock-in mice, BF cholinergic (choline acetyltransferase-positive) neurons were intermingled with GABAergic (GFP(+)) neurons. Immunohistochemistry for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter showed that cholinergic fibers apposed putative cortically projecting GABAergic neurons containing parvalbumin (PV). In coronal BF slices from GAD67-GFP knock-in or PV-tdTomato mice, pharmacological activation of cholinergic receptors with bath application of carbachol increased the firing rate of large (&gt;20 m diameter) BF GFP(+) and PV (tdTomato+) neurons, which exhibited the intrinsic membrane properties of cortically projecting neurons. The excitatory effect of carbachol was blocked by antagonists of M1 and M3 muscarinic receptors in two subpopulations of BF GABAergic neurons [large hyperpolarization-activated cation current (Ih) and small Ih, respectively]. Ion substitution experiments and reversal potential measurements suggested that the carbachol-induced inward current was mediated mainly by sodium-permeable cation channels. Carbachol also increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory synaptic currents. Furthermore, optogenetic stimulation of cholinergic neurons/fibers caused a mecamylamine- and atropine-sensitive inward current in putative GABAergic neurons. Thus, cortically projecting, BF GABAergic/PV neurons are excited by neighboring BF and/or brainstem cholinergic neurons. Loss of cholinergic neurons in Alzheimer's disease may impair cortical activation, in part, through disfacilitation of BF cortically projecting GABAergic/PV neurons.
Direct measurements of synaptic inhibition (I) and excitation (E) to spinal motoneurons can provide an important insight into the organization of premotor networks. Such measurements of flexor motoneurons participating in motor patterns in turtles have recently demonstrated strong concurrent E and I as well as stochastic membrane potentials and irregular spiking in the adult turtle spinal cord. These findings represent a departure from the widespread acceptance of feedforward reciprocal rate models for spinal motor function. The apparent discrepancy has been reviewed as an experimental artifact caused by the distortion of local networks in the transected turtle spinal cord. We tested this assumption in the current study by performing experiments to assess the integrity of motor functions in the intact spinal cord and the cord transected at segments D9/D10. Excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs to motoneurons were estimated during rhythmic motor activity and demonstrated primarily intense inputs that consisted of qualitatively similar mixed E/I before and after the transection. To understand this high functional resilience, we used mathematical modeling of networks with recurrent connectivity that could potentially explain the balanced E/I. Both experimental and modeling data support the concept of a locally balanced premotor network consisting of recurrent E/I connectivity, in addition to the well known reciprocal network activity. The multifaceted synaptic connections provide spinal networks with a remarkable ability to remain functional after structural divisions.
