Recent data on the expression and function of the ZIP family of proteins has suggested that these zinc transporters may be useful biomarkers for the diagnosis and prognosis of human breast cancer. This exciting new area of research opens the door for the use of a variety of nutritionally regulated genes and proteins as screening tools not only for breast cancer, but for a variety of other diseases for which early detection is important.
There is growing evidence that immune functions are linked to the regulation of body fat. Our studies of knockout mice indicate that both endogenous interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1 can suppress mature-onset obesity. We now investigated whether four common polymorphisms of the IL6 and IL1 systems are associated with the fat mass measured with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in elderly men (n = 3,014). The study subjects were from the Swedish part of the MrOS multicenter population study and 69-81 years of age. The IL6 -174 G&gt;C (Minor allele frequency (MAF) = 48%) gene promoter polymorphism was associated with the primary outcome total fat mass (P = 0.006) and regional fat masses, but not with lean body mass. The IL1B -31T&gt;C (MAF = 34%) polymorphism was also associated with total fat (P = 0.007) and regional fat masses, but not lean body mass. The IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) gene (IL1RN) +2018 T&gt;C (MAF = 27%) polymorphism (in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with a well-studied variable number tandem repeat of 86 base pair (bp)) and IL1B +3953 C&gt;T (MAF = 26%) polymorphism were not associated with total fat mass. In conclusion, the IL-1 and IL-6 systems, shown to suppress mature-onset obesity in experimental animals, contain gene polymorphisms that are associated with fat, but not lean, mass in elderly men.
Fitting a prism-ballasted soft toric contact lens unilaterally may potentially induce a vergence error that the subject cannot compensate. In the present study, a prism-ballasted (1.5Delta base down) soft toric contact lens was fitted in the right eye only of 10 subjects with normal binocular vision. The effect on binocular vision was evaluated by measuring vertical phoria adaptation and vertical fixation disparity adaptation. The results show that the vertical vergence error induced was well compensated and fully adapted to. However, care might be needed when fitting these lenses unilaterally in subjects with vertical phoria-related problems.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a relatively common, profoundly disabling and incurable disease that presents in early childhood with hypotonia, weakness and decreased movement. Without ventilatory support, premature death from respiratory insufficiency is universal in children with spinal muscular atrophy type 1 (SMA1). With mechanical ventilation, however, long-term survival in SMA1 has been reported from numerous international centres. Children kept alive by this means experience progressive paralysis and eventually become effectively 'locked in' on the ventilator, with no useful movements of the extremities, progressive facial and bulbar weakness, and complete inability to communicate. Prolongation of life by invasive ventilation in such cases is futile given the absence of curative treatments for infants with SMA1, and overly burdensome given the unacceptable quality of life of such children.

Thalidomide was recently reintroduced to treat several immune-mediated pathologies. Peripheral neuropathy is a significant side effect limiting its clinical use. Our aims include: (1) describing and identifying the incidence of clinical or electrophysiologic peripheral neuropathy in children, (2) determining whether peripheral neuropathy correlates with cumulative dose of thalidomide and with age, and (3) defining its reversibility rate. We studied 13 children manifesting immune-mediated pathologies treated with thalidomide at doses ranging from 25-100 mg/day. Clinical and neurophysiologic evaluation was performed before and after starting treatment. Seven children (53.8%) showed neurophysiologic signs of sensory peripheral axonal polyneuropathy. Five presented associated clinical symptoms, while the other two only presented subclinical, neurophysiologic signs of peripheral neuropathy. We found a significant correlation between the incidence of peripheral neuropathy and thalidomide cumulative dose (P = 0.02). We observed a lower incidence of peripheral neuropathy at a cumulative dose &lt;20 gm, and a correlation with age (P &lt; 0.01). The clinical and electrophysiologic recovery rate was 40%, and clinical improvement alone was observed in another 40%. Thalidomide induces dose-dependent and age-dependent peripheral neuropathy at a significant frequency in childhood (53.8%). In our experience a cumulative dosage at &gt;20 gm and long-term administration for &gt;10 months seem to increase the risk of peripheral neuropathy. We propose clinical and neurophysiologic follow-up every 3 months to identify and monitor possible side effects.
Epilepsy is a chronic condition caused by an imbalance of normal excitatory and inhibitory forces in the brain. Antiepileptic drug therapy is directed primarily toward reducing excitability through blockage of voltage-gated Na(+) or Ca(2+) channels, or increasing inhibition through enhancement of gamma-aminobutyric acid currents. Prior to clinical studies, putative antiepileptic drugs are screened in animals (usually rodents). Maximal electrical shock, pentylenetetrazol, and kindling are typically used as nonmechanistic screens for antiseizure properties, and the rotorod test assesses acute toxicity. Whereas antiseizure drug screening has been successful in bringing drugs to the market and improving our understanding of the pathophysiology of seizures, it merits emphasis that the vast majority of drug screening occurs in mature male rodents and involves models of seizures, not epilepsy. Effective drugs in acute seizures may not be effective in chronic models of epilepsy. Seizure type, clinical and electroencephalographic phenotype, syndrome, and etiology are often quite different in children with epilepsy than in adults. Despite these age-related unique features, drugs used in children are generally the same as those in adults. As awareness of the unique features of seizures during development increases, more drug screening in the immature animal will likely occur.
Gene delivery vectors based on adeno-associated virus (AAV) are highly promising due to several desirable features of this parent virus, including a lack of pathogenicity, efficient infection of dividing and non-dividing cells, and sustained maintenance of the viral genome. However, several problems should be addressed to enhance the utility of AAV vectors, particularly those based on AAV2, the best characterized AAV serotype. First, altering viral tropism would be advantageous for broadening its utility in various tissue or cell types. In response to this need, vector pseudotyping, mosaic capsids, and targeting ligand insertion into the capsid have shown promise for altering AAV specificity. In addition, library selection and directed evolution have recently emerged as promising approaches to modulate AAV tropism despite limited knowledge of viral structure-function relationships. Second, pre-existing immunity to AAV must be addressed for successful clinical application of AAV vectors. &quot;Shielding&quot; polymers, site-directed mutagenesis, and alternative AAV serotypes have shown success in avoiding immune neutralization. Furthermore, directed evolution of the AAV capsid is a high throughput approach that has yielded vectors with substantial resistance to neutralizing antibodies. Molecular engineering and directed evolution of AAV vectors therefore offer promise for generating 'designer' gene delivery vectors with enhanced properties.
Previous studies have suggested that cannabinoidergic system is involved in anxiety. However, a complete picture of cannabinoid association in the anxiety is still lacking. In the present study, we investigated the possible interaction between cannabinoidergic and GABAergic systems in the anxiety-like behaviour of mice. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 (0.25-5 mg/kg), the endocannabinoid transport inhibitor AM404 (0.25-2 mg/kg) and diazepam (0.25-8 mg/kg) dose dependently exhibited an anxiolytic effect evaluated in terms of increase in the percentage of time spent in the open arms in the elevated plus maze (EPM) test. Administration of certain fixed-ratio combinations (3:1 and 1:1) of WIN55212-2 and diazepam produced a synergistic anxiolytic effect, while the 1:3 combination produced an additive effect. In hole-board test, administration of certain ratios of WIN55212-2-diazepam combination significantly altered the animal behaviour compared to groups that received each drug alone. Co-administration of AM404 (1 and 2 mg/kg) and diazepam (0.5 mg/kg) abolished the anxiolytic effect of the former drug in EPM and the latter in hole-board test, respectively. The combination of an ineffective dose of the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor, URB597 (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) on anxiety-related responses with an ineffective dose of diazepam (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) led to a synergistic effect. Co-administration of the CB1 receptor antagonist, AM251 (5 mg/kg) and an effective dose of diazepam (2 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated diazepam-induced elevation of percentage of time spent in open arm, while lower dose of AM251 (0.5 mg/kg) failed to inhibit diazepam-induced anxiolytic effect. Taken together, the present study showed that co-administration of exogenous cannabinoids and diazepam produce additive or synergistic effect at different combinations. Moreover, it has been shown that enhancement of the function of endocannabinoids could increase the anxiolytic effect of diazepam.
In order to determine the effect of postnatal environments on some behavioral and neurochemical depressive-like parameters, male Sprague-Dawley rats were reared from weaning in either social isolation, standard laboratory conditions, or environmental enrichment. Open-field activity was assessed at postnatal days 37, 65, 93 and 107 and 1 h before the last open-field test, a forced-swimming test was carried out. After behavioral tests, the monoamines concentrations were analyzed in prefrontal cortex and ventral striatum. Relative to control and isolation rearing, the environmental enrichment reduced open-field activity, led to antidepressive-like effects and increased serotonin concentrations in the prefrontal cortex. Social isolation, on the other hand, did not affect open-field activity, but increased depressive-like behavior and reduced the amount of norepinephrine in the ventral striatum. Those neurochemical changes induced by rearing conditions correlated with the behavioral performance in the forced-swimming test. Also, immobility behavior could be predicted by locomotor activity even from the first week of housing. Overall, specific variations in physical and social environment during early rearing lead to some behavioral and neurochemical alterations which might be relevant for understanding the role that neurodevelopmental and experiential factors could have in human depression.
This experimental investigation tested two different strains of rat, Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Fischer 344 (F344), in their ability to learn lever pressing for food (autoshaping) or intracranial self-administration (ICSA) of dextroamphetamine (AMPH) into the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Additionally, a unique method of intracranial drug delivery was utilized, via reverse dialysis, by the use of a microdiaylsis probe. The experiments revealed definite behavioral differences between SD and F344 animals. The autoshaping data indicated that SD rats, on average, acquired lever pressing for food in fewer training days than F344 rats. Also, the ICSA experiment revealed that SD rats self-administered AMPH at a 30 mug/mul concentration. Lever pressing was significantly greater in those SD rats receiving AMPH than in the F344 drug group. Furthermore, the F344 rats never acquired lever pressing for intra-NAcc delivery of AMPH under our testing regime. These data reveal differences in performance of positively reinforced operant tasks between the inbred F344 rats as compared to the outbred SD strain.
Memory, attention and creativity represent three different cognitive domains, which are interconnected and contribute the &quot;mental performance&quot; of an individual. Modern neuroscience has investigated some of the neuronal circuits and of the neurotransmitters and molecular events underlying the above-mentioned cognitive functions. Within this renewed reference context, some of the properties of the components of the remedies to increase mental performance have been studied and validated in experimental models and, to date, these substances are named &quot;smart drugs&quot;, &quot;memory enhancing drugs&quot; or &quot;nootropic drugs&quot; (from the Greek root noos for mind and tropein for toward). Recently pharmaceutical industries are increasingly focusing on the research for potential substances in this field: several &quot;smart drugs&quot; are in clinical trials and could be on the market in few years. Furthermore, a quick survey from Internet highlights the presence of a great variety of both approved and non-approved drugs, with some of them addressing to only medical and others to performance-oriented use, opening room to some reflections or speculations from scientific and ethical points of view. In order to point out the effect of nootropic drugs on cognition of healthy people, we reviewed the literature on drug enhancement of various cognitive functions, including memory, attention and creativity. As their simplest, memory is regarded as the ability to remember events or learned material, attention is the cognitive process of selectively concentrating on one aspect while ignoring distracters and creativity could be described as the ability to create products or ideas which are original and which possess a social usefulness. Reports from literature reveal that some medications currently available to patients with memory disorders may also increase performances in healthy people and that drugs designed for psychiatric disorders can also be used to enhance certain mental functions. However, the long-term effects of these drugs are unknown, but their apparent effectiveness allows room to their use and misuse. At variance with these literature data showing scientific, even if poor, evidence of the effect of smart drugs in the field of memory and attention, only indirect information on creativity can be obtained by studies of the effects of diseases and drugs on the artistic productivity of classic painters and famous authors, offering a link to understand the neuronal basis of this cognitive function and a cue to understand how drugs (used to correct the illness) may affect the function. On the basis of these cues, in this review we will discuss some critical aspects of the different cerebral circuits and molecular events regulating memory, attention and creativity in order to outline the neurobiological bases of the effects of &quot;smart drugs&quot; on cognitive functions, and to evaluate their putative pharmaceutical development.
To test the hypothesis that activation of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) channels leads to natriuresis and diuresis via an increase in glomerular filtration rate (GFR), recirculating Krebs-Henseleit buffer added with inulin was perfused in the isolated perfused kidney of male Wistar rat at a constant flow, and perfusion pressures (PPs) were pre-adjusted to three different levels ( approximately 100, approximately 150, and approximately 190mmHg) with phenylephrine. Capsaicin (Cap), a selective TRPV1 agonist, was perfused in the presence or absence of capsazepine (Capz), a selective TRPV1 antagonist, CGRP(8-37), a selective calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist, or spantide II (Spa), a selective substance P (SP) receptor antagonist. At the higher (150 and 190mmHg) but not baseline (100mmHg) PP levels, Cap at 10microM significantly decreased PP and increased GFR, urine flow rate (UFR) and Na+ excretion (UNaV). At the highest (190mmHg) PP level, Cap (2, 10, 30microM) dose-dependently decreased PP and increased GFR, UFR, UNaV, and the release of CGRP and SP. Capz or CGRP(8-37) combined with Spa fully blocked the effect of Cap on PP, GFR, UFR, UNaV, and the release of CGRP and SP. In conclusion, activation of TRPV1 in the isolated kidney decreases renal PP and increases GFR and water/sodium excretion possibly via simultaneous activation of CGRP and SP receptors upon their enhanced release, suggesting that TRPV1 plays a key role in modulating renal hemodynamics and excretory function.
Using the multivariate long memory (LM) model and Taylor expansions, we find the conditions for convergence of the wavelet correlations between two LM processes on an asymptotic value at low frequencies. These mathematical results, and a least squares estimator of LM parameters, are validated in simulations and applied to neurophysiological (human brain) and financial market time series. Both brain and market systems had multivariate LM properties including a &quot;fractal connectivity&quot; regime of scales over which wavelet correlations were invariantly close to their asymptotic value. This analysis provides efficient and unbiased estimation of long-term correlations in diverse dynamic networks.
When making intertemporal decisions, i.e., decisions between outcomes occurring at different instants in time, humans and animals prefer rewards with short-term availability over rewards that become available in the long run. Discounted utility theory (DUT) is an influential normative model for intertemporal decisions that attempts to capture preference over time. It prescribes which is the best decision to take with respect to consistent, coherent and optimal choice. Over the last few decades, DUT's descriptive validity has been critically challenged. Empirical studies found systematic violations of several of DUT's assumptions, including time-consistency of preferences, stationarity, constant discounting and utility maximisation. To account for these anomalies, alternative models have been devised in various academic disciplines, including economics, psychology, biology, philosophy, and most lately, cognitive neuroscience. This article reviews the most recent literature on the behavioural and neural processes underlying intertemporal choices, and elucidates to which extent these findings can be used to explain violations of DUT's assumptions. In the first three sections, DUT is introduced, and behavioural anomalies are discussed. The fourth part focuses on the neuroscience of intertemporal choice, including its functional neuroanatomy, attempts to find a discounted value signal in the brain, and recent efforts to identify neural mechanisms producing time-inconsistencies. In the last section, the computational literature on neural learning mechanisms is reviewed. Then, a new, biologically plausible computational model of intertemporal choice is proposed that is able to explain many of the behavioural anomalies. The implications of these results help to understand why humans and animals frequently decide irrationally and to their long-term economic disadvantage, and which neural mechanisms underly such decisions.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is upregulated by inflammatory mediators in several neurological diseases/disorders where it either participates in the pathology or provides protection. Often, the biological outcome of TGF-beta1 is dependent upon changes in gene expression. Recently, we demonstrated that TGF-beta1 enhances astrocytic nitric oxide production induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) by increasing the number of astrocytes in a population that express NOS-2. The purpose of this study was twofold: (1) to determine whether this effect occurs more generally by assessing the effect of TGF-beta1 on another pro-inflammatory gene, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2); and (2) to assess stimulus specificity. We found that TGF-beta1 augmented LPS plus IFNgamma-induced COX-2 mRNA and protein expression, by nearly tripling the number of astrocytes that express COX-2. The effect was not stimulus-specific as TGF-beta1 enhanced the number of astrocytes that expressed both COX-2 and NOS-2 protein when either IL-1beta or TNFalpha was used in lieu of LPS. Collectively, these results suggest that TGF-beta1 augments overall protein expression levels of select pro-inflammatory genes in astrocytes in a promiscuous manner by reducing the magnitude of noise in the cellular population.
We have developed a positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) fusion system for the molecular-genetic imaging (MGI) of the in vivo human brain using two high-end imaging devices: the HRRT-PET, a high-resolution research tomograph dedicated to brain imaging on the molecular level, and the 7.0 T-MRI, an ultra-high field version used for morphological imaging. HRRT-PET delivers high-resolution molecular imaging with a resolution down to 2.5 mm full width at half maximum (FWHM), which allows us to observe the brain's molecular changes using the specific reporter genes and probes. On the other front, the 7.0 T-MRI, with submillimeter resolution images of the cortical areas down to 250 mum, allows us to visualize the fine details of the brainstem areas as well as the many cortical and subcortical areas. The new PET-MRI fusion imaging system will provide many answers to the questions on neurological diseases as well as cognitive neurosciences. Some examples of the answers are the quantitative visualization of neuronal functions by clear molecular and genetic bases, as well as diagnoses of many neurological diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. The salient point of molecular-genetic imaging and diagnosis is the fact that they precede the morphological manifestations, and hence, the early and specific diagnosis of certain diseases, such as cancers.

Previous studies suggest that perceived stigmatization of sexual minority status, ethnicity, and age are associated with negative mental health outcomes, and other studies suggest that coping styles may influence these outcomes. However, no studies have examined these relationships among gay men of varying ethnicities and age groups. Three hundred eighty-three Black and White, younger, middle-aged, and older adult gay men completed measures of perceived stigmatization, coping style, and mental health outcomes. Black older adult gay men reported significantly higher levels of perceived ageism than the older White group, significantly higher levels of perceived racism than the younger Black group, significantly higher levels of homonegativity than the younger Black and the White groups, and were more likely to use disengaged coping styles than White gay men. However, Black older adult gay men did not experience significantly higher levels of negative mental health outcomes. Results suggest that further research should examine how older Black gay men, who perceive higher levels of stigma while reporting greater use of less effective coping styles, do not appear to be experiencing more negative mental health outcomes as a result.
A meta-analysis of 41 studies examined the effect of choice on intrinsic motivation and related outcomes in a variety of settings with both child and adult samples. Results indicated that providing choice enhanced intrinsic motivation, effort, task performance, and perceived competence, among other outcomes. Moderator tests revealed the effect of choice on intrinsic motivation was stronger (a) for instructionally irrelevant choices compared to choices made between activities, versions of a task, rewards, and instructionally relevant options, (b) when 2 to 4 successive choices were given, (c) when rewards were not given after the choice manipulation, (d) when participants given choice were compared to the most controlling forms of control groups, (e) for children compared to adults, (f) for designs that yoked choice and control conditions compared to matched designs in which choice was reduced or designs in which nonyoked, nonmatched controls were used, and (g) when the experiment was conducted in a laboratory embedded in a natural setting. Implications for future research and applications to real-world settings are discussed.
The principal interest of virtual reality is its potential to create experiments close to daily life with a perfect experimental control. In a first time, we review the studies illustrating the contribution of virtual reality for neuropsychology, mainly for memory study. In a second time, we present the results of an experiment in which the subjects were driving in a virtual town, that tested all the episodic memory components, i.e. the memories of what, where and when events happened. Young and elderly adults performed the virtual test, either with intentional or incidental encoding, and either in active (they drove a virtual car) or passive exploration of the town (they were passengers). The results showed that older subjects recalled the spatiotemporal context and the details of the events in a lower proportion than younger, as well in active as in passive condition. Subject's memory complaints were correlated with the virtual scores, but not with usual verbal episodic memory tests. Therefore, virtual tests seem to allow a better assessment of episodic memory than the usual ones, especially because of their spatiotemporal memory assessment, and appear to be a hopeful tool for a neuropsychology closer to patient's daily life than the usual tests.






Cranial irradiation is associated with long-term cognitive impairments, including deficits in hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Not all people exposed to cranial radiation develop cognitive injury, suggesting the involvement of genetic risk factors. There may also be sex differences in susceptibility to develop radiation-induced cognitive injury. The three major human apolipoprotein E (apoE) isoforms are encoded by distinct alleles (epsilon2, epsilon3, and epsilon4). Compared with epsilon3, epsilon4 increases the risk of cognitive impairments following various challenges while epsilon2 provides relative protection. Women are at higher risk to develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) than men, particularly those carrying epsilon4. In previous experiments using male and female mice expressing human apoE-isoforms E2, E3 or E4 under the mouse apoE promoter, we showed that cranial irradiation with 137Cs (10 Gy) results in hippocampus-dependent cognitive impairments that are sex- and apoE-isoform dependent. 137Cs is a form of irradiation often used in the clinical setting. To investigate whether 56Fe irradiation also has sex- and apoE-isoform dependent effects on hippocampus-dependent cognitive function in human apoE mice, we sham-irradiated and irradiated 2-month old male and female human apoE mice at 3 Gy and assessed their performance in a passive avoidance learning and memory test three to five months later.



We report a 63-year-old man with rheumatoid meningitis. At 47-years-old, he developed rheumatoid vasculitis causing arthralgia and skin ulcer. Although the patient had been treated with prednisolone and cyclosporine A, headache and recurrent focal seizures of the right upper limb and generalized seizures developed. Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed high signal intensity lesions on FLAIR MRI and associated abnormal enhancement of the leptomeninges. Part of the lesions also showed patchy high signal intensity on diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). This features may be useful for differentiating rheumatoid meningitis from subdural empyema, because the extent of the lesions on DWI matches the lesion on FLAIR imaging in patients with subdural empyema. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed monocytic pleocytosis and negative findings for infection or malignancy. After intravenous administration of methylprednisolone (1,000 mg/day for 3 days), the patient showed improvements in headache, cerebrospinal fluid findings and abnormal hyperintensity on DWI. Rheumatoid meningitis is an extremely rare neurological manifestation, but careful attention should be paid even in the inactive stage of rheumatoid arthritis. This disease tends to present with unilateral supratentorial lesions. In this case, serial diffusion-weighted and FLAIR MRI was useful for following the leptomeningeal lesions.
Numerous imaging studies have revealed structural brain changes in schizophrenia. Decreases in brain tissue are accompanied by increases in ventricle volumes and cerebrospinal fluid. Whether or not these brain changes are progressive beyond the first episode is subject to debate. To assess if progressive brain changes occur in chronically ill patients, 11 longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography studies were reviewed. Patients were ill for on average 10 years at their initial scan. Follow-up intervals varied between 1 and 10 years. Overall, the findings suggest continuous progressive brain tissue decreases and lateral ventricle volume increases in chronically ill patients, up to at least 20 years after their first symptoms. The extent of progressive brain tissue decrease in patients (-0.5% per year) is twice that of healthy controls (-0.2% per year). These findings are consistent with the extent of postmortem brain tissue loss in schizophrenia. Progressive volume loss seems most pronounced in the frontal and temporal (gray matter) areas. Progressive lateral ventricle volume increases are also found. More pronounced progressive brain changes in patients is associated with poor outcome, more negative symptoms, and a decline in neuropsychological performance in one or some of the studies, but not consistently so. Higher daily cumulative dose of antipsychotic medication intake is either not associated with brain volume changes or with less prominent brain volume changes. The progressive brain changes present in chronic schizophrenia may represent a continuous pathophysiological process taking place in the brains of these patients that warrants further study.

Working memory (WM) dysfunction in schizophrenia is characterized by inefficient WM recruitment and reduced capacity, but it is not yet clear how these relate to one another. In controls practice of certain cognitive tasks induces automatization, which is associated with reduced WM recruitment and increased capacity of concurrent task performance. We therefore investigated whether inefficient function and reduced capacity in schizophrenia was associated with a failure in automatization. FMRI data was acquired with a verbal WM task with novel and practiced stimuli in 18 schizophrenia patients and 18 controls. Participants performed a dual-task outside the scanner to test WM capacity. Patients showed intact performance on the WM task, which was paralleled by excessive WM activity. Practice improved performance and reduced WM activity in both groups. The difference in WM activity after practice predicted performance cost in controls but not in patients. In addition, patients showed disproportionately poor dual-task performance compared to controls, especially when processing information that required continuous adjustment in WM. Our findings support the notion of inefficient WM function and reduced capacity in schizophrenia. This was not related to a failure in automatization, but was evident when processing continuously changing information. This suggests that inefficient WM function and reduced capacity may be related to an inability to process information requiring frequent updating.

Hormonal fluctuations in the menstrual cycle have been shown to have an impact on the epilepsy in women with catamenial epilepsy. The epilepsy frequency is higher in the elderly, and this part of the population is steadily increasing. It is therefore of interest whether the hormonal changes in the menopausal transition affects the epilepsy. The perimenopause is associated with hormonal fluctuations and may worsen the epilepsy in women with catamenial epilepsy. It has been suggested that seizures may improve after menopause, particularly in the women with catamenial epilepsy. There is still however, limited data on the effects of menopause on the epilepsy. Prospective studies imply a long time span, and research in this field is scarce. More research on the relationship between hormonal fluctuations and seizures may enable us to predict the effect on the epilepsy. Special awareness should be given to a woman with epilepsy in the menopausal transition.
The use of older generation antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) during pregnancy is known to be associated with a two- to threefold increased risk of birth defects in the offspring and possible also other adverse outcomes in the exposed infant. Much less has been known about newer generation AEDs in this respect. Recent studies based on national registries as well as specific epilepsy and pregnancy registries are beginning to provide information on comparative teratogenic effects of different AEDs. Hence, the prevalence of birth defects appears to be higher with exposure to valproate compared with carbamazepine and possibly also in comparison with lamotrigine. Further studies based on larger cohorts are needed to compare AEDs at different dosages and to analyse the possible impact of confounding factors. Furthermore, data is insufficient to assess the human teratogenic potential of other newer generation AEDs than lamotrigine. Retrospective and a few small prospective studies suggest that exposure to valproate also might be associated with a lower verbal IQ at school age, but further prospective studies are needed to draw firm conclusions.
The main concerns associated with epilepsy during pregnancy consist of maternal and fetal risks from uncontrolled seizures, and harmful effects of the treatment on the development of the offspring. Although seizure control is maintained in the majority, worsening occurs in a fraction of childbearing women with epilepsy. As multiple factors associated with pregnancy may have a negative impact on epilepsy, a careful analysis of the situation should be performed in those who deteriorate. Emotional and behavioural influence, including insufficient sleep and treatment non-compliance, as well as physical factors, such as emesis and pelvic distortion, should receive attention. The serum concentrations of almost all antiepileptic drugs decrease during pregnancy, particularly those which are metabolised by glucuronidation. The inter-individual variability is pronounced. In highly protein-bound drugs, such as phenytoin and valproate, unbound drug is less affected than total concentrations. Lamotrigine and levetiracetam concentrations may decrease by more than 50% in the course of pregnancy; monohydroxyoxcarbazepine by up to 30-40%. Appropriate clinical follow-up tailored to individual needs and supported by therapeutic drug monitoring should be performed in pregnant women with epilepsy. Education concerning reproductive issues is an essential part of the epilepsy service to fertile women.
Several animal studies have shown that both the epilepsy itself and many antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) affect reproductive endocrine function in both males and females. Epileptic activity may lead to arrested ovarian cyclicity, anovulatory cycles, polycystic ovaries, and endocrine changes in female animals. In males, seizures disturb normal reproductive physiology by inducing endocrine changes, alterations in gonadal size, and hyposexuality. Several AEDs also affect endocrine function, fertility, and gonadal morphology in both sexes. This paper reviews the literature regarding animal studies related to reproductive disorders in epilepsy. Although care should always be taken when applying data from animal experiments to the human situation, animal models provide a unique possibility for investigating the independent effects of the epilepsy itself and the effects of AEDs in isolation, without confounding factors. By constantly comparing results from clinical and animal studies, and by developing appropriate animal models, several mechanistic questions regarding the complex interplay between epilepsy, hormones, and AEDs can be explored. Animal experiments should play an integral part in the study of reproductive endocrine disorders in epilepsy.

Genetic mutations underlying thrombophilia are often recognized in patients with thromboembolic episodes. However, the clinical and therapeutic implications of such findings often remain unclear. We report the first case of a dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) in a patient with a combined factor II and factor V Leiden mutation. A 40-year-old man presented with a large left temporal and intraventricular hemorrhage. An initial angiogram showed thrombosis of the left sigmoid sinus but no evidence of a vascular malformation. One year after the hemorrhage, an angiographic study showed the appearance of a right DAVF. During the follow-up period, the patient was found to harbor heterozygosity for a mutation of factor V and a mutation of factor II. Recognition of the patient's thrombophilia led to prolonged oral anticoagulation therapy to reduce the risk of a recurrent thrombotic episode. Despite the increased risk of bleeding, the therapy was considered justified. DAVFs may occur after sinus thrombosis in patients with combined factor II and factor V mutations. This observation indicates the association of multiple hematological disorders with DAVFs in individual patients. Moreover, it raises the clinical conundrum of how to manage patients with thrombophilia, intracranial hemorrhage, and DAVFs.


To investigate how individual differences in moral judgment competence are reflected in the human brain, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, while 23 participants made either socio-normative or grammatical judgments. Participants with lower moral judgment competence recruited the left ventromedial prefrontal cortex and the left posterior superior temporal sulcus more than participants with greater competence in this domain when identifying social norm violations. Moreover, moral judgment competence scores were inversely correlated with activity in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) during socio-normative relative to grammatical judgments. Greater activity in right DLPFC in participants with lower moral judgment competence indicates increased recruitment of rule-based knowledge and its controlled application during socio-normative judgments. These data support current models of the neurocognition of morality according to which both emotional and cognitive components play an important role.
Human decision-making is remarkably susceptible to commercial advertising, yet the neurobiological basis of this phenomenon remains largely unexplored. With a series of Coke and Pepsi taste tests we show that patients with damage specifically involving ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPC), an area important for emotion, did not demonstrate the normal preference bias when exposed to brand information. Both comparison groups (neurologically normal adults and lesion patients with intact VMPC) preferred Pepsi in a blind taste test, but in subsequent taste tests that featured brand information ('semi-blind' taste tests), both comparison groups' preferences were skewed toward Coke, illustrating the so-called 'Pepsi paradox'. Like comparison groups, the VMPC patients preferred Pepsi in the blind taste test, but unlike comparison groups, the VMPC patients maintained their Pepsi preference in the semi-blind test. The result that VMPC damage abolishes the 'Pepsi paradox' suggests that the VMPC is an important part of the neural substrate for translating commercial images into brand preferences.




Antioxidant action is an important component of the complex neuroprotective effect of estrogens. Combining theoretical prediction and subsequent experimental confirmation by chemical and in vitro paradigms, this study focused on the mechanistic aspects of hydroxyl radical scavenging by 17beta-butoxy-1,3,5(10)-estratrien-3-ol, a synthetic derivative of 17beta-estradiol with increased potency to inhibit lipid peroxidation and reduced affinity to estrogen-receptors compared to the endogenous hormone. In the process that acts as a &quot;chemical shield,&quot; the phenolic A-ring turns into 10beta-hydroxy-17beta-butoxy-1,3,5(10)-estratrien-3-one, a non-aromatic para-quinol, upon capturing hydroxyl radicals, which results in the complete loss of estrogen-receptor affinity and antioxidant activity. However, the parent compound is apparently recovered in brain tissue from this para-quinol via enzyme-catalyzed NAD(P)H-dependent reductive aromatization without causing oxidative stress. Taken together, our report argues for a previously unrecognized antioxidant cycle for estrogen-derived compounds.
Previous studies have demonstrated that 5-HT2A receptors may be involved in the central control of thermoregulation and of the cardiovascular system. Our aim was to test whether these receptors mediate thermogenic and tachycardiac responses induced by acute psychological stress. Three groups of adult male Hooded Wistar rats were instrumented with: (i) a thermistor in the interscapular area (for recording brown adipose tissue temperature) and an ultrasound Doppler probe (to record tail blood flow); (ii) temperature dataloggers to record core body temperature; (iii) ECG electrodes. On the day of the experiment, rats were subjected to a 30-min restraint stress preceded by s.c. injection of either vehicle or SR-46349B (a serotonin 2A receptor antagonist) at doses of 0.01, 0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg. The restraint stress caused a rise in brown adipose tissue temperature (from, mean +/- s.e.m., 36.6 +/- 0.2 to 38.0 +/- 0.2 degrees C), transient cutaneous vasoconstriction (tail blood flow decreased from 12 +/- 2 to 5 +/- 1 cm/s), increase in heart rate (from 303 +/- 15 to 453 +/- 15 bpm at the peak, then reduced to 393 +/- 12 bpm at the steady state), and defaecation (6 +/- 1 pellets per restraint session). The core body temperature was not affected by the restraint. Blockade of 5-HT2A receptors attenuated the increase in brown adipose tissue temperature and transient cutaneous vasoconstriction, but not tachycardia and defaecation elicited by restraint stress. These results indicate that psychological stress causes activation of 5-HT2A receptors in neural pathways that control thermogenesis in the brown adipose tissue and facilitate cutaneous vasoconstriction.
Previous research suggests that stress can influence a broad range of memory functions. In this study we investigated the effect of a naturalistic stressor, examination stress, on working memory in young adults. In order to accomplish this aim, participants were tested on psychological and hormonal measures of stress and on Digit Span, once during a low stress period and once during a high stress period. The high examination stress condition was associated with an increase in cortisol and subjective impressions of stress. Although Digits Forward performance did not vary with examination stress, Digits Backward performance improved. These findings suggest that mild increases in stress are associated with improvement in the manipulation component of working memory. However, no correlations were found between working memory and either cortisol or psychological stress. Thus the mechanism by which mild naturalistic stressors improve the manipulation component of working memory needs further investigation.


Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying complex disorders requires the integration of data and knowledge from different sources including free text literature and various biomedical databases. To facilitate this process, we created the Biomedical Concept Diagram Editor (BCDE) to help researchers distill knowledge from data and literature and aid the process of hypothesis development. A key feature of BCDE is the ability to capture information with a simple drag-and-drop. This is a vast improvement over manual methods of knowledge and data recording and greatly increases the efficiency of the biomedical researcher. BCDE also provides a unique concept matching function to enforce consistent terminology, which enables conceptual relationships deposited by different researchers in the BCDE database to be mined and integrated for intelligible and useful results. We hope BCDE will promote the sharing and integration of knowledge from different researchers for effective hypothesis development.

Tissue engineering provides a valuable tool for in vitro investigation of complex in vivo environments. A particular application of tissue-engineered in vitro platforms in neuroscience and regenerative medicine is the fabrication of controlled microenvironments for the study of axon guidance, with the goal of informing strategies to overcome nerve injury. The innovative design of tissue-engineered scaffolds that incorporate multiple guidance cues and cell types into various environments is advancing the understanding of how neurons integrate guidance information to make growth decisions. This review focuses on recent strategies that present neurons with multiple cues with micro- and nanoscale resolution in order to study the interactions between neurons and their local environment during axon guidance.
Clathrin assembly lymphoid myeloid leukemia protein (CALM) is a clathrin assembly protein with a domain structure similar to the neuron-specific assembly protein AP180. We have previously found that CALM is expressed in neurons and present in synapses. We now report that CALM has a neuron-related function: it facilitates the endocytosis of the synaptic vesicle protein VAMP2 from the plasma membrane. Overexpression of CALM leads to the reduction of cell surface VAMP2, whereas knockdown of CALM by RNA interference results in the accumulation of surface VAMP2. The AP180 N-terminal homology (ANTH) domain of CALM is required for its effect on VAMP2 trafficking, and the ANTH domain itself acts as a dominant-negative mutant. Thus, our results reveal a role for CALM in directing VAMP2 trafficking during endocytosis.
It is widely recognized that viewing a speaker's face enhances vocal communication, although the neural substrates of this phenomenon remain unknown. We propose that the enhancement effect uses the ongoing oscillatory activity of local neuronal ensembles in the primary auditory cortex. Neuronal oscillations reflect rhythmic shifting of neuronal ensembles between high and low excitability states. Our hypothesis holds that oscillations are 'predictively' modulated by visual input, so that related auditory input arrives during a high excitability phase and is thus amplified. We discuss the anatomical substrates and key timing parameters that enable and constrain this effect. Our hypothesis makes testable predictions for future studies and emphasizes the idea that 'background' oscillatory activity is instrumental to cortical sensory processing.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is the noninvasive method of choice for studying the causal relevance of a cortical area in the human brain. The success of TMS, however, is contrasted by limited insight into its mechanism of action. A recent study by Allen and colleagues offers stunning new insight into the physiological underpinnings of TMS. Their findings expand our understanding about a method that is widely used for stimulating research in the cognitive neurosciences.
Several neuroinvasive viruses can be used to study the mammalian nervous system. In particular, infection by pseudorabies virus (PRV), an alpha-herpesvirus with broad host range, reveals chains of functionally connected neurons in the nervous systems of a variety of mammals. The specificity of PRV trans-neuronal spread has been established in several systems. One attenuated strain, PRV-Bartha, causes a reduced inflammatory response and also spreads only from infected post- to pre-synaptic neurons. We review the basics of PRV tracing and then discuss new developments and novel approaches that have enabled a more detailed understanding of the architecture of the nervous system. As questions and techniques evolve in the field of neuroscience, advances in PRV tracing will certainly follow.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) was the first ion channel and membrane receptor of a neurotransmitter to be isolated and chemically identified and is one of the best known membrane proteins involved in signal transduction. Subsequently, nAChRs have been a target for drug discovery because of their potential to impact numerous brain diseases and disorders. Here, we consider recent developments in our understanding of nAChR structure and of the conformational transitions that link the acetylcholine (ACh)-binding site and the ion channel to mediate fast neurotransmission. The knowledge of such allosteric mechanisms is essential to understand pathologies such as congenital myasthenia, autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsies, sudden infant death syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and nicotine addiction and to design novel therapies.
Classically, neurons communicate by anterograde conduction of action potentials. However, information can also pass backward along axons, a process that is essential during the development of the nervous system. Here we propose a role for such 'retroaxonal' signals in adult learning. We hypothesize that strengthening of a neuron's output synapses stabilizes recent changes in the same neuron's inputs. During learning, the input synapses of many neurons undergo transient changes, resulting in altered spiking activity. If this in turn promotes strengthening of output synapses, the recent synaptic changes will be stabilized; otherwise they will decay. A representation of sensory stimuli therefore evolves that is tailored to the demands of behavioral tasks. We describe a candidate molecular mechanism for this process involving the activation of CREB by retrograde neurotrophin signals.
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) provide hope as a potential regenerative therapy for neurological conditions such as Parkinson's disease and spinal cord injury. Currently, ESC-based nervous system repair faces several problems. One major hurdle is related to problems in generating large and defined populations of the desired types of neurons from human ESCs (hESCs). Moreover, survival of grafted hESC-derived cells has varied and functional recovery in recipient animals has often been disappointing. Importantly, in clinical trials, adverse effects after surgery, including tumors or vigorous immune reactions, must be avoided. Here we highlight attempts to overcome these hurdles with hESCs intended for central nervous system repair. We focus on hESC-derived dopamine-producing neurons that can be grafted in Parkinson's disease and identify critical experiments that need to be conducted before clinical trials can occur.
Biotherapy of cancer holds great promise for its potential to lead to the identification of novel, selective, and effective treatments against cancer. However, the clinical development of biopharmaceuticals and biotherapy products is hampered by several and diverse barriers. Herein, we will address some of the critical issues identified both at the national and European level as the major obstacles for the translation of knowledge into clinical applications in the field of biotherapy and immunotherapy of cancer. We will also illustrate specific initiatives undertaken both in Europe and in Italy in order to support the translational and clinical research and that are expected to have a favorable impact on the process of clinical development of novel and more effective therapeutic interventions against cancer. The contents of this article are directly referred to the event &quot;International Clinical Trials' Day on Biotherapy of Cancer&quot; organized in the context of the OECI Genoa 2008, with the sponsorship of Alliance Against Cancer (ACC) and the Istituto Superiore di Sanit (ISS, the Italian National Institute of Health), and under the auspices of the European Clinical Research Infrastructures Network (ECRIN). This event sees the active participation of representatives of the ISS and of the Italian Network for Tumor Biotherapy, both involved in a project recently funded by ACC and aimed at the promotion of clinical research in the field of cancer biotherapy and immunotherapy, through the creation of a national network of clinical cancer research centers and GMP facilities dedicated to the production of biological drugs and advanced medicinal products.
Disorders of consciousness have captivated neurologists, neuroscientists, and philosophers for decades, but few consistent studies have been conducted on these conditions due to their difficult experimental approach. In recent years, an increasing number of cognitive neuroscience research groups have examined the physiology of consciousness from an experimental perspective, despite the methodological and epistemological complexities of the field. While describing consciousness can be challenging, a close definition must acknowledge a combination of wakefulness and awareness. Form a neurobiological standpoint, it has been argued that the ascending reticular system and its thalamic projections are critical in modulating awareness and wakefulness sleep cycles. Awareness may be a function of the neural networks within the cortex, the thalamus, and the cortico-cortical system. Different models have been employed to tackle this difficult problem, including non-invasive in vivo studies, examination of conscious patients with brain lesions, and studies on both animals and patients with disorders of consciousness. This article reviews the scientific evidence for the neural basis of conscious and unconscious processes in different states of consciousness, focusing on patients in the vegetative and minimally conscious state.
The prototypic arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) represents a powerful experimental model for the study of the basic virology and pathogenesis of arenaviruses. In the present study, we used the LCMV model to evaluate the anti-viral potential of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides against arenaviruses. Our findings indicate that amphipathic DNA polymers (APs) are potent inhibitors of infection with a series of LCMV isolates with IC(50) in the low nanomolar range. APs target the surface glycoprotein (GP) of LCMV and block viral entry and cell-cell propagation of the virus, without affecting later steps in replication or release of progeny virus from infected cells. The anti-viral action of APs is sequence-independent but is critically dependent on their size and hydrophobicity. Mechanistically, we provide evidence that APs disrupt the interaction between LCMVGP and its cellular receptor, alpha-dystroglycan. Exposure of LCMV to APs does not affect the stability of the GP virion spike and has no effect on the conformation of a neutralizing antibody epitope, suggesting rather subtle changes in the conformation and/or conformational dynamics of the viral GP.
Motion transparency occurs when multiple object velocities are present within a local region of retinotopic space. Transparent signals can carry information useful in the segmentation of moving objects and in the extraction of three-dimensional structure from relative motion cues. However, the physiological substrate underlying the detection of motion transparency is poorly understood. Direction tuned neurons in area MT are suppressed by transparent stimuli, suggesting that other motion sensitive areas may be needed to represent this signal robustly. Recent neuroimaging evidence implicated two such areas in the macaque superior temporal sulcus. We studied one of these, FST, with electrophysiological methods and found that a large fraction of the neurons responded well to two opposite directions of motion and to transparent stimuli containing those same directions. A linear combination of MT-like responses qualitatively reproduces this behavior and predicts that FST neurons can be tuned for transparent motion containing specific direction and depth components. We suggest that FST plays a role in motion segmentation based on transparent signals.
GABA-mediated interactions between horizontal cells (HCs) and bipolar cells (BCs) transform signals within the image-processing circuitry of distal retina. To further understand this process, we have studied the GABA-driven membrane responses from isolated retinal neurons. Papain-dissociated retinal cells from adult zebrafish were exposed to GABAergic ligands while transmembrane potentials were monitored with a fluorescent voltage-sensitive dye (oxonol, DiBaC4(5)). In HCs hyperpolarizing, ionotropic GABA responses were almost never seen, nor were responses to baclofen or glycine. A GABA-induced depolarization followed by after hyperpolarization (dep/AHP) occurred in 38% of HCs. The median fluorescence increase (dep component) was 0.17 log units, about 22 mV. HC dep/AHP was not blocked by bicuculline or picrotoxin. Muscimol rarely evoked dep/AHP responses. In BCs picrotoxin sensitive, hyperpolarizing, ionotropic GABA and muscimol responses occurred in most cells. A picrotoxin insensitive dep/AHP response was seen in about 5% of BCs. The median fluorescence increase (dep component) was 0.18 log units, about 23 mV. Some BCs expressed both muscimol-induced hyperpolarizations and GABA-induced dep/AHP responses. For all cells, the pooled Hill fit to median dep amplitudes, in response to treatments with a GABA concentration series, gave an apparent k of 0.61 muM and an n of 1.1. The dep/AHP responses of all cells required both extracellular Na+ and Cl(-), as dep/AHP was blocked reversibly by Li+ substituted for Na+ and irreversibly by isethionate substituted for Cl(-). All cells with dep/AHP responses in zebrafish have the membrane physiology of neurons expressing GABA transporters. These cells likely accumulate GABA, a characteristic of GABAergic neurons. We suggest Na+ drives GABA into these cells, depolarizing the plasma membrane and triggering Na+, K+-dependent ATPase. The ATPase activity generates AHP. In addition to a GABA clearance function, these large-amplitude transporter responses may provide an outer plexiform layer GABA sensor mechanism.
Rendering the usually visible 'invisible' has long been a popular experimental manipulation. With one notable exception, 'continuous flash suppression' [Tsuchiya, N., &amp; Koch, C. (2005). Continuous flash suppression reduces negative afterimages. Nature Neuroscience, 8, 1096-1101], existing methods of achieving this goal suffer from being either unable to suppress stimuli from awareness for prolonged periods, from being unable to reliably suppress stimuli at specific epochs, or from a combination of both of these limitations. Here we report a new method, binocular switch suppression (BSS), which overcomes these restrictions. We establish that BSS is novel as it taps a different causal mechanism to the only similar pre-existing method. We also establish that BSS is superior to pre-existing methods both in terms of the depth and duration of perceptual suppression achieved. BSS should therefore prove to be a useful tool for the large number of researchers interested in exploring the neural correlates and functional consequences of conscious visual awareness.
Inverted and contrast-reversed faces are identified less accurately and less rapidly than normal, upright faces. The effects of inversion and contrast-reversal may reflect different sampling strategies and/or different levels of internal noise. To test these alternative hypotheses, we used a combination of noise-masking and response-consistency techniques to measure the internal noise and high-noise efficiency associated with the identification of upright, inverted, and contrast-reversed faces. We found that both face inversion and contrast-reversal reduced efficiency, but did not change internal noise.
The role of eye movements in the perception of depth from motion was investigated in esotropia. Elevated motion parallax thresholds have been shown in strabismus [Thompson, A. M., &amp; Nawrot, M. (1999). Abnormal depth perception from motion parallax in amblyopic observers. Vision Research, 39, 1407-1413] suggesting a global deficit in depth perception involving both stereopsis and motion. However, this motion parallax deficit in strabismus might be better explained by the role that eye movements play in motion parallax [Nawrot, M., &amp; Joyce, L. (2006). The pursuit theory of motion parallax. Vision Research, 46, 4709-4725]. Esotropia is associated with asymmetric pursuit and optokinetic response eye movements [Demer, J. L., &amp; von Noorden, G. K. (1988). Optokinetic asymmetry in esotropia. Journal of Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus, 25, 286-292; Schor, C. M., &amp; Levi, D. M. (1980). Disturbances of small-field horizontal and vertical optokinetic nystagmus in amblyopia. Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science, 19, 851-864; Tychsen, L., &amp; Lisberger, S. G. (1986). Maldevelopment of visual motion processing in humans who had strabismus with onset in infancy. The Journal of Neuroscience, 6, 2495-2508; [Westall, C. A., Eizenman, M., Kraft, S. P., Panton, C. M., Chatterjee, S., &amp; Sigesmund, D. (1998). Cortical binocularity and monocular optokinetic asymmetry in early-onset esotropia. Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science, 39, 1352-1360.]. The first experiment demonstrates that the motion parallax deficit in esotropia mirrors the pursuit eye movement asymmetry: in the direction of normal pursuit, esotropic observers had normal depth from motion parallax. A second set of experiments, conducted in normal observers, demonstrates that this motion parallax deficit is not a secondary problem due to the retinal slip created by inadequate pursuit. These results underscore the role of pursuit eye movements in the perception of depth from motion parallax.
To investigate determinants of symmetry of the monocular horizontal optokinetic reaction (hOKR) in vertebrates, we performed behavioural studies in diurnal foveate, as well as nocturnal afoveate geckos. During binocular viewing hOKR gain was equal for movement to the left or right, during monocular stimulation, all afoveate geckos (Lepidodactylus lugubris, Gekko gecko, Eublepharis macularius) and the foveate Lygodactylus spp. exclusively reacted to temporo-nasal stimulation with stabilising head movements whereas in Phelsuma madagascariensis a naso-temporal component of hOKR could be elicited albeit much weaker. Thus, neither the presence of a fovea nor lifestyle seems to be decisive for a symmetrical monocular hOKR.
Evaluation of: Rocca WA, Bower JH, Maraganore DM et al.: Increased risk of cognitive impairment or dementia in women who underwent oophorectomy before menopause. Neurology 69(11), 1074-1083 (2007). This study examines the incidence of dementia in a population of women who underwent unilateral or bilateral oophorectomy before menopause. Patients were drawn from the Mayo Clinic database and included women who had surgical removal of either one or both ovaries during a preceding 40-year period (1950-1987), as well as a reference group of women who did not undergo oophorectomy. Women who agreed to participate in the study were interviewed by phone and received a modified Telephone Interview for Cognition or a brief dementia questionnaire answered by a proxy if the subject was deceased or incapacitated. Women who had unilateral oophorectomy had a greater incidence of dementia as compared with surgical controls. In women with bilateral oophorectomies, the risk for dementia was increased in women who were younger at the time of surgery as well as in women who discontinued estrogen therapy before 50 years of age.

The neuropsychological concepts found in Donald Hebb's The Organization of Behavior have greatly influenced many aspects of neuroscience research over the last half century. Hebb's ideas arose from a rich tradition of research. An underappreciated contribution came from pioneering studies at Yale University. Here, we wish to reconsider these developments, placing particular emphasis on the roles of the neurophysiologists John Fulton, J.J. Dusser de Barenne, and Warren McCulloch and the psychologists Donald Marquis and Ernest Hilgard. These neuroscientists all contributed significantly to the intellectual climate that gave rise to Hebb's remarkable synthesis.

Many in vivo and in vitro studies have demonstrated the targeted migration of neural stem cells (NSC) to infiltrating brain tumors, including malignant glioma, highlighting a potential therapeutic approach. However, there is not enough information to apply this approach to clinical therapy. The most important things in stem cell therapy for brain tumors involve selecting the appropriate neural progenitor type and optimizing the efficiency of the cell engraftment. By histological analysis using two different live-dyes, human NSCs were shown to migrate away from the transplanted site in the direction of the expanding C6 glioma and to intermix with the tumor bed, especially with the tumor core. This intermixing occurred within 7 days when NSCs were implanted into glioma model. The time course of migratory HB1.F5 with the greatest mobility of three NSC lines was as follows. As early as 3 days after transplantation, several NSCs were found leaving the implant site, primarily approaching microsatellites and frontier cells located near the site of NSC implantation. Through 7 days post-transplantation, massive numbers of NSCs continued to be attracted to and interspersed with C6 glioma, and were finally distributed extensively throughout the whole tumor bed, including the core and penumbra of the tumor mass. However, NSCs appeared to penetrate into the tumor mass very well, whereas normal fibroblast cells could not migrate. These findings strengthen the potential for human NSCs as attractive vehicles to improve therapeutic gene delivery to cancer or glioma if they are optimized to selectively kill neoplastic cells.
Previously we demonstrated that ATP released from LPS-activated microglia induced IL-10 expression in a process involving P2 receptors, in an autocrine fashion. Therefore, in the present study we sought to determine which subtype of P2 receptor was responsible for the modulation of IL-10 expression in ATP-stimulated microglia. We found that the patterns of IL-10 production were dose-dependent (1, 10, 100, 1,000 microM) and bell-shaped. The concentrations of ATP, ATP-gammaS, ADP, and ADP-betaS that showed maximal IL-10 release were 100, 10, 100, and 100 microM respectively. The rank order of agonist potency for IL-10 production was 2'-3'-O-(4-benzoyl)-benzoyl ATP (BzATP)=dATP&gt;2-methylthio-ADP (2-meSADP). On the other hand, 2-methylthio-ATP (2-meSATP), alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP), UTP, and UDP did not induce the release of IL-10 from microglia. Further, we obtained evidence of crosstalk between P2 receptors, in a situation where intracellular Ca(2+) release and/or cAMP-activated PKA were the main contributors to extracellular ATP-(or ADP)-mediated IL-10 expression, and IL-10 production was down-regulated by either MRS2179 (a P2Y(1) antagonist) or 5'-AMPS (a P2Y(11) antagonist), indicating that both the P2Y(1) and P2Y(11) receptors are major receptors involved in IL-10 expression. In addition, we found that inhibition of IL-10 production by high concentrations of ATP-gammaS (100 microM) was restored by TNP-ATP (an antagonist of the P2X(1), P2X(3), and P2X(4) receptors), and that IL-10 production by 2-meSADP was restored by 2meSAMP (a P2Y(12) receptor antagonist) or pertussis toxin (PTX; a Gi protein inhibitor), indicating that the P2X(1), P2X(3), P2X(4)receptor group, or the P2Y(12) receptor, negatively modulate the P2Y(11) receptor or the P2Y(1) receptor, respectively.
Recent studies have reported that the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway regulates peripheral inflammatory responses via alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (alpha7 nAChRs) and that acetylcholine and nicotine regulate the expression of proinflammatory mediators such as TNF-alpha and prostaglandin E2 in microglial cultures. In a previous study we showed that ATP released by beta-amyloid-stimulated microglia induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, in a process involving the P2X(7) receptor (P2X(7)R), in an autocrine fashion. These observations led us to investigate whether stimulation by nicotine could regulate fibrillar beta amyloid peptide (1-42) (fAbeta1-42)-induced ROS production by modulating ATP efflux-mediated Ca(2+) influx through P2X(7)R. Nicotine inhibited ROS generation in fAbeta(1-42)-stimulated microglial cells, and this inhibition was blocked by mecamylamine, a non-selective nAChR antagonist, and a-bungarotoxin, a selective alpha7 nAChR antagonist. Nicotine inhibited NADPH oxidase activation and completely blocked Ca(2+) influx in fAbeta(1-42)-stimulated microglia. Moreover, ATP release from fAbeta(1-42)-stimulated microglia was significantly suppressed by nicotine treatment. In contrast, nicotine did not inhibit 2',3'-O-(4-benzoyl)-benzoyl ATP (BzATP)-induced Ca(2+) influx, but inhibited ROS generation in BzATP-stimulated microglia, indicating an inhibitory effect of nicotine on a signaling process downstream of P2X(7)R. Taken together, these results suggest that the inhibitory effect of nicotine on ROS production in fAbeta1-42-stimulated microglia is mediated by indirect blockage of ATP release and by directly altering the signaling process downstream from P2X(7)R.
It has been reported recently that bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) are able to differentiate into various neural cells both in vivo and in vitro (Egusa, H., Schweizer, F. E., Wang, C. C., Matsuka, Y., and Nishimura, I. (2005) J. Biol. Chem. 280, 23691-23697). However, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. In this report, we have demonstrated that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) alone effectively induces mouse BMSC neuronal differentiation. These differentiated neuronal cells exhibit characteristic electrophysiological properties and elevated levels of the neuronal differentiation marker, growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43). To explore possible signaling pathways, we first analyzed the expression of various FGF receptors in mouse BMSCs. FGF receptor-1, -2, and -3 were detected, but only FGFR-1 was shown to be activated by bFGF. Small interfering RNA knock down of FGFR-1 in BMSCs significantly inhibited neuronal differentiation. Moreover, we have shown that the mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK1/2) is persistently activated and blockage of ERK activity with the ERK-specific inhibitor U0126 prevents neuronal differentiation. It appears that activation of ERK cascade and neuronal differentiation of BMSCs induced by bFGF are independent of Ras activity but require functions of phospholipase C-gamma pathway. Lastly, we examined the role of the immediate-early transcription factors AP-1 and NF-kappaB and have found that phospholipase C-gamma-dependent c-Jun and ERK-dependent c-fos, but not the NF-kappaB, are strongly activated by bFGF, which in turn regulates the neuronal differentiation of BMSCs.
Brightness induction is the modulation of the perceived intensity of a region by the luminance of surrounding regions and reveals fundamental properties of neural organization in the visual system. Grating induction affords a unique opportunity to precisely measure the temporal properties of induction using a quadrature motion technique. Contrary to previous reports that induction is a sluggish process with temporal frequency cutoffs of 2-5 Hz (R. L. DeValois, M. A. Webster, K. K. DeValois, &amp; B. Lingelbach, 1986; A. F. Rossi &amp; M. A. Paradiso, 1996), we find that induction is nearly instantaneous. The temporal response of induced brightness differs from that of luminance gratings by a small time lag (&lt;1 ms), or by a small temporal phase lag (&lt;0.016 cycle), and remains relatively constant across wide variations in test field height. These data are not easily explained by an edge-dependent, homogeneous filling-in process (A. F. Rossi &amp; M. A. Paradiso, 1996); however, they are consistent with an explanation of brightness induction based on spatial filtering by cortical simple cells (B. Blakeslee &amp; M. E. McCourt, 1999).
The vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) transports glutamate into pre-synaptic vesicles. Three isoforms of VGLUT have been identified in humans, but their functional differences remain largely unknown. EAT-4 is the only homologue of human VGLUT in C. elegans. Here we report that mutants of eat-4 exhibit hyperforaging behavior and that each of the isoforms of human VGLUT functionally rescues the defects in eat-4 worms.
The hippocampus is an area of the brain involved in learning and memory. It contains parallel excitatory pathways referred to as the trisynaptic pathway (which carries information as follows: entorhinal cortex --&gt; dentate gyrus --&gt; CA3 --&gt; CA1 --&gt; entorhinal cortex) and the monosynaptic pathway (entorhinal cortex --&gt; CA1 --&gt; entorhinal cortex). We developed a generally applicable tetanus toxin-based method for transgenic mice that permits inducible and reversible inhibition of synaptic transmission and applied it to the trisynaptic pathway while preserving transmission in the monosynaptic pathway. We found that synaptic output from CA3 in the trisynaptic pathway is dispensable and the short monosynaptic pathway is sufficient for incremental spatial learning. In contrast, the full trisynaptic pathway containing CA3 is required for rapid one-trial contextual learning, for pattern completion-based memory recall, and for spatial tuning of CA1 cells.


The topographic representation of visual space is preserved from retina to thalamus to cortex. We have previously shown that precise mapping of thalamocortical projections requires both molecular cues and structured retinal activity. To probe the interaction between these two mechanisms, we studied mice deficient in both ephrin-As and retinal waves. Functional and anatomical cortical maps in these mice were nearly abolished along the nasotemporal (azimuth) axis of the visual space. Both the structure of single-cell receptive fields and large-scale topography were severely distorted. These results demonstrate that ephrin-As and structured neuronal activity are two distinct pathways that mediate map formation in the visual cortex and together account almost completely for the formation of the azimuth map. Despite the dramatic disruption of azimuthal topography, the dorsoventral (elevation) map was relatively normal, indicating that the two axes of the cortical map are organized by separate mechanisms.
We determined the threshold concentration of sarin vapor exposure producing miosis in African green monkeys (Chlorocebus aethiops). Monkeys (n=8) were exposed to a single concentration of sarin (0.069-0.701mg/m3) for 10min. Changes in pupil size were measured from photographs taken before and after the exposure. Sarin EC50 values for miosis were determined to be 0.166mg/m3 when miosis was defined as a 50% reduction in pupil area and 0.469mg/m3 when miosis was defined as a 50% reduction in pupil diameter. Monkeys were also evaluated for behavioral changes from sarin exposure using a serial probe recognition test and performance remained essentially unchanged for all monkeys. None of the concentrations of sarin produced specific clinical signs of toxicity other than miosis. Sarin was regenerated from blood sampled following exposure in a concentration-dependent fashion. Consistent with a predominant inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), more sarin was consistently found in RBC fractions than in plasma fractions. Further, elimination of regenerated sarin from RBC fractions was slower than from plasma fractions. Blood samples following exposure also showed concentration-dependent inhibition of AChE activity and, to a lesser extent, butyrylcholinesterase activity. At the largest exposure concentration, AChE inhibition was substantial, reducing activity to approximately 40% of baseline. The results characterize sarin exposure concentrations that produce miosis in a large primate species in the absence of other overt signs of toxicity. Further, these results extend previous studies indicating that miosis is a valid early indicator for the detection of sarin vapor exposure.
Recently, the changes of neuronal and glial plasticity related gene expression following the increase of monoamine are suggested to be important for the therapeutic effect of antidepressants. We previously showed that antidepressants increased glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) expression, which was dependent on acute activation of protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in rat C6 glioma cells (C6 cells) and normal human astrocytes (NHA). Transcription of many genes including GDNF is directed by the cAMP responsive element (CRE) and its cognate transcription factor CRE binding protein (CREB). In this study, we showed that amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, acutely increased phosphorylation of CREB, without altering the level of total CREB in C6 cells as well as in NHA. In contrast, acute amitriptyline treatment did not affect phosphorylation of CREB in SH-SY5Y cells, a human neuroblastoma cell line. Different classes of antidepressants as well as amitriptyline acutely increased phosphorylation of CREB, but haloperidol and diazepam did not. The amitriptyline-induced phosphorylation of CREB was completely blocked by U0126 [a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase 1 inhibitor] and genistein (a PTK inhibitor), but not by inhibitors of protein kinase A, p38 MAP kinase, or Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase. Amitriptyline treatment also increased the expression of luciferase reporter gene regulated by CRE elements. The amitriptyline-induced luciferase activity was completely inhibited by U0126 in the same as phosphorylation of CREB. These results suggest that antidepressants acutely increase CREB activity in PTK and ERK-dependent manners, which might contribute to gene expression including GDNF in glial cells.
Our recent event-related brain potential (ERP) study disentangled the neural mechanisms of empathy for pain into an early automatic emotional sharing component and a late controlled cognitive evaluation process. The current study further investigated gender difference in the neural mechanisms underlying empathy for pain by comparing ERPs associated with empathic responses between male and female adults. Subjects were presented with pictures of hands that were in painful or neutral situations and were asked to perform a pain judgment task that required attention to the pain cues in the stimuli or to perform a counting task that withdrew their attention from the pain cues. We found that both males and females showed a short-latency empathic response that differentiated painful and neutral stimuli over the frontal lobe at 140 ms after stimulus onset and a long-latency empathic response after 380 ms over the central-parietal regions. However, females were different from males in that the long-latency empathic response showed stronger modulation by task demands and that the ERP amplitudes at 140-180 ms were correlated with subjective reports of the degree of perceived pain of others and of unpleasantness of the self. Our ERP results provide neuroscience evidence for differences in both the early and late components of empathic process between the two sexes.
Semaphorin activation of Plexin (Plex) receptors provides axonal guidance during neuronal development. Two families of cytoplasmic proteins, collapsin response mediator proteins (CRMPs) and molecules interacting with CasL (MICALs), have been implicated in Plexin function. The relationship between CRMP and MICAL signaling has not been defined nor is the mechanism by which Plexin activates MICAL clear. Here, we show that CRMP and MICAL physically associate and that Sema signaling promotes this association. MICAL enzymatic activity is inhibited by the C-terminal domain of MICAL. CRMP and Plexin associate with nonenzymatic and enzymatic domains of MICAL and together release MICAL enzymatic autoinhibition. In addition to acting as an upstream MICAL activator, CRMP functions downstream of MICAL, inhibiting the catalytic domain. A constitutively active CRMP mutant inhibits MICAL activity more potently than does wild-type CRMP, suggesting that CRMP or a CRMP-associated factor is a MICAL substrate. Thus, complex Plex/CRMP/MICAL interactions transduce Semaphorin signaling into axon guidance.
Presynaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs) modulate release and plasticity at many glutamatergic synapses, but the specificity of their expression across synapse classes has not been examined. We found that non-postsynaptic, likely presynaptic NR2B-containing NMDARs enhanced AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission at layer 4 (L4) to L2/3 (L4-L2/3) synapses in juvenile rat barrel cortex. This modulation was apparent at room temperature when presynaptic NMDARs were activated by elevation of extracellular glutamate or application of exogenous NMDAR agonists. At near physiological temperatures, modulation of transmission by presynaptic NMDARs occurred naturally, without the need for external activation. Blockade of presynaptic NMDARs depressed unitary and extracellularly evoked EPSCs at L4-L2/3 synapses, accompanied by increases in paired-pulse ratio and coefficient of variation, indicative of a decrease in presynaptic release probability. NMDAR agonists increased the frequency of miniature EPSCs in L2/3 neurons, without altering their amplitude or kinetics. Focal application of NMDAR antagonist revealed that the NMDARs that modulate L4-L2/3 transmission are located in L2/3, not L4, consistent with localization on terminals or axons of L4-L2/3 synapses, rather than on the somatodendritic compartment of presynaptic L4 neurons. In contrast, presynaptic NMDARs did not modulate L4-L4 synapses, which originate from the same presynaptic neurons as L4-L2/3 synapses, or cross-columnar L2/3-L2/3 horizontal projections, which synapse onto the same postsynaptic target neurons. Thus, presynaptic NMDARs selectively modulate L4-L2/3 synapses, relative to other synapses made by the same neurons. Existence of these receptors may support specialized processing or plasticity by L4-L2/3 synapses.
The cerebellum is divided into multiple parasagittally organized modules, which are thought to represent functional entities. How individual modules participate in cerebellar control of complex movements such as locomotion remains largely unknown. To a large extent, this is caused by the inability to study the contribution of individual modules during locomotion. Because of the architecture of modules, based on narrow, elongated cortical strips that may be discontinuous in the rostrocaudal direction, lesion of a complete module, without affecting neighboring modules, has not been possible. Here, we report on a new method for inducing a selective dysfunction of spatially separated parts of a single module using a small cortical injection of a retrogradely transported neurotoxin, cholera toxin b-subunit-saporin. We show that such a local injection into the C1 module results in climbing fiber and partial mossy fiber deafferentation of functionally related areas of this module, thereby resulting in a severe impairment of the whole module without affecting neighboring modules. A subsequent functional analysis indicates that such an impairment of the hindlimb part of the C1 module did not have a significant impact on skilled walking or overall stepping pattern. However, the modulation of cutaneously induced reflexes during stepping was severely diminished. We propose that the C1 module is specifically involved in the adaptive control of reflexes.
Mutations in superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), an adult-onset progressive paralytic disease characterized by loss of motor neurons, and cause an ALS-like disease when expressed in mice. Recent data have suggested that motor neuron degeneration results from toxic actions of mutant SOD1 operating in both motor neurons and their neighboring glia, raising the question whether mutant SOD1 expression selectively in neurons is sufficient to induce disease. Here we show that neuronal expression of mutant SOD1 is sufficient to cause motor neuron degeneration and paralysis in transgenic mice with cytosolic dendritic ubiquitinated SOD1 aggregates as the dominant pathological feature. In addition, we show that crossing our neuron-specific mutant SOD1 mice with ubiquitously wild-type SOD1-expressing mice leads to dramatic wild-type SOD1 aggregation in oligodendroglia after the onset of neuronal degeneration. Together, our findings support a pathogenic scenario in which mutant SOD1 in neurons triggers neuronal degeneration, which in turn may facilitate aggregate formation in surrounding glial cells.
The superfamily of cation/Ca2+ plasma-membrane exchangers contains two branches, the K+-independent Na+-Ca2+ exchangers (NCXs) and the K+-dependent Na+-Ca2+ exchangers (NCKXs), widely expressed in mammals. NCKX2 is the major neuronally expressed isoform among NCKX members. Despite its importance in maintaining Na+, Ca2+, and K+ homeostasis in the CNS, the role of NCKX2 during cerebral ischemia, a condition characterized by an alteration of ionic concentrations, has not yet been investigated. The present study examines NCKX2 role in the development of ischemic brain damage in permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) and transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Furthermore, to evaluate the effect of nckx2 ablation on neuronal survival, nckx2-/- primary cortical neurons were subjected to oxygen glucose deprivation plus reoxygenation. NCKX2 mRNA and protein expression was evaluated in the ischemic core and surrounding ipsilesional areas, at different time points after pMCAO in rats. In ischemic core and in periinfarctual area, NCKX2 mRNA and protein expression were downregulated. In addition, NCKX2 knock-down by antisense oligodeoxynucleotide and NCKX2 knock-out by genetic disruption dramatically increased infarct volume. Accordingly, nckx2-/- primary cortical neurons displayed a higher vulnerability and a greater [Ca2+]i increase under hypoxic conditions, compared with nckx2+/+ neurons. In addition, NCKX currents both in the forward and reverse mode of operation were significantly reduced in nckx2-/- neurons compared with nckx2+/+ cells. Overall, these results indicate that NCKX2 is involved in brain ischemia, and it may represent a new potential target to be investigated in the study of the molecular mechanisms involved in cerebral ischemia.
To analyse short and long-latency (SEPs) recorded by chronically stereotactically electrodes implanted in SI area of two epileptic patients. Two drug-resistant epileptic patients (2 females, 38 and 15 years, respectively) suffering from left temporal and right frontal epilepsy respectively, were investigated by an electrode-chronically implanted in SI area. Short and long latency somatosensory evoked potentials were recorded by depth electrodes 10 days after implantation. This is the first study to describe a depth N36 response by an intracerebral recording electrode in the SI area, probably generated by a radially oriented generator, located in area 1. Furthermore, we confirmed a role of SI in the genesis of N60 component. Finally, our present data suggest that the SI area is still active at 120 ms after the stimulus, since in one patient (no. 2) we identified a N120 potential, reaching its maximal amplitude at the same depth as the N20 response.
Herbal therapies are commonly used to enhance memory and learning. Ginkgo biloba has shown to be one of the most popular herbs that is used to treat amnesia and retard age related memory deficits. Although, there have been several reports on the memory enhancing effects of Ginkgo, involvement of glutamatergic system that plays pivotal role in learning and memory has not been precisely assessed so far. The current study intended to investigate the effect of Ginkgo intake on amnesia while NMDA (N-methyl D-aspartic acid) receptors blocked by the administration of MK-801. The study used passive avoidance (PA) task to investigate the effect of chronic administration of Ginkgo extract (40 and 90 mg/kg; oral) on the memory span in male Wistar rats, suffering from MK-801-induced forgetfulness (0.06 and 0.1 mg/kg; i.p.). The results indicate that Ginkgo was able to remove MK-801-induced forgetfulness, indicating that Ginkgo can affect memory retention but not effect on passive avoidance acquisition, using pathways other than glutamatergic system as well. The results might indicate that Ginkgo extract can be effective in removing forgetfulness caused by inhibiting NMDA receptors from performing their activities.
Neural circuits implicated in drug conditioning, craving and relapse overlap extensively with those involved in natural reward and reinforcement. To determine whether specificity could be detected in conditioned brain responses to drugs versus food, male outbred HSD:ICR mice were conditioned to a common environment using either 20 mg/kg cocaine (ip) or a familiar food (under food restriction). The mice were then re-exposed to the same environment without the reinforcer and patterns of brain activation were compared using immunohistochemical detection of Fos. Conditioned place preference tests were conducted first to establish relative potency of each reward and facilitate analysis of correlations between Fos and motivation. Place preference was stronger for cocaine than food. Food- but not cocaine-paired cues increased Fos in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus whereas the opposite occurred for prefrontal, cingulate and piriform cortices. Individual differences in cocaine place preference were negatively correlated with Fos in the prefrontal cortex. One difference between drugs and natural reinforcers may be lack of feedback from the periphery for drugs which may circumvent control from the hypothalamus in the development of reinforcement circuits.
Extensive previous research has implicated the hippocampus as an important structure for the acquisition of trace eyeblink conditioning. Evidence from multiple species and various lesioning methods shows that the disruption of conditioned responding (CR) may be partially dependent on the relative lengths of the conditioned stimulus (CS) period and the trace interval. The present study systematically manipulated the length of the CS and the trace interval while matching the interstimulus intervals (ISI) in rats with or without ibotenic acid hippocampal lesions. The long-trace interval condition had a CS duration of 50 ms and a trace interval of 500 ms. The short-trace interval condition had a 500 ms CS and a 50 ms trace interval. We found that control animals in the long-trace interval condition learned at a slower rate than the control animals in the short-trace interval condition. Lesioned animals in both the trace conditions showed deficits in acquisition. Lesioned animals in the short-trace interval condition acquired conditioned responses at a rate almost identical to that of the control animals in the long-trace interval condition. CR onset latencies were impaired for lesioned animals. Peak latencies were not different, indicating no difference in the adaptiveness of the CRs. These results suggest that while the hippocampus is important for acquisition of trace eyeblink conditioning, performance also depends on the parameters used for the task. In particular, the relative lengths of the CS period and the trace interval appear to be important.
Age of puberty was examined in female mice through non-invasive behavioral and fertility measures, in relationship to ano-genital distance, phytoestrogen content of diet, and exposure to males post-weaning. Throughout gestation and post-natal development, females were exposed to a regular diet or one that was nutritionally similar but deficient in phytoestrogens. After segregation at weaning on the basis of a short or long ano-genital distance index (AGDI), an indirect measure of in utero androgen exposure, females were housed alone or underneath two outbred adult males for two weeks. Subsequently, an outbred male was placed in the cage of each developing female, and mating behavior, escape attempts, biting gestures, and boxing postures were recorded. Next, females were monitored for the occurrence of a copulatory plug and allowed to bear young, with pregnancy and litters monitored up to weaning. Male-exposed females fed a regular diet were immediately sexually receptive when housed directly with males, and their conceptions occurred earlier than did those of other females. Subjects fed a diet deficient in phytoestrogens were least likely to show sexual receptivity. Male-exposed females with longer AGDI displayed more escape attempts in the presence of males, regardless of diet. Once inseminated, most females carried to term and the majority of pups survived until weaning. These data suggest that phytoestrogens and AGDI interact with exposure to males in determining age at onset of puberty.
Dietary restriction (DR) has been shown to increase life span and reduce disease incidence across a variety of species. Recent research suggests that chronic adult DR may also alter age-related cognitive decline. The purpose of this study was twofold: (1) to examine the potential deficits in spatial learning ability in the aged F344 x BN hybrid F1 rat with specific attention to the contributory effects of motoric impairments and (2) to determine the influence of chronic adult DR on any such impairments. The Morris water maze (MWM) task was employed with a 1.8 m diameter tank, 10 cm2 escape platform, 28 degrees C water, and an automated collapsing central starting platform. Spatial learning impairments in the aged rats were evident on all dependent measures during training and the probe test. Motoric function, as reflected in measures of strength and locomotion demonstrated profound age-related performance impairments that were attenuated by chronic adult DR. The present data also replicate previous reports, indicating that DR attenuates the age-related impairments of performance in the MWM as indexed by the latency measure in acquisition, but critically was dissociated from any DR effect on measures of preference and, more critically, accuracy in the probe test. Collectively, the most parsimonious interpretation of DR effects on MWM performance would appear to be the preservation of motoric, and not cognitive, function.

Square arrays are prominent structures in plasma membranes of brain, muscle, and kidneys with an unknown function. So far, the analysis of these arrays has been restricted to freeze fracture preparations, which have shown square arrays to contain the water channel Aquaporin-4 (AQP4). Using Blue-Native PAGE immunoblots, we provide evidence that higher-order AQP4 complexes correspond to square arrays, with the AQP4 isoform M23 playing a dominant role. Our data are consistent with the idea that square arrays consist of aggregates of AQP4 tetramers complexed with multiples of dimers. By comparison, Aquaporin-1 and Aquaporin-9 form tetramers, but not higher-order complexes. AQP4 square arrays are stable under several biochemical purification steps. Analyzing the internal composition of the higher-order complexes by 2D gels, we demonstrate that the square arrays in addition to M23 also invariably contain AQP4, M1, and a novel AQP4 isoform that we call Mz. The visualization AQP4 square arrays by a rapid, biochemical assay provides new insight in the molecular organization of square arrays and gives further proof of the heterogeneity of AQP4 square arrays in vivo.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels underlie the pacemaker currents in neurons (I(h)) and cardiac (I(f)) cells. As such, the identification and characterization of novel blockers of HCN channels is important to enable the dissection of their function in vivo. Using a new IonWorks HT electrophysiology assay with human HCN1 and HCN4 expressed stably in cell lines, four HCN channel blockers are characterized. Two blockers known for their activity at opioid/Ca(2+) channels and K(+) channels, loperamide and CP-339,818 (respectively), are described to block HCN1 more potently than HCN4. The known HCN blocker ZD7288 was also found to be more selective for HCN1 over HCN4, while the HCN blocker DK-AH269 was equipotent on HCN4 and HCN1. Partial replacement of the intracellular Cl(-) with gluconate reduced the potency on both channels, but to varying degrees. For both HCN1 and HCN4, ZD7288 was most sensitive in lower Cl(-) solutions, while the potency of loperamide was not affected by the differing solutions. The block of HCN1 for all compounds was voltage-dependent, being relieved at more negative potentials. The voltage-dependent, Cl(-) dependent, HCN1 preferring compounds described here elaborate on the current known pharmacology of HCN channels and may help provide novel tools and chemical starting points for the investigation of HCN channel function in natively expressing systems.





Previous studies have demonstrated that mutation in the forkhead domain of the forkhead box P2 (FOXP2) protein (R553H) causes speech-language disorders. To further analyze FOXP2 function in speech learning, we generated a knockin (KI) mouse for Foxp2 (R552H) [Foxp2 (R552H)-KI], corresponding to the human FOXP2 (R553H) mutation, by homologous recombination. Homozygous Foxp2 (R552H)-KI mice showed reduced weight, immature development of the cerebellum with incompletely folded folia, Purkinje cells with poor dendritic arbors and less synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and achieved crisis stage for survival 3 weeks after birth. At postnatal day 10, these mice also showed severe ultrasonic vocalization (USV) and motor impairment, whereas the heterozygous Foxp2 (R552H)-KI mice exhibited modest impairments. Similar to the wild-type protein, Foxp2 (R552H) localized in the nuclei of the Purkinje cells and the thalamus, striatum, cortex, and hippocampus (CA1) neurons of the homozygous Foxp2 (R552H)-KI mice (postnatal day 10), and some of the neurons showed nuclear aggregates of Foxp2 (R552H). In addition to the immature development of the cerebellum, Foxp2 (R552H) nuclear aggregates may further compromise the function of the Purkinje cells and cerebral neurons of the homozygous mice, resulting in their death. In contrast, heterozygous Foxp2 (R552H)-KI mice, which showed modest impairment of USVs with different USV qualities and which did not exhibit nuclear aggregates, should provide insights into the common molecular mechanisms between the mouse USV and human speech learning and the relationship between the USV and motor neural systems.
Mitochondrial fission and trafficking to dendritic protrusions have been implicated in dendritic spine development. Here, we show that Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP)-family verprolin homologous protein 1 (WAVE1) controls depolarization-induced mitochondrial movement into dendritic spines and filopodia and regulates spine morphogenesis. Depolarization-induced degradation of the p35 regulatory subunit of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), with the resultant decreased inhibitory phosphorylation on WAVE1, depend on NMDA receptor activation. Thus, WAVE1 dephosphorylation and activation are likely associated with mitochondrial redistribution and spine morphogenesis.
Noninactivating potassium current formed by KCNQ2 (Kv7.2) and KCNQ3 (Kv7.3) subunits resembles neuronal M-currents which are activated by voltage and play a critical role in controlling membrane excitability. Activation of voltage-gated potassium channels by a chemical opener is uncommon. Therefore, the mechanisms of action are worthy further investigation. Retigabine and zinc pyrithione are two activators for KCNQ channels but their molecular interactions with KCNQ channel remain largely elusive. Here we report that retigabine and zinc pyrithione recognize two different sites of KCNQ2 channels. Their agonistic actions are noncompetitive and allow for simultaneous binding of two different activators on the same channel complex, hence giving rise to combinatorial potentiation with characteristic properties of both openers. Examining their effects on mutant channels, we showed zinc pyrithione is capable of opening nonconductive channels and coapplication of zinc pyrithione and retigabine could restore a disease mutant channel similar to wild type. Our results indicate two independent activator binding sites present in KCNQ channels. The resultant combinatorial potentiation by multiple synthetic chemical openers indicates that KCNQ channels are accessible to various types and combinations of pharmacological regulation.
Recent data indicate that local translation in growth cones is critical for axon guidance. Evidence from the Drosophila midline axon guidance system suggests that the F-actin-microtubule cross-linker Short stop (Shot) might link the translation machinery to the cytoskeleton in the growth cone. The identification of a complex of translation factors attached to the actin and microtubule networks points to a mechanism by which cytoskeletal dynamics regulate translation in axons and vice versa.
Correct targeting of proteins to axons and dendrites is crucial for neuronal function. We showed previously that axonal accumulation of the cell adhesion molecule L1/neuron-glia cell adhesion molecule (NgCAM) depends on endocytosis (Wisco, D., E.D. Anderson, M.C. Chang, C. Norden, T. Boiko, H. Folsch, and B. Winckler. 2003. J. Cell Biol. 162:1317-1328). Two endocytosis-dependent pathways to the axon have been proposed: transcytosis and selective retrieval/retention. We show here that axonal accumulation of L1/NgCAM occurs via nondegradative somatodendritic endosomes and subsequent anterograde axonal transport, which is consistent with transcytosis. Additionally, we identify the neuronal-specific endosomal protein NEEP21 (neuron-enriched endosomal protein of 21 kD) as a regulator of L1/NgCAM sorting in somatodendritic endosomes. Down-regulation of NEEP21 leads to missorting of L1/NgCAM to the somatodendritic surface as well as to lysosomes. Importantly, the axonal accumulation of endogenous L1 in young neurons is also sensitive to NEEP21 depletion. We propose that small endosomal carriers derived from somatodendritic recycling endosomes can serve to redistribute a distinct set of membrane proteins from dendrites to axons.
This work questioned further the influence of wrist movements on the control of precision grip. Seated subjects wearing a full-arm orthosis with the wrist and hand free were instructed to maintain a thumb/index finger opposition corresponding to 15% of maximal voluntary contraction for the first dorsal interosseus (FDI). Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation eliciting conditioned MEPs of FDI was used to determine the modulation of short intracortical inhibition (SICI) during cyclic active and passive wrist flexion and extension and during a static condition (no wrist movement, hand in the neutral position). The FDI active motor threshold (AMT) and the conditioning stimulus (0.8 AMT) were assessed in each series of FDI SICI measurements and the test stimulus (TS) was adjusted to match the amplitudes of test FDI MEPs across conditions. An increase of FDI background EMG during active wrist flexion compared to extension in some subjects did not influence FDI SICI as tested at matched EMG levels in the static condition. FDI SICI was reduced during wrist flexion (whether active or passive) compared to wrist extension, the latter being of equivalent FDI SICI as in the static condition. We suggest that wrist flexion and precision grip could be linked in a functional proximo-distal synergy. Indeed, coupling the activity between M1 sites of wrist flexors and FDI muscle via cortico-cortical disinhibition of FDI site may help recruit the interjoint synergy. Also, the salience of afferent information from wrist muscles may contribute to the phase-dependent modulation of SICI in the preactivated FDI muscle.
Leptin, an adipocyte-derived hormone, is known to regulate a variety of neuroendocrine functions. It inhibits the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) in several animal models, however, the exact mechanism by which it does so is not known. Since norepinephrine (NE) is a key regulator of the HPA axis, we hypothesized that leptin could suppress HPA activity by decreasing NE levels. To study this, we implanted adult male Sprague-Dawley rats with both a push-pull cannula in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and a catheter in the jugular vein. Animals were treated with either 0 or 100 microg or 500 microg of recombinant rat leptin (Lep). Push-pull perfusion was performed from 1000-1600 h. Perfusate samples were collected every 30 min and analyzed for NE levels using HPLC-EC. Blood samples were collected every 60 min and analyzed for corticosterone (CS) levels. To further understand the role of NE in this phenomenon animals were treated with either an alpha1-adrenergic agonist, phenylephrine (PHE; 0.5 mg/kg BW), an alpha2-adrenergic agonist, clonidine (CLON; 0.6 mg/kg BW), or a beta-adrenergic agonist, isoproterenol (ISO; 0.2 mg/kg BW) alone or in combination with 500 microg of Lep. Pre-treatment and hourly post-treatment blood samples were collected, plasma was separated and analyzed for CS levels. Leptin administration decreased NE release in the PVN significantly by 30 min (p&lt;0.05). It also significantly reduced plasma CS levels at 240 and 300 min (p&lt;0.05). Administration of either PHE or CLON in combination with leptin prevented the leptin-induced decrease in CS. In contrast, administration of ISO along with leptin did not prevent the leptin-induced decrease in CS. These results indicate that leptin decreases hypothalamic NE and plasma CS and that this effect is most probably mediated through alpha-adrenergic receptors.
Patients with cancer experience a host of behavioral alterations that include depression, fatigue, sleep disturbances, and cognitive dysfunction. These behavioral comorbidities are apparent throughout the process of diagnosis and treatment for cancer and can persist well into the survivorship period. There is a rich literature describing potential consequences of behavioral comorbidities in patients with cancer including impaired quality of life, reduced treatment adherence, and increased disease-related morbidity and mortality. Medical complications of cancer and its treatment such as anemia, thyroid dysfunction, and the neurotoxicity of cancer chemotherapeutic agents account in part for these behavioral changes. Nevertheless, recent advances in the neurosciences and immunology/oncology have revealed novel insights into additional pathophysiologic mechanisms that may significantly contribute to the development of cancer-related behavioral changes. Special attention has been focused on immunologic processes, specifically activation of innate immune inflammatory responses and their regulation by neuroendocrine pathways, which, in turn, influence CNS functions including neurotransmitter metabolism, neuropeptide function, sleep-wake cycles, regional brain activity, and, ultimately, behavior. Further understanding of these immunologic influences on the brain provides a novel conceptual framework for integrating the wide spectrum of behavioral alterations that occur in cancer patients and may reveal a more focused array of translational targets for therapeutic interventions and future research. Such developments warrant complementary advances in identification of cancer patients at risk as well as those currently suffering, including an increased emphasis on the status of behavior as a &quot;sixth vital sign&quot; to be assessed in all cancer patients throughout their disease encounter.
This study aimed at characterizing the neurotransmitter phenotype of enkephalin neurons in the rat amygdaloid complex. We first established the detailed distribution of vesicular glutamate transporters 1 and 2 (VGLUT1 and -2) and glutamate decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) in the amygdala by using in situ hybridization. In the amygdaloid complex, GAD65 is strongly expressed in striatal-like divisions, namely, the anterior amygdaloid area, the central nucleus (CEA), the intercalated nuclei, and the dorsal part of the medial nucleus (MEA). VGLUT1 and -2 expression is mostly segregated to specific divisions of the amygdale, with VGLUT2 being expressed only in the MEA, the anterior cortical nucleus (COAa), and the anterior basomedial nucleus (BMAa), whereas VGLUT1 is expressed in all other divisions of the amygdala. Second, we assessed the co-expression of preproenkephalin (ppENK) with GAD65, VGLUT1, or VGLUT2 by using double fluorescent in situ hybridization. We found that ppENK mRNA co-localized exclusively with GAD65 in all striatal-like structures of the amygdaloid complex with the exception of the MEA, where ENK also co-localized with VGLUT2 mRNA. This co-localization is most apparent in the posteroventral part of the MEA, where 70% of ENKergic cells expressed VGLUT2. In addition, ppENK also co-localized with VGLUT1 because more than 95% of ENK cells in the basolateral amygdala expressed VGLUT1. In contrast, less than 25% of ENKergic cells expressed VGLUT1 in the lateral nucleus of the amygdale, with the majority of ENK cells expressing GAD65 mRNA in this nucleus. These results have broad implications for understanding the functional roles of enkephalinergic neurotransmission in the amygdaloid complex.
Cochlear macrophages have been shown to accumulate in the murine cochlea following acoustic trauma. This investigation was performed to determine whether cochlear macrophages could be replaced by donor transplantation of bone marrow precursors. Lethally irradiated C57BL/6 mice were transplanted with hematopoietic precursors from CX3CR1(GFP/GFP) fetal mice. CX3CR1(GFP/GFP) mice express green fluorescent protein (GFP) in monocytes and macrophages and possess no functional CX3CR1. Donor monocytes and macrophages can be easily traced in the wild-type recipient with fluorescent microscopy. We studied mice at 2-16 weeks after transplantation to assess repopulation of cochlear macrophages. A separate group of chimeras was exposed to octave band noise (8-16 kHz for 2 hours) 2 weeks after transplantation to evaluate the migration properties of donor hematopoietic precursors. We found that macrophages derived from donor hematopoietic precursors appeared in cochlea 3-4 weeks after transplantation and increased week by week. Noise exposure induced a massive accumulation of leukocytes, particularly in the spiral ligament of the basal turn. There was no difference between CX3CR1(GFP/GFP) donor/wild-type recipient chimeras and the wild-type donor/wild-type recipient chimeras in hearing thresholds, accumulation of cochlear macrophages, or tissue injury after noise exposure. These data indicate that cochlear macrophages are derived from bone marrow precursors and that they are an exchanging and migratory population. Furthermore, CX3CR1 in hematopoietic precursors is not necessary for macrophage migration into cochlea and when deleted in this cell population, the absence of CX3CR1 does not substantially effect the outcomes after noise.
Hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) is a key regulator of oxygen homeostasis, because it is responsible for the regulation of genes involved in glycolysis, erythropoiesis, angiogenesis, and apoptosis. In the CNS, HIF-1alpha is stabilized by insults associated with hypoxia and ischemia. Because its many target genes mediate both adaptive and pathological processes, the role of HIF-1alpha in neuronal survival is debated. Although neuronal HIF-1alpha function has been the topic of several studies, the role of HIF-1alpha function in astrocytes has received much less attention. To characterize the role of HIF-1alpha in neurons and astrocytes, we induced loss of HIF-1alpha function specifically in neurons, astrocytes, or both cell types in neuron/astrocyte cocultures exposed to hypoxia. Although loss of HIF-1alpha function in neurons reduced neuronal viability during hypoxia, selective loss of HIF-1 function in astrocytes markedly protected neurons from hypoxic-induced neuronal death. Although the pathological processes induced by HIF-1alpha in astrocytes remain to be defined, induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase likely contributes to the pathological process. This study delineates, for the first time, a cell type-specific action for HIF-1alpha within astrocytes and neurons.
The relationship between a sound and its neural representation in the auditory cortex remains elusive. Simple measures such as the frequency response area or frequency tuning curve provide little insight into the function of the auditory cortex in complex sound environments. Spectrotemporal receptive field (STRF) models, despite their descriptive potential, perform poorly when used to predict auditory cortical responses, showing that nonlinear features of cortical response functions, which are not captured by STRFs, are functionally important. We introduce a new approach to the description of auditory cortical responses, using multilinear modeling methods. These descriptions simultaneously account for several nonlinearities in the stimulus-response functions of auditory cortical neurons, including adaptation, spectral interactions, and nonlinear sensitivity to sound level. The models reveal multiple inseparabilities in cortical processing of time lag, frequency, and sound level, and suggest functional mechanisms by which auditory cortical neurons are sensitive to stimulus context. By explicitly modeling these contextual influences, the models are able to predict auditory cortical responses more accurately than are STRF models. In addition, they can explain some forms of stimulus dependence in STRFs that were previously poorly understood.
Despite the importance of spike-timing regulation in network functioning, little is known about this regulation at the cellular level. In the Aplysia feeding network, we show that interneuron B65 regulates the timing of the spike initiation of phase-switch neurons B64 and cerebral-buccal interneuron-5/6 (CBI-5/6), and thereby determines the identity of the neuron that acts as a protraction terminator. Previous work showed that B64 begins to fire before the end of protraction phase and terminates protraction in CBI-2-elicited ingestive, but not in CBI-2-elicited egestive programs, thus indicating that the spike timing and phase-switching function of B64 depend on the type of the central pattern generator (CPG)-elicited response rather than on the input used to activate the CPG. Here, we find that CBI-5/6 is a protraction terminator in egestive programs elicited by the esophageal nerve (EN), but not by CBI-2, thus indicating that, in contrast to B64, the spike timing and protraction-terminating function of CBI-5/6 depends on the input to the CPG rather than the response type. Interestingly, B65 activity also depends on the input in that B65 is highly active in EN-elicited programs, but not in CBI-2-elicited programs independent of whether the programs are ingestive or egestive. Notably, during EN-elicited egestive programs, hyperpolarization of B65 delays the onset of CBI-5/6 firing, whereas in CBI-2-elicited ingestive programs, B65 stimulation simultaneously advances CBI-5/6 firing and delays B64 firing, thereby substituting CBI-5/6 for B64 as the protraction terminator. Thus, we identified a neural mechanism that, in an input-dependent manner, regulates spike timing and thereby the functional role of specific neurons.
When a rat runs through a familiar environment, the hippocampus retrieves a previously stored spatial representation of the environment. When the environment is modified a new representation is seen, presumably corresponding to the hippocampus encoding the new information. The medial septum is hypothesized to modulate whether the hippocampus engages in retrieval or encoding. The cholinergic agonist carbachol was infused into the medial septum, and hippocampal CA1 place cells were recorded in freely moving rats. In a familiar environment, septal activation impaired the retrieval of a previously stored hippocampal place cell representation regardless of age. When the environment was changed, medial septal activation impaired the encoding process in young, but facilitated the encoding of the new information in aged rats. Moreover, the improved encoding was evident during a subsequent exposure to the modified environment 24 h later. The findings support the role the septum plays in modulating hippocampal retrieval/encoding states. Furthermore, our data indicate a mechanism of age-related cognitive impairment.
Somatic inhibition, which is critical for determining the spike output of principal cells, is mediated by two physiologically distinct classes of GABAergic interneurons called basket cells. In the hippocampus, despite both targeting the somatic membrane of CA1 pyramidal cells, these two classes of basket cells are active at different times. Differential modulation of these two types of basket cells could hence be important for regulating the activity patterns of CA1 pyramidal cells at very specific periods during ongoing activity. Indeed, cannabinoids selectively suppress the output of one class of basket cell. Whether opioids, another major modulator of inhibition in the hippocampus, also selectively suppress somatic inhibition is not known. Here, we show that basket cells are selectively modulated by either opioids or cannabinoids, but not both. We also find that basket cells are integrated into specific inhibitory subnetworks that are themselves under differential control of opioids and cannabinoids. Furthermore, because the two interneuron types are activated at different times, opioids and cannabinoids suppress different epochs of inhibition. This cell-type specific sensitivity to neuromodulators allows for a fine control of the temporal structure of hippocampal activity.
Immature cochlear outer hair cells (OHCs) make transient synaptic contacts (ribbon synapses) with type I afferent nerve fibers, but direct evidence of synaptic vesicle exocytosis is still missing. We thus investigated calcium-dependent exocytosis in murine OHCs at postnatal day 2 (P2)-P3, a developmental stage when calcium current maximum amplitude was the highest. By using time-resolved patch-clamp capacitance measurements, we show that voltage step activation of L-type calcium channels triggers fast membrane capacitance increase. Capacitance increase displayed two kinetic components, which are likely to reflect two functionally distinct pools of synaptic vesicles, a readily releasable pool (RRP; tau = 79 ms) and a slowly releasable pool (tau = 870 ms). The RRP size and maximal release rate were estimated at approximately 1200 vesicles and approximately 15,000 vesicles/s, respectively. In addition, we found a linear relationship between capacitance increase and calcium influx, like in mature inner hair cells (IHCs). These results give strong support to the existence of efficient calcium-dependent neurotransmitter release in immature OHCs. Moreover, we show that immature OHCs, just like immature IHCs, are able to produce regenerative calcium-dependent action potentials that could trigger synaptic exocytosis in vivo. Finally, the evoked membrane capacitance increases were abolished in P2-P3 OHCs from mutant Otof-/- mice defective for otoferlin, despite normal calcium currents. We conclude that otoferlin, the putative major calcium sensor at IHC ribbon synapses, is essential to synaptic exocytosis in immature OHCs too.

The 14-3-3 proteins are highly conserved, ubiquitous molecules involved in a variety of biologic events, such as cell cycle control, and apoptosis. In our previous study, it has been proved that they are expressed in primary human nervous system tumors. However, the isoform-specific expression of 14-3-3 protein is still need to be identified. This study is the first detection of 14-3-3 isoforms' specific expression in human astrocytoma. In the normal brain tissues, all the seven 14-3-3 isoforms' immunoreactivity was localized mainly in the neurons, while only weak expression of epsilon, zeta and theta was found in some glial cells. However, beta, epsilon, zeta, eta and theta isoforms' immunoreactivity was seen in the majority of astrocytoma samples and its immunoreactivity score was increased markedly with an increase in the pathologic grade of human astrocytomas. These results indicate that the five isoforms may play an important role in tumorigenesis of human astrocytoma.
Brain fatty acid binding protein (Fabp7), which is important in early nervous system development, is expressed in astrocytes and neuronal cell precursors in mature brain. We report here that levels of Fabp7 mRNA in adult murine brain change over a 24 hour period. Unlike Fabp5, a fatty acid binding protein that is expressed widely in various cell types within brain, RNA analysis revealed that Fabp7 mRNA levels were elevated during the light period and lower during dark in brain regions involved in sleep and activity mechanisms. This pattern of Fabp7 mRNA expression was confirmed using in situ hybridization and found to occur throughout the entire brain. Changes in the intracellular distribution of Fabp7 mRNA were also evident over a 24 hour period. Diurnal changes in Fabp7, however, were not found in postnatal day 6 brain, when astrocytes are not yet mature. In contrast, granule cell precursors of the subgranular zone of adult hippocampus did undergo diurnal changes in Fabp7 expression. These changes paralleled oscillations in Fabp7 mRNA throughout the brain suggesting that cell-coordinated signals likely control brain-wide Fabp7 mRNA expression. Immunoblots revealed that Fabp7 protein levels also underwent diurnal changes in abundance, with peak levels occurring in the dark period. Of clock or clock-regulated genes, the synchronized, global cycling pattern of Fabp7 expression is unique and implicates glial cells in the response or modulation of activity and/or circadian rhythms.
HBV vaccine needs 3 injections over 6 months to induce immunity. Thus, the use of adjuvants capable of inducing earlier immune protection would be highly desirable. Most adjuvants may act by inducing cytokines, and among them, type I interferons (IFNs), deserve a special attention in view of the potent immunomostimulatory activity observed in mouse models and on dendritic cell functions. The aim of the present trial was to evaluate the effects of IFN-alpha administered as an adjuvant of HBV vaccine in healthy unvaccinated individuals. No significant enhancing effect on the antibody response was observed, in spite of an early and transient upregulation of costimulatory molecule expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells, which may be suggestive of an IFN-mediated activation of antigen presenting cells. We conclude that, under the conditions used in this trial, natural IFN-alpha does not act as an adjuvant of the HBV vaccine in healthy unvaccinated individuals.
The identification of phosphorylation state-dependent interacting proteins provides clues as to the function of the phosphorylation. Techniques such as yeast two hybrid and co-immunoprecipitation do not employ a single species of fully phosphorylated proteins. This is a particular problem for substrates of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3), where multiple Ser/Thr residues can be targeted, almost always subsequent to a priming phosphorylation by an alternative kinase. We previously identified the brain enriched collapsin response mediator proteins (CRMP2 and CRMP4) as physiological substrates of GSK3. Cdk5 phosphorylates CRMP2 at Ser522, priming for subsequent phosphorylation at three residues by GSK3 in vitro and in vivo. It is clear that phosphorylation of CRMP2 influences axonal growth; however, the molecular processes underlying this action are not fully established. In addition, the role of phosphorylation in other actions of CRMPs has not been elucidated. We developed a novel procedure to isolate CRMP2 and CRMP4 fully phosphorylated at four sites, namely, Ser522 (by CDK5), Ser518, Thr514, and Thr509 (by GSK3). These phosphoproteins were then used to identify binding partners in rat brain lysates in direct comparison with the non-phosphorylated isoforms. We validated the approach by confirming that a previously reported interaction with tubulin-beta is regulated by phosphorylation. We also show that CRMPs (CRMP1, CRMP2, and CRMP4) form heteromers and found that these complexes may also be regulated by phosphorylation. We identified DYRK and Pin1 as novel CRMP4 binding proteins with DYRK interacting preferentially with dephospho-CRMP4 and Pin1 with phospho-CRMP4. Finally, we used this approach to identify the mitochondrial protein ANT as a novel CRMP2 and CRMP4 binding protein. We believe that this approach could be applied generally to the study of phosphorylation-dependent interactions.


Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) typically involves intraparenchymal hemorrhage and a cascade of inflammatory and cytotoxic processes leading to tissue necrosis and apoptosis. A consequence of the hemorrhage is the accumulation of deoxygenated heme proximal and distal to the epicenter of the lesion. The heme oxygenase (HO) system is an endogenous heme degradation system and is upregulated following neurotrauma. The breakdown of heme via HO activity yields the byproducts carbon monoxide (CO), biliverdin, and iron. CO has documented neuromodulatory properties; however, the effects of elevated concentrations of CO on axonal conduction in the spinal cord have not previously been studied. The present study tested the hypothesis that CO causes alterations in the electrophysiological properties of axons within the isolated guinea-pig spinal cord. Ex vivo spinal cord preparations were exposed to 100, 500, and 1000 microM concentrations of the carbon monoxide-releasing molecule (CORM) 2 for 30 min in a double sucrose gap electrophysiological recording system and the compound action potential (CAP) and membrane potential (CMP) were recorded continuously during pretreatment, CORM-2 treatment, and washout (30 min) with Krebs' solution. CAP amplitude and area were significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced following treatment with 500 and 1000 microM CORM-2 and did not recover during washout. No effect on CMP was observed, however, stimulus-peak latency did increase significantly (P&lt;0.05) following CORM-2 treatment at these concentrations, and a decrease in the amplitude of the second CAP elicited by paired-pulse stimulation was also evident at interpulse intervals of 2 and 4 ms. These results are consistent with a CO-induced alteration in axonal conduction, possibly attributable to modified Na+ channel conductance. They also identify a new mechanism by which post-traumatic hemorrhage contributes to the neurological deficits observed following SCI.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays a pivotal role in normal and abnormal motor function. We used patch pipettes to study effects of 5-HT on synaptic currents evoked in STN neurons by focal electrical stimulation of rat brain slices. 5-HT (10 microM) reduced glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) by 35+/-4%. However, a much higher concentration of 5-HT (100 microM) was required to inhibit GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) to a comparable extent. Concentration-response curves showed that the 5-HT inhibitory concentration 50% (IC50) for inhibition of IPSCs (20.2 microM) was more than fivefold greater than the IC50 for inhibition of EPSCs (3.4 microM). The 5-HT-induced reductions in EPSCs and IPSCs were accompanied by increases in paired-pulse ratios, indicating that 5-HT acts presynaptically to inhibit synaptic transmission. The 5-HT1B receptor antagonist NAS-181 significantly antagonized 5-HT-induced inhibitions of EPSCs and IPSCs. These studies show that 5-HT inhibits synaptic transmission in the STN by activating presynaptic 5-HT1B receptors.
In the present study, the effect of caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM) microinjection of angiotensin-(1-7) (Ang-(1-7)) and angiotensin II (Ang II) on mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR) and pulsatile vascular blood flow (VBF; Transonic System) of the femoral, renal or mesenteric arteries was evaluated in male Wistar and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) anesthetized with urethane. The vascular resistance (VR) was calculated by the ratio between the changes in MAP and VBF. Ang-(1-7) (40 ng) and Ang II (40 ng) microinjection into the CVLM caused similar depressor effects in Wistar rats and SHR. The hypotensive effect produced by Ang-(1-7) into the CVLM of Wistar rats was accompanied by a decrease in femoral (DeltaVR/VRbaseline=-0.12+/-0.04 vs. 0.001+/-0.03; after saline) and renal (DeltaVR/VRbaseline=-0.10+/-0.02 vs. -0.003+/-0.02; after saline) vascular resistance. On the other hand, the Ang II hypotensive effect in Wistar rats produced only changes in renal vascular resistance (DeltaVR/VRbaseline=-0.16+/-0.02 vs. -0.003+/-0.02; after saline). In SHR, the hypotensive effect produced by Ang-(1-7) and Ang II caused decrease in renal vascular resistance (DeltaVR/VRbaseline=-0.18+/-0.03 and -0.13+/-0.01, respectively, as compared with saline, DeltaVR/VRbaseline=-0.06+/-0.02), but did not alter the femoral or mesenteric vascular resistance. These data show that Ang II and Ang-(1-7) hypotensive effect at the CVLM involves the participation of different vascular beds. Further, the lack of involvement of the femoral vascular bed in SHR suggests that hypertension may induce alteration in the neural control of the different vascular beds, at least at the CVLM.
Synaptic modulation by activity-dependent changes constitutes a cellular mechanism for neuronal plasticity. However, it is not clear how the complete lack of neuronal signaling specifically affects elements involved in the communication between neurons. In the retina, it is now well established that both chemical and electrical synapses are essential to mediate the transmission of visual signaling triggered by the photoreceptors. In this study, we compared the expression of synaptic proteins in the retinas of wild-type (WT) vs. rd/rd mice, an animal model that displays inherited and specific ablation of photoreceptors caused by a mutation in the gene encoding the beta-subunit of rod cGMP-phosphodiesterase (Pde6brd1). We specifically examined the expression of connexins (Cx), the proteins that form the gap junction channels of electrical synapses, in addition to synaptophysin and synapsin I, which are involved in the release of neurotransmitters at chemical synapses. Our results revealed that Cx36 gene expression levels are lower in the retinas of rd/rd when compared with WT. Confocal analysis indicated that Cx36 immunolabeling almost disappeared in the outer plexiform layer without significant changes in protein distribution within the inner plexiform layer of rd/rd retinas. Likewise, synaptophysin expression remarkably decreased in the outer plexiform layer of rd/rd retinas, and this down-regulation was also associated with diminished transcript levels. Furthermore, we observed down-regulation of Cx57 gene expression in rd/rd retinas when compared with WT and also changes in protein distribution. Interestingly, Cx45 and synapsin I expression in rd/rd retinas showed no noticeable changes when compared with WT. Taken together, our results revealed that the loss of photoreceptors leads to decreased expression of some synaptic proteins. More importantly, this study provides evidence that neuronal activity regulates, but is not essential to maintain, the expression of synaptic elements.
Members of the regulator of G protein signaling 7 (RGS7) (R7) family and Gbeta5 form obligate heterodimers that are expressed predominantly in the nervous system. R7-Gbeta5 heterodimers are GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) specific for Gi/o-class Galpha subunits, which mediate phototransduction in retina and the action of many modulatory G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) in brain. Here we have focused on the R7-family binding protein (R7BP), a recently identified palmitoylated protein that can bind R7-Gbeta5 complexes and is hypothesized to control the intracellular localization and function of the resultant heterotrimeric complexes. We show that: 1) R7-Gbeta5 complexes are obligate binding partners for R7BP in brain because they co-immunoprecipitate and exhibit similar expression patterns. Furthermore, R7BP and R7 protein accumulation in vivo requires Gbeta5. 2) Expression of R7BP in Neuro2A cells at levels approximating those in brain recruits endogenous RGS7-Gbeta5 complexes to the plasma membrane. 3) R7BP immunoreactivity in brain concentrates in neuronal soma, dendrites, spines or unmyelinated axons, and is absent or low in glia, myelinated axons, or axon terminals. 4) RGS7-Gbeta5-R7BP complexes in brain extracts associate inefficiently with detergent-resistant lipid raft fractions with or without G protein activation. 5) R7BP and Gbeta5 protein levels are upregulated strikingly during the first 2-3 weeks of postnatal brain development. Accordingly, we suggest that R7-Gbeta5-R7BP complexes in the mouse or rat could regulate signaling by modulatory Gi/o-coupled GPCRs in the developing and adult nervous systems.
Cannabinoids have long been associated with mnemonic deficits. However, existing evidence has generally focused on the effect of cannabinoids when they are delivered prior to task-training, and such findings are confounded by possible drug effects on sensory, motor, and/or motivational systems that support the acquisition and the expression of learning. The present study investigated the effects of the CB1-receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (WIN) on memory consolidation in the Morris water maze. In experiment 1, systemic injections of either WIN or DMSO vehicle were given daily following each training day (post-training), and rats were probe-tested 1 week or 4 weeks later. Rats injected with 1 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg of WIN spent significantly less time in the target quadrant compared with controls 4 weeks later, while no difference was observed at 1-week retention. In experiment 2, intrahippocampal injections of WIN were administered to the dorsal hippocampus following each training day and rats were again probe-tested 1 week or 4 weeks later. Rats bilaterally infused with WIN at 2.5 microg and 5 microg (per side) during training spent significantly less time in the target quadrant than vehicle controls on probe trial 4 weeks later, while no difference was seen at 1-week retention. Taken together, our results showed that post-training activation of CB1 receptors in the hippocampus disrupts long-term memory consolidation but has no effect on acquisition and short-term retention. Plausible pharmacological interactions between cannabinoids and other neurotransmitter systems and associated plasticity mechanisms are discussed.
Chronic morphine, administered via s.c. pellet, decreases the number of proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus subgranular zone (SGZ) in both rats and mice. This robust morphine-induced decrease could be used to better understand mechanisms regulating adult hippocampal neurogenesis, as well as to explore the relationship between neurogenesis and drug dependence, withdrawal, and relapse behaviors. Such research would benefit enormously from identifying a route of morphine administration that produces addiction-relevant blood levels of morphine, results in a high degree of dependence, translates to both rat and mouse, and is free of the behavioral confounds of s.c. pellets. Therefore, we examined a classic chronic morphine pellet paradigm (two s.c. pellets over 5 days) versus three chronic morphine injection paradigms (escalating dose i.p. injections over 2, 5, or 10 days) for their effect in adult male C57BL/6J mice. We assessed blood morphine levels, SGZ proliferation, and drug dependence as assessed by tolerance to locomotion sensitization and naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. The pellet paradigm produced high and relatively stable blood levels of morphine, a high degree of dependence, and a significant decrease in SGZ proliferation. In contrast, the three injection paradigms produced transient spikes in morphine blood levels, significantly less dependence than the pellet paradigm, and no significant decrease in SGZ proliferation. These data show that regulation of mouse SGZ proliferation requires high and relatively stable blood levels of morphine, and provide critical knowledge for the design of future studies to probe the relationship between addiction and neurogenesis.
An increasing body of evidence indicates that: 1) the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA) and other unsaturated N-acylethanolamines (NAEs), 2) 12-(S)-lipoxygenase (12-LOX) products of arachidonic acid, and 3) unsaturated N-acyldopamines (NADAs), act as endogenous ligands of transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) channels at intracellular binding sites. AEA is synthesized and released &quot;on demand&quot; in neurons from its membrane precursor, N-arachidonoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine, by an N-acyl-phosphatidylethanolamine-specific phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD), and is inactivated by intracellular hydrolysis by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), whereas catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT) was suggested to inactivate NADAs. However, it is not known whether these enzymes or 12-LOX co-localize to any extent with TRPV1 receptors in the brain. In this study we used immunohistochemical techniques (single peroxidase and double immunofluorescence staining), and analyzed the localization of the TRPV1 channel in mouse hippocampal and cerebellar neurons with respect to NAPE-PLD, FAAH, 12-LOX and COMT. Cycloxygenase-2 (COX-2), another putative AEA-degrading enzyme, was also studied. Co-localization between TRPV1 and either NAPE-PLD or FAAH, COX-2, 12-LOX and COMT was found in Ammon's horn (CA3) hippocampal pyramidal neurons and (with the exception of 12-LOX) in some Purkinje cells. At the cellular level, both anabolic and catabolic enzymes appeared as fine grains with immunoperoxidase labeling and were observed in the somatodendritic compartment of CA3 pyramidal cells as well as (with the exception of 12-LOX) in the cytoplasm of Purkinje neurons, in which FAAH and COX-2 immunoreactivities were, however, preferentially localized in the large extension of the dendritic arbor. Our data agree with the hypothesis that, in potential &quot;endovanillergic&quot; neurons, endogenous TRPV1 agonists, and AEA in particular, act as intracellular mediators by being produced from and/or degraded by the same mouse brain cells that express TRPV1 receptors.
The ventromedial (VMN) and arcuate (ARC) nuclei of the hypothalamus are bilateral nuclear groups at the base of the hypothalamus that are organized through the aggregation of neurons born along the third ventricle that migrate laterally. During development, GABAergic neurons and fibers surround the forming (or primordial) VMN while neurons containing GABA receptors are found within the boundaries of the emerging nucleus. To investigate the role that GABAB receptors play in establishing the VMN, Thy-1 yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) mice were utilized for live video microscopy studies. The Thy-1 promoter drives YFP expression in regions of the hypothalamus during development. Administration of the GABAB receptor antagonist saclofen and the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline selectively increased the rate of VMN cell movement in slices placed in vitro at embryonic day 14, when cells that form both the ARC and VMN are migrating away from the proliferative zone surrounding the third ventricle. To further test the role of GABAB receptors in VMN development, GABAB receptor knockout mice were used to examine changes in the positions of phenotypically identified cells within the VMN. Cells containing immunoreactive estrogen receptors (ER) alpha were located in the ventrolateral quadrant of the wild type VMN. In GABABR1 knockout mice, these ERalpha positive neurons were located in more dorsal positions at postnatal day (P) 0 and P4. We conclude that GABA alters cell migration and its effect on final cell positioning may lead to changes in the circuitry and connections within specific nuclei of the developing hypothalamus.
In contrast to mammals, spontaneous nerve regeneration occurs in the teleost spinal cord. In the present study, we examined whether neurogenesis is involved in posttraumatic regeneration in the goldfish spinal cord. In intact fish, many spinal cells positive for both a monoclonal neuronal marker (Hu) and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) were observed 24 h after i.p. injection of BrdU, suggesting that constant neurogenesis occurs in the goldfish spinal cord. After hemisection of the spinal cord, the number of spinal cells positive for Hu and BrdU was significantly increased around the lesion site. The number of Hu- and BrdU-positive cells reached the maximum level 7 days after hemisection. In intact fish, spinal cells positive for both Hu and BrdU were also observed 5 weeks after BrdU injection, suggesting that newborn neurons survive for a long time. Six weeks after hemisection, the number of surviving Hu- and BrdU-positive cells at the lesion site was significantly increased as compared with that in intact fish, and some of them were also positive for 5-HT. A retrograde tract tracing study showed that the 5-HT+ neurons were close to the regenerated axons passing through the lesion site. These results suggest that adult neurogenesis occurs in the goldfish spinal cord, and that neurogenesis is activated by spinal cord lesion. The newly produced neurons survive a long time at the lesion site, and might participate in the repair of injured tissue and in the regeneration of descending long axons beyond the lesion site.
The mechanisms underlying lithium's therapeutic efficacy in the chronic treatment of bipolar disorder are not clearly understood. Useful insights can be obtained by identifying genes that are differentially regulated during chronic lithium treatment. Toward this end, we have used microarray technology to identify mRNAs that are differentially expressed in a human neuronal cell line that has been continuously maintained in therapeutic levels of lithium for 33 days. Significantly, unlike other transcriptomes where predominantly rodent cells were used and a limited number of genes probed, we have used human cells probed with more extensive 44,000 gene microarrays. A total of 671 differentially regulated transcripts, after correcting for false discovery rates, were identified, of which 347 and 324, respectively, were found to be up- and downregulated. Peroxiredoxin 2 (PRDX2), an antioxidant enzyme, was the most upregulated while tribbles homolog 3 (TRB3), a pro-apoptotic protein, was the most downregulated, implying a beneficial effect of lithium on neuronal cells. Several of the most highly regulated genes are novel, uncharacterized and encode proteins of unknown function. Differentially expressed genes associated with phosphoinositide metabolism include those encoding phosphatidyl inositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase type II alpha (PIP5K2A), WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide interacting 1 protein (WIPI49), tribbles homolog 3 (TRB3) and sorting nexin 14 (SNX14). A protein interactome using some of the saliently regulated genes identified protein kinase C (PKC) as a major target for lithium action while a global analysis of all 671 differentially expressed genes identified the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway as the most regulated. The list of highly regulated genes, besides encoding putative targets for antimanic agents, should prove useful in defining novel pathways, or to better understand the mechanisms, underlying the mood stabilization process.
The medial thalamus contains abundant mu-opioid receptors and is activated by acute morphine administration. However, the role of the medial thalamus in the rewarding effects of morphine is unclear. The present study examined whether mu-opioid receptors of the medial thalamus influenced the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. An unbiased apparatus and biased subject assignment were used. Administration of morphine in increasing doses (2 mg/kg, 4 mg/kg, 6 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, s.c.) was paired with an initially non-preferred chamber and saline administration was paired with an initially preferred chamber. Conditioning trials were conducted twice daily for 4 days. Microinjection of the irreversible mu-opioid receptor antagonist, beta-funaltrexamine (5 microg/rat), into the medial thalamus 23 h prior to each morphine conditioning completely blocked the acquisition of CPP. However, microinjection of beta-funaltrexamine into the medial thalamus after morphine conditioning trials, but 23 h prior to a test session, had no effect on the expression of CPP. It is concluded that mu-opioid receptors in the rat medial thalamus are involved in the acquisition, but not expression, of morphine-induced CPP.
Two P loop domain potassium (K2P or KCNK) channels produce transmitter-modulated K+ currents that could influence brain development. We mapped by in situ hybridization the expression of the K2P gene family in the developing mouse brain. All the K2P genes had different expression patterns, and it is likely that many neuronal types change their K2P channel subunit composition during development. Fitting with a possible role in the control of cell division, three K2P genes (tandem of P domains in a weak inwardly-rectifying K+ channel-related K+ channel (TREK) -1, TREK-2 and weak inwardly-rectifying K+ channel-related acid-sensitive K+ channel (TASK) -2) had high expression in the embryonic subventricular and ventricular zones, and the tandem of P domains in a weak inwardly-rectifying K+ channel (TWIK) -1, TREK-1, TREK-2 and TASK-3 genes were significantly expressed in the external cerebellar granule cell layer. There were also some clear changes in developmental expression of the K2P genes: for example, TREK-1 goes from high to low expression in post-migratory cerebellar granule cells; TREK-2 has one of the highest expressions in the embryonic and early postnatal brain of any K2P gene, but transcript levels fall strongly in the postnatal periods, except for cerebellar granule cells. TASK-1 and tandem pore domain halothane-inhibited K+ channel (THIK) -2 genes both turn on specifically in post-migratory cerebellar granule cells, whereas the TASK-3 gene, for example, is strongly expressed in pre-migratory cells as well as post-migratory cells. On the other hand, young postnatal dentate granule cells express TWIK-1, TREK-1 and TREK-2 before P7, but TASK-3 expression only begins to become clear in these cells in the second postnatal week. THIK-2 mRNA was up-regulated with TASK-1 and TASK-3 transcripts in cerebella of GABAA receptor alpha6 subunit knockout mice, possibly implying a functional association of THIK-2, TASK-1 and TASK-3.
The transport of excitatory amino acids (EAA) in CNS is performed by a family of high affinity, sodium dependent carriers. One of these transporters, excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1), is known to be regulated by several mechanisms that modify carrier abundance on the plasma membrane. Much less is known on EAAC1 regulation at the level of gene expression. Here we report that, in C6 rat glioma cells, a line recently described to contain neural stem-like cells, EAAC1 is markedly induced by all trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), a well known differentiating agent. Consistently, ATRA stimulates EAA transport, with the maximal effect observed at concentrations&gt;or=1 microM. After 4 days of treatment with 10 microM ATRA, the transport Vmax is fivefold enhanced, Slc1a1 mRNA is increased by 400% compared with control, EAAC1 carrier is sixfold overexpressed and the C6 culture is greatly enriched of cells with bipolar morphology strongly positive for EAAC1 immunoreactivity. Compared with untreated cells, ATRA-treated C6 cells express less Slc1a3 mRNA, for the transporter GLAST, but significantly higher levels of Slc1a2 mRNA, for the transporter GLT-1, although no expression of either protein is detected with Western blot in both untreated and ATRA-treated cells. Consistently, the inhibition pattern of aspartate transport and its stimulation by phorbol esters are indicative of a transport process due to EAAC1 operation. Under the conditions adopted, ATRA treatment causes the induction of proteolipid protein, an oligodendrocytic marker. These results indicate that, in C6 cells, ATRA stimulates the expression of EAAC1, possibly as a step toward oligodendrocytic differentiation, and constitute the first demonstration of the induction of this transporter by a differentiating agent.
Disturbances in mood such as anxiety and depression are often associated with altered hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity, but also with changes in cytokine production, such as interleukin-6 (IL-6), an essential immune factor produced by macrophages and lymphocytes during inflammatory processes. The reciprocal relationship between the HPA axis and the immune system is now well established. In order to understand better the endocrine reactivity of anxious individuals faced with an immune challenge, a model of innate anxiety-related behavior, HAB and LAB rats (HABs, high and LABs, low anxiety-related behavior) was used in this study. We sought to determine whether injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced a differential HPA axis reactivity and plasma IL-6 release in HABs and LABs. After LPS injection, the plasma adrenal corticotrophic hormone increase did not differ between HABs and LABs, whereas a larger increase in plasma corticosterone levels occurred in HABs than in LABs at 2 h after injection. Moreover, basal IL-6 levels were lower in HABs than in LABs, leading to a higher IL-6 2 h/basal ratio in HABs. In conclusion, we propose for the first time a link between the endocrine and immune systems of HABs and LABs and suggest that IL-6 could be a neuroendocrine correlate of trait anxiety in HABs.
Caffeine, the most consumed psychoactive drug and non-specific adenosine receptor antagonist, has recently been shown to exert a neuroprotective effect against brain injury in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD) and stroke. However, the effects of caffeine on traumatic brain injury (TBI) are not known. In this study, we investigated the effects of acute and chronic caffeine treatment on brain injury in a cortical-impact model of TBI in mice. Following TBI, neurological deficits, cerebral edema, as well as inflammatory cell infiltration were all significantly attenuated in mice pretreated chronically (for 3 weeks) with caffeine in drinking water compared with the mice pretreated with saline. Furthermore, we found that chronic caffeine treatment attenuated glutamate release and inflammatory cytokine production, effects that were correlated with an upregulation of brain A1 receptor mRNA. By contrast, acute treatment with caffeine (i.p. injection, 30 min before TBI) was not effective in protecting against TBI-induced brain injury. These results suggest that chronic (but not acute) caffeine treatment attenuates brain injury, possibly by A1 receptor-mediated suppression of glutamate release and inhibition of excessive inflammatory cytokine production. These results highlight the potential benefit of chronic caffeine intake for preventing TBI and provide a rationale for the epidemiological investigation of the potential association between TBI and human caffeine intake.
The beneficial effects of exercise on learning and memory are well documented but the effects of prenatal exposure to maternal exercise on offspring are not clear yet. Using a two-trial-per-day Morris water maze for five consecutive days, succeeded by a probe trial 2 days later we showed that maternal voluntary exercise (wheel running) by pregnant rats increased the acquisition phase of the pups' learning. Maternal forced swimming by pregnant rats increased both acquisition and retention phases of the pups' learning. Also we found that the rat pups whose mother was submitted to forced-swimming during pregnancy had significantly higher brain, liver, heart and kidney weights compared with their sedentary counterparts. On the other hand we estimated the cell number of different regions of the hippocampus in the rat pups. We found that both exercise models during pregnancy increased the cell number in cornus ammonis subregion 1 (CA1) and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in rat pups. To determine the role that noradrenergic and serotonergic neurotransmission and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors hold in mediation of the maternal exercise in offspring, we used N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4), p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) and MK-801 to eliminate or block the above systems, respectively. Blocking the NMDA receptors, significantly abolished learning and memory in rat pups from all three experimental groups. Elimination of noradrenergic or serotonergic input did not significantly attenuate the learning and memory in rat pups whose mothers were sedentary, while it significantly reversed the positive effects of maternal exercise during pregnancy on rat pups' learning and memory. The presented results suggest that noradrenergic and serotonergic systems in offspring brain seem to have a crucial specific role in mediating the effects of maternal physical activity during pregnancy on rat pups' cognitive function in both models of voluntary and forced exercise.
Oscillations are widely distributed throughout the nervous system. A number of models accounting for their generation and their contribution to the synchronization of the concerned neurons, have been proposed. Most of these schemes involve inhibitory interneurons. Here we studied, in vivo, the firing patterns of interneurons, identified as presynaptic to the goldfish Mauthner (M) cell, and called passive hyperpolarizing potential (PHP) cells. We found that a subset of these interneurons was characterized by the presence of subthreshold oscillations of their membrane potential. Such oscillations near the firing threshold generated action potentials that were phased-locked on the oscillations and consequently, the distributions of time intervals between these spikes were observed at integral multiple values of the oscillation cycles. Two superimposed oscillatory processes have been identified. The amplitude of the first one, &quot;the carrier,&quot; was voltage dependent while that of the second, the &quot;modulator,&quot; was not. The frequency of the carrier was distributed among four values (140, 100, 71 or 50 Hz), the frequency of the &quot;modulator&quot; was about 50 Hz in almost all the investigated neurons. The demonstration that the 50 Hz oscillations were shared by almost all PHP exhibiting neurons strongly supports the notion that these cells act synchronously. Finally, auditory stimulations activated &quot;silent&quot; interneurons whereas they inhibited &quot;active&quot; ones, confirming that the presence of oscillations endows the M-cell inhibitory network with dynamic properties which can effectively organize the timing of motor behavior. Our results demonstrate that multiple frequencies, all in the gamma range, can coexist in the same network and that oscillations are present in a well defined population of inhibitory cells that controls fast decision-making.
The CACNA1F gene encodes the pore-forming subunit of the L-type Cav1.4 voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) and plays a central role in tonic vesicular release at photoreceptor ribbon synapses. The main objective of this study was to examine the effects of temperature on human Cav1.4 cDNA clone VGCCs. With 20 mM Ba2+ as charge carrier, increasing the temperature from 23 degrees C to 37 degrees C increases whole-cell conductance, shifts the voltage-dependence of activation to more hyperpolarized voltages, and accelerates the degree of recovery from inactivation over a given time, but does not significantly alter the half-inactivation potential (Vh). The window current for Cav1.4 was also shifted to more hyperpolarized voltages, observable from approximately -35 mV to +20 mV at 37 degrees C in 20 mM Ba2+. Several comparable results were observed when characterizing Cav1.2 at temperatures ranging from 23 degrees C to 37 degrees C. However, one difference between Cav1.4 and Cav1.2 was the temperature dependence of voltage-dependent inactivation kinetics. Increasing temperature from 23 degrees C to 37 degrees C accelerates Cav1.4 inactivation kinetics approximately 50-fold, whereas Cav1.2 only accelerates approximately 10-fold over the same temperature range. The time constant of inactivation (tauh) temperature coefficient (Q10) was 18.8 for Cav1.4 over a temperature range of 23 degrees to 33 degrees C (corresponding to an activation energy Ea=221 kJ/mol), compared with Cav1.2 with a Q10 of 3 (Ea=90 kJ/mol) recorded under identical conditions. In addition, Cav1.4 was also tested using 2 mM Ca2+ as a charge carrier and similar changes in current-voltage Boltzmann parameters and gating kinetics were observed. Hence, despite the accelerated inactivation kinetics of Cav1.4 channels observed at near physiological temperatures the window current is preserved and could allow for tonic glutamate release from photoreceptors in the retina during dark adapted conditions.
The gene of mouse kappa opioid receptor (KOR) utilizes two promoters, P1 and P2. P1 is active in various brain areas and constitutively in P19 mouse embryonal carcinoma cells. P2 is active in limited brain stem areas of adult animals and only in late differentiated cells of P19 induced for neuronal differentiation in the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF). NGF response of P2 was found to be mediated by a specific binding site for transcription factor activation protein 2 (AP2) located in P2. Electrophoretic gel shift assay showed specific binding of this AP2 site by AP2beta, but not AP2alpha. Knockdown of endogenous AP2beta with siRNA abolished the stimulating effect of NGF on the expression of transcripts driven by P2. Binding of endogenous AP2beta on the endogenous KOR P2 chromatin region was also confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation. The effect of NGF was inhibited by LY2942002 (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, PI3K inhibitor), suggesting that PI3K was involved in signaling pathway mediating the effect of NGF stimulation on KOR P2. The chromatin of P2 in P19 was found to be specifically modified following NGF stimulation, which included demethylation at Lys9 and dimethylation at Lys4 of histone H3 and was consistent with the increased recruitment of RNA polymerase II to this promoter. This study presents the first evidence for epigenetic changes occurred on a specific KOR promoter triggered by NGF in cells undergoing neuronal differentiation. This epigenetic change is mediated by recruited AP2beta to this promoter and involves the PI3K system.
Men and women have different cognitive abilities that might reflect sex-specific neural organization. Here we studied sex effects on brain function using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with variable acoustic noise (AN) to modulate the cognitive challenge and enhance the sensitivity for the detection of sex differences in brain activation. During the performance of a visual attention (VA) task that requires the tracking of multiple moving objects and has graded levels of difficulty, women (n=15) but not men (n=13) had shorter reaction times for &quot;Loud&quot; than for &quot;Quiet&quot; scans. Men activated more than women in the superior prefrontal and occipital cortices and the anterior thalamus. The latent connectivity of the prefrontal cortex was higher with the anterior thalamus but lower with the auditory cortex for men than for women. Increases in activation with visual attention load were larger for men than for women in the superior parietal and auditory cortices. Increased AN reduced brain activation in the parietal cortex and the anterior thalamus for men but not for women. Together, these sex-specific differences in brain activation during the VA task, at different cognitive and acoustic levels suggest differences in auditory gating of the thalamus for men and women.
The anesthetic gas nitrous oxide (N2O) and the volatile anesthetic isoflurane (ISO) are commonly used in surgical procedures for human infants and in veterinary and laboratory animal practice to produce loss of consciousness and analgesia. Recent reports indicate that exposure of the developing brain to general anesthetics that block N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors or potentiate GABA(A) receptors can trigger widespread apoptotic neurodegeneration. In the present study, the question arises whether a relatively low dose of ISO alone or its combination with N2O entails significant risk of inducing enhanced apoptosis. In addition, the role of L-carnitine to attenuate these effects was also examined. Postnatal day 7 (PND-7) rat pups were exposed to N2O (75%) or a low dose of ISO (0.55%) alone, or N2O plus ISO for 2, 4, 6 or 8 h with or without L-carnitine. The neurotoxic effects were evaluated 6 h after completion of anesthetic administration. No significant neurotoxic effects were observed for the animals exposed to N2O or ISO alone. However, enhanced apoptotic cell death was apparent when N2O was combined with ISO at exposure durations of 6 h or more. Co-administration of L-carnitine (300 or 500 mg/kg, i.p.) effectively protected neurons from the anesthetic-induced damage. These data indicate that 6 h or more of inhaled anesthetic exposure consisting of a combination of N2O and ISO results in enhanced neuronal apoptosis, and L-carnitine effectively blocks the neuronal apoptosis caused by inhalation anesthetics in the developing rat brain.
The existence of endogenous progenitor cells in the adult mammalian brain presents an exciting and attractive alternative to existing therapeutic options for treating neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD). However, prior to designing endogenous cell therapies, the effect of PD neuropathology on endogenous progenitor cell proliferation and their neurogenic potential must be investigated. This study examined the effect of dopaminergic cell loss on the proliferation and differentiation of subventricular zone- (SVZ) and midbrain-derived progenitor cells in the adult rodent brain, using the partial progressive 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model of PD. Cell proliferation and differentiation were assessed with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling and immunohistochemistry for cell type-specific markers. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry demonstrated a complete loss of nigrostriatal projections in the striatum and a subsequent progressive loss of dopamine (DA) cells in the SN. Quantification indicated that 6-OHDA lesion-induced cell degeneration produced a significant increase in BrdU immunoreactivity in the SVZ, ipsilateral to the lesioned hemisphere from 3 to 21 days post-lesion, compared with sham-lesioned animals. Similarly, in the striatum we observed a significant increase in the total number of BrdU positive cells in 6-OHDA-lesioned animals at all time points examined. More importantly, a significant increase in midbrain-derived BrdU positive cells was demonstrated in 6-OHDA-lesioned animals 28 days post-lesion. While we did not detect neurogenesis, BrdU labeled cells co-expressing the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were widely distributed throughout the 6-OHDA-lesioned striatum at all time points. In contrast, BrdU-labeled cells in the SN of 6-OHDA-lesioned animals did not co-express neural markers. These results demonstrate that DA-ergic neurodegeneration in the partial progressive 6-OHDA-lesioned rat brain increases SVZ- and midbrain-derived progenitor cell proliferation. While, newborn striatal progenitors undergo robust astrogenesis, newborn midbrain-derived progenitors remain in an undifferentiated state suggesting local environments differentially regulate endogenous progenitor cell populations in PD.
Remote ischemic preconditioning is an emerging concept for stroke treatment, but its protection against focal stroke has not been established. We tested whether remote preconditioning, performed in the ipsilateral hind limb, protects against focal stroke and explored its protective parameters. Stroke was generated by a permanent occlusion of the left distal middle cerebral artery (MCA) combined with a 30 min occlusion of the bilateral common carotid arteries (CCA) in male rats. Limb preconditioning was generated by 5 or 15 min occlusion followed with the same period of reperfusion of the left hind femoral artery, and repeated for two or three cycles. Infarct was measured 2 days later. The results showed that rapid preconditioning with three cycles of 15 min performed immediately before stroke reduced infarct size from 47.7+/-7.6% of control ischemia to 9.8+/-8.6%; at two cycles of 15 min, infarct was reduced to 24.7+/-7.3%; at two cycles of 5 min, infarct was not reduced. Delayed preconditioning with three cycles of 15 min conducted 2 days before stroke also reduced infarct to 23.0+/-10.9%, but with two cycles of 15 min it offered no protection. The protective effects at these two therapeutic time windows of remote preconditioning are consistent with those of conventional preconditioning, in which the preconditioning ischemia is induced in the brain itself. Unexpectedly, intermediate preconditioning with three cycles of 15 min performed 12 h before stroke also reduced infarct to 24.7+/-4.7%, which contradicts the current dogma for therapeutic time windows for the conventional preconditioning that has no protection at this time point. In conclusion, remote preconditioning performed in one limb protected against ischemic damage after focal cerebral ischemia.
Cat odor and trimethylthiazoline (TMT, a component of fox feces) are two stimuli widely used in rodent models of fear and anxiety. Recent studies suggest that these odorants have distinct behavioral effects, raising questions as to whether TMT is a true &quot;predator odor.&quot; Here we used c-Fos immunohistochemistry to compare patterns of neural activation produced by cat odor and TMT. Rats were exposed to either (1) three pieces of a collar that had been worn by a domestic cat, (2) three collar pieces impregnated with TMT (30 microl/piece), (3) three collar pieces impregnated with 4% formaldehyde (200 microl/piece, an acrid but non-predatory odor), or (4) three control (no odor) collar pieces. Odors were presented in a small well-ventilated plastic box. All odorants (cat odor, TMT and formaldehyde) produced increased defecation in rats compared with the control group, and formaldehyde exposure also decreased rearing. Cat odor increased contact with the stimulus relative to all other groups, while TMT increased contact compared with the formaldehyde and clean air groups. Only cat odor decreased grooming and elicited escape attempts. In addition, only cat odor caused pronounced activation of Fos in the accessory olfactory bulb and its projection areas, anterior olfactory nucleus, medial prefrontal cortex, striatum, and a medial hypothalamic circuit associated with defensive behavior. In contrast, the only areas activated by TMT were the internal granular layer of the main olfactory bulb and central amygdala, while both cat odor and TMT activated the glomeruli of the main olfactory bulb, piriform cortex, ventral orbital cortex and anterior cortical amygdala. Results indicate that the effects of cat odor and TMT are easily distinguished both behaviorally and at a neural level, and suggest that TMT lacks the &quot;pheromone-like&quot; quality of cat odor that engages key hypothalamic sites involved in defensive behavior.
We examined the potential contribution of a voltage-gated proton conductance (gH+) to acid extrusion from cultured postnatal rat hippocampal neurons. In neurons loaded with Ca2+- and/or pH-sensitive fluorophores, transient exposures to 25-139.5 mM external K+ (K+o) or 20 microM veratridine in the presence of 2 mM Ca2+o (extracellular pH (pHo) constant at 7.35) caused reversible increases and decreases in intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) and intracellular pH (pHi), respectively. In contrast, under external Ca2+-free conditions, the same stimuli failed to affect [Ca2+]i but caused an increase in pHi, the magnitude of which was related to the [K+]o applied and the change in membrane potential. Consistent with the properties of gH+s in other cell types, the magnitude of the rise in pHi observed in the absence of external Ca2+ was not affected by the removal of external Na+ but was sensitive to external Zn2+ and temperature and was dependent on the measured transmembrane pH gradient (DeltapHmemb). Increasing DeltapH(memb) by pretreatment with carbonylcyanide-p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone augmented both the high-[K+]o-evoked rise in pHi and the Zn2+-sensitive component of the rise in pHi, suggestive of increased acid extrusion via a gH+. The inhibitory effect of Zn2+ at a given DeltapHmemb was further enhanced by increasing pHo from 7.35-7.8, consistent with a pHo-dependent inhibition of the putative gH+ by Zn2+. Under conditions designed to isolate H+ currents, a voltage-dependent outward current was recorded from whole-cell patch-clamped neurons. Although the outward current appeared to show some selectivity for protons, it was not sensitive to Zn2+ or temperature and the H+-selective component could not be separated from a larger conductance of unknown selectivity. Nonetheless, taken together, the results suggest that a Zn2+-sensitive proton conductive pathway is present in rat hippocampal neurons and contributes to H+ efflux under depolarizing conditions.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy, involving both cardiomyocytes and the sensory and autonomic cardiac innervation, is a major life-threatening complication in diabetes mellitus. Here, we induced long-term (26-53 weeks) diabetes in rats by streptozotocin injection and analyzed the major cardiac neuropeptide signaling system, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and its receptors Y1R and Y2R. Heart compartments and ganglia supplying sympathetic (stellate ganglion) and spinal sensory fibers (upper thoracic dorsal root ganglia=DRG) were analyzed separately by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry. Ventricular, but not atrial innervation density by NPY-immunoreactive fibers was diminished, and preproNPY expression was transiently (26 weeks) reduced in left atria, but remained unchanged in sympathetic neurons and was not induced in DRG neurons. In all ganglia and heart compartments, Y1R expression dominated over Y2R, and Y1R-immunoreactivity was observed on cardiomyocytes and neuronal perikarya. Atrial, but not ventricular Y1R expression was up-regulated after 1 year of diabetes. Collectively, these data show that a disturbance of the cardiac NPY-Y1R/Y2R signaling system develops slowly in the course of experimentally induced diabetes and differentially affects atria and ventricles. This is in parallel with the clinically observed imbalances of the cardiac autonomic innervation in diabetic cardiac autonomic neuropathy.
Calcium entry into the postsynaptic neuron through N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) triggers the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP), which is considered to contribute to synaptic plasticity and plays a critical role in behavioral learning. We report here that activin, a member of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily, promotes phosphorylation of NMDARs and increases the Ca2+ influx through these receptors in primary cultured rat hippocampal neurons. This signal transduction occurs in a functional complex of activin receptors, NMDARs, and Src family tyrosine kinases, including Fyn, formed on a multimer of postsynaptic scaffolding postsynaptic density protein 95/Dlg/ZO-1 (PDZ), activin receptor interacting protein 1 (ARIP1). Activin-induced NMDAR activation persists for more than 24 h, which is complimentary to the activation time of NMDARs by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Our results suggest that activin is a unique and powerful potentiator for NMDAR-dependent signaling, which could be involved in the regulatory mechanisms of synaptic plasticity.
Hypoxia is a hallmark of respiratory, neurological, or hematological diseases as well as life at high altitude. For example, chronic constant hypoxia (CCH) occurs in chronic lung diseases or at high altitude, whereas chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) occurs in diseases such as sleep apnea or sickle cell disease. Despite the fact that such conditions are frequent, the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the effect of hypoxia, whether constant or intermittent, are not well understood. In this study, we first determined the effect of CCH and CIH on global gene expression in different regions of mouse brain using microarrays and then investigated the biological role of genes of interest. We found that: 1) in the cortical region, the expression level of 80 genes was significantly altered by CIH (16 up- and 64 downregulated), and this number increased to 137 genes following CCH (34 up- and 103 downregulated); 2) a similar number of gene alterations was identified in the hippocampal area, and the majority of the changes in this region were upregulations; 3) two genes (Sspn and Ttc27) were downregulated in both brain regions and following both treatments; and 4) RNA interference-mediated knockdown of Sspn increased cell death in hypoxia in a cell culture system. We conclude that CIH or CCH induced significant and distinguishable alterations in gene expression in cortex and hippocampus and that Sspn seems to play a critical role in inducing cell death under hypoxic conditions.
Inositol pyrophosphates, also designated inositol diphosphates, possess high-energy beta-phosphates that can pyrophosphorylate proteins and regulate various cellular processes. They are formed by a family of inositol hexakisphosphate kinases (IP6Ks). We have created mice with a targeted deletion of IP6K1 in which production of inositol pyrophosphates is markedly diminished. Defects in the mutants indicate important roles for IP6K1 and inositol pyrophosphates in several physiological functions. Male mutant mice are sterile with defects in spermiogenesis. Mutant mice are smaller than wild-type despite normal food intake. The mutants display markedly lower circulating insulin.
Previous findings of intact remote autobiographical memory in patients with medial temporal lobe damage have been questioned on the grounds that the narrative recollections were impoverished and fact-like and that the methods were not sufficiently sensitive to detect an impairment. We adopted a newer method, the Autobiographical Interview [Levine B, Svoboda E, Hay JF, Winocur G, Moscovitch M (2002) Psychol Aging 17:677-689], which uses extensive probing to elicit an average of 50 or more details per memory (in contrast to the approximately 20 details per memory elicited with previous methods). We found that autobiographical recollection was impaired in patients with medial temporal lobe damage when memories were drawn from the recent past but fully intact when memories were drawn from the remote past. Impaired remote autobiographical memory, which has sometimes been reported with this and other tests, is likely caused by significant damage outside the medial temporal lobe.
We describe a male patient with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy presenting extensive diffuse hypertrophy of the nerve roots of peripheral nerves. Since adolescence the patient has had a slow and progressive mainly distal loss of sensitivity and muscle weakness in all four limbs. He presented with diffuse muscle atrophy with enlarged palpable nerve trunks. Electromyography disclosed impaired sensory and motor responses in the bilateral median nerves and the right ulnar nerve. CSF examination showed elevated protein content, while MR scans depicted extensive hypertrophy of the spinal nerve roots. The patient benefitted from corticosteroid treatment.
Lacunar ischemic lesions are related to a pathology involving perforators, due to direct changes in the arteries or to an indirect mechanism, such as cardiac or artery to artery embolism, or to hypoperfusion in cases of cardiac failure, or proximal occlusion of large arteries. Changes involving the large intracranial arteries have progressively been taken into consideration as a cause of the disease. This latter aspect is interesting since possible endovascular treatment can be proposed in selected cases. In patients with lacunar syndrome an extended clinical and neuroradiological approach is indicated to choose the most appropriate therapy. Not all lesions recognizable on CT/MR are the expressions of ischemic lesions, this is another important aspect that should be considered in the differential diagnosis.

The motile response of Escherichia coli bacteria to attractants and repellents is one of the best-understood examples of a signal transduction pathway. A number of recent studies suggest that the receptors in this system undergo major changes in both their degree of structural order and their state of aggregation in the membrane. We discuss the thermodynamic basis for this effect and argue that the &quot;freezing&quot; or &quot;melting&quot; of protein structure may be the language of signaling.
Proteins in apoptotic pathways represent potential points of intervention in neurodegenerative disease. We identified several genes of interest that contain death domain such as CARD or Pyrin. We found that ASC and NALP10 were constitutively expressed in cerebellar neurons. More interestingly, expression levels of NALP1 and NALP5 were increased in two neuronal injury models. In addition, transient expression of recombinant NALP1 or NALP5 in neurons induced caspase-3 activation and apoptosis. These data suggest that NALP1 and NALP5 may regulate caspase activation and apoptosis in injured neurons, and thus represent novel molecular targets for therapeutic intervention in neurodegenerative disorders.




Intracellular recordings of cortical neurons in vivo display intense subthreshold membrane potential (V(m)) activity. The power spectral density of the V(m) displays a power-law structure at high frequencies (&gt;50 Hz) with a slope of approximately -2.5. This type of frequency scaling cannot be accounted for by traditional models, as either single-compartment models or models based on reconstructed cell morphologies display a frequency scaling with a slope close to -4. This slope is due to the fact that the membrane resistance is short-circuited by the capacitance for high frequencies, a situation which may not be realistic. Here, we integrate nonideal capacitors in cable equations to reflect the fact that the capacitance cannot be charged instantaneously. We show that the resulting nonideal cable model can be solved analytically using Fourier transforms. Numerical simulations using a ball-and-stick model yield membrane potential activity with similar frequency scaling as in the experiments. We also discuss the consequences of using nonideal capacitors on other cellular properties such as the transmission of high frequencies, which is boosted in nonideal cables, or voltage attenuation in dendrites. These results suggest that cable equations based on nonideal capacitors should be used to capture the behavior of neuronal membranes at high frequencies.
The relationship among neuroinflammation, blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction, and progressive HIV-1 infection as they affect the onset and development of neuroAIDS is incompletely understood. One possible link is signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) pathways. These respond to proinflammatory and regulatory factors and could affect neuroinflammatory responses induced from infected cells and disease-affected brain tissue. Our previous works demonstrated that HIV-1 activates pro-inflammatory and interferon-alpha-inducible genes in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs) and that these genes are linked to the Janus kinase (JAK)/STAT pathway. We now demonstrate that HIV-1 activates STAT1, induces IL-6 expression, and diminishes expression of claudin-5, ZO-1, and ZO-2 in HBMECs. The STAT1 inhibitor, fludarabine, blocked HIV-1-induced IL-6, diminished HIV-1-induced claudin-5 and ZO-1 down-regulation, and blocked HIV-1- and IL-6-induced monocyte migration across a BBB model. Enhanced expression and activation of STAT1 and decreased claudin-5 were observed in microvessels from autopsied brains of patients with HIV-1-associated dementia. These data support the notion that STAT1 plays an integral role in HIV-1-induced BBB damage and is relevant to viral neuropathogenesis. Inhibition of STAT1 activation could provide a unique therapeutic strategy to attenuate HIV-1-induced BBB compromise and as such improve clinical outcomes.
Age-related developmental differences in sensitivity to the acute effects of alcohol may play an important role in the development of alcoholism. The present study was designed to evaluate the acute effects of alcohol on cortical electroencephalogram (EEG) in adolescent (P36) and adult (P78) Wistar rats. Five minutes of EEG was recorded after administration of 0, 0.75 or 1.5 g/kg alcohol. The righting reflex was performed to measure the sedative effects of alcohol (3.5 g/kg) and total sleeping time for each rat. Our results showed that alcohol (1.5 g/kg) increased power in the 1-2 Hz band and decreased the power in the 32-50 Hz band in the parietal cortical region of adolescent rats. Alcohol (1.5 g/kg) also increased stability of the EEG power in the slow-wave frequency bands (2-4 Hz, 4-6 Hz, and 6-8 Hz) of adolescent rats. In the frontal cortex of adult rats, but not in adolescent rats, alcohol (1.5 or 0.75 g/kg) decreased the power in the 16-32 Hz frequency band. Alcohol (1.5 g/kg) differentially increased power in a multiple of slow-wave frequency bands (2-4 Hz and 4-6 Hz) in the parietal cortex of adult rats as compared to adolescent rats. Adolescent rats were shown significantly shorter sleeping time and higher blood alcohol levels after regaining reflex than adult rats. Our results provide additional evidence of age-related differences in the effects of acute alcohol on cortical EEG, sedation and tolerance.
High-dose endothelial-monocyte activating polypeptide II (EMAP-II), a tumor-derived antiangiogenic cytokine, can sensitize tumor vasculature to the damaging activity of high-dose tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. However, this combination cannot be used for systemic treatment of patients because of prohibitive toxicity. We have found that this limitation can be overcome by combining a TNF-targeting strategy with the use of ultra low-dose EMAP-II. Coadministration of 0.1 ng of EMAP-II and 0.1 ng of CNGRCG-TNF (NGR-TNF), a peptide-TNF conjugate able to target tumor blood vessels, inhibited lymphoma and melanoma growth in mice, with no evidence of toxicity. This drug combination induced endothelial cell apoptosis in vivo and, at later time points, caused reduction of vessel density and massive apoptosis of tumor cells. Ligand-directed targeting of TNF was critical because the combination of nontargeted TNF with EMAP-II was inactive in these murine models. The synergism was progressively lost when the dose of EMAP-II was increased in the nanogram to microgram range, supporting the concept that the use of low-dose EMAP-II is critical. Studies on the mechanism of this paradoxical behavior showed that EMAP-II doses &gt;1 ng induce the release of soluble TNF receptor 1 in circulation, a strong counter-regulatory inhibitor of TNF. Tumor vascular targeting with extremely low amounts of these cytokines may represent a new strategy for cancer treatment.
Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant tumor of central nervous system in children. Patients affected by medulloblastoma may be categorized as high-risk and standard-risk patients, based on the clinical criteria and histologic features of the disease. Currently, multimodality treatment, including surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy is considered as the most effective strategy against these malignant cerebellar tumors of the childhood. Despite the potential poor outcomes of these lesions, the 5-year survival stands, at present, at 70% to 80% for standard-risk patients, whereas high-risk patients have a 5-year survival of 55% to 76%. Attempts to further reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with medulloblastoma have been restricted by the toxicity of conventional treatments and the infiltrative nature of the disease. Over the past decade, new discoveries in molecular biology have revealed new insights in signaling pathways regulating medulloblastoma tumor formation. Recent advances in the molecular biology of medulloblastoma indicate that the classification of these embryonal tumors, solely based on histology and clinical criteria, may not be adequate enough. Better understanding of the growth control mechanisms involved in the development and progression of medulloblastoma will allow a better classification, leading to the improvement of the existing therapies, as well as to the development of new therapeutic approaches.
The molecular mechanisms responsible for specifying the dorsal-ventral pattern of neuronal identities in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) are unclear. Here we demonstrate that Sonic hedgehog (Shh) contributes to patterning early DRG cells. In vitro, Shh increases both proliferation and programmed cell death (PCD). Increasing Shh in vivo enhances PCD in dorsal DRG, while inducing greater proliferation ventrally. In such animals, markers characteristic of ventral sensory neurons are expanded to more dorsal positions. Conversely, reducing Shh function results in decreased proliferation of progenitors in the ventral region and decreased expression of the ventral marker trkC. Later arising trkA(+) afferents make significant pathfinding errors in animals with reduced Shh function, suggesting that accurate navigation of later arising growth cones requires either Shh itself or early arising, Shh-dependent afferents. These results indicate that Shh can regulate both cell number and the distribution of cell types in DRG, thereby playing an important role in the specification, patterning and pathfinding of sensory neurons.
Transcellular interactions between neuroligins (NL) and beta-neurexin have been widely documented to promote maturation and function of both glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. Recently it has been shown that neuroligin-1 plays a similar role at nicotinic synapses on chick ciliary ganglion neurons in culture, acting from the postsynaptic side to enhance transmitter release from adjacent cholinergic terminals and boost nicotinic input to the cells. We show here that the ciliary ganglion expresses three forms of neuroligin as well as two beta-neurexins and an alpha-neurexin. Overexpression of the beta-neurexins, but not the alpha-neurexin, can induce clustering of endogenous PSD-95 in adjacent neurons, presumably engaging neuroligin in the postsynaptic cell. The trans effects of beta-neurexins are selective; though both alpha3- and alpha7-containing nicotinic receptors are available on opposing cells, beta-neurexins induce coclustering of alpha3- but not alpha7-containing nicotinic receptors. Overexpression of other putative synaptogenic molecules, including SynCAM and L1, are ineffective at trans-clustering of PSD-95 on adjacent neurons. The beta-neurexins also exert a cis effect, coclustering presynaptic markers along with beta-neurexin in neurites juxtaposed to postsynaptic proteins, consistent with organizing presynaptic components as well. Striated muscle, the synaptic target of ciliary neurons in vivo, also expresses neuroligin. The results demonstrate that NL and neurexins are present at multiple sites in nicotinic cholinergic pathways and suggest the possibility of both cis- and trans-interactions to influence nicotinic signaling.
During development, sensory thalamocortical (TC) axons grow into the neocortex and terminate primarily in layer 4. To study the molecular mechanism that underlies lamina-specific TC axon termination, we investigated the responsiveness of TC axons to ephrin-A5, semaphorin-7A (Sema7A) and kit ligand (KL), which are expressed in the upper layers of the developing cortex. Dissociated cells of the dorsal thalamus from embryonic rat brain were cultured on dishes that were coated with preclustered Fc-tagged extracellular domains of these molecules. Each protein was found to promote TC axon growth in a dose-dependent fashion of a bell-shaped curve. Any combination of the three proteins showed a cooperative effect in lower concentrations but not in higher concentrations, suggesting that their growth-promoting activities act in a common pathway. The effect of spatial distributions of these proteins was further tested on a filter membrane, in which these proteins were printed at a size that recapitulates the scale of laminar thickness in vivo, using a novel protein-printing technique, Simple-To-mAke Micropore Protein-Printing (STAMP2) method. The results demonstrated that TC axons grew massively on the laminin-coated region but were prevented from invading the adjacent ephrin-A5-printed region, suggesting that TC axons detect relative differences in the growth effect between these regions. Moreover, the inhibitory action of ephrin-A5 was enhanced by copresence with KL and Sema7A. Together, these results suggest that the lamina-specific TC axon targeting mechanism involves growth-inhibitory activity by multiple molecules in the upper layers and detection in the molecular environments between the upper and deep layers.
Extensive evidence exists for a genome duplication in the fish lineage leading to the species-rich clade of the teleosts, comprising &gt; 99% of the known actinopterygian (ray-finned) fish species. Our previous studies of the neuropeptide Y receptor (NPYR) gene family suggested an ancestral gnathostome repertoire of 7 genes in 3 subfamilies. However, studies in the zebrafish have earlier identified only 5 NPYR genes, despite the expected increase in gene number due to the teleost tetraploidization. Notably, receptors Y(1), Y(5) and Y(6) were missing in the zebrafish genome database and only Y(8) had been duplicated. We report here an investigation of the evolutionary history of the Y(1) subfamily (Y(1), Y(4), Y(6) and Y(8)) and the Y(5) receptor. Seven basal actinopterygian species and a shark were investigated and a total of 22 gene fragments were cloned and analyzed. Our results show that subtypes Y(1), Y(5) and Y(6) still exist in species representing basal actinopterygian lineages (bichir, sturgeon, gar and bowfin) as well as in some basal teleost lineages. Surprisingly we identified a zebrafish Y(1) receptor, the first Y(1) receptor found in euteleosts. Thus, these findings confirm the ancestral gnathostome repertoire of 7 NPYR genes and show that many of these receptors are present in basal actinopterygians as well as some basal teleosts. NPYR losses seem to have occurred relatively recently in euteleosts because Y(1), Y(5) and Y(6) are absent in the genome databases of two pufferfishes as well as medaka and stickleback and Y(5) and Y(6) are absent in the zebrafish database. A duplicate of Y(8) seems to be the only remaining receptor gene resulting from the teleost tetraploidization. The unexpected absence of the two appetite-stimulating receptors Y(1) and Y(5) in some euteleosts, along with our discovery of duplicates of the peptide ligands NPY and PYY, has implications for the role of the NPY system in euteleost feeding behavior.
The integrin alpha9beta1 is a multifunctional receptor that interacts with a variety of ligands including vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, tenascin C and osteopontin. We found that this integrin is a receptor for nerve growth factor (NGF) and two other neurotrophins, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and NT3, using a cell adhesion assay with the alpha9SW480 cell line. Interaction of alpha9beta1 with NGF was confirmed in an ELISA assay by direct binding to purified integrin. alpha9beta1 integrin binds to neurotrophins in a manner similar to another common neurotrophin receptor, p75(NTR) (NGFR), although alpha9beta1 activity is correlated with induction of pro-survival and pro-proliferative signaling cascades. This property of alpha9beta1 resembles the interaction of NGF with a high affinity receptor, TrkA, however, this integrin shows a low affinity for NGF. NGF induces chemotaxis of cells expressing alpha9beta1 and their proliferation. Moreover, alpha9beta1 integrin is a signaling receptor for NGF, which activates the MAPK (Erk1/2) pathway. The alpha9beta1-dependent chemotactic ability of NGF appears to result from the activation of paxillin.
There is a great and unmet need for meaningful therapies that will deliver restorative solutions to patients with neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson's disease and stroke. The emergence of human embryonic stem cells as an experimental and therapeutic resource represents a major opportunity for brain repair. Embryonic stem cells offer the potential to study human cells, model disease, accelerate drug discovery and of themselves act as a cell-based therapy. In contrast to other organs, a &quot;one size fits all&quot; approach is inappropriate for repair of the brain; rather therapies need to be &quot;bespoke&quot;. The design and development of embryonic stem-cell based CNS reparative strategies pose many challenges, both conceptual and practical. Using multiple sclerosis as an example, this paper addresses the needs for the translation of embryonic stem cell biology to regenerative neurology.
A number of practical problems need to be addressed before any form of cell therapy can be widely applied in patients with multiple sclerosis. The choice of cell type is one considered elsewhere in this issue; others include the question of axon loss, that of continuing inflammatory disease activity, the mode of delivery of cells (bearing in mind the presence of innumerable lesions scattered throughout the CNS), the problem of measuring directly or indirectly the impact (if any) of an intervention, the timing of any treatment and perhaps above all the safety of the patient. All converge on the one increasingly relevant underlying question: when should stem cell treatments begin to be tested in patients? Here we review the progress in various of these practical problems in order to explain how we have arrived at the conclusion that the clinical science has progressed to a stage where the 'translation threshold' can be safely and appropriately crossed, and therefore why we have already commenced in Bristol a small pilot/feasibility study of autologous bone marrow cell treatment in patients with multiple sclerosis.
The properties of self-renewal and multi-lineage differentiation make stem cells attractive candidates for use in cellular reparative therapy, particularly in neurological diseases where there is a paucity of treatment options. However, clinical trials using foetal material in Parkinson's disease have been disappointing and highlighted problems associated with the use of embryonic stem cells, including ethical issues and practical concerns regarding teratoma formation. Understandably, this has led investigators to explore alternative sources of stem cells for transplantation. The expression of neuroectodermal markers by cells of bone marrow origin focused attention on these adult stem cells. Although early enthusiasm has been tempered by dispute regarding the validity of reports of in vitro (trans)differentiation, the demonstration of functional benefit in animal models of neurological disease is encouraging. Here we will review some of the required properties of stem cells for use in transplantation therapy with specific reference to the development of bone marrow-derived cells as a source of cells for repair in demyelination.
Stem cell therapy is considered a promising strategy aiming at neuronal and glial cell replacement or neuroprotection in neurological diseases affecting the brain and spinal cord. Multiple Sclerosis (MS), characterized by inflammation-induced destruction of the myelin sheath surrounding axons leading to conduction deficits and variability of clinical signs, is not an exception. MS is considered an autoimmune disease and, in the last few years, an intense immunodepletion followed by autologous hematopoietic-stem-cell transplant (HSCT) is being assessed as potential therapeutical strategy for severe patients unresponsive to the immunomodulatory and immunosuppressive treatment. Partially supported by evidence in animal models and by anecdotal reports on the beneficial effects on MS patients with concomitant malignant diseases, HSCT programs for MS have been initiated worldwide and follow-up data are accumulating. A Consensus Meeting has been held in Milano (1998) providing a document that defined criteria for patient selection, transplantation procedures, and outcome evaluations. Nowadays the high number of patients already treated allows us to draw initial conclusions related to clinical efficacy. After careful monitoring of the available data and improvement of the procedure, safety seems not to be anymore an issue. Ethics of HSCT deserve, on the contrary, a profound evaluation: the procedure is a multistep process with manifold options, each step with different ethical implications. Even more difficult appears the definition of the MS patient selection criteria for HSCT. The informed consensus needs to be exhaustive for the full comprehension of a complex procedure. In conclusion, although HCST is today an established therapeutical option for MS patients, safety and ethical issues need to be further clarified.
The discovery of novel analgesic compounds that target some receptors can be challenging due to species differences in ligand pharmacology. If a putative analgesic compound has markedly lower affinity for rodent versus other mammalian orthologs of a receptor, the evaluation of antinociceptive efficacy in non-rodent species becomes necessary. Here, we describe a new, efficient method for measuring inflammation-associated nociception in conscious rabbits. An electronic von Frey device is used, consisting of a rigid plastic tip connected to a force transducer in a hand-held probe. The plastic tip is applied to the plantar surface of a hind paw with increasing force until a withdrawal response is observed. The maximum force (g) tolerated by the rabbit (i.e., withdrawal threshold) is recorded. In young, conscious rabbits (500-700 g), baseline hind paw withdrawal thresholds typically fell within the 60-80 g range. Three hours after injection of the inflammatory agent carrageenan (3%, 200 microL, intra-plantar), withdrawal thresholds dropped by approximately 30-40 g, indicating the presence of punctate mechanical hyperalgesia. The development of hyperalgesia was dose dependently prevented by the NSAID indomethacin (ED50=2.56 mg/kg, p.o.) or the bradykinin B2 receptor peptide antagonist HOE 140 (intra-paw administration). An established hyperalgesia was dose dependently reversed by morphine sulfate (ED50=0.096 mg/kg, s.c.) or the bradykinin B1 receptor peptide antagonist [des-Arg10, Leu9]-kallidin (ED50=0.45 mg/kg, s.c.). Rabbits treated with the novel B(1) receptor small molecule antagonist compound A also showed dose-dependent reversal of hyperalgesia (ED50=20.19 mg/kg, s.c.) and analysis of plasma samples taken from these rabbits showed that, unlike other rabbit pain models, the current method permits the evaluation of pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) relationships (compound A plasma EC50=402.6 nM). We conclude that the Electrovonfrey method can be used in rabbits with inflammatory pain to generate reliable dose- and plasma concentration-effect curves for different classes of analgesics.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in a pathophysiology characterized by multiple locomotor and sensory deficits, resulting in altered nociception and hyperalgesia. SCI triggers an early and prolonged inflammatory response, with increased interleukin-1beta levels. Transient changes are observed in subunit populations of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). There were decreases in neuronal c-Rel levels and inverse increases in p65 and p50 levels. There were no changes in neuronal p52 or RelB subunits after SCI at any time point tested. Similarly, SCI had no effect on oligodendroglial levels of any NF-kappaB subunit. There were significant early increases in COX-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase mRNA and protein levels after SCI. We used synthetic double-stranded &quot;decoy&quot; deoxyoligonucleotides containing selective NF-kappaB protein dimer binding consensus sequences. Decoys targeting the p65/p50 binding site on the COX-2 promoter decreased SCI-induced cell losses, NF-kappaB p65/p50 DNA-binding activity, and COX-2 and iNOS protein levels. NF-kappaB p65/p50 targeted decoys improved early locomotor recovery after moderate but not severe SCI, yet ameliorated SCI-induced hypersensitization after both moderate and severe SCI. To determine whether changes in GABA activity played a role in decreased hypersensitivity after SCI and p65/p50 targeted decoy, we counted gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing neurons in laminae 1-3. There were significantly more GABAergic neurons in the p65/p50 targeted decoy-treated group at the level of injury.
This study addressed the suitability of the NSC-34 cell line as a motor neuron-like model for investigating neurotrophin receptor trafficking and associated subcellular processes. Initially, culture conditions were optimized for the use of NSC-34 cells in confocal microscopy. Cell surface markers, as well as markers associated with the regulated endosomal pathway thought to be associated with neurotrophin receptor transport, were identified. The study revealed the presence of a number of molecules previously not described in the literature, including the tropomyosin-like receptor kinase C (TrkC), sortilin, the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), and the lipid raft-associated ganglioside GT1b. The presence of both sortilin and Gt1b was of special interest, insofar as these markers have been implicated in direct relationships with the p75NTR receptor. Evidence is provided for neurotrophin-dependent internalization of p75NTR and TrkB. Both nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) increased the rate of internalization of p75NTR, with internalization dynamics comparable to those described for other cell lines. Thus, these studies not only describe components of the regulatory process governing the trafficking of this important receptor but also clearly demonstrate the value of NSC-34 cells as a suitable motor neuron model for the study of internalization and trafficking of cell surface molecules.

The cerebellum is normally assumed to represent ipsilateral movements. We tested this by making microelectrode penetrations into the deep cerebellar nuclei (mainly nucleus interpositus) of monkeys trained to perform a reach and grasp task with either hand. Following weak single electrical stimuli, many sites produced clear bilateral facilitation of multiple forelimb muscles. The short onset latencies, which were similar for each side, suggested that at least some of the muscle responses were mediated by descending tracts originating in the brainstem, rather than via the cerebral cortex. Additionally, cerebellar neurones modulated their discharge with both ipsilateral and contralateral movements. This was so, even when we carefully excluded contralateral trials with evidence of electromyogram modulation on the ipsilateral side. We conclude that the deep cerebellar nuclei have a bilateral movement representation, and relatively direct, powerful access to limb muscles on both sides of the body. This places the cerebellum in an ideal position to coordinate bilateral movements.
Early in development, GABA and glycine exert excitatory action that turns to inhibition due to modification of the chloride equilibrium potential (E(Cl)) controlled by the KCC2 and NKCC1 transporters. This switch is thought to be due to a late expression of KCC2 associated with a NKCC1 down-regulation. Here, we show in mouse embryonic spinal cord that both KCC2 and NKCC1 are expressed and functional early in development (E11.5-E13.5) when GABA(A) receptor activation induces strong excitatory action. After E15.5, a switch occurs rendering GABA unable to provide excitation. At these subsequent stages, NKCC1 becomes both inactive and less abundant in motoneurons while KCC2 remains functional and hyperpolarizes E(Cl). In conclusion, in contrast to other systems, the cotransporters are concomitantly expressed early in the development of the mouse spinal cord. Moreover, whereas NKCC1 follows a classical functional extinction, KCC2 is highly expressed throughout both early and late embryonic life.
Persistent tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-r) sodium currents up-regulated by intracellular GTP have been invoked as the site of action of peripheral inflammatory mediators that lower pain thresholds, and ascribed to the Na(V)1.9 sodium channel. Here we describe the properties of a global knock-out of Na(V)1.9 produced by replacing exons 4 and 5 in SCN11A with a neomycin resistance cassette, deleting the domain 1 voltage sensor and introducing a frameshift mutation. Recordings from small (&lt; 25 microm apparent diameter) sensory neurones indicated that channel loss eliminates a TTX-r persistent current. Intracellular dialysis of GTP-gamma-S did not cause an up-regulation of persistent Na(+) current in Na(V)1.9-null neurones and the concomitant negative shift in voltage-threshold seen in wild-type and heterozygous neurones. Heterologous hNa(V)1.9 expression in Na(V)1.9 knock-out sensory neurones confirms that the human clone can restore the persistent Na(+) current. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that Na(V)1.9 underlies the G-protein pathway-regulated TTX-r persistent Na(+) current in small diameter sensory neurones that may drive spontaneous discharge in nociceptive nerve fibres during inflammation.
The subunit composition of GABA(A) receptors influences their biophysical and pharmacological properties, dictates neuronal location and the interaction with associated proteins, and markedly influences the impact of intracellular biochemistry. The focus has been on alpha and gamma subunits, with little attention given to beta subunits. Dentate gyrus granule cells (DGGCs) express all three beta subunit isoforms and exhibit both synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors that mediate 'phasic' and 'tonic' transmission, respectively. To investigate the subcellular distribution of the beta subunits we have utilized the patch-clamp technique to compare the properties of 'tonic' and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) recorded from DGGCs of hippocampal slices of P20-26 wild-type (WT), beta(2)(-/-), beta(2N265S) (etomidate-insensitive), alpha(1)(-/-) and delta(-/-) mice. Deletion of either the beta(2) or the delta subunit produced a significant reduction of the tonic current and attenuated the increase of this current induced by the delta subunit-preferring agonist 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol (THIP). By contrast, mIPSCs were not influenced by deletion of these genes. Enhancement of the tonic current by the beta(2/3) subunit-selective agent etomidate was significantly reduced for DGGCs derived from beta(2N265S) mice, whereas this manipulation had no effect on the prolongation of mIPSCs produced by this anaesthetic. Collectively, these observations, together with previous studies on alpha(4)(-/-) mice, identify a population of extrasynaptic alpha(4)beta(2)delta receptors, whereas synaptic GABA(A) receptors appear to primarily incorporate the beta(3) subunit. A component of the tonic current is diazepam sensitive and is mediated by extrasynaptic receptors incorporating alpha(5) and gamma(2) subunits. Deletion of the beta(2) subunit had no effect on the diazepam-induced current and therefore these extrasynaptic receptors do not contain this subunit. The unambiguous identification of these distinct pools of synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors should aid our understanding of how they act in harmony, to regulate hippocampal signalling in health and disease.
Thalamic ventrobasal (VB) relay neurones express multiple GABA(A) receptor subtypes mediating phasic and tonic inhibition. During postnatal development, marked changes in subunit expression occur, presumably reflecting changes in functional properties of neuronal networks. The aims of this study were to characterize the properties of synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors of developing VB neurones and investigate the role of the alpha(1) subunit during maturation of GABA-ergic transmission, using electrophysiology and immunohistochemistry in wild type (WT) and alpha(1)(0/0) mice and mice engineered to express diazepam-insensitive receptors (alpha(1H101R), alpha(2H101R)). In immature brain, rapid (P8/9-P10/11) developmental change to mIPSC kinetics and increased expression of extrasynaptic receptors (P8-27) formed by the alpha(4) and delta subunit occurred independently of the alpha(1) subunit. Subsequently (&gt; or = P15), synaptic alpha(2) subunit/gephyrin clusters of WT VB neurones were replaced by those containing the alpha(1) subunit. Surprisingly, in alpha(1)(0/0) VB neurones the frequency of mIPSCs decreased between P12 and P27, because the alpha(2) subunit also disappeared from these cells. The loss of synaptic GABA(A) receptors led to a delayed disruption of gephyrin clusters. Despite these alterations, GABA-ergic terminals were preserved, perhaps maintaining tonic inhibition. These results demonstrate that maturation of synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors in VB follows a developmental programme independent of the alpha(1) subunit. Changes to synaptic GABA(A) receptor function and the increased expression of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors represent two distinct mechanisms for fine-tuning GABA-ergic control of thalamic relay neurone activity during development.
Spinocerebellar ataxia 6 (SCA6) is a hereditary disease characterized by a trinucleotide repeat expansion in the CACNA1A gene and late-onset bilateral cerebellar atrophy. It is unclear if there is significant pathology outside of the cerebellum. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation to assess sensorimotor cortical circuits and cortical plasticity in 8 SCA6 patients and 8 age-matched controls. Behavioral performance was assessed using a rhythmic tapping task. Neurophysiological measures of SCA6 patients showed a prolonged cortical silent period (CSP) but normal MEP recruitment curve, short-latency afferent inhibition, long-latency afferent inhibition and ipsilateral silent period. Paired-associative stimulation induction also increased motor-evoked potentials normally. SCA6 patients had greater variability with cued rhythmic tapping than normals and deteriorated when the cue was removed; in comparison, normal subjects had similar variability between cued and uncued rhythmic tapping. Analysis using a Wing-Kristofferson timing model indicated that both clock variance and motor delay variance were abnormal. Conclusion. In SCA6, the circuits for sensorimotor integration and the mechanisms for LTP-like plasticity in the sensorimotor cortex are unimpaired. A prolonged CSP in SCA6 just like in other cerebellar atrophies would suggest that this neurophysiological change typifies cerebellar dysfunction.
Ongoing adverse events (AEs) at 4-years postsurgery in 69 patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) who received deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) (n = 49) or the internal globus pallidus (GPi) (n = 20), in the framework of a subset of eight centers of a multicenter study, were analyzed by an independent ad hoc committee. At baseline, the patients' age, sex, disease duration, and clinical condition were virtually identical, as was the duration of follow-up. There were 64 AEs reported in 53% of STN DBS patients and eight AEs reported in 35% of GPi DBS patients. Most of the AEs were not deemed severe and were reported to be present &quot;both with and without stimulation.&quot; The majority of the AEs affected patients' cognitive, psychiatric and behavioral status, as well as speech, gait, and balance, and most of these AEs occurred in STN DBS patients. When comparing patients who exhibited AEs with those who did not, it was found that in the STN DBS group, the patients with AEs had a longer disease duration, as well as more gait disorders and psychiatric disturbances at baseline.
Since mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons are associated to one of the most prominent human neurodegenerative ailments, Parkinson's disease, the molecular mechanism underlying their development and adult cellular properties has been the subject of intense investigations. Throughout life, transcription factors determine the fate of this neuronal population and control essential processes such as localization in the ventral midbrain, their neurotransmitter phenotype, their target innervations and synapse formation. Studies of transcription factors, such as Nurr1, Pitx3, Engrailed-1/2, and Lmx1a/b, have not only revealed importance of these genes during development, but also roles in the long-term survival and maintenance of these neurons. In this review, we will discuss the function of these transcription factors throughout the life of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons and their value in the study of the disease mechanism.
The involvement of the left hemisphere occipito-temporal (OT) junction in reading has been established, yet there is current controversy over the region's specificity for reading and the nature of its role in the reading process. Recent neuroimaging findings suggest that the region is sensitive to orthographic familiarity [Kronbichler, M., Bergmann, J., Hutzler, F., Staffen, W., Mair, A., Ladurner, G., Wimmer, H. 2007. Taxi vs. Taksi: on orthographic word recognition in the left ventral occipito-temporal cortex. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 19, 1-11], and the present study tested that hypothesis. Using fMRI, the OT region and other regions in the reading network were localized in 28 adult, right-handed participants. The BOLD signal in these regions was measured during a phonological judgment task (i.e., &quot;Does it sound like a word?&quot;). Stimuli included words, pseudohomophones (phonologically familiar yet orthographically unfamiliar), and pseudowords (phonologically and orthographically unfamiliar) that were matched on lexical properties including sublexical orthography. Relative to baseline, BOLD signal in the OT region was greater for pseudohomophones than for words, suggesting that the region is sensitive to orthographic familiarity at the whole-word level. Further contrasts of orthographic frequency within the word condition revealed increased BOLD signal for low- than high-frequency words. Specialization in the OT region for recognition of frequent letter strings may support the development of reading expertise. Additionally, BOLD signal in the OT region correlates positively with reading efficiency, supporting the idea that this region is a skill zone for reading printed words. BOLD signal in the IFG and STG correlates negatively with reading efficiency, indicating that processing effort in these classic phonological regions is inversely related to reading efficiency.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) based on blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal changes is a sensitive tool for mapping brain activation, but quantitative interpretation of the BOLD response is problematic. The BOLD response is primarily driven by cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes, but is moderated by M, a scaling parameter reflecting baseline deoxyhemoglobin, and n, the ratio of fractional changes in CBF to cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen consumption (CMRO(2)). We compared M and n between cortical (visual cortex, VC) and subcortical (lentiform nuclei, LN) regions using a quantitative approach based on calibrating the BOLD response with a hypercapnia experiment. Although M was similar in both regions (~5.8%), differences in n (2.21+/-0.03 in VC and 1.58+/-0.03 in LN; Cohen d=1.71) produced substantially weaker (~3.7x) subcortical than cortical BOLD responses relative to CMRO(2) changes. Because of this strong sensitivity to n, BOLD response amplitudes cannot be interpreted as a quantitative reflection of underlying metabolic changes, particularly when comparing cortical and subcortical regions.
Short-term changes of intrinsic properties of neural networks play a critical role in brain dynamics. In that context, epilepsy is a typical pathology where the fast transition between interictal and ictal states is probably associated to intrinsic modifications of underlying networks. In this study, we focused on the correlates of plastic neural mechanisms in the intracerebral electroencephalogram (iEEG). Data were obtained during 1 Hz electrical stimulation in twenty patients suffering from temporal lobe epilepsy and implanted with intracerebral electrodes for clinical evaluation before resective surgery. First, we developed a procedure of analysis for localisation of the seizure onset zone based on brain excitability and plasticity defined as the average, and as the first-order (linear) modulation respectively, of the standard deviation of iEEG responses over stimulations. Our results suggest that the candidate epileptic focus is particularly prone to exhibiting short-term plasticity. Second, we used Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM) to model explicitly short-term plasticity as a fast modulation of synaptic efficacies in either intrinsic or extrinsic connections to the focus. We found the two types of modulation both likely. Third, we used DCM to study the fast modulation of synaptic connectivity of long-range connections in neuronal networks restricted to the temporal lobe. Using DCM, we were able to estimate which structures expressed a strong modulatory input to the epileptic focus. Such early changes in interregional connectivity might be important for the initiation of electrically-induced seizures. They may also reflect some aspects of the pathogenesis of epilepsy in those patients.
Tonic and phasic dynamics of electroencephalographic (EEG) activities during a continuous compensatory tracking task (CTT) were analyzed using time-frequency analysis of EEG sources identified by independent component analysis (ICA). In 1-hour sessions, 70-channel EEG data were recorded while participants attempted to use frequent compensatory trackball movements to maintain a drifting disc close to a bulls-eye at screen center. Disc trajectories were converted into two moving-average performance measures, root mean square distance of the disc from screen center in 4-s ('local') and in 20-s ('global') moving time windows. Maximally independent EEG processes and their equivalent dipole source locations were obtained using the EEGLAB toolbox (http://sccn.ucsd.edu/eeglab). Across subjects and sessions, independent EEG processes in occipital, somatomotor, and supplementary motor cortices exhibited tonic power increases during periods of high tracking error, plus additional phasic power increases in several frequency bands before and after trackball movements following disc 'perigees' (moments at which the disc began to drift away from the bulls-eye). These phasic activity increases, which were larger during high-error periods, reveal an intimate relation between EEG dynamics and top-down recognition of responding to threatening events. Thus during a continuous tracking task without impulsive stimulus onsets, sub-second scale EEG dynamics related to visuomotor task could be dissociated from slower spectral modulations linked to changes in performance and arousal. We tentatively interpret the observed EEG signal increases as indexing tonic and phasic modulations of the levels of task attention and engagement required to maintain visuomotor performance during sustained performance.
In higher functioning individuals with autism, a striking disparity exists between impaired social and emotional abilities and relatively preserved sustained attention and goal-directed cognitive abilities. As these two functional domains appear to map onto two distinct large-scale brain networks, the Task-Negative Network and the Task-Positive Network, respectively, we examined their intrinsically defined functional organization in individuals with autism. Using resting functional connectivity MRI (fcMRI), we found that, in autism, there was altered functional organization of the network involved in social and emotional processing, but no group difference in the functional organization of the network involved in sustained attention and goal-directed cognition. We suggest that these findings might serve to relate the seemingly disparate strengths and weaknesses of the autistic behavioral, perceptual, and cognitive phenotype into a tractable neurofunctional framework. These results also highlight the usefulness of resting fcMRI for studying the brain in neuropsychiatric and neurodevelopmental disorders.
The mirror neuron system (MNS) has been proposed to play an important role in social cognition by providing a neural mechanism by which others' actions, intentions, and emotions can be understood. Here functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to directly examine the relationship between MNS activity and two distinct indicators of social functioning in typically-developing children (aged 10.1 years+/-7 months): empathy and interpersonal competence. Reliable activity in pars opercularis, the frontal component of the MNS, was elicited by observation and imitation of emotional expressions. Importantly, activity in this region (as well as in the anterior insula and amygdala) was significantly and positively correlated with established behavioral measures indexing children's empathic behavior (during both imitation and observation) and interpersonal skills (during imitation only). These findings suggest that simulation mechanisms and the MNS may indeed be relevant to social functioning in everyday life during typical human development.
This study evaluates the application of (i) skull-stripping methods (hybrid watershed algorithm (HWA), brain surface extractor (BSE) and brain-extraction tool (BET2)) and (ii) bias correction algorithms (nonparametric nonuniform intensity normalisation (N3), bias field corrector (BFC) and FMRIB's automated segmentation tool (FAST)) as pre-processing pipelines for the technique of voxel-based morphometry (VBM) using statistical parametric mapping v.5 (SPM5). The pipelines were evaluated using a BrainWeb phantom, and those that performed consistently were further assessed using artificial-lesion masks applied to 10 healthy controls compared to the original unlesioned scans, and finally, 20 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients versus 23 controls. In each case, pipelines were compared to each other and to those from default SPM5 methodology. The BET2+N3 pipeline was found to produce the least miswarping to template induced by real abnormalities, and performed consistently better than the other methods for the above experiments. Occasionally, the clusters of significant differences located close to the boundary were dragged out of the glass-brain projections -- this could be corrected by adding background noise to low-probability voxels in the grey matter segments. This method was confirmed in a one-dimensional simulation and was preferable to threshold and explicit (simple) masking which excluded true abnormalities.
Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) data is characterized by a high noise level. Thus, estimation errors of quantities like anisotropy indices or the main diffusion direction used for fiber tracking are relatively large and may significantly confound the accuracy of DTI in clinical or neuroscience applications. Besides pulse sequence optimization, noise reduction by smoothing the data can be pursued as a complementary approach to increase the accuracy of DTI. Here, we suggest an anisotropic structural adaptive smoothing procedure, which is based on the Propagation-Separation method and preserves the structures seen in DTI and their different sizes and shapes. It is applied to artificial phantom data and a brain scan. We show that this method significantly improves the quality of the estimate of the diffusion tensor, by means of both bias and variance reduction, and hence enables one either to reduce the number of scans or to enhance the input for subsequent analysis such as fiber tracking.
A recent event-related potential (ERP) study (Thierry G., Martin, C.D., Downing, P., Pegna, A.J. 2007. Controlling for interstimulus perceptual variance abolishes N170 face selectivity. Nature Neuroscience, 10, 505-11) claimed that the larger occipito-temporal N170 response to pictures of faces than other categories -- the N170 effect -- is due to a methodological artifact in stimulus selection, specifically, a greater interstimulus physical variance between pictures of objects than faces in previous ERP studies which, when controlled, eliminates this N170 effect. This statement casts doubts on the validity of the conclusions reached by a whole tradition of electrophysiological experiments published over the past 15 years and questions the very interest of using the N170 to probe the time course of face processes in the human brain. Here we claim that this physical variance factor is ill-defined by Thierry et al. and cannot account for previous observations of a smaller N170 amplitude to nonface objects than faces without latency increase and component &quot;smearing&quot;. Most importantly, this factor was controlled in previous studies that reported robust N170 effects. We demonstrate that the absence of N170 effect in the study of Thierry et al. is due to methodological flaws in the reported experiments, most notably measuring the N170 at the wrong electrode sites. Moreover, the authors attributed a modulation of N170 amplitude in their study to a differential interstimulus physical variance while it probably reflects a biased comparison of different quality sets of individual images. Here, by taking Thierry et al.'s study as an exemplar case of what should not be done in ERP research of visual categorization processes, we provide clarifications on a number of methodological and theoretical issues about the N170 and its largest amplitude to faces. More generally, we discuss the potential role of differential visual homogeneity of object categories as well as low-level visual properties versus high-level visual processes in accounting for early face-preferential responses and the question of the speed at which visual stimuli are categorized as faces. This survey of the literature points to the N170 as a critical event in the time course of face processes in the human brain.

Dendrite morphology regulates how a postsynaptic neuron receives information from presynaptic neurons. The specific patterning of dendrite branches is promoted by extrinsic and intrinsic factors that trigger the activation of functional signaling pathways. However, most of the regulating factors and the biochemical mechanisms involved in regulating dendrite branching are unknown. Our laboratory previously reported that cypin (cytosolic PSD-95 interactor) plays an active role in regulating dendrite branching in hippocampal neurons. Cypin-promoted increases in dendrite number are dependent on guanine deaminase activity. In order to identify the specific structural role of zinc-binding in cypin-mediated dendrite branching and guanine deaminase activity, we employed computational homology modeling techniques to construct a three dimensional structural model of cypin. Analysis of the protein-ion sequestration scaffold of this model identified several histidines and aspartic acid residues responsible for zinc binding. Single substitution mutations in these specific sites completely disrupted the guanine deaminase enzymatic activity and rendered cypin unable to promote dendrite branching in rat hippocampal neurons. The specific zinc ion-binding function of each residue in the protein scaffold was also confirmed by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optic Emission Spectrometry. Inspection of our structural model confirmed that His82 and His84 coordinate with the zinc ion, together with His240, His279, and Asp330, residues that until now were unknown to play a role in this regard. Furthermore, promotion of dendrite branching by cypin is zinc-dependent.
Potent adenosine hA2A receptor antagonists are often accompanied by poor aqueous solubility, which presents issues for drug development. Herein we describe the early exploration of the structure-activity relationships of a lead pyrimidin-4-yl acetamide series to provide potent and selective 2-amino-N-pyrimidin-4-yl acetamides as hA2A receptor antagonists with excellent aqueous solubility. In addition, this series of compounds has demonstrated good bioavailability and in vivo efficacy in a rodent model of Parkinson's disease, despite having reduced potency for the rat A2A receptor versus the human A2A receptor.
Vanilloid receptor TRPV1 is a cation channel that can be activated by a wide range of noxious stimuli, including capsaicin, acid, and heat. Blockade of TRPV1 activation by selective antagonists is under investigation by several pharmaceutical companies in an effort to identify novel agents for pain management. Here we report that replacement of substituted benzyl groups by an indan rigid moiety in a previously described N-indazole- N'-benzyl urea series led to a number of TRPV1 antagonists with significantly increased in vitro potency and enhanced drug-like properties. Extensive evaluation of pharmacological, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological properties of synthesized analogs resulted in identification of ( R)-7 ( ABT-102). Both the analgesic activity and drug-like properties of ( R)-7 support its advancement into clinical pain trials.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) has been identified as the endogenous ligand of a previously orphan receptor now named NPSR. Previous studies demonstrated that the N-terminal sequence Phe (2)-Arg(3)-Asn(4) of the peptide is crucial for biological activity. Here we report on a focused structure-activity study of Phe(2) which has been replaced with a series of coded and noncoded amino acids. Thirty-one human NPS analogues were synthesized and pharmacologically tested for intracellular calcium mobilization by using HEK293 cells stably expressing the mouse NPSR. The results of this study demonstrated the following NPS position 2 structure-activity features: (i) lipophilicity but not aromaticity is crucial, (ii) both the size of the chemical moiety and its distance from the peptide backbone are important for biological activity, and (iii) this position plays a role in both receptor binding and activation, since [4,4'-biphenyl-Ala(2)]hNPS behaved as a partial agonist.
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent regulation of voltage-gated CaV1-2 Ca2+ channels shows extraordinary modes of spatial Ca2+ decoding and channel modulation, vital for many biological functions. A single calmodulin (CaM) molecule associates constitutively with the channel's carboxy-terminal tail, and Ca2+ binding to the C-terminal and N-terminal lobes of CaM can each induce distinct channel regulations. As expected from close channel proximity, the C-lobe responds to the roughly 100-microM Ca2+ pulses driven by the associated channel, a behaviour defined as 'local Ca2+ selectivity'. Conversely, all previous observations have indicated that the N-lobe somehow senses the far weaker signals from distant Ca2+ sources. This 'global Ca2+ selectivity' satisfies a general signalling requirement, enabling a resident molecule to remotely sense cellular Ca2+ activity, which would otherwise be overshadowed by Ca2+ entry through the host channel. Here we show that the spatial Ca2+ selectivity of N-lobe CaM regulation is not invariably global but can be switched by a novel Ca2+/CaM-binding site within the amino terminus of channels (NSCaTE, for N-terminal spatial Ca2+ transforming element). Native CaV2.2 channels lack this element and show N-lobe regulation with a global selectivity. On the introduction of NSCaTE into these channels, spatial Ca2+ selectivity transforms from a global to local profile. Given this effect, we examined CaV1.2/CaV1.3 channels, which naturally contain NSCaTE, and found that their N-lobe selectivity is indeed local. Disruption of this element produces a global selectivity, confirming the native function of NSCaTE. Thus, differences in spatial selectivity between advanced CaV1 and CaV2 channel isoforms are explained by the presence or absence of NSCaTE. Beyond functional effects, the position of NSCaTE on the channel's amino terminus indicates that CaM can bridge the amino terminus and carboxy terminus of channels. Finally, the modularity of NSCaTE offers practical means for understanding the basis of global Ca2+ selectivity.
Several studies report microglial accumulation and activation in the CA1 area in response to transient forebrain ischemia (TFI). Here we examine the possibility that free radicals and chemokines mediate the transient activation of microglia. Free radicals are produced primarily in CA1 pyramidal neurons within 2 h of TFI. Administration of trolox, a vitamin E analog, led to the inhibition of free radical production and recruitment of microglia in the CA1 area. In addition, intrahippocampal injection of Fe2+ triggered free radical production in CA1 neurons, followed by the recruitment and activation of microglial cells into this area. TFI-induced expression of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) was increased in CA1 neurons before microglial recruitment, and blocked by trolox. Moreover, the MIP-1alpha level was upregulated in cultured hippocampal neurons exposed to Fe2+, suggesting an essential role of free radicals in TFI-induced expression of MIP-1alpha. Intracerebroventricular injection of vMIP-2 (viral macrophage inflammatory protein-2), a broad-spectrum peptide antagonist of chemokine receptors, attenuated microglial recruitment and delayed CA1 neuronal degeneration after TFI. Our data suggest that free radicals produced in CA1 neurons contribute to the recruitment and activation of microglia and neurodegeneration through MIP-1alpha expression.
Experience-dependent changes in the structure of dendritic spines may contribute to learning and memory. Encoded by three genes, the Shank family of postsynaptic scaffold proteins are abundant and enriched in the postsynaptic density (PSD) of central excitatory synapses. When expressed in cultured hippocampal neurons, Shank promotes the maturation and enlargement of dendritic spines. Recently, Shank3 has been genetically implicated in human autism, suggesting an important role for Shank proteins in normal cognitive development. Here, we report the phenotype of Shank1 knock-out mice. Shank1 mutants showed altered PSD protein composition; reduced size of dendritic spines; smaller, thinner PSDs; and weaker basal synaptic transmission. Standard measures of synaptic plasticity were normal. Behaviorally, they had increased anxiety-related behavior and impaired contextual fear memory. Remarkably, Shank1-deficient mice displayed enhanced performance in a spatial learning task; however, their long-term memory retention in this task was impaired. These results affirm the importance of Shank1 for synapse structure and function in vivo, and they highlight a differential role for Shank1 in specific cognitive processes, a feature that may be relevant to human autism spectrum disorders.
Kainate receptors contribute to synaptic plasticity and rhythmic oscillatory firing of neurons in corticolimbic circuits including hippocampal area CA3. We use zinc chelators and mice deficient in zinc transporters to show that synaptically released zinc inhibits postsynaptic kainate receptors at mossy fiber synapses and limits frequency facilitation of kainate, but not AMPA EPSCs during theta-pattern stimulation. Exogenous zinc also inhibits the facilitatory modulation of mossy fiber axon excitability by kainate but does not suppress the depressive effect of kainate on CA3 axons. Recombinant kainate receptors are inhibited in a subunit-dependent manner by physiologically relevant concentrations of zinc, with receptors containing the KA1 subunit being sensitive to submicromolar concentrations of zinc. Zinc inhibition does not alter receptor desensitization nor apparent agonist affinity and is only weakly voltage dependent, which points to an allosteric mechanism. Zinc inhibition is reduced at acidic pH. Thus, in the presence of zinc, a fall in pH potentiates kainate receptors by relieving zinc inhibition. Acidification of the extracellular space, as occurs during repetitive activity, may therefore serve to unmask kainate receptor neurotransmission. We conclude that zinc modulation of kainate receptors serves an important role in shaping kainate neurotransmission in the CA3 region.
External tufted (ET) cells are juxtaglomerular neurons that spontaneously generate bursts of action potentials, which persist when fast synaptic transmission is blocked. The intrinsic mechanism of this autonomous bursting is unknown. We identified a set of voltage-dependent conductances that cooperatively regulate spontaneous bursting: hyperpolarization-activated inward current (I(h)), persistent Na+ current (I(NaP)), low-voltage-activated calcium current (I(L/T)) mediated by T- and/or L-type Ca2+ channels, and large-conductance Ca2+-dependent K+ current (I(BK)). I(h) is important in setting membrane potential and depolarizes the cell toward the threshold of I(NaP) and I(T/L), which are essential to generate the depolarizing envelope that is crowned by a burst of action potentials. Action potentials depolarize the membrane and induce Ca2+ influx via high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels (I(HVA)). The combined depolarization and increased intracellular Ca2+ activates I(BK), which terminates the burst by hyperpolarizing the membrane. Hyperpolarization activates I(h) and the cycle is regenerated. A novel finding is the role of L-type Ca2+ channels in autonomous ET cells bursting. A second novel feature is the role of BK channels, which regulate burst duration. I(L) and I(BK) may go hand-in-hand, the slow inactivation of I(L) requiring I(BK)-dependent hyperpolarization to deactivate inward conductances and terminate the burst. ET cells receive monosynaptic olfactory nerve input and drive the major inhibitory interneurons of the glomerular circuit. Modulation of the conductances identified here can regulate burst frequency, duration, and spikes per burst in ET cells and thus significantly shape the impact of glomerular circuits on mitral and tufted cells, the output channels of the olfactory bulb.
The rodent barrel cortex is a useful system to study the role of genes and neuronal activity in the patterning of the nervous system. Several genes encoding either intracellular signaling molecules or neurotransmitter receptors are required for barrel formation. Neurofibromin is a tumor suppressor protein that has Ras GTPase activity, thus attenuating the MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) and and PI-3 kinase (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase) pathways, and is mutated in humans with the condition neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Neurofibromin is widely expressed in the developing and adult nervous system, and a common feature of NF1 is deficits in intellectual development. In addition, NF1 is an uncommonly high disorder among individuals with autism. Thus, NF1 may have important roles in normal CNS development and function. To explore roles for neurofibromin in the development of the CNS, we took advantage of a mouse conditional allele. We show that mice that lack neurofibromin in the majority of cortical neurons and astrocytes fail to form cortical barrels in the somatosensory cortex, whereas segregation of thalamic axons within the somatosensory cortex appears unaffected.
Biolistic transfection is a physical means of transfecting cells by bombarding tissue with high velocity DNA coated particles. We provide a detailed protocol for biolistic transfection of rat hippocampal slices, from the initial preparation of DNA coated bullets to the final shooting of the organotypic slice cultures using a gene gun. Gene gun transfection is an efficient and easy means of transfecting neurons and is especially useful for fluorescently labeling a small subset of cells in tissue slice. In this video, we first outline the steps required to coat gold particles with DNA. We next demonstrate how to line the inside of plastic tubing with the gold/DNA bullets, and how to cut this tubing to obtain the plastic cartridges for loading into the gene gun. Finally, we perform biolistic transfection of rat hippocampal slice cultures, demonstrating handling of the Bio-Rad Helios gene gun, and offering trouble shooting advice to obtain healthy and optimally transfected tissue slices.
Female rats, relative to males, exhibit greater behavioral activation to cocaine and other psychostimulants, but the effect of sex and the estrous cycle in modulating the hypophagic action of cocaine has not been evaluated. Meal patterns were recorded in automated food hoppers during the first 3 h of the dark phase in adult female and male rats after administration of ascending cocaine doses (0, 7.5, and 15 mg/kg cocaine, i.p.) on successive trials. Cocaine produced a greater suppression of feeding as well as a reduction in meal number over a 3 h test period in female rats during estrus, relative to that noted during diestrus. In contrast, during the 180 min test period, male rats showed minimal hypophagic responses to 7.5 or 15 mg/kg cocaine. These results extend the range of behavioral perturbations induced by cocaine that are modulated by sex and by the estrous cycle and are consistent with the notion that estradiol may modulate the neurochemical actions of cocaine.
Disturbances of the orbitofrontal-striatal pathways in humans have been associated with several psychopathologies including obsessive-compulsive disorder and drug addiction. In nonhuman primates, different subareas of the orbitofrontal cortex project topographically to central and ventromedial parts of the striatum. Relatively little is known about the anatomical organization of the rat orbital cortex while there is a growing interest in this cortical area from a functional and behavioral point of view. The aim of the present neuroanatomical tracing study was to determine in rats the striatal target area of the projections of the orbital cortex as well as the topographical organization within these projections. To this end, anterograde tracers were injected in the different cytoarchitectonically distinct subareas of the orbital cortex. The results show that the individual orbital areas, i.e. medial orbital area, ventral orbital area, ventrolateral orbital area and lateral orbital area, project to central parts of the caudate-putamen, exhibiting a mediolateral and, to a lesser degree, rostrocaudal topographical arrangement. Orbital projections avoid the most dorsal, as well as rostral and caudal parts of the caudate-putamen. Terminal fields from cytoarchitectonically different areas show a considerable overlap. Superficial cortical layers project preferentially to the striatal matrix, deep layers to the patch compartment. The projections from the ventrolateral orbital area are strongest and occupy the most extensive striatal area. In addition to projections to the caudate-putamen, the ventrolateral, lateral and dorsolateral orbital areas have a scarce projection to the most lateral part of the nucleus accumbens shell in the ventral striatum. In contrast to nonhuman primates, the remainder of the rat nucleus accumbens is virtually free of orbital projections.
Dissociative disorders often have an atypical neurological presentation requiring a complex diagnostic process at the interface between neurology and psychiatry. A strong interdisciplinary collaboration is needed for diagnosis restitution and patient treatment. Current knowledge is still scarce but recent studies in clinical neuroscience enrich this field. This article presents the main aspects of dissociative disorders and suggests a treatment framework.

Molecular modeling and site directed mutagenesis were used to analyze the structural features determining the unique inhibitor sensitivities of type-III phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase enzymes (PI4Ks). Mutation of a highly conserved Tyr residue that provides the bottom of the hydrophobic pocket for ATP yielded a PI4KIIIbeta enzyme that showed greatly reduced wortmannin sensitivity and was catalytically still active. Similar substitutions were not tolerated in the type-IIIalpha enzyme rendering it catalytically inactive. Two conserved Cys residues located in the active site of PI4KIIIalpha were found responsible for the high sensitivity of this enzyme to the oxidizing agent, phenylarsine oxide. Mutation of one of these Cys residues reduced the phenylarsine oxide sensitivity of the enzyme to the same level observed with the PI4KIIIbeta protein. In search of inhibitors that would discriminate between the closely related PI4KIIIalpha and -IIIbeta enzymes, the PI3Kgamma inhibitor, PIK93, was found to inhibit PI4KIIIbeta with significantly greater potency than PI4KIIIalpha. These studies should aid development of subtype-specific inhibitors of type-III PI4Ks and help to better understand the significance of localized PtdIns4P production by the various PI4Ks isoforms in specific cellular compartments.


Human ventral cortex contains at least two visual areas selective for color [1]: a posterior center in the lingual gyrus labeled V4 [2-4], V8 [5], or VO-1 [6] and an anterior center in the medial fusiform that has been labeled V4alpha[3, 4]. We examined the properties of the anterior color center using electrical recording and electrical stimulation in a subject with an electrode implanted over the anterior color center, as determined with BOLD fMRI in the same subject. Presentation of visual stimuli evoked local field potentials from the electrode. Consistent with fMRI, the potentials were larger for chromatic than achromatic stimuli. The potentials differed depending on stimulus color, with blue-purple colors evoking the largest response. The spatial receptive field of the electrode was central/parafoveal with a contralateral bias. In the absence of a visual stimulus, electrical stimulation of the electrode produced an artificial visual percept of a blue-purple color near the center of gaze. These results provide direct evidence of a tight link between selectivity and perception in ventral temporal cortex. Electrical stimulation of the anterior color center is sufficient to produce the conscious percept of a color whose identity is determined by the selectivity of the stimulated neurons.
What is the evolutionary origin of the human ability to understand and predict the behavior of others? Recent studies suggest that human infants' early capacity for understanding others' goal-directed actions relies on nonmentalistic strategies [1-8]. However, there is no consensus about the nature of the mechanisms underpinning these strategies and their evolutionary history. Comparative studies can shed light on these controversial issues. We carried out three preferential looking-time experiments on macaques, modeled on previous work on human infants [1-5], to test whether macaques are sensitive to the functional efficacy of familiar goal-related hand motor acts performed by an experimenter in a given context and to examine to which extent this sensitivity also is present when observing non-goal-related or unusual goal-related motor acts. We demonstrate that macaque monkeys, similar to human infants, do indeed detect action efficacy by gazing longer at less efficient actions. However, they do so only when the observed behavior is directed to a perceptible and familiar goal. Our results show that the direct detection of the functional fitness of action, in relation to goals that have become familiar through previous experience, is the phylogenetic precursor of intentional understanding.
Selective serotonin uptake inhibitors (SSRIs) exert their effects by inhibiting serotonin (5-HT) re-uptake. Although blockade occurs almost immediately, the neurochemical effects on 5-HT, as measured by in vivo microdialysis, have been a matter of considerable debate. In particular, literature reports yield conflicting neurochemical results in the rat frontal cortex. Thus, while some groups consistently find increases in extracellular 5-HT levels following acute SSRI administration, others reproducibly report an absence of these acute serotonergic effects. In an attempt to unravel this apparent discrepancy, we combined published literature with in-house microdialysis experiments. When we plotted the lateral stereotaxic coordinate of the dialysis probe against published reports on the acute effects of fluoxetine a clear correlation was revealed. Whereas pronounced increases in SSRI-induced 5-HT were observed when the dialysis probe was placed 0 to 1 mm from the midline, effects diminished when the lateral probe placement was greater than 3 mm from the midline. In-house microdialysis studies corroborated these reports. Overall, these results illustrate - for the first time - that the midline stereotaxic coordinate is critical for interpreting the acute serotonergic effects of SSRIs within the frontal cortex. Moreover, the common observation that the clinical efficacy of SSRIs is not evident following acute administration complements preclinical microdialysis results in the lateral frontal cortex. The significance of this observation, along with potential explanations for the disparate neurochemical findings in the medial versus lateral cortices, will be discussed.
Activation of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors has previously been shown to play a role in inflammatory or neuropathic pain states. However, the role of mGlu type 1 receptors in post-operative pain remains to be investigated. In the present study, effects of potent and selective mGlu1 receptor antagonists A-841720, A-794282, A-794278, and A-850002 were evaluated in a skin incision-induced post-operative pain model in rats. Post-operative pain was examined 2 h following surgery using weight-bearing difference between injured and uninjured paws as a measure of spontaneous pain. In this model, A-841720, A-794282, A-794278, and A-850002 induced significant attenuation of spontaneous post-operative pain behavior, with ED50s of 10, 50, 50, and 65 micromol/kg i.p., respectively. Depending on the compound, significant motor side effects were also observed at 3 to 10 fold higher doses. These results support the notion that mGlu1 receptor activation plays a significant role in nociceptive transmission in post-operative pain, though motor impairment may be a limiting factor in developing mGlu1 receptor antagonists as novel analgesics.


The model proposed by the authors of two cortical systems providing 'vision for action' and 'vision for perception', respectively, owed much to the inspiration of Larry Weiskrantz. In the present article some essential concepts inherent in the model are summarized, and certain clarifications and refinements are offered. Some illustrations are given of recent experiments by ourselves and others that have prompted us to sharpen these concepts. Our explicit hope in writing our book in 1995 was to provide a theoretical framework that would stimulate research in the field. Conversely, well-designed empirical contributions conceived within the framework of the model are the only way for us to progress along the route towards a fully fleshed-out specification of its workings.
Emerging evidence suggests that dementia and depression, two clinical symptoms commonly associated, share the disorder of neuroplasticity in their neural/molecular pathology. Maintenance of sufficient neurostructural remodelling/neurotrophic activity may be central to cognition/antidementia and a balanced mood. Here, we show that intra-cerebroventricular (i.c.v.) 4-methylcatechol (4-MC), a stimulator of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression and an indirect PKC activator significantly enhanced spatial learning and memory in rats and produced an antidepressant effect. Both effects were eliminated by co-administration of function-blocking anti-BDNF antibody. These results further support the hypothesis that memory processing and mood regulation share common mechanisms and thus therapeutic targets. BDNF enhancers may represent one of the new drug strategies in the fighting against depression associated with memory impairments.
Mice lacking expression of dynamin 1, a GTPase implicated in the fission reaction of synaptic vesicle endocytosis, fail to thrive and exhibit severe activity-dependent endocytic defects at their synapses. Here, we have used electron tomography to investigate the massive increase in clathrin-coated pit abundance that is selectively observed at a subset of synapses in dynamin 1 KO primary neuron cultures under conditions of spontaneous network activity. This increase, leading to branched tubular plasma membrane invaginations capped by clathrin-coated buds, occurs selectively at inhibitory synapses. A similar massive increase of clathrin-coated profiles (in this case, of clathrin-coated vesicles) is observed at inhibitory synapses of neurons that lack expression of synaptojanin 1, a phosphoinositide phosphatase involved in clathrin-coated vesicle uncoating. Thus, although excitatory synapses are largely spared under these conditions, inhibitory synapses are uniquely sensitive to perturbation of endocytic proteins, probably as a result of their higher levels of tonic activity leading to a buildup of clathrin-coated intermediates in these synapses. In contrast, the predominant endocytic structures observed at the majority of dynamin 1 KO synapses after acute stimulation are endosome-like intermediates that originate by a dynamin 1-independent form of endocytosis. These findings reveal a striking heterogeneity in the mode of synaptic vesicle recycling in different synapses and functional states.
GABA-releasing cortical interneurons are crucial for the neural transformations underlying sensory perception, providing &quot;feedforward&quot; inhibition that constrains the temporal window for synaptic integration. To mediate feedforward inhibition, inhibitory interneurons need to fire in response to ascending thalamocortical inputs, and most previous studies concluded that ascending inputs activate mainly or solely proximally targeting, parvalbumin-containing &quot;fast-spiking&quot; interneurons. However, when thalamocortical axons fire at frequencies that are likely to occur during natural exploratory behavior, activation of fast-spiking interneurons is rapidly and strongly depressed, implying the paradoxical conclusion that feedforward inhibition is absent when it is most needed. To address this issue, we took advantage of lines of transgenic mice in which either parvalbumin- or somatostatin-containing interneurons express GFP and recorded the responses of interneurons from both subtypes to thalamocortical stimulation in vitro. We report that during thalamocortical activation at behaviorally expected frequencies, fast-spiking interneurons were indeed activated only transiently because of rapid depression of their thalamocortical inputs, but a subset of layer 5 somatostatin-containing interneurons were robustly and persistently activated after a delay, due to the facilitation and temporal summation of their thalamocortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Somatostatin-containing interneurons are considered distally targeting. Thus, they are likely to provide delayed dendritic inhibition during exploratory behavior, contributing to the maintenance of a balance between cortical excitation and inhibition while leaving a wide temporal window open for synaptic integration and plasticity in distal dendrites.
Two new reports offer exciting evidence of novel roles for components of the nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway in the nervous system. Transcriptional activation by NF-kappaB and chromatin remodeling by inhibitor of kappaB (IkappaB) kinase complex (IKK) have been linked to recall and reconsolidation of conditioned fear memories in the mammalian central nervous system. In the Drosophila neuromuscular junction, a member of the NF-kappaB family has been reported to regulate glutamate receptor clustering. Both reports could have important implications for the function of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway in neuronal plasticity.
The hippocampal formation plays an essential role in associative learning like passive avoidance (PA) learning. It has been shown; orexin-containing terminals and orexin receptors densely are distributed in the hippocampal formation. We have previously demonstrated that antagonization of orexin 1 receptor (OX1R) in CA1 region of hippocampus and dentate gyrus (DG) impaired spatial memory processing. Although, there are few studies concerning function of orexinergic system on memory processing in PA task, but there is no study about physiological function of OX1R on this process. To address this, the OX1R antagonist, SB-334867-A, was injected into DG or CA1 regions of hippocampus and evaluated the influence of OX1R antagonization on acquisition, consolidation and retrieval in PA task. Our results show that, SB-334867-A administration into CA1 region impaired memory retrieval but not PA acquisition and consolidation. However, SB-334867-A administration into DG region impaired acquisition and consolidation but not PA memory retrieval. Therefore, it seems that endogenous orexins play an important role in learning and memory in the rat through OX1Rs.
The independent effects of ovarian and adrenal hormones on spatial place learning were examined in male and female Long-Evans hooded rats. Experimental groups received bilateral ovariectomy (females only) and adrenalectomy (both sexes), followed by hormone administration according to a predetermined schedule. Spatial and reversal training in the Morris water maze were used to measure behavioural performance in locating a hidden platform. General proficiency and strategies use were assessed using search times and time spent in the periphery, respectively. The number of direct and circle swims to the platform was used to assess memory for the location of the hidden platform. Experiment 1 investigated the roles of estradiol and progesterone in spatial navigation in the absence of high levels of adrenal steroids. The female group that received estradiol alone showed longer search times, greater periphery swimming, and fewer direct and circle swims to the target than all other female groups. Experiment 2 investigated the role of corticosterone (CORT) in spatial navigation in the absence of ovarian hormones. Male and female rats that received acute matched doses of exogenous CORT were equally impaired during spatial training. During reversal training, the impairment in search time, periphery swimming, and direct and circle swims persisted in the female CORT group only. Analysis of serum CORT levels in the male and female experimental groups revealed no significant differences. These data suggest that estradiol and CORT can independently impair acquisition of spatial navigation skills and strategies use in adult female rats.

This article has been withdrawn consistent with Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal (http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy). The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause.
The posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD) in rodents integrates olfactory and pheromonal information, which, coupled with the appropriate hormonal signals, may facilitate or repress reproductive behavior in adulthood. MePD volume and neuronal soma size are greater in male rats than in females, and these sexual dimorphisms are maintained by adult circulating hormone levels. Castration of adult males causes these measures to shrink to the size seen in females 4 weeks later, whereas testosterone treatment of adult females for 4 weeks enlarges these measures to the size of males. We used stereological methods to count the number of cells in the MePD and found that, in addition to the sex difference in regional volume and soma size, males also have more MePD neurons than do females, yet these numbers are unaffected by the presence or absence of androgen in adults of either sex. Males also have more glial cells than do females, but, in contrast to the effects on neuronal number, the number of glial cells is affected by androgen in the right MePD of both sexes and, therefore, may contribute to regional volume changes in adulthood in that hemisphere. Thus, regional volume, neuronal size, and glial numbers vary in the MePD of adult rats in response to circulating androgens, but neuronal number does not. These results suggest that the sex difference in neuronal number in the rat MePD may be &quot;organized&quot; by androgens prior to adulthood, whereas regional volume, neuronal size, and glial numbers can be altered by androgens in adulthood.
To restore motor control after spinal cord injury requires reconnecting the brain with spinal motor circuits below the lesion. A bridge around the injury is an important alternative to promoting axon regeneration through the injury. Previously, we reported a novel motor bridge in rats. The thirteenth thoracic nerve was detached from the muscle it innervates and the cut end implanted caudally into the lumbar gray matter where motor bridge axons regenerate. In this study, we first determined that regenerating bridge axons project to spinal motor circuits. Stable projections were present in ventral motor laminae of the cord, including putative synapses directly on motoneurons, 2 months after insertion in the intact cord. At this time, earlier-forming dorsal horn projections were mostly eliminated. Regenerating axons were effective in evoking leg motor activity as early as 2 weeks. We next determined that bridge axons could regenerate caudal to a chronic injury. We hemisected the spinal cord at L2 and inserted the bridge nerve 1 month later at L5 and found ventral laminae projections similar to those in intact animals, including onto motoneurons directly. Finally, we determined that the bridge circuit could be activated by neural pathways rostral to its origin. For spinally hemisected animals, we electrically stimulated the rostral spinal cord and recorded evoked potentials from the bridge and, in turn, motor responses in the sciatic nerve. Our findings suggests that bridge motoneurons could be used by descending motor pathways as premotor interneurons to transmit neural signals to bypass a chronic spinal injury.
The dendritic patterning of retinal horizontal cells has been shown to be specified by the cone photoreceptor afferents. The present investigation has addressed whether this specification is due to visually dependent synaptic transmission in the outer plexiform layer or to some other early, pre-visual, neural activity. Individually labeled horizontal cells from dark-reared mice, as well as from mice carrying a mutation in the Cacna1f gene, which encodes the pore-forming calcium channel subunit Ca(v)1.4, were assessed for various morphological features. The dark-reared mice showed no alteration in any of these features, despite showing a compromised maximal voltage response in the electroretinograms. The retinas of Cacna1f mutant mice, by contrast, showed conspicuous morphological changes that mimicked the effects observed previously in coneless transgenic mice. These changes were present as early as postnatal day 10, when the shape and density of the cone pedicles appeared normal. Ultrastructurally, however, the pedicles at this early stage, as well as in maturity, lacked synaptic ribbons and the invaginations associated with postsynaptic processes. These results suggest a role for this calcium channel subunit in ribbon assembly in addition to its role in modulating calcium influx and glutamate release. Together, they suggest a complex cascade of interactions between developing cone pedicles and horizontal cell dendrites involving early spontaneous activity, dendritic attraction, ribbon assembly, and pedicle invagination.
The cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying photoreceptor synaptogenesis are poorly understood. Furthermore, a detailed picture of the molecular composition of photoreceptor synapses, or their subtypes, is not yet available, nor do we know what differences, if any, exist among those subtypes. To address these questions, we investigated temporal and spatial patterns of expression and assembly of photoreceptor presynaptic components during chick embryo retinal development and early posthatched life by using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), dissociated retinal cells, laser-capture microdissection (LCM), immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy. Immunocytochemistry in tissue sections and dissociated cells showed many similarities and few differences in the synaptic composition of rods and cone subtypes, which, however, were found to project to different strata within the outer plexiform layer. A striking finding was the precise timetable of expression of synaptic genes and proteins during synaptogenesis. Although mRNAs for some synaptic molecules appeared as early as embryonic day (ED) 5-8 (the time of inner retina synaptogenesis), others were undetectable before the time of onset of photoreceptor synaptogenesis on ED13, including CAST, rim2, synapsin-2, syntaxin-3, synaptotagmin, glutamate receptors -1, -4, and -5, homer-1 and -2, and tenascin-R. Most synaptic proteins in photoreceptors followed a similar sequence of expression: they were negative or weakly positive before ED13, appeared in inner segments between ED13 and ED15, became subsequently detectable in perinuclear and axonal regions, and by ED18 were assembled into synaptic terminals and became undetectable in the inner segments. The identity of the signals that regulate the coordinated expression of these synaptic components remains to be investigated.
Brain function and its relations to cognition and behavior can be elucidated only by the use of various complementary methods. Over the past 20 years, we have been studying the brain mechanisms underlying spatial processes using different methods, including the recording of single cell activity in behaving monkeys, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) in human subjects, all performing the same tasks. These methods provide partially overlapping perspectives, resulting in a gain in knowledge beyond the province of the individual method. A common aspect in this endeavor is the statistical analysis of the data acquired by different methods, especially regarding the encoding of information in unitary elements (single cell activity in neurophysiology, blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) activation of voxels in fMRI, magnetic field strength in MEG) and the decoding of information from ensembles. In this paper we illustrate the various approaches, their data analysis and possible applications to medicine in the context of operations in space.
Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) plays an important role in mediating the invasion and angiogenic process of malignant gliomas. This study was undertaken to determine if an isoflavone metabolite, irisolidone, inhibits MMP-9 expression in human astroglioma cells. Irisolidone was found to inhibit the secretion and protein expression of MMP-9 induced by PMA in U87 MG glioma cells, accompanied by the inhibition of MMP-9 mRNA expression and promoter activity. Further mechanistic studies revealed that irisolidone inhibits the binding of NF-kappaB and AP-1 to the MMP-9 promoter and suppresses the PMA-induced phosphorylation of ERK and JNK, which are upstream signaling molecules in MMP-9 expression. The Matrigel-invasion assay showed that irisolidone suppresses the in vitro invasiveness of glioma cells. Therefore, the strong inhibition of MMP-9 expression by irisolidone might be a potential therapeutic modality for controlling the growth and invasiveness of gliomas.
Nuclear localized protein-1 (Nulp1) is a recently identified gene expressed in mouse and human tissues particularly during embryonic development. Nulp1 belongs to the family of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins that are important in development. The precise function of Nulp1 in cells is however not known. We observed that overexpression of Nulp1 induces a large increase in cell death of human osteosarcoma Saos2 cells with DNA fragmentation. In mouse N2A neuroblastoma cells Nulp1 affected cell proliferation and sensitized cells towards death induced by staurosporine. Staining using a novel antibody localized Nulp1 mainly to the cell nucleus and to some extent to the cytoplasm. Nulp1 binds the X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) and this interaction was increased during cell death. These results indicate that Nulp1 plays a role in cell death control and may influence tumor growth.
Peripheral exposure to LPS induces a biphasic fever thought to be initiated via vagal afferents to the preoptic area of the anterior hypothalamus (POAH), an important thermoregulatory control center in the brain. Previous studies have shown that norepinephrine synaptically mediates this Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2))-dependent change in temperature through the selective activation of alpha-2 adrenoreceptors (AR). However, there is clear evidence that alpha-1 AR activation of thermoregulatory hypothalamic neurons will result in a rapid hyperthermia that is not dependent on PGE(2). This direct action of norepinephrine in the POAH was tested in the present study by recording the single-unit activity of POAH neurons in a tissue slice preparation from the adult male rat, in response to temperature and the selective alpha-1 AR agonist Cirazoline (1-100 microM). Neurons were classified as either warm sensitive or temperature insensitive. Warm sensitive neurons responded to Cirazoline with a decrease in firing rate, while temperature insensitive neurons showed a firing rate increase. These responses are similar to those reported for PGE(2) and suggest that both warm sensitive and temperature insensitive neurons in the POAH are important in mediating this alpha-1 AR-dependent hyperthermic shift in body temperature.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is known to be involved in emotional and stress responses, while the dentate gyrus (DG), a subfield of the hippocampus, is implicated in learning and memory. Together, the BLA-DG neuronal pathway is thought to link memory with emotional and physiological stress responses. To assess whether neonatal isolation, a known early life stressor, has enduring effects on bidirectional neuroplasticity in adulthood, changes in long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of BLA-DG synapses were recorded in neonatally isolated and non-handled freely behaving adult male rats. Rats isolated (ISO) from their mother and each other for 1 h daily from postnatal days 2-9 were allowed to mature to adulthood at which time they were chronically implanted with stimulating electrodes in the BLA and recording electrodes in the DG via stereotaxic surgery. A second group of rats which received no isolation treatment and which were not handled (NH) during the neonatal period underwent the same surgical procedures and served as the control group. Following a 1-week postsurgical recovery period, either LTP (100-pulse, 5-Hz theta-burst stimulation [TBS]) or LTD (900-pulse, 1-Hz low-frequency stimulation [LFS]) was induced in the DG of both groups. ISO rats showed significantly enhanced levels of both LTP and LTD compared to NH counterparts. These results indicate that neonatal isolation stress alters bidirectional neural plasticity in BLA-DG synapses, which may help to clarify the development of neural mechanisms linking emotional and stress responses in the amygdala with memory consolidation and information processing in the hippocampus.
Estrogen influences not only the incidence of stroke, but also the amount of injury sustained from a stroke including intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). In this study we tested whether delayed 17beta-estradiol (E2) treatment affects recovery following striatal ICH. Female rats were trained and tested on several behavioral tests to assess skilled reaching, spontaneous forelimb usage and walking ability. Two weeks following ovariectomy, rats were subjected to a moderate-sized ICH via infusion of collagenase into the striatum. One week later they were implanted with either an E2 pellet (0.36 mg; 60-day release) or they underwent a sham procedure. They were further divided into groups that received either environmental enrichment (EE) rehabilitation therapy (group housing in a complex cage with ramps, tunnels, etc.) or a control condition (group housing in a standard cage). Rats were then behaviorally evaluated out to 8 weeks post-ICH and then euthanized. Neither EE nor E2 affected lesion size, which averaged 62.8 mm(3) across all groups. The EE therapy improved recovery on some tests (e.g., traversing a horizontal ladder) whereas E2 treatment did not notably affect either spontaneous or EE-facilitated recovery. Thus, E2 fails to improve recovery or protect against brain injury when given after a 1-week delay in contrast to its clear neuroprotective effects when given before or soon after ICH.
A cascade of signaling events triggers myogenesis in vertebrates. Although studies of zebrafish indicate that fibroblast growth factor (Fgf), Hedgehog (Hh), and the T-box transcription factors, No tail (Ntl) and T-box gene 16 (Tbx16), regulate myogenesis, the hierarchy of these factors has not been determined. Recently, another transcriptional cofactor, Smarcd3, a subunit of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex, has been shown to be required for heart muscle formation in mouse. In zebrafish, fgf8 and ntl expression commences during blastula stages, whereas myogenesis, as indicated by myod expression, does not begin until much later during mid-gastrula stages. smarcd3b expression, on the other hand, becomes enriched in the marginal zone just prior to the beginning of myod expression. Overexpression of smarcd3 shifts the onset of myod and myf5 expression earlier, and myod and myf5 expression in adaxial cells, the earliest muscle precursors, requires Smarcd3, indicating that Smarcd3 is the limiting factor that regulates the onset of myogenesis. Smarcd3 physically interacts with Ntl, and Smarcd3 overexpression fails to rescue myod expression in ntl mutants, demonstrating that function of Smarcd3 depends on Ntl activity. We propose a model in which cooperative activity of Fgf, Ntl, and Smarcd3 is required for the onset of myogenesis, with Smarcd3b serving as the primary regulator of the timing of myogenesis onset.
Recently, we reported that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) induces long-lasting mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia as well as demyelination and upregulation of pain-related proteins through one of its cognate receptors, LPA1. In addition, mice lacking the LPA1 receptor gene (lpa1-/- mice) lost these nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain behaviors and phenomena. However, since lpa1-/- mice did not exhibit any effects on the basal nociceptive threshold, it is possible that nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain and its machineries are initiated by LPA via defined biosynthetic pathways that involve multiple enzymes. Here, we attempted to clarify the involvement of a single synthetic enzyme of LPA known as autotaxin (ATX) in nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain. Wild-type mice with partial sciatic nerve injury showed robust mechanical allodynia starting from day 3 after the nerve injury and persisting for at least 14 days, along with thermal hyperalgesia. On the other hand, heterozygous mutant mice for the autotaxin gene (atx+/-), which have 50% ATX protein and 50% lysophospholipase D activity compared with wild-type mice, showed approximately 50% recovery of nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain. In addition, hypersensitization of myelinated Abeta or Adelta-fiber function following nerve injury was observed in electrical stimuli-induced paw withdrawal tests using a Neurometer. The hyperalgesia was completely abolished in lpa1-/- mice, and reduced by 50% in atx+/- mice. Taken together, these findings suggest that LPA biosynthesis through ATX is the source of LPA for LPA1 receptor-mediated neuropathic pain. Therefore, targeted inhibition of ATX-mediated LPA biosynthesis as well as LPA1 receptor and its downstream pathways may represent a novel way to prevent nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain.
In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Chung et al. (2008) remove a single blastomere to generate a human embryonic stem cell (hESC) line without prejudicing the development of the biopsied embryo. Their method stimulates new ideas about hESC formation, but ethicopolitical concerns remain.

In this issue of Neuron, a study by Chiu et al. examines the brain responses of autistic volunteers in a trust game. The findings reveal an unusual lack of brain activity in mid cingulate cortex when they make their investments. We speculate that this may arise because autistic individuals are unaware that they will also gain or lose reputation in their partner's eyes.
The present work shows that the optical/biological information contained in a typical spectral image mainly reflects the properties of a small (conic like) volume of tissue situated vertically under each individual pixel. The objects appearing on a spectral image reasonably reproduce the correct geometrical shape and size (like a non-deformed shadow) of underlying inclusions of pathological tissue. The information contained in a spectral image comes from a depth that does not exceed approximately 2-3 mm. The number of photons that visit a given tissue voxel situated at a depth larger than approximately 2 mm represents less than the 1% of the total number of photons reaching the corresponding detection pixel (forming the image). A pathological inclusion (e.g. a pool of blood or vascular tumor) situated at a depth of approximately 0.5 mm with a thickness of 0.5 mm produces an image intensity contrast of approximately 5% (for images taken at wavelengths in the 600-1000 nm range) when compared to the normal skin background. The same inclusion at a depth of 20 microm provides a contrast decreasing from 55 to 20% with respect to an increase in wavelength. The dermis/hypodermis interface behaves as a partial barrier for the photons, limiting their access to deeper skin regions. The image contrast depends on the depth and the type of chromophore contained in the inclusion. An increase in the concentration of a given molecule may produce different contrast, independently of the depth, depending on the characteristics of the skin layer where this change occurs.
Recent studies show i.v. administered pentagastrin and cholecystokinin to evoke protein/amylase secretion from the rat parotid gland and to stimulate gland protein synthesis, the two phenomena being abolished by cholecystokinin receptor antagonists. In the rat parotid gland, non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic transmission mechanisms contribute to secretion of fluid and protein/amylase. Since cholecystokinin may act as a neurotransmitter, activation of cholecystokinin receptors of the gland might contribute to the parasympathetic nerve-evoked secretion. In this study, the parasympathetic innervation was stimulated in non-atropinized (in periods of 2 min) or atropinized (in periods of 3 min) pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats before and after administration of the cholecystokinin-A receptor antagonist lorglumide (48 mg/kg, i.v.) and the cholecystokinin-B receptor antagonist itriglumide (5.5 mg/kg, i.v.). The non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic transmission fatigues rapidly resulting in declining responses. Therefore, atropinized rats, not receiving the cholecystokinin receptor antagonists, had to serve as controls. Neither at a stimulation frequency of 10 Hz nor of 40 Hz were the secretory responses of the atropinized rats affected by the receptor antagonists. After lorglumide, the saliva volume and the amylase output were (expressed as percentage of the response to the stimulation period before the administration of the antagonist) 98.0+/-3.8% (vs. control 91.1+/-4.0%) and 91.9+/-4.9% (vs. 87.7+/-3.7%) at 10 Hz, respectively, and 79.8+/-4.5% (vs. 77.3+/-2.1%) and 73.6+/-5.3% (vs. 71.7+/-2.3%) at 40 Hz, respectively. After itriglumide, the corresponding percentage figures for saliva volume and amylase output were, at 10 Hz, 99.5+/-8.9% (vs. 92.0+/-2.8%) and 95.8+/-11.8% (vs. 89.2+/-6.4%), respectively, and, at 40 Hz, 74.0+/-3.1% (vs. 79.6+/-2.2%) and 66.6+/-3.3% (vs. 63.9+/-6.0%), respectively. Similarly, the antagonists were without effect on the parotid secretory responses of non-atropinized rats subjected to stimulation at 10 Hz. Thus, under physiological conditions, the cholecystokinin receptors of the parotid gland are likely to be stimulated by circulating hormones rather than by nervous activity.
Inflammation is a key component in the development of atherosclerosis, and myocardial infarction (MI); therefore we investigated the association between an interleukin-6 signal transducer (IL6ST)/gp130 polymorphism, gp130 function and risk of MI. Structural modeling suggested that a non-conservative single nucleotide polymorphism in the gp130, Gly148Arg, can change the stability and functional properties of the molecule. In vitro studies were done with BAF/3 cells lacking endogenous gp130. Cells stably transfected with the gp130 148Arg variant proliferated less and showed slightly lower STAT-3 phosphorylation in response to gp130 stimulation as compared to cells transfected with gp130 148Gly. In a prospectively followed hypertensive cohort we identified 167 patients who suffered a MI during the study and compared them to matched controls (mean age 57 years, 73% males, n=482). Carriers of the 148Arg variant (f(Arg)=0.12) of the gp130 receptor had decreased odds ratio for MI in univariate analysis (0.56, 95% CI 0.34-0.91, p=0.02). In conclusion, a genetically determined structural variant of the IL-6 receptor subunit gp130 is, independently of other known risk factors, associated with decreased risk of MI. The variant is also associated with decreased IL-6 responsiveness and could lead to a configuration change in the gp130 receptor.
We investigated whether ghrelin depletion (by gastrectomy surgery) and/or treatment/replacement with the gastric hormone ghrelin alters the expression of key hypothalamic genes involved in energy balance, in a manner consistent with ghrelin's pro-obesity effects. At 2 weeks after surgery mice were treated with ghrelin (12 nmol/mouse/day, sc) or vehicle for 8 weeks. Gastrectomy had little effect on the expression of these genes, with the exception of NPY mRNA in the arcuate nucleus that was increased. Ghrelin treatment (to gastrectomized and sham mice) increased the mRNA expression of orexigenic peptides NPY and AgRP while decreasing mRNA expression of the anorexigenic peptide POMC. Two weeks gavage treatment with the ghrelin mimetic, MK-0677, to rats increased NPY and POMC mRNA in the arcuate nucleus and MCH mRNA in the lateral hypothalamus. Thus, while predicted pro-obesity ghrelin signalling pathways were activated by ghrelin and ghrelin mimetics, these were largely unaffected by gastrectomy.
The feeding-relevant pathway by which food restriction (FR) augments cocaine action is unknown. Systemic administration of the 28-amino acid acylated peptide ghrelin (1-10 nmol) increases food intake in rats and circulating levels of rat ghrelin are up-regulated by FR. The present experiment examined the impact of repeated administration of ghrelin or vehicle on the subsequent capacity of cocaine to enhance locomotion in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated daily for seven days with 0, 5 or 10 nmol rat ghrelin (i.p.) in the home cage. On the 8th day, rats were transported to a testing room, placed in a locomotion chamber for 15 min, and then injected (i.p.) with 0, 7.5, or 15 mg/kg cocaine hydrochloride. Locomotor activity was monitored over a 45 min post-cocaine period. Pretreatment with 5 or 10 nmol ghrelin alone did not significantly increase basal locomotion relative to that of the 0 nmol ghrelin group. Rats pretreated with 5 nmol or 10 nmol ghrelin showed an enhanced locomotor response after treatment with 15 mg/kg cocaine relative to rats treated with 0 nmol ghrelin. These results indicate that acute injection of ghrelin, at a feeding-relevant dose, can augment the acute effects of cocaine on locomotion in rats.

Alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG) plays a crucial role in maintaining the stability of muscle cell membrane. Although it has been shown that the N-terminal domain of alpha-DG (alpha-DG-N) is cleaved by a proprotein convertase, its physiological significance remains unclear. We show here that native alpha-DG-N is secreted by a wide variety of cultured cells into the culture media. The secreted alpha-DG-N was both N- and O-glycosylated. Finally, a small amount of alpha-DG-N was detectable in the normal human serum. These observations indicate that the cleavage of alpha-DG-N is a widespread event and suggest that the secreted alpha-DG-N might be transported via systemic circulation in vivo.
Drosophila visual signaling, a G-protein-coupled phospholipase Cbeta (PLCbeta)-mediated mechanism, is regulated by eye-protein kinase C (PKC) that promotes light adaptation and fast deactivation, most likely via phosphorylation of inactivation no afterpotential D (INAD) and TRP (transient receptor potential). To reveal the critical phosphatases that dephosphorylate INAD, we used several biochemical analyses and identified protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) as a candidate. Importantly, the catalytic subunit of PP2A, microtubule star (MTS), is copurified with INAD, and an elevated phosphorylation of INAD by eye-PKC was observed in three mts heterozygotes. To explore whether PP2A (MTS) regulates dephosphorylation of INAD by counteracting eye-PKC [INAC (inactivation no afterpotential C] in vivo, we performed ERG recordings. We discovered that inaC(P209) was semidominant, because inaC(P209) heterozygotes displayed abnormal light adaptation and slow deactivation. Interestingly, the deactivation defect of inaC(P209) heterozygotes was rescued by the mts(XE2258) heterozygous background. In contrast, mts(XE2258) failed to modify the severe deactivation of norpA(P16), indicating that MTS does not modulate NORPA (no receptor potential A) (PLCbeta). Together, our results strongly indicate that dephosphorylation of INAD is catalyzed by PP2A, and a reduction of PP2A can compensate for a partial loss of function in eye-PKC, restoring the fast deactivation kinetics in vivo. We thus propose that the fast deactivation of the visual response is modulated in part by the phosphorylation of INAD.
Basal forebrain neurons play an important role in memory and attention. In addition to cholinergic and GABAergic neurons, glutamatergic neurons and neurons that can corelease acetylcholine and glutamate have recently been described in the basal forebrain. Although it is well known that nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes synaptic function of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons, how NGF affects the newly identified basal forebrain neurons remains undetermined. Here, we examined the effects of NGF on synaptic transmission of medial septum and diagonal band of Broca (MS-DBB) neurons expressing different neurotransmitter phenotypes. We used MS-DBB neurons from 10- to 13-d-old rats, cultured on astrocytic microislands to promote the development of autaptic connections. Evoked and spontaneous postsynaptic currents were recorded, and neurotransmitters released were characterized pharmacologically. We found that chronic exposure to NGF significantly increased acetylcholine and glutamate release from cholinergic MS-DBB neurons, whereas glutamate and GABA transmission from noncholinergic MS-DBB neurons were not affected by NGF. Interestingly, the NGF-induced increase in neurotransmission was mediated by p75(NTR). These results demonstrate a previously unidentified role of NGF and its receptor p75(NTR); their interactions are crucial for cholinergic and glutamatergic transmission in the septohippocampal pathway.
Classical benzodiazepine sensitive GABA(A) receptor subtypes, the major mediators of fast synaptic inhibition in the brain are heteropentamers that can be assembled from alpha1-3/5, beta1-3, and gamma2 subunits, but how neurons orchestrate their selective accumulation at synapses remains obscure. We have identified a 10 amino acid hydrophobic motif within the intracellular domain of the alpha2 subunit that regulates the accumulation of GABA(A) receptors at inhibitory synaptic sites on both axon initial segments and dendrites in a mechanism dependent on the inhibitory scaffold protein gephyrin. This motif was sufficient to target CD4 (cluster of differentiation molecule 4) molecules to inhibitory synapses, and was also critical in regulating the direct binding of alpha2 subunits to gephyrin in vitro. Our results thus reveal that the specific accumulation of GABA(A) receptor subtypes containing alpha2 subunits at inhibitory synapses is dependent on their ability to bind gephyrin.
In the adult brain, chloride (Cl-) influx through GABA(A) receptors is an important mechanism of synaptic inhibition. However, under a variety of circumstances, including acquired epilepsy, neuropathic pain, after trains of action potentials or trauma, and during normal early brain development, GABA(A) receptor activation excites neurons by gating Cl- efflux because the intracellular Cl- concentration (Cl(i)) is elevated. These findings require an inducible, active mechanism of chloride accumulation. We used gramicidin-perforated patch recordings to characterize Cl- transport via NKCC1, the principal neuronal Cl- accumulator, in neonatal CA1 pyramidal neurons. NKCC1 activity was required to maintain elevated Cl(i) such that GABA(A) receptor activation was depolarizing. Kinetic analysis of NKCC1 revealed reversible transmembrane Cl- transport characterized by a large maximum velocity (vmax) and high affinity (Km), so that NKCC1 transport was limited only by the net electrochemical driving force for Na+, K+, and Cl-. At the steady-state Cl(i), NKCC1 was at thermodynamic equilibrium, and there was no evidence of net Cl- transport. Trains of action potentials that have been previously shown to induce persistent changes in neuronal E(Cl) (reversal potential for Cl-) did not alter vmax or Km of NKCC1. Rather, action potentials shifted the thermodynamic set point, the steady-state Cl(i) at which there was no net NKCC1-mediated Cl- transport. The persistent increase in Cl(i) required intact alpha2/alpha3 Na+-K+-ATPase activity, indicating that trains of action potentials reset the thermodynamic equilibrium for NKCC1 transport by lowering Na(i). Activity-induced changes in Na+-K+-ATPase activity comprise a novel mechanism for persistent alterations in synaptic signaling mediated by GABA.
Voltage-gated potassium channel subunit Kv3.3 is prominently expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells and is known to be important for cerebellar function, as human and mouse movement disorders result from mutations in Kv3.3. To understand these behavioral deficits, it is necessary to know the role of Kv3.3 channels on the physiological responses of Purkinje cells. We studied the function of Kv3.3 channels in regulating the synaptically evoked Purkinje cell complex spike, the massive postsynaptic response to the activation of climbing fiber afferents, believed to be fundamental to cerebellar physiology. Acute slice recordings revealed that Kv3.3 channels are required for generation of the repetitive spikelets of the complex spike. We found that spikelet expression is regulated by somatic, and not by dendritic, Kv3 activity, which is consistent with dual somatic-dendritic recordings that demonstrate spikelet generation at axosomatic membranes. Simulations of Purkinje cell Na+ currents show that the unique electrical properties of Kv3 and resurgent Na+ channels are coordinated to limit accumulation of Na+ channel inactivation and enable rapid, repetitive firing. We additionally show that Kv3.3 knock-out mice produce altered complex spikes in vitro and in vivo, which is likely a cellular substrate of the cerebellar phenotypes observed in these mice. This characterization presents new tools to study complex spike function, cerebellar signaling, and Kv3.3-dependent human and mouse phenotypes.
Although the human hand has a complex structure with many individual degrees of freedom, joint movements are correlated. Studies involving simple tasks (grasping) or skilled tasks (typing or finger spelling) have shown that a small number of combined joint motions (i.e., synergies) can account for most of the variance in observed hand postures. However, those paradigms evoked a limited set of hand postures and as such the reported correlation patterns of joint motions may be task-specific. Here, we used an unconstrained haptic exploration task to evoke a set of hand postures that is representative of most naturalistic postures during object manipulation. Principal component analysis on this set revealed that the first seven principal components capture &gt;90% of the observed variance in hand postures. Further, we identified nine eigenvectors (or synergies) that are remarkably similar across multiple subjects and across manipulations of different sets of objects within a subject. We then determined that these synergies are used broadly by showing that they account for the changes in hand postures during other tasks. These include hand motions such as reach and grasp of objects that vary in width, curvature and angle, and skilled motions such as precision pinch. Our results demonstrate that the synergies reported here generalize across tasks, and suggest that they represent basic building blocks underlying natural human hand motions.

GIRK(2) is the primary post-synaptic effector of opioids in the CNS that may contribute to the sex differences or age dependency in opioid analgesia. In the present study, we investigated the differential developmental and hormonal regulation of GIRK(2) gene transcription in rats. Male and female Wistar rats were divided into infant or adult intact, gonadectomized, sham and gonadectomy+testosterone groups. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was used to determine the levels of GIRK(2) gene expression in spinal cord and brain. Our results showed that in male spinal cord/brain, the gene transcription of the infant group did not differ from expression levels of this gene in the gonadectomized or adult intact groups. Castration of males significantly decreased the expression levels of the GIRK(2) gene. Testosterone replacement in castrated rats did not raise GIRK(2) gene expression completely to the level of shams. In females however, a greater expression of GIRK(2) gene expression was found in adult intact or gonadectomized rats than in the infant groups. Ovariectomy failed to alter GIRK(2) mRNA levels significantly. No significant sex differences were observed in GIRK(2) gene transcription between intact, sham and infant groups, but gonadectomy produced sex differences in GIRK(2) gene transcription. The results strongly demonstrate the differential developmental and hormonal regulation of GIRK(2) in the rat CNS.
The abnormal processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a pivotal event in the development of the unique pathology that defines Alzheimer's disease (AD). Stress, and the associated increase in corticosteroids, appear to accelerate brain ageing and may increase vulnerability to Alzheimer's disease via altered APP processing. In this study, rats were repeatedly exposed to an unavoidable stressor, an open elevated platform. Previous studies in this laboratory have shown that a single exposure produces a marked increase in plasma corticosterone levels but animals develop tolerance to this effect between 10 and 20 daily sessions. Twenty-four hours after stress, there was an increase in the ratio of the deglycosylated form of APP in the particulate fraction of the brain, which subsequently habituated after 20 days. The levels of soluble APP (APPs) tended to be lower in the stress groups compared to controls except for a significant increase in the hippocampus after 20 days of platform exposure. Since APPs is reported to have neurotrophic properties, this increased release may represent a neuroprotective response to repeated stress. It is possible that the ability to mount this response decreases with age thus increasing the vulnerability to stress-induced AD-related pathology.
The present event-related potential (ERP) study was conducted to investigate the P3 component in response to love-related stimuli while controlling for task-related factors, and to dissociate the influences of both love-related and task-related attention on the P3 amplitude. In an oddball paradigm, photographs of beloved and friends served as target and distractor stimuli. Love-related and task-related attention were separated by varying the target and distractor status of the beloved and friends full factorially. As expected, the P3 amplitude was larger for beloved compared to friends and for targets compared to distractors. Moreover, task-related and love-related attention were unconfounded. These results are in line with findings that the P3 is modulated by both emotion- and task-related factors, supporting the view that the P3 amplitude reflects attention. Furthermore, this study validates the notion that romantic love is accompanied by increased attention for stimuli associated with the beloved, and also shows that this form of attention is different from task-related attention.
Although white matter damage is a fundamental neuropathological feature of periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), the motor and cognitive deficits observed later in infants with PVL indicate the possible involvement of cerebral neuronal dysfunction. Using a previously developed rat model of white matter injury induced by cerebral lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection, we investigated whether LPS exposure also results in neuronal injury in the neonatal brain and whether alpha-phenyl-n-tert-butyl-nitrone (PBN), an antioxidant, offers protection against LPS-induced neuronal injury. A stereotactic intracerebral injection of LPS (1 mg/kg) was performed in Sprague-Dawley rats (postnatal day 5) and control rats were injected with sterile saline. LPS exposure resulted in axonal and neuronal injury in the cerebral cortex as indicated by elevated expression of beta-amyloid precursor protein, altered axonal length and width, and increased size of cortical neuronal nuclei. LPS exposure also caused loss of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons in the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental areas of the rat brain. Treatments with PBN (100 mg/kg) significantly reduced LPS-induced neuronal and axonal damage. The protection of PBN was associated with an attenuation of oxidative stress induced by LPS as indicated by the reduced number of 4-hydroxynonenal, malondialdehyde or nitrotyrosine positive cells in the cortical area following LPS exposure, and with the reduction in microglial activation stimulated by LPS. The finding that an inflammatory environment may cause both white matter and neuronal injury in the neonatal brain supports the possible anatomical correlate for the intellectual deficits and the other cortical and deep gray neuronal dysfunctions associated with PVL. The protection of PBN may indicate the potential usefulness of antioxidants for treatment of these neuronal dysfunctions.
Neurosteroid biosynthesis is demonstrated in many species but key factors interacting with neurosteroidogenesis under pathophysiological conditions are unknown. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))-induced oxidative stress is an etiological factor involved in several disorders. We hypothesized that, if neurosteroidogenesis is a pivotal mechanism for nerve cell protection or viability, it might be selectively regulated under oxidative stress condition. To check our hypothesis, we investigated H(2)O(2) effects on neurosteroidogenesis in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Pulse-chase, high performance liquid chromatography and flow-scintillation analyses showed that, along neurosteroidogenic pathways converting pregnenolone into various neurosteroids, only estradiol synthesis selectively decreased in SH-SY5Y cells after H(2)O(2)-treatment. Testosterone conversion into estradiol was also inhibited by H(2)O(2). Real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed aromatase gene repression in SH-SY5Y cells 12 h after the oxidative stress onset. Consistently, viability assays showed that chronic inhibition of aromatase activity by letrozole killed neuroblastoma cells. A 12-h pretreatment of SH-SY5Y cells with estradiol was protective against H(2)O(2)-induced death. In addition, estradiol was also capable of rescuing markedly neuroblastoma cells from letrozole-evoked death. Altogether, these results suggest that endogenous estradiol formation is pivotal for SH-SY5Y cell viability. Serum deprivation-evoked stress, which also killed SH-SY5Y cells, unaffected neurosteroidogenesis, indicating that inhibitory effect on neuroprotective-neurosteroid estradiol biosynthesis is specific for H(2)O(2)-induced stress. Selective targeting of neurosteroidogenic pathways may therefore constitute an interesting strategy against H(2)O(2)-evoked neurodegenerative processes.
Cocaine effectively inhibits dopamine (DA) uptake and this action appears to be the primary cause for increased DA transmission following systemic cocaine administration. Although this action had been reliably demonstrated in vivo with cocaine at high doses, data on the extent and the time-course of DA uptake inhibition induced by i.v. cocaine at low, reinforcing doses remain controversial. To clarify this issue, we examined how cocaine affects striatal neuronal responses to repeated iontophoretic DA applications in urethane-anesthetized rats. Because most striatal neurons during anesthesia have low, sporadic activity, DA tests were performed on cells tonically activated by continuous glutamate application. DA phasically decreased the activity of most dorsal and ventral striatal neurons; these responses in control conditions (i.v. saline) were current (dose) -dependent and remained highly stable following repeated DA applications at the same currents. DA also consistently decreased the activity of striatal neurons after i.v. cocaine (1 mg/kg); the magnitude of DA-induced inhibition slowly increased from approximately 5 min, became significantly larger from approximately 9 min, and peaked at 13-15 min after a single i.v. injection. Then, the difference in the DA response slowly decreased toward the pre-cocaine baseline. A similar enhancement of DA induced-inhibition was also seen after i.p. cocaine administration at a high dose (15 mg/kg). In this case, the DA response became significantly stronger at 7-9 min and remained enhanced vs. a pre-drug control up to 24-26 min after the injection. Both regimens of cocaine treatment did not result in evident changes in either onset or offset of the DA-induced inhibitions. Our data confirm that cocaine at low, reinforcing doses inhibits DA uptake, resulting in potentiation of DA-induced neuronal inhibitions, but they suggest that this effect is relatively weak and delayed from the time of i.v. injection. These slow and prolonged effects of i.v. cocaine on DA-induced neuronal responses are consistent with previous binding and our electrochemical evaluations of DA uptake, presumably reflecting the total time necessary for i.v.-delivered cocaine to reach brain microvessels, cross the blood-brain barrier, passively diffuse within brain tissue, interact with the DA transporters, and finally inhibit DA uptake.
The human visual system uses texture information to segment visual scenes into figure and ground. We developed a computational model of human texture processing [Thielscher A, Neumann H (2003) Neural mechanisms of cortico-cortical interaction in texture boundary detection: a modeling approach. Neuroscience 122:921-939] which allows us to examine the functional roles of early and intermediate stages of the ventral visual pathway in figure-ground segmentation. In particular, the model highlights the central role of cells in mid-level areas (such as V4) with larger receptive fields in the robust identification of texture boundaries and pop-out stimuli even under noisy conditions. A straightforward prediction of the model is that the activity of cells in mid-level, but not early visual areas directly co-varies with the saliency of the texture borders in the visual scene. Consequently, their activity should directly correlate with the saliency of pop-out texture regions as accessed in psychophysical studies [Nothdurft HC (1991) Texture segmentation and pop-out from orientation contrast. Vision Res 31:1073-1078]. This prediction explicitly derived from the model was tested using functional magnetic resonance imaging. The saliency of texture bars composed of oriented line items was varied by parametrically changing the defining orientation contrast between fore- and background lines. Consistent with the model, increasing contrast at texture boundaries resulted in a monotonic increase of blood oxygen level dependent responses in mid-level, but not early visual areas. Our modeling and imaging results indicate that mid-level visual areas form a key stage in figure-ground segregation by gradually signaling the salience of region boundaries defined by orientation contrast.
Increased brain deposition of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) and cognitive deficits are classical signs of Alzheimer's disease (AD) that have been widely associated to inflammatory response. We have recently shown that a single i.c.v. injection of aggregated beta-amyloid peptide-(1-40) (Abeta(1-40)) (400 pmol/mouse) results in marked deficits of learning and memory in mice which are related to oxidative stress and synaptic dysfunction. In the present study, we investigated by means of genetic or pharmacological approaches the role of kinin system in the Abeta(1-40) cognitive effects on the water maze paradigm. Spatial learning and memory deficits observed at 7 days following Abeta(1-40) treatment were significantly reduced by the i.c.v. administration of the selective kinin B(2) receptor antagonist d-Arg-[Hyp(3),Thi(5),D-Tic(7),Oic(8)]-BK (Hoe 140). A similar effect was found in mice lacking kinin B(2) receptor. On the other hand, genetic deletion of the inducible kinin B(1) receptor or its blockage by i.c.v. injection of des-Arg(9)-[Leu(8)]-BK antagonist attenuated only the long-term (30 days after treatment) cognitive deficits induced by Abeta(1-40). Moreover, treatment with Abeta(1-40) resulted in a sustained increase in the expression of the kinin B(1) receptor in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of mice, while it did not alter the expression of the kinin B(2) receptor in these brain areas. These findings provide convincing evidence that kinins acting via activation of B(1) and B(2) receptors in the CNS exert a critical role in the spatial learning and memory deficits induced by Abeta peptide in mice. Therefore, selective kinin receptor antagonists, especially the new orally active non-peptide antagonists, might represent drugs of potential interest for the treatment of AD.
Neural activities elicited in the auditory system are systematically organized according to the frequency characteristics of corresponding sound inputs. This systematic frequency alignment, called 'tonotopy,' plays an important role in auditory perception. By means of magnetoencephalography (MEG) we investigated here interactions between neural groups activated by two simultaneously presented narrow-band noises (NBNs) within the human cortical tonotopic map. Auditory evoked fields indicated that the neural interactions activated by these NBNs depended on the frequency difference between them: the amplitude of the N1m-response systematically increased with increasing frequency difference between the NBNs until the critical bandwidth was reached. In contrast, the N1m decreased with frequency difference exceeding the critical bandwidth. The different N1m-response patterns within and beyond the critical band seem to result from the combination of inhibitory and excitatory neural processes in the auditory pathway and may contribute to the perception of complex sound patterns like speech and music.
We have previously shown that capsaicin, noxious heat, protons and potassium ions (K(+)) induce a graded, calcium- and receptor-dependent increase of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide (iCGRP) release from isolated rat sciatic axons. Morphological evidence for axonal vesicular exocytosis has also been presented. Here we determine the differential contribution of voltage-gated calcium and sodium channels to high extracellular potassium and capsaicin-induced iCGRP secretion. Blockade of L-type calcium channels significantly decreased the K(+)-induced axonal response (nimodipine (10 microM) by 66% and methoxyverapamil, D600 (50 microM), by 77%). Interestingly, however, D600 was unable to reduce the capsaicin-induced iCGRP release. Omega-Conotoxin GVIA (1 microM), a N-type blocker, and omega-agatoxin TK (0.1 microM), a P/Q-type blocker, had no significant effect. Also the anticonvulsant gabapentin (50 microM and 100 microM), reported to impede calcium channels, was ineffective. Inhibition of low threshold T-type calcium channels by mibefradil (10 microM) significantly reduced potassium (by 47%) but not capsaicin-stimulated iCGRP release. Reduction of total sodium channel conductance by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), lidocaine (10 microM, 50 microM or 500 microM) or by replacement of extracellular sodium with choline-chloride did not result in a reduction of either potassium- or capsaicin-induced axonal iCGRP release. These results suggest that slow depolarization by high extracellular potassium activates axonal low threshold (T-type) as well as high threshold-activated (L-type) voltage-gated calcium channels to mediate iCGRP release, and that capsaicin-induced release is largely dependent on calcium influx through TRPV1. Action potential generation and propagation are not required for axonal release mechanisms.
Cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain are implicated in startle reflex inhibition by a prior weak stimulus often referred to as prepulse inhibition (PPI) and used as an index of sensorimotor gating deficits in schizophrenia. Gating deficits can be produced in rodent models by acute systemic administration of apomorphine, a non-selective dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonist that also affects trafficking of neurokinin-1 (NK(1)) receptors induced by startle evoking auditory stimulation (AS) in midbrain neurons. We used electron microscopic immunolabeling of NK(1) receptors and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAchT) to test the hypothesis that the subcellular distributions of these receptors in cholinergic neurons of the rat ventral pallidum are subject to a similar regulation. In vehicle controls, NK(1) immunogold was often seen near cytoplasmic endomembranes in somata and large dendrites, but was more equally distributed in cytoplasmic and plasmalemmal compartments of medium dendrites, and principally located on the plasma membrane of small dendrites. These labeling patterns appeared to be largely independent of whether the NK(1) receptor was co-expressed with VAchT, however only the medium and small VAchT-labeled dendrites showed significant treatment-specific differences in NK(1) immunogold distributions. The NK(1) receptor immunogold particle density on the plasma membrane of medium cholinergic dendrites was significantly enhanced by combined apomorphine and AS, while neither alone affected either the plasmalemmal density or the equality of the plasmalemmal and cytoplasmic distributions of NK(1) receptors in these dendrites. Small cholinergic dendrites showed a significant AS-induced increase in both the plasmalemmal and cytoplasmic density of NK(1) gold particles, and an apomorphine-induced disruption of the preferential plasmalemmal targeting of the NK(1) receptors. These results provide ultrastructural evidence that NK(1) receptors in cholinergic neurons of the ventral pallidum have subcellular locations and plasticity conducive to active involvement in dopamine-dependent sensorimotor processing.
Although micro opioid receptor (MOR) agonists are used for treatment of most types of pain, a recent study has suggested that the sensitivity of bone cancer pain to systemic morphine was lower than that of inflammatory pain. However, the reasons for this have remained unclear. In this study, MOR expression and the analgesic effects of morphine in a bone cancer model were compared with those in an inflammatory pain model. A bone cancer pain model and an inflammatory pain model were made by implantation of sarcoma cells into the intramedullary space of the femur and hind-paw injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), respectively. In a behavioral study, sarcoma-implanted mice showed flinching behavior of magnitude comparable to that induced by CFA injection. The flinching behavior of sarcoma-implanted mice was less sensitive to intrathecal morphine than that of CFA-injected mice. Western blot analysis showed that MOR expression in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) ipsilateral to sarcoma implantation was significantly reduced, while that in the DRG ipsilateral to CFA injection was increased. In sarcoma-implanted mice, the percentage of MOR-positive DRG neuronal profiles was lower than that in control mice (30.3% vs. 45.2%). In particular, MOR expression was reduced among calcitonin gene-related peptide- and transient receptor potential vanilloid subfamily 1-positive DRG neuronal profiles, which are considered to be involved in the generation of bone cancer pain (from 61.5% to 41.5% and from 72.1% to 48.4%, respectively). These results suggest that down-regulation of MOR in the distinct populations of DRG neurons contributes to the fact that higher doses of morphine are needed to produce analgesia in bone cancer as compared with those used in non-malignant inflammatory situations.
Cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) depend on potassium depolarization for survival and undergo apoptosis when deprived of depolarizing concentration of potassium. Activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), a stress-inducible protein, belongs to the ATF/CREB family of transcription factors family and is involved in cell growth and apoptosis. However, the role of ATF3 in neuronal apoptosis remains unknown. Here, we showed that ATF3 was up-regulated under potassium deprivation in CGNs, and this induction was preceded by a rapid and sustained activation of c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase/c-Jun signaling pathway, which plays a fundamental role in neuronal apoptosis. Furthermore, ATF3 up-regulation was abolished by inhibition of JNK or knockdown of c-Jun. Finally, knockdown of ATF3 by RNA interference protected CGNs from potassium deprivation-induced apoptosis. Taken together, our results indicate that ATF3 is a downstream target of JNK/c-Jun pathway and contributes to apoptosis induced by potassium deprivation in rat CGNs.
Ionotropic purinergic receptors (P2XR) are ATP-gated cationic channels composed of seven known subunits (P2X(1-7)R) and involved in different functions in neural tissue. Although their presence has been demonstrated in the brain, few studies have investigated their expression pattern. In particular, ionotropic purinergic receptor subunit type 1 (P2X(1)R) has been observed in the cerebellum and in brainstem nuclei. The present study investigates the P2X(1)R expression pattern in the rat forebrain using immunohistochemistry. The specificity of the immunolabeling has been verified by Western blotting and in situ hybridization methods. P2X(1)R immunoreactivity was specifically localized in neurons, dendrites and axons throughout the forebrain. Characteristic differences in the distribution of P2X(1)R were observed in different cortical areas. In prefrontal, cingulate and perirhinal cortices, very intense labeling was present in neuronal bodies. In frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital cortices, immunostaining was lighter and mainly found in dendrites and axons. The hippocampal formation was intensely labeled. Labeling was present almost exclusively in dendrites and axons and never in neuronal bodies. The diencephalon was devoid of P2X(1)R positive neurons or fibers except for the medial habenular nucleus, which showed very intense P2X(1)R immunostaining. Furthermore, two subcortical regions, namely, the nucleus centralis of the amygdala and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, showed intense P2X(1)R neuronal labeling. Present data indicate that P2X(1)R are prevalent in forebrain areas involved in the integration of cognitive, limbic and autonomic functions.
5-HT(1A) autoreceptors regulate the firing of 5-HT neurons and their release of 5-HT. In previous immuno-electron microscopic studies, we have demonstrated an internalization of 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors in the nucleus raphe dorsalis (NRD) of rats, after the acute administration of a single dose of the specific agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamine)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) or of the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine. Twenty-four hours after either treatment, the receptors were back in normal density on the plasma membrane of NRD neurons. Here, we examined the subcellular localization of these receptors and the in vivo binding of the 5-HT(1A) radioligand 4,2-(methoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(N-2-pyridinyl)-p-fluorobenzamido]ethylpiperazine labeled with [(18)F]fluorine ([(18)F]MPPF) after chronic fluoxetine treatment (10 mg/kg daily for 3 weeks, by minipump). Unexpectedly, after such a treatment, there were no more differences between treated and control rats in either the density of plasma membrane labeling of NRD dendrites, or in the in vivo binding of [(18)F]MPPF, as measured with beta-microprobes. This was in keeping with earlier reports of an unchanged density of 5-HT(1A) receptor binding sites after chronic fluoxetine treatment, but quite unexpected from the strong electrophysiological and biochemical evidence for a desensitization of 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors under such conditions. Indeed, when the fluoxetine-treated rats were challenged with a single dose of 8-OH-DPAT, there was no internalization of the 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors, at variance with the controls. Interestingly, several laboratories have reported an uncoupling of 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors from their G protein in the NRD of rats chronically treated with fluoxetine. Therefore, the best explanation for our results is that, after repeated internalization and retargeting, functional 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors are replaced by receptors uncoupled from their G protein on the plasma membrane of NRD 5-HT neurons. Thus, the regulatory function of these autoreceptors may depend on a dynamic balance among their production, activation, internalization and recycling to the plasma membrane in inactivated (desensitized) form.
The bilateral olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) mouse exhibits neurodegeneration of cholinergic neurons in the medial septum with concomitant cognitive deficits. Consistent with our previous observations, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) protein levels in the medial septum decreased by 43.5% 2 weeks after OBX without changes in glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 (GAD65) levels. Interestingly, levels of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), which is localized at cholinergic neuron terminals, decreased both in hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions following OBX. Confocal microscopy showed that VAChT expression was more severely reduced in CA3 14 days after OBX compared with CA1. Intriguingly, chronic treatment with a vanadium (IV) compound, VO(OPT) [bis(1-N-oxide-pyridine-2-thiolato)oxovanadium(IV)] (0.5-1 mg as vanadium (V)/kg/day, i.p.), significantly rescued cholinergic neurons in the medial septum in a dose-dependent manner. VO(OPT) treatment also prevented decreased VAChT immunoreactivity both in CA1 and CA3 regions in the hippocampus. Consistent with these findings, an impaired hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and memory deficits seen in OBX mice were significantly prevented by VO(OPT) treatment. Taken together, OBX induces neurodegeneration of septo-hippocampal cholinergic neurons and impairment of memory-related behaviors. The neuroprotective effect of VO(OPT) could lead to novel therapeutic strategies to ameliorate cognitive deficits associated with cholinergic neuron degeneration in Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.
The cannabinoid CB1 receptor which is densely located in the basal ganglia is known to participate in the regulation of movement. The present study sought to determine the mechanisms underlying the effect of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) on neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) using single-unit extracellular recordings in anesthetized rats. Administration of Delta(9)-THC (0.25-2 mg/kg, i.v.) increased the firing rate of SNpc neurons (maximal effect: 33.54+/-6.90%, n=8) without modifying other firing parameters (coefficient of variation and burst firing). This effect was completely blocked by the cannabinoid receptor antagonist rimonabant (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.). In addition, the blockade of excitatory amino acids receptors by kynurenic acid (0.5 microM, i.c.v.) or a chemical lesion of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) with ibotenic acid abolished Delta(9)-THC effect. These results indicate that CB1 receptor activation modulates SNpc neuronal activity by an indirect mechanism involving excitatory amino acids, probably released from STN axon terminals in the SNpc.
Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine in a distinctive context (context A). They were then extinguished in a second context (context B) prior to test for cocaine-seeking in the original training context, context A (group ABA), context B (group ABB) or no test (group AB0). Group ABA showed renewal of extinguished cocaine-seeking associated with c-Fos induction in basolateral amygdala, lateral hypothalamus, and infralimbic prefrontal cortex. Groups ABA and ABB showed test-associated c-Fos induction in prelimbic prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens (core, shell, rostral pole), striatum, lateral amygdala, perifornical hypothalamus, and ventral tegmental area. Double immunofluorescence revealed that renewal-associated c-Fos was expressed in orexin-negative lateral hypothalamic neurons whereas test-associated c-Fos was expressed in orexin-positive perifornical hypothalamic neurons. Retrograde tracing from lateral hypothalamus with cholera toxin revealed only sparse dual-labeled neurons in basolateral amygdala and infralimbic prefrontal cortex, suggesting that these regions contribute to renewal of cocaine-seeking independently of their projections to lateral hypothalamus. Retrograde tracing from the ventral tegmental area suggested that hypothalamic contributions to cocaine-seeking are likewise independent of projections to the midbrain. These results suggest that renewal of cocaine-seeking depends critically on basolateral amygdala, lateral hypothalamus, and infralimbic prefrontal cortex. Whereas basolateral amygdala and lateral hypothalamus contributions may be common to renewal of extinguished cocaine-, alcohol-, and sucrose-seeking, infralimbic prefrontal cortex contributions appear unique to renewal of cocaine-seeking and may reflect the habitual nature of relapse to cocaine.
Human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein is one of the neurotoxins involved in the pathogenesis of HIV-1-associated neuronal disorders. Combined electrophysiological and optical imaging experiments were undertaken to investigate whether HIV-1 Tat30-86, herein referred to as Tat30-86, acted directly or indirectly via the release of glutamate or both and to test its effect on the properties of spontaneous quantal events in cultured cortical neurons. Whole-cell patch recordings were made from cultured rat cortical neurons in either current- or voltage-clamp mode. Tat30-86 (50-1000 nM) induced in a population of cortical neurons a long-lasting depolarization, which was accompanied by a decrease of membrane resistance and persisted in a Krebs solution containing tetrodotoxin (TTX, 0.5 microM). Depolarizations were slightly reduced by pretreatment with glutamate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) (10 microM) and d-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP-5) (50 microM), and were markedly reduced in a Ca(2+)-free Krebs solution; the differences were statistically significant. Tat30-86-induced inward currents had a reversal potential between -30 and 0 mV. While not causing a noticeable depolarization, lower concentrations of Tat30-86 (10 nM) increased membrane excitability, as indicated by increased numbers of neuronal discharge in response to a step depolarizing pulse. Tat30-86 (10 nM) increased the frequency of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs), while not significantly affecting their amplitude. Tat30-86 (10 nM) moderately increased the frequency as well as the amplitude of spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). Ratiometric Ca(2+) imaging studies showed that Tat30-86 produced three types of Ca(2+) responses: 1) a fast and transitory increase, 2) Ca(2+) oscillations, and 3) a fast increase followed by a plateau; the glutamate receptor antagonists eliminated the late component of Ca(2+) response. The result suggests that Tat30-86 is an active fragment and that it excites cortical neurons directly and indirectly via releasing glutamate from adjacent neurons.
It is often implied that during the occurrence of spindle oscillations, thalamocortical neurons do not respond to signals from the outside world. Since recording of sound-evoked activity from cat auditory cortex is common during spindling this implies that sound stimulation changes the spindle-related brain state. Local field potentials and multi-unit activity recorded from cat primary auditory cortex under ketamine anesthesia during successive silence-stimulus-silence conditions were used to investigate the effect of sound on cortical spindle oscillations. Multi-frequency stimulation suppresses spindle waves, as shown by the decrease of spectral power within the spindle frequency range during stimulation as compared with the previous silent period. We show that the percentage suppression is independent of the power of the spindle waves during silence, and that the suppression of spindle power occurs very fast after stimulus onset. The global inter-spindle rhythm was not disturbed during stimulation. Spectrotemporal and correlation analysis revealed that beta waves (15-26 Hz), and to a lesser extent delta waves, were modulated by the same inter-spindle rhythm as spindle oscillations. The suppression of spindle power during stimulation had no effect on the spatial correlation of spindle waves. Firing rates increased under stimulation and spectro-temporal receptive fields could reliably be obtained. The possible mechanism of suppression of spindle waves is discussed and it is suggested that suppression likely occurs through activity of the specific auditory pathway.
Stimuli associated with sexual behavior increase reproductive success if presented prior to copulation. In Japanese quail, inseminations that take place in a context that predicts the arrival of a female are more likely to result in fertilized eggs. We demonstrate here that in male Japanese quail a sexual conditioned stimulus (CS) also enhances activity in two brain regions that mediate sexual behavior, the medial preoptic area and the medial part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. C-fos expression, a marker of neural activation, was higher in these areas in subjects exposed sequentially to a sexual CS and copulation than in subjects exposed to copulation or the CS alone or in subjects exposed to no sexual stimulus, either an identical, untrained CS or an empty arena. These results suggest a link between a proximate result of sexual CS presentation, male brain activation, and a known ultimate outcome, increased fertilizations.
Previous studies using genetic and lesion approaches have shown that the neuropeptide urocortin 1 (Ucn1) is involved in regulating alcohol consumption. Ucn1 is a corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) -like peptide that binds CRF1 and CRF2 receptors. Perioculomotor urocortin-containing neurons (pIIIu), also known as the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus, are the major source of Ucn1 in the brain and are known to innervate the lateral septum. Thus, the present study tested whether Ucn1 could regulate alcohol consumption through the lateral septum. In a series of experiments Ucn1 or CRF was bilaterally injected at various doses into the lateral septum of male C57BL/6J mice. Consumption of 20% volume/volume ethanol or water was tested immediately after the injections using a modification of a 2-h limited access sweetener-free &quot;drinking-in-the-dark&quot; procedure. Ucn1 significantly suppressed ethanol consumption when administered prior to the third ethanol drinking session (the expression phase of ethanol drinking) at doses as low as 6 pmol. Ethanol intake was differentially sensitive to Ucn1, as equivalent doses of this peptide did not suppress water consumption. In contrast, CRF suppressed both ethanol and water intake at 40 and 60 pmol, but not at lower doses. Repeated administration of Ucn1 during the acquisition of alcohol consumption showed that 40 pmol (but not 2 or 0.1 pmol) significantly attenuated ethanol intake. Repeated administration of Ucn1 also resulted in a decrease of ethanol intake in sham-injected animals, a finding suggesting that the suppressive effect of Ucn1 on ethanol intake can be conditioned. Taken together, these studies confirm the importance of lateral septum innervation by Ucn1 in the regulation of alcohol consumption.
Calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), and more specifically its alpha subunit, is widely believed to be fundamental for hippocampal synaptic plasticity. In the cerebral cortex, deprivation-evoked plasticity was shown to depend on alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation abilities. Here we analyzed how learning-induced functional reorganization of cortical representations affected alphaCaMKII in adult Swiss mice. Mice were subjected to short-lasting sensory training in which stimulation of whiskers was paired with tail shock. The pairing results in enlargement of functional representation of vibrissae activated during the training. alphaCaMKII protein and its autophosphorylation level were determined by Western-blotting in somatosensory cortex crude synaptosomal fraction (P2) and postsynaptic protein-enriched, Triton X-100 insoluble fraction (TIF). The first training session resulted in an increase in alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation at autonomy site observed in TIF. A similar increase was also observed after the first session of just whiskers stimulation, which alone does not induce rearrangement of cortical representations. These data indicate that increased autophosphorylation of postsynaptic alphaCaMKII is not a correlate of induction phase of plasticity related reorganization of cortical representation of vibrissae. The increase observed in both experimental groups was transient and did not persist in the maintenance phase of the plastic change. Furthermore, we found that the training caused a delayed upregulation of alphaCaMKII protein level in crude synaptosomal fraction, but not in TIF, and the upregulation was not accompanied by an increase in autophosphorylation level of the kinase. The result indicates alphaCaMKII involvement in the late phase of plastic change and suggests the participation of a presynaptic pool of kinase rather than postsynaptic at this point.
This study was aimed to examine the effects of pharmacological intervention on partial bladder outlet obstruction (PBOO) on expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and nitric oxide (NO) production and NO-related free radical damage using nitrotyrosine as a marker in the guinea-pig bladder. Partial urethral ligation was performed in young male guinea pigs which were then intraperitoneally administered l-arginine, N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME) or vehicle (saline) for 2 or 4 weeks. At the respective time points, the bladder was removed for nNOS immunohistochemistry, Western blot analysis, nitrotyrosine enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test and NO colorimetric assay. In l-arginine-treated animals killed at 2 and 4 weeks, the total number of nNOS positive intramural neurons was significantly increased when compared with the corresponding control. Some neurons projected long extending fibers that were closely associated with the blood vessels. Furthermore, at 4 weeks, the nNOS protein content and NO production as reflected by the concentration of nitrite and nitrate were drastically elevated as measured by Western blot analysis and NO colorimetric assay, respectively. In l-NAME-treated group killed at 2 weeks, the number of nNOS positive neurons was markedly reduced when compared with the controls, but the change was not significant at 4 weeks. In the latter, however, the NO production as reflected by the concentration of nitrite and nitrate was markedly reduced; in addition, the nitrotyrosine concentration was significantly lower than the control. The present results support the role of NO in the pathophysiological changes following PBOO. We suggest the potential therapeutic application of l-arginine and l-NAME in PBOO; however, ultimately balancing the bidirectional effects of NO would be essential.
The aim of the current study was to examine the effect of theta burst repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) activation during repeated functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measurements. Theta burst rTMS was applied over the right frontal eye field in seven healthy subjects. Subsequently, repeated fMRI measurements were performed during a saccade-fixation task (block design) 5, 20, 35, and 60 min after stimulation. We found that theta burst rTMS induced a strong and long-lasting decrease of the BOLD signal response of the stimulated frontal eye field at 20 and 35 min. Furthermore, less pronounced alterations of the BOLD signal response with different dynamics were found for remote oculomotor areas such as the left frontal eye field, the pre-supplementary eye field, the supplementary eye field, and both parietal eye fields. Recovery of the BOLD signal changes in the anterior remote areas started earlier than in the posterior remote areas. These results show that a) the major inhibitory impact of theta burst rTMS occurs directly in the stimulated area itself, and that b) a lower effect on remote, oculomotor areas can be induced.
Human subjects' answer to questions like &quot;what number is halfway between 2 and 8&quot; provides insights into spatial attention mechanisms involved in numerical processing. Here we show that mental numerical bisections are accompanied by a systematic pattern of horizontal eye movements: processing of a large number followed by a small number is accompanied with leftward eye movements, a tendency less pronounced or even reversed for the processing of a small number followed by a large number. The eyes thus appear to move along a left-to-right-oriented number line, indicating that shifts of attention in representational space are accompanied by an ocular motor orienting response. These results add to the growing evidence for a convergence of numerical processing, spatial attention, and movement planning in the parietal and frontal lobes. They also demonstrate the homologous relationship between our internal representations of numbers and space, and show that the concept of &quot;number space&quot; is more than a mere metaphor.
Neurons in the superior paraolivary nucleus (SPON) of the rat respond to the offset of pure tones with a brief burst of spikes. Medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) neurons, which inhibit the SPON, produce a sustained pure tone response followed by an offset response characterized by a period of suppressed spontaneous activity. This MNTB offset response is duration dependent and critical to the formation of SPON offset spikes [Kadner A, Kulesza RJ Jr, Berrebi AS (2006) Neurons in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body and superior paraolivary nucleus of the rat may play a role in sound duration coding. J Neurophysiol. 95:1499-1508; Kulesza RJ Jr, Kadner A, Berrebi AS (2007) Distinct roles for glycine and GABA in shaping the response properties of neurons in the superior paraolivary nucleus of the rat. J Neurophysiol 97:1610-1620]. Here we examine the temporal resolution of the rat's MNTB/SPON circuit by assessing its capability to i) detect gaps in tones, and ii) synchronize to sinusoidally amplitude modulated (SAM) tones. Gap detection was tested by presenting two identical pure tone markers interrupted by gaps ranging from 0 to 25 ms duration. SPON neurons responded to the offset of the leading marker even when the two markers were separated only by their ramps (i.e. a 0 ms gap); longer gap durations elicited progressively larger responses. MNTB neurons produced an offset response at gap durations of 2 ms or longer, with a subset of neurons responding to 0 ms gaps. SAM tone stimuli used the unit's characteristic frequency as a carrier, and modulation rates ranged from 40 to 1160 Hz. MNTB neurons synchronized to modulation rates up to approximately 1 kHz, whereas spiking of SPON neurons decreased sharply at modulation rates &gt;or=400 Hz. Modulation transfer functions based on spike count were all-pass for MNTB neurons and low-pass for SPON neurons; the modulation transfer functions based on vector strength were low-pass for both nuclei, with a steeper cutoff for SPON neurons. Thus, the MNTB/SPON circuit encodes episodes of low stimulus energy, such as gaps in pure tones and troughs in amplitude modulated tones. The output of this circuit consists of brief SPON spiking episodes; their potential effects on the auditory midbrain and forebrain are discussed.
The olfactory neuroepithelium represents a unique interface between the brain and the external environment. Olfactory function comprises a distinct set of molecular tasks: sensory signal transduction, cytoprotection and adult neurogenesis. A multitude of biochemical studies has revealed the central role of Ca(2+) signaling in the function of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs). We set out to establish Ca(2+)-dependent signaling networks in ORN cilia by proteomic analysis. We subjected a ciliary membrane preparation to Ca(2+)/calmodulin-affinity chromatography using mild detergent conditions in order to maintain functional protein complexes involved in olfactory Ca(2+) signaling. Thus, calmodulin serves as a valuable tool to gain access to novel Ca(2+)-regulated protein complexes. Tandem mass spectrometry (nanoscale liquid-chromatography-electrospray injection) identified 123 distinct proteins. Ninety-seven proteins (79%) could be assigned to specific olfactory functions, including 32 to sensory signal transduction and 40 to cytoprotection. We point out novel perspectives for research on the Ca(2+)-signaling networks in the olfactory system of the rat.
The roles of dopamine and cyclic-AMP regulated phosphoprotein-32 (DARPP-32) in mediating dopamine (DA)-dependent modulation of corticoaccumbens transmission and intercellular coupling were examined in mouse accumbens (NAC) neurons by both intracellular sharp electrode and whole cell recordings. In wild-type (WT) mice bath application of the D2-like agonist quinpirole resulted in 73% coupling incidence in NAC spiny neurons, compared with baseline (9%), whereas quinpirole failed to affect the basal coupling (24%) in slices from DARPP-32 knockout (KO) mice. Thus, D2 stimulation attenuated DARPP-32-mediated suppression of coupling in WT spiny neurons, but this modulation was absent in KO mice. Further, whole cell recordings revealed that quinpirole reversibly decreased the amplitude of cortical-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in spiny neurons of WT mice, but this reduction was markedly attenuated in KO mice. Bath application of the D1/D5 agonist SKF 38393 did not alter evoked EPSP amplitude in WT or KO spiny neurons. Therefore, DA D2 receptor regulation of both cortical synaptic (chemical) and local non-synaptic (dye coupling) communications in NAC spiny neurons is critically dependent on intracellular DARPP-32 cascades. Conversely, in fast-spiking interneurons, blockade of D1/D5 receptors produced a substantial decrease in EPSP amplitude in WT, but not in KO mice. Lastly, in putative cholinergic interneurons, cortical-evoked disynaptic inhibitory potentials (IPSPs) were attenuated by D2-like receptor stimulation in WT but not KO slices. These data indicate that DARPP-32 plays a central role in 1) modulating intercellular coupling, 2) cortical excitatory drive of spiny and aspiny GABAergic neurons, and 3) local feedforward inhibitory drive of cholinergic-like interneurons within accumbens circuits.
The amyloid-beta (Abeta) protein exists in the aging mammalian brain in diverse assembly states, including amyloid plaques and soluble Abeta oligomers. Both forms of Abeta have been shown to impair neuronal function, but their precise roles in Alzheimer's disease (AD) -associated memory loss remain unclear. Both types of Abeta are usually present at the same time in the brain, which has made it difficult to evaluate the effects of plaques and oligomers individually on memory function. Recently, a particular oligomeric Abeta assembly, Abeta 56, was found to impair memory function in the absence of amyloid plaques. Until now it has not been possible to determine the effects of plaques, in the absence of Abeta oligomers, on memory function. We have identified Tg2576 mice with plaques but markedly reduced levels of Abeta oligomers, which enabled us to study the effects of plaques alone on memory function. We found that animals with amyloid plaques have normal memory function throughout an episode of reduced Abeta oligomers, which occurs during a period of accelerated amyloid plaque formation. These observations support the importance of Abeta oligomers in memory loss and indicate that, at least initially, amyloid plaques do not impair memory.
Pregnant rats (starting on E5) were exposed chronically to carbon monoxide (CO) from gestational days 5-20. In the postnatal period, rat pups were grouped as follows: group A: prenatal exposure to CO only; group B: prenatal exposure to CO then exposed to CO from postnatal day (P) 5 to P20; group C, control (air without CO). Groups A and B showed similar deleterious effects after CO exposure. At P3, rat pup cochlea from group A showed a normal organization of the organ of Corti. There was no morphological deterioration, or loss of inner or outer hair cells. At P20, animals from group A and B showed vacuolization on the afferent terminals at the basal portion of the cochlea. We found synapsin-1 immunoreactivity (IR) to be decreased in efferent nerve terminals in CO-exposed pups at P3. From P12 to P20, synapsin-1-IR is low in efferent terminals. At P20, type I spiral ganglia neurons and afferent nerve fibers showed decreased neurofilament-IR in CO-exposed groups when compared with controls. Heme oxygenase-1 and superoxide dismutase-1-IR were elevated in the stria vascularis and blood vessels from CO-exposed rat pups at P12 and P20 in group B; in contrast group A showed a comparable expression to controls. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and nitrotyrosine-IR were increased in blood vessels of the cochlea in CO-exposed groups, from P3 to P20. iNOS up-regulation and the presence of nitrotyrosine in blood vessels of the cochlea indicated that CO exposure activates the production of nitric oxide via increased iNOS activity. Prenatal chronic CO exposure promotes oxidative stress in the cochlea blood vessels that in turn is reflected in damage to spiral ganglia neurons and inner hair cells, suggesting for the first time that prenatal exposure to CO at concentrations expected in poorly ventilated environments impairs the development of the inner ear.
We performed a bioinformatical analysis of protein export elements (PEXEL) in the putative proteome of the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. A protein family-specific conservation of physicochemical residue profiles was found for PEXEL-flanking sequence regions. We demonstrate that the family members can be clustered based on the flanking regions only and display characteristic hydrophobicity patterns. This raises the possibility that the flanking regions may contain additional information for a family-specific role of PEXEL. We further show that signal peptide cleavage results in a positional alignment of PEXEL from both proteins with, and without, a signal peptide.
Ion channels are multisubunit proteins responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in nerve, skeletal muscle, and heart as well as maintaining salt and water homeostasis in epithelium. The subunit composition and stoichiometry of these membrane protein complexes underlies their physiological function, as different cells pair ion-conducting alpha-subunits with specific regulatory beta-subunits to produce complexes with diverse ion-conducting and gating properties. However, determining the number of alpha- and beta-subunits in functioning ion channel complexes is challenging and often fraught with contradictory results. Here we describe the synthesis of a chemically releasable, irreversible K(+) channel inhibitor and its iterative application to tally the number of beta-subunits in a KCNQ1/KCNE1 K(+) channel complex. Using this inhibitor in electrical recordings, we definitively show that there are two KCNE subunits in a functioning tetrameric K(+) channel, breaking the apparent fourfold arrangement of the ion-conducting subunits. This digital determination rules out any measurable contribution from supra, sub, and multiple stoichiometries, providing a uniform structural picture to interpret KCNE beta-subunit modulation of voltage-gated K(+) channels and the inherited mutations that cause dysfunction. Moreover, the architectural asymmetry of the K(+) channel complex affords a unique opportunity to therapeutically target ion channels that coassemble with KCNE beta-subunits.
PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (Pink1) is a recently identified gene linked to a recessive form of familial Parkinson's disease (PD). The kinase contains a mitochondrial localization sequence and is reported to reside, at least in part, in mitochondria. However, neither the manner by which the loss of Pink1 contributes to dopamine neuron loss nor its impact on mitochondrial function and relevance to death is clear. Here, we report that depletion of Pink1 by RNAi increased neuronal toxicity induced by MPP(+). Moreover, wild-type Pink1, but not the G309D mutant linked to familial PD or an engineered kinase-dead mutant K219M, protects neurons against MPTP both in vitro and in vivo. Intriguingly, a mutant that contains a deletion of the putative mitochondrial-targeting motif was targeted to the cytoplasm but still provided protection against 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP(+))/1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced toxicity. In addition, we also show that endogenous Pink1 is localized to cytosolic as well as mitochondrial fractions. Thus, our findings indicate that Pink1 plays a functional role in the survival of neurons and that cytoplasmic targets, in addition to its other actions in the mitochondria, may be important for this protective effect.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) mental retardation is caused by loss-of-function mutations in an RNA-binding protein, fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Previous studies in patients or animal models of FXS have identified alterations in dendritic spine structure, as well as synaptic plasticity induced by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). The translation of multiple messenger RNA (mRNA) targets of FMRP is regulated by mGluRs at synapses. Here, we incorporate data from several studies into a working model of how FMRP regulates mGluR-stimulated protein synthesis and, in turn, regulates protein synthesis-dependent synaptic plasticity. Understanding the complex functions of FMRP at the synapse will lead to a better understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings of mental retardation.
A circumferential marginal zone (CMZ) of retinal progenitors has been identified in most vertebrate classes, with the exception of mammals. Little is known about the formation of the CMZ during late stages of embryonic retinal histogenesis. Thus, the purpose of this study was to characterize the formation and patterning of the CMZ in the embryonic chicken retina. We identified progenitors by assaying for the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), N-cadherin and the nestin-related filament transitin, and newly generated cells by using BrdU-birthdating. We found that there is a gradual spatial restriction of progenitors into a discreet CMZ during late stages of embryonic development between E16 and hatching, at about E21. In addition, we found that retinal neurons remain immature for prolonged periods of time in far peripheral regions of the retina. Early markers of neuronal differentiation (such as HuC/D, calretinin and visinin) are expressed by neurons that are found directly adjacent to the CMZ. By contrast, genes (protein kinase C, calbindin, red/green opsin) that are expressed with a delay (7-10 days) after terminal mitosis in the central retina are not expressed until as many as 30 days after terminal mitosis in the far peripheral retina. We conclude that the neurons that are generated by late-stage CMZ progenitors differentiate much more slowly than neurons generated during early stages of retinal development. We propose that the microenvironment within the far peripheral retina at late stages of development permits the maintenance of a zone of progenitors and slows the differentiation of neurons.
The initial step of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axon pathfinding involves directed growth of RGC axons toward the center of the retina, the optic disc, a process termed &quot;intraretinal guidance&quot;. Due to the accessibility of the system, and with various embryological, molecular and genetic approaches, significant progress has been made in recent years toward understanding the mechanisms involved in the precise guidance of the RGC axons. As axons are extending from RGCs located throughout the retina, a multitude of factors expressed along with the differentiation wave are important for the guidance of the RGC axons. To ensure that the RGC axons are oriented correctly, restricted to the optic fiber layer (OFL) of the retina, and exit the eye properly, different sets of positive and negative factors cooperate in the process. Fasciculation mediated by a number of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) and modulation of axonal response to guidance factors provide additional mechanisms to ensure proper guidance of the RGC axons. The intraretinal axon guidance thus serves as an excellent model system for studying how different signals are regulated, modulated and integrated for guiding a large number of axons in three-dimensional space.


Although heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) has been suggested to be a stress marker or to play a protective role in brain injury, the relevance of its pathological expression in epilepsy is unclear. We investigated the expression of HSP70 in brain tissue from human temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients and from kainic acid (KA)-induced seizure-related neuronal damage in vivo and in vitro. The human TLE tissue showed severe neuronal loss and gliosis in hippocampal CA3 area. The KA-induced neuronal damage was similar to pathological changes of the TLE hippocampus. An increased number of TUNEL-positive cells were observed at day 5 when compared with day 2 after seizure induction. Intense HSP70 immunofluorescence was observed in hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons of rat, 2 days following KA administration, which then declined in labeling by day 5. No HSP70 expression was found in Fluoro-Jade B positive dying neurons by double staining. Western blot analysis showed an increased level of p53 and Bax expression following KA treatment. In vitro, there was no apparent difference in the degree of apoptosis between HSP70 siRNA- and control empty vector-transfected primary neurons following KA treatment. Our results revealed that HSP70 was a useful indicator of stressed neurons in acute phase of epilepsy, but not associated with neuronal death, thereby suggesting that HSP70 played no role in neuroprotection during an epileptogenic state.


Voltage-gated Ca2+ channels (Cav) are highly expressed in the adrenal chromaffin cells of mammalian species. Besides shaping action potential waveforms, they are directly involved in the excitation-secretion coupling underlying catecholamine release and, possibly, control other Ca2+-dependent events that originate near the membrane. These functions are shared by a number of Cav channel types (L, N, P/Q, R and T) which have different structure-function characteristics and whose degree of expression changes remarkably among mammalian species. Understanding precisely the functioning of each voltage-gated Ca2+ channels is a crucial task that helps clarifying the Ca2+-dependent mechanisms controlling exocytosis during physiological and pathological conditions. In this paper, we focus on classical and new roles that L- and T-type channels play in the control of chromaffin cell excitability and neurotransmitter release. Interestingly, L-type channels are shown to be implicated in the spontaneous autorhythmicity of chromaffin cells, while T-type channels, which are absent in adult chromaffin cells, are coupled with secretion and can be recruited following long-term beta-adrenergic stimulation or chronic hypoxia. This suggests that like other cells, adrenal chromaffin cells undergo effective remodelling of membrane ion channels and cell functioning during prolonged stress conditions.



Neonatal hypoxic/ischemic (H/I) brain injury causes neurological impairment, including cognitive and motor dysfunction as well as seizures. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating neuron death after H/I injury are poorly defined and remain controversial. Here we show that Atg7, a gene essential for autophagy induction, is a critical mediator of H/I-induced neuron death. Neonatal mice subjected to H/I injury show dramatically increased autophagosome formation and extensive hippocampal neuron death that is regulated by both caspase-3-dependent and -independent execution. Mice deficient in Atg7 show nearly complete protection from both H/I-induced caspase-3 activation and neuron death indicating that Atg7 is critically positioned upstream of multiple neuronal death executioner pathways. Adult H/I brain injury also produces a significant increase in autophagy, but unlike neonatal H/I, neuron death is almost exclusively caspase-3-independent. These data suggest that autophagy plays an essential role in triggering neuronal death execution after H/I injury and Atg7 represents an attractive therapeutic target for minimizing the neurological deficits associated with H/I brain injury.
Critical to the proper maintenance of blood-brain-barrier (BBB) integrity are the endothelial tight junctions (TJs). Posttranslational modifications of essential endothelial TJ proteins, occludin and claudin-5, contribute and possibly disrupt BBB integrity. Our previous work has shown that Rho kinase (RhoK) activation mediates occludin and claudin-5 phosphorylation resulting in diminished barrier tightness and enhanced monocyte migration across BBB in the setting of human immunodeficiency virus-1 encephalitis (HIVE). To determine whether RhoK can directly phosphorylate TJ proteins, we examined phosphorylation of cytoplasmic domains of recombinant claudin-5 and occludin by RhoK. We found that RhoK predominately phosphorylated two sites on occludin (T382 and S507) and one site on claudin-5 (T207). Specific anti-phosphopeptide antibodies were developed for these sites, allowing the detection of phosphorylated occludin at T382 and S507, and claudin-5 at T207 from full-length recombinant occludin and claudin-5 transiently expressed in COS-7 cells and mouse brain microvascular endothelial cells. Finally, these phosphospecific antibodies demonstrated enhanced staining of brain endothelial cells in the mouse model for HIVE and human HIVE brains featuring mononuclear cell infiltration across disrupted BBB. Our results demonstrated the direct phosphorylation of occludin and claudin-5 by RhoK at specific sites, which was increased in encephalitic brain tissue. These antibodies could be useful reagents for monitoring BBB dysfunction in vivo.
The proposed functions of the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) are to 1) pace the slow waves and regulate their propagation, 2) mediate enteric neuronal signals to smooth muscle cells, and 3) act as mechanosensors. In addition, impairments of ICC have been implicated in diverse motility disorders. This review critically examines the available evidence for these roles and offers alternate explanations. This review suggests the following: 1) The ICC may not pace the slow waves or help in their propagation. Instead, they may help in maintaining the gradient of resting membrane potential (RMP) through the thickness of the circular muscle layer, which stabilizes the slow waves and enhances their propagation. The impairment of ICC destabilizes the slow waves, resulting in attenuation of their amplitude and impaired propagation. 2) The one-way communication between the enteric neuronal varicosities and the smooth muscle cells occurs by volume transmission, rather than by wired transmission via the ICC. 3) There are fundamental limitations for the ICC to act as mechanosensors. 4) The ICC impair in numerous motility disorders. However, a cause-and-effect relationship between ICC impairment and motility dysfunction is not established. The ICC impair readily and transform to other cell types in response to alterations in their microenvironment, which have limited effects on motility function. Concurrent investigations of the alterations in slow-wave characteristics, excitation-contraction and excitation-inhibition couplings in smooth muscle cells, neurotransmitter synthesis and release in enteric neurons, and the impairment of the ICC are required to understand the etiologies of clinical motility disorders.
Cardiac fibroblasts regulate myocardial development via mechanical, chemical, and electrical interactions with associated cardiomyocytes. The goal of this study was to identify and characterize voltage-gated K(+) (Kv) channels in neonatal rat ventricular fibroblasts. With the use of the whole cell arrangement of the patch-clamp technique, three types of voltage-gated, outward K(+) currents were measured in the cultured fibroblasts. The majority of cells expressed a transient outward K(+) current (I(to)) that activated at potentials positive to -40 mV and partially inactivated during depolarizing voltage steps. I(to) was inhibited by the antiarrhythmic agent flecainide (100 microM) and BaCl(2) (1 mM) but was unaffected by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP; 0.5 and 1 mM). A smaller number of cells expressed one of two types of kinetically distinct, delayed-rectifier K(+) currents [I(K) fast (I(Kf)) and I(K) slow (I(Ks))] that were strongly blocked by 4-AP. Application of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, to stimulate protein kinase C (PKC), inhibited I(to) but had no effect on I(Kf) and I(Ks). Immunoblot analysis revealed the presence of Kv1.4, Kv1.2, Kv1.5, and Kv2.1 alpha-subunits but not Kv4.2 or Kv1.6 alpha-subunits in the fibroblasts. Finally, pretreatment of the cells with 4-AP inhibited angiotensin II-induced intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization. Thus neonatal cardiac fibroblasts express at least three different Kv channels that may contribute to electrical/chemical signaling in these cells.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) are orexigenic peptides found in hypothalamic neurons that project throughout the forebrain and hindbrain. The effects of fourth ventricle (4V) infusions of NPY (5 microg) and MCH (5 microg) on licking for water, 4 mM saccharin, and sucrose (0.1 and 1.0 M) solutions were compared to identify the contributions of each peptide to hindbrain-stimulated feeding. NPY increased mean meal size only for the sucrose solutions, suggesting that caloric feedback or taste quality is pertinent to the orexigenic effect; MCH infusions under identical testing conditions failed to produce increases for any tastant. A second experiment also observed no intake or licking effects after MCH doses up to 15 microg, supporting the conclusion that MCH-induced orexigenic responses require forebrain stimulation. A third experiment compared the 4V NPY results with those obtained after NPY infusions (5 microg) into the third ventricle (3V). In contrast to the effects observed after the 3V NPY injections and previously reported forebrain intracerebroventricular (ICV) NPY infusion studies, 4V NPY failed to increase meal frequency for any taste solution or ingestion rate in the early phases of the sucrose meals. Overall, 4V NPY responses were limited to intrameal behavioral processes, whereas forebrain ICV NPY stimulation elicited both consummatory and appetitive responses. The dissociation between MCH and NPY effects observed for 4V injections is consistent with reports that forebrain ICV injections of MCH and NPY produced nearly dichotomous effects on the pattern of licking microstructure, and, collectively, the results indicate that the two peptides have separate sites of feeding action in the brain.
We assessed the effect of early-onset exercise as a means of preventing childhood obesity using juvenile male rats selectively bred to develop diet-induced obesity (DIO) or to be diet resistant (DR) when fed a 31% fat high-energy diet. Voluntary wheel running begun at 36 days of age selectively reduced adiposity in DIO vs. DR rats. Other 4-wk-old DIO rats fed a high-energy diet and exercised (Ex) for 13 wk increased their core temperature, gained 22% less body weight, and had 39% lighter fat pads compared with sedentary (Sed) rats. When wheels were removed after 6 wk (6 wk Ex/7 wk Sed), rats gained less body weight over the next 7 wk than Sed rats and still had comparable adipose pad weights to 13-wk-exercised rats. In fact, only 3 wk of exercise sufficed to prevent obesity for 10 wk after wheel removal. Terminally, the 6-wk-Ex/7-wk-Sed rats had a 55% increase in arcuate nucleus proopiomelanocortin mRNA expression vs. Sed rats, suggesting that this contributed to their sustained obesity resistance. Finally, when Sed rats were calorically restricted for 6 wk to weight match them to Ex rats (6 wk Rstr/7 wk Al), they increased their intake and body weight when fed ad libitum and, after 7 wk more, had higher leptin levels and adiposity than Sed rats. Thus, early-onset exercise may favorably alter, while early caloric restriction may unfavorably influence, the development of the hypothalamic pathways controlling energy homeostasis during brain development.


We have determined the role of mitochondria in the sequestration of calcium after stimulation of cerebellar granule cells with glutamate. In addition we have evaluated the neuroprotective role of taurine in excitotoxic cell death. Mitochondrial inhibitors were used to determine the calcium buffering capacity of mitochondria, as well as how taurine regulates the ability of mitochondria to buffer intracellular calcium during glutamate depolarization and excitotoxicity. We report here that pre-treatment of cerebellar granule cells with taurine (1 mM, 24 h) significantly counteracted glutamate excitotoxicity. The neuroprotective role of taurine was mediated through regulation of cytoplasmic free calcium ([Ca(2+)]( i )), and intra-mitochondrial calcium homeostasis, as determined by fluo-3 and (45)Ca(2+)-uptake. Furthermore, the overall mitochondrial function was increased in the presence of taurine, as assessed by rhodamine accumulation into mitochondria and total cellular ATP levels. We specifically tested the hypothesis that taurine reduces glutamate excitotoxicity through both the enhancement of mitochondrial function and the regulation of intracellular (cytoplasmic and intra-mitochondrial) calcium homeostasis. The role of taurine in modulating mitochondrial calcium homeostasis could be of particular importance under pathological conditions that are characterized by excessive calcium overloads. Taurine may serve as an endogenous neuroprotective molecule against brain insults.

Stroke is a major cause of death and disability in Singapore and many parts of the world. Chronic disease management programmes allow seamless care provision across a spectrum of healthcare facilities and allow appropriate services to be brought to the stroke patient and the family. Randomised controlled trials have provided evidence for efficacious interventions. After the management of acute stroke in a stroke unit, most stable stroke patients can be sent to their family physician for continued treatment and rehabilitation supervision. Disabled stroke survivors may need added home-based services. Suitable community resources will need to be harnessed. Clinic-based stroke nurses may enhance service provision and coordination. Close collaboration between the specialist and family physician would be needed to right-site patients and also allow referrals in either direction where necessary. Barriers to integration can be surmounted by trust and improved communication. Audits would allow monitoring of care provision and quality care enhancement. The Wagner model of chronic care delivery involves self-management support, shared clinical information systems, delivery system redesign, decision support, healthcare organisation and community resources. The key and critical feature is the need for an informed, activated (or motivated) patient, working in collaboration with the specialist and family physician, and a team of nursing and allied healthcare professionals across the continuum of care. The 3-year Integrating Services and Interventions for Stroke (ISIS) project funded by the Ministry of Health will test such an integrative system.

Ardipusilloside III is a saponin newly isolated from Ardisia pusilla A.DC. Since saponins have exhibited broad anti-cancer and pro-apoptotic activity, we investigated the ability of ardipusilloside III to induce apoptosis in human glioblastoma U251MG cells, as well as the involvement of apoptotic signaling pathways. Ardipusilloside III markedly suppressed proliferation of U251MG cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner (P &lt; 0.05, IC50 = 8.2 microg/ml), but did not affect the growth of primary cultures of human astrocytes. Ardipusilloside III-treated U251MG cells underwent typical apoptotic changes. Exposure to a low dose of ardipusilloside III provoked G2/M-phase cell cycle arrest, which preceded apoptosis characterized by the appearance of cells with sub-G1 DNA content. However, a higher dose of ardipusilloside III induced apoptosis without first causing cell cycle arrest. In addition, ardipusilloside III exposure resulted in time-dependent BAD dephosphorylation and cleavage as well as activation of caspase-8 and caspase-3. Therefore, both the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis, mediated by BAD dephosphorylation and cleavage, and the extrinisic pathway of apoptosis, mediated by caspase-8 and caspase-3 activation, were involved in ardipusilloside III-induced apoptosis. These data suggest that ardipusilloside III is a reliable candidate for chemotherapeutic treatment of human glioblastomas, and should be investigated further.


A key molecular pathway implicated in diverse neurodegenerative diseases is the misfolding, aggregation, and accumulation of proteins in the brain. Compelling evidence strongly supports the hypothesis that accumulation of misfolded proteins leads to synaptic dysfunction, neuronal apoptosis, brain damage, and disease. However, the mechanism by which protein misfolding and aggregation trigger neurodegeneration and the identity of the neurotoxic structure is still unclear. The aim of this article is to review the literature around the molecular mechanism and role of misfolded protein aggregates in neurodegeneration and the potential for the misfolding process to lead to a transmissible form of disease by a prion-based model of propagation.
Sex differences in the kinematic organization of non-reproductive behavior are often relegated to byproducts of sex differences in body morphology. We review evidence showing not only that male and female rats organize their posture and stepping differently during a variety of actions, but that these differences arise from sex differences in the organization of movement in the central nervous system (CNS). Indeed, the expression and choice of sex-typical patterns of movement can be altered by CNS injury. The pattern of hormonal regulation of these sex differences is also not organized as commonly held theory would predict. As expected, males castrated shortly after birth are female-typical in their motor organization. Females ovariectomized at birth, however, are male-typical in their patterns of movement. Thus, female-typical patterns of movement organization are not the default form, but rather are dependent on the effects of gonadal steroids to feminize the developing CNS. The implications of these findings are discussed with regards to our understanding of the evolution of sex differences in CNS anatomy and behavior both for animals and humans.
Hormonal manipulations indicate that early androgens organize sex differences in spatial ability in laboratory rats. In humans, spatial ability is also sexually dimorphic, and information about the effects of prenatal androgens on spatial ability can be obtained from studies of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) and the ratio of the second and fourth finger lengths (2D:4D). CAH is characterized by prenatal overproduction of adrenal androgens and several lines of evidence suggest that 2D:4D reflects prenatal androgen exposure. Some studies have found that these proxy measures of prenatal androgens predict spatial ability, others have found no significant relationship, and yet others have obtained results in the opposite direction. In light of these mixed findings, we conducted meta-analyses of published literature and unpublished results to determine if, across studies, either of these indicators of prenatal androgens predicts performance on spatial tasks that show a male advantage. In addition, we applied a trim and fill analysis to the data in search of asymmetry that might be an indication of publication bias. Results indicated that females with CAH perform better on these spatial tasks, and CAH males perform worse, than do controls. Little or no relationship exists between 2D:4D and spatial ability. Implications for possible hormonal contributions and the developmental timing of sex differences in spatial cognition are discussed.
Maternal behavior is multidimensional, encompassing many facets beyond the direct care of the young. Formerly unfamiliar activities are required of the mother. These include behaviors such as retrieving, grouping, crouching-over, and licking young, and protecting them against predators, together with enhancements in other behaviors, such as nest building, foraging, and aggression (inter/intra-species, predatory, etc.). When caring for young, the mother must strike a seemingly lose-lose bargain: leave the relative safety of the nest and her helpless offspring to forage for food and resources where predators await both mother and her vulnerable young, or remain entrenched and safe, thereby ensuring a slow and inexorable fate. Two predictions thus arise from this maternal cost-benefit ratio: first, there may be enhancements in behaviors on which the female relies, for example, predation and spatial ability, used for acquiring food and resources and for navigating her environment. Second, there may be reductions in the fear and anxiety inherent to the decision to leave the nest and to forage in an unforgiving environment where encounters with predators or reluctant/resistant prey await. There is overwhelming support for both hypotheses, with improvements in learning and memory accompanied by a diminution in stress responses and anxiety. The current review will examine the background for the phenomenon that is the maternal brain, and recent relevant data. In sum, the data indicate a remarkable set of changes that take place in the maternal (and, to a lesser extent, the paternal), brain, arguably, for the natural, simple but singular experience of reproduction.
A male advantage for spatial learning and memory tasks is well documented among humans and rodents. A possible physiological cause for this male advantage is activational effects of androgens among males. The spatial memory of eight castrated and eight sham-castrated adult male rats was compared using a working-reference memory version of the eight-arm radial arm maze followed by a reference memory version of the Morris water maze. After maze testing, blood was collected from each rat, and testosterone levels were determined using radioimmunoassay. In the radial arm maze, castrates committed significantly more working memory errors and significantly fewer reference memory errors than did shams. In the water maze, no statistically significant differences were found for acquisition or retention. There was a trend for shams with higher testosterone levels to have better retention in the water maze, but this seemed to be due to higher levels of perseverance rather than better reference memory. Castration may have affected performance in the radial arm maze and not in the water maze because the radial arm maze was a more difficult task or because the water maze was aversively motivated while the radial arm maze was appetitively motivated. Our results indicate that androgens improve working memory and may impair reference memory, but the effects of androgens on reference memory seem to be task dependent.


Autoimmunity has been demonstrated in a diverse range of peripheral neurological disorders, such as myasthenia gravis and acquired neuromyotonia. Serum antibodies found in these conditions are directed against ion channels and receptors situated on the cell surface and have been shown to produce pathogenic effects. The symptoms of these peripheral disorders have been transferred to animals by passive or active immunisation and, in humans, treated successfully with immunomodulatory therapy. Recently, a number of central nervous system disorders (CNS), such as limbic encephalitis, certain forms of epilepsy, neuromyelitis optica and cerebellar ataxia, have been hypothesised to associate with specific serum autoantibodies. In this article we consider this rapidly expanding field of CNS disorders, discuss evidence for their proposed autoimmune aetiology and review whether the antibodies detected have been shown to be pathogenic or if they are secondary to preceding neuronal damage.
Autoantibody production is an important feature of many autoimmune disorders, signifying a breakdown of immune tolerance to self-antigens. In celiac disease, an autoimmune enteropathy with multiple extra-intestinal manifestations, autoantibody reactivity to transglutaminase 2 (TG2) has been shown to closely correlate with the acute phase of the disease. It serves as a specific and sensitive marker of celiac disease, and is highly useful in aiding diagnosis and follow-up. Immune reactivity to other autoantigens, including transglutaminase 3, actin, ganglioside, collagen, calreticulin and zonulin, among others, has also been reported in celiac disease. The clinical significance of these antibodies is not known, although some may be associated with specific clinical presentations or extra-intestinal manifestations of celiac disease. This review examines the presence of anti-TG2 and other autoantibodies in celiac disease, discussing their diagnostic value, their potential role in disease pathogenesis and current hypotheses that explain how their release may be triggered.
Autophagy is a regulated pathway for bulk degradation of cytoplasmic contents and organelles, an important process involved in many physiological and pathological conditions in multiple organs, including the nervous system. It has been proposed that developing autophagosomes fuse with late endosomal compartments before their fusion with lysosomes; however, little is known about the functional relationship between the autophagy and endocytic pathways. In the endosomal-lysosomal pathway, a key step in sorting transmembrane cargo proteins is regulated by multimeric complexes called ESCRT (endosomal sorting complex required for transport). We recently reported that dysfunction of ESCRT-III, either by depletion of its essential subunit mSnf7-2 or by expression of a mutant CHMP2B protein associated with frontotemporal dementia linked to chromosome 3 (FTD3), caused autophagosome accumulation and dendritic retraction before neurodegeneration in cultured mature cortical neurons. This defect is likely a result of an abnormal fusion process between autophagosomes and endosomal compartments or lysosomes. This study suggests that defects in the late steps of the autophagy pathway may contribute to the pathogenesis of FTD and potentially other neurodegenerative diseases.

Our understanding of the sense of taste is largely based on research designed and interpreted in terms of the traditional four &quot;basic&quot; tastes: sweet, sour, salty, and bitter, and now a few more. This concept of basic tastes has no rational definition to test, and thus it has not been tested. As a demonstration, a preliminary attempt to test one common but arbitrary psychophysical definition of basic tastes is included in this article; that the basic tastes are unique in being able to account for other tastes. This definition was falsified in that other stimuli do about as well as the basic words and stimuli. To the extent that this finding might show analogies with other studies of receptor, neural, and psychophysical phenomena, the validity of the century-long literature of the science of taste based on a few &quot;basics&quot; is called into question. The possible origins, meaning, and influence of this concept are discussed. Tests of the model with control studies are suggested in all areas of taste related to basic tastes. As a stronger alternative to the basic tradition, the advantages of the across-fiber pattern model are discussed; it is based on a rational data-based hypothesis, and has survived attempts at falsification. Such &quot;population coding&quot; has found broad acceptance in many neural systems.
Most mammalian infants vocalize when isolated. The vocalization promotes caregiver proximity, which is critical to survival. If, before isolation, a rat pup has contact with its dam, its isolation vocalization rate is increased (maternal potentiation) relative to isolation preceded only by littermate contact. Prior work showed that systemic administration of a D2 receptor agonist blocks maternal potentiation at doses that do not alter baseline vocalization. In this study, infusion of quinpirole (2 microg/side) into the nucleus accumbens also blocks maternal potentiation. Infusion of the accumbens with the D2 antagonist raclopride (4 microg/side) prevents systemic quinpirole from blocking potentiation. Quinpirole infusion in the dorsal striatum did not affect maternal potentiation and infusion of raclopride in the dorsal striatum did not reverse the block of maternal potentiation by systemic quinpirole. Vocalization results after a second vehicle infusion on a given day are no different than the results following an initial vehicle infusion, so experimental design can not account for the effects of drug infusions. Because activity level was increased by both dorsal and ventral striatum infusions, activity level can not account for the results.
The central nucleus (CE) of the amygdala has been gaining attention for its importance in the plasticity underlying conditioned emotional responding. Already known for its role in nictitating membrane response (NMR) reflex facilitation, the CE may also be involved in conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM)--changes in the NMR to the unconditioned stimulus (US) when tested in the absence of the conditioned stimulus following classical conditioning. To examine the CE's role in acquisition and/or expression of CRM, the authors temporarily inactivated the CE of rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) with muscimol during NMR conditioning and/or during US testing. Results show that CRM was abolished by inactivation during US testing but intact following inactivation during NMR conditioning, suggesting that the CE is involved in CRM expression. Also, inactivation during conditioning delayed the development of conditioned NMRs. These findings show that the CE may act as an output center for expression of emotional responding in one situation (CRM) but is involved in facilitating plasticity in another (NMR conditioning). The authors propose that analysis of CRM may be an important corollary to current models for the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder.
This study investigated the role of the dorsomedial striatum (DMS) on the acquisition of a context-specific inhibitory association acquired during training on a simple visual discrimination task. The authors have previously shown that this inhibitory association depends on the circuitry of the ventral hippocampus. The authors were interested in the anatomical and functional relationship between the hippocampus and DMS and the potential contribution the DMS makes to this inhibitory behavior. Rats with neurotoxic lesions of the DMS, or shams, were assessed on the acquisition of a visual discrimination task. Following asymptotic performance, they were given reversal training in the same or different context from the original training. The results indicated that the rats with DMS damage showed an exaggerated context-specific inhibition effect. The rats with DMS damage were also impaired on a simultaneously trained tactile/spatial discrimination, a functional effect linked to a neural circuit that includes the dorsal hippocampus. A discussion of potential pathways and mechanisms for these different effects is presented.
Although there are similarities in the clinical presentation of adolescent and adult depression, there are differences in the biological correlates and the responses to pharmacologic treatment. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor-type antidepressants are efficacious, but tricyclic antidepressants have no or limited efficacy in treating adolescent patients. The forced swim test (FST) is a widely accepted animal model used to screen drugs for antidepressant activity. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants produce differential effects in peripubertal and adult rats, as is found in adolescent and adult humans. The objective of the study was to test the hypothesis that the tricyclic antidepressant desmethylimipramine (DMI) would show efficacy in the FST in adult, but not in peripubertal, rats. Thirty-day-old (peripubertal) and 112-day-old (young adult) rats were pretreated with saline or DMI and subjected to the FST. DMI reduced the amount of floating behavior and increased the amount of climbing behavior in both peripubertal and adult rats. Thus, the tricyclic antidepressant DMI has antidepressant-like activity in peripubertal rats in the FST. Owing to the discrepancy between the preclinical and clinical data, the predictive validity of the FST might need to be reevaluated across different age groups.
Maze Suite is a complete set of tools that enables researchers to perform spatial and navigational behavioral experiments within interactive, easy-to-create, and extendable (e.g., multiple rooms) 3-D virtual environments. Maze Suite can be used to design and edit adapted 3-D environments, as well as to track subjects' behavioral performance. Maze Suite consists of three main applications: an editing program for constructing maze environments (MazeMaker), a visualization/rendering module (MazeWalker), and an analysis and mapping tool (MazeViewer). Each of these tools is run and used from a graphical user interface, thus making editing, execution, and analysis user friendly. MazeMaker is a .NET architecture application that can easily be used to create new 3-D environments and to edit objects (e.g., geometric shapes, pictures, landscapes, etc.) or add them to the environment effortlessly. In addition, Maze Suite has the capability of sending signal-out pulses to physiological recording devices, using standard computer ports. Maze Suite, with all three applications, is a unique and complete toolset for researchers who want to easily and rapidly deploy interactive 3-D environments.
SePP (selenoprotein P) is central for selenium transport and distribution. Targeted inactivation of the Sepp gene in mice leads to reduced selenium content in plasma, kidney, testis and brain. Accordingly, activities of selenoenzymes are reduced in Sepp(-/-) organs. Male Sepp(-/-) mice are infertile. Unlike selenium deficiency, Sepp deficiency leads to neurological impairment with ataxia and seizures. Hepatocyte-specific inactivation of selenoprotein biosynthesis reduces plasma and kidney selenium levels similarly to Sepp(-/-) mice, but does not result in neurological impairment, suggesting a physiological role of locally expressed SePP in the brain. In an attempt to define the role of liver-derived circulating SePP in contrast with locally expressed SePP, we generated Sepp(-/-) mice with transgenic expression of human SePP under control of a hepatocyte-specific transthyretin promoter. Secreted human SePP was immunologically detectable in serum from SEPP1-transgenic mice. Selenium content and selenoenzyme activities in serum, kidney, testis and brain of Sepp(-/-;SEPP1) (SEPP1-transgenic Sepp(-/-)) mice were increased compared with Sepp(-/-) controls. When a selenium-adequate diet (0.16-0.2 mg/kg of body weight) was fed to the mice, liver-specific expression of SEPP1 rescued the neurological defects of Sepp(-/-) mice and rendered Sepp(-/-) males fertile. When fed on a low-selenium diet (0.06 mg/kg of body weight), Sepp(-/-;SEPP1) mice survived 4 weeks longer than Sepp(-/-) mice, but ultimately developed the neurodegenerative phenotype. These results indicate that plasma SePP derived from hepatocytes is the main transport form of selenium supporting the kidney, testis and brain. Nevertheless, local Sepp expression is required to maintain selenium content in selenium-privileged tissues such as brain and testis during dietary selenium restriction.
The development of the neural crest is orchestrated by a complex interplay between intercellular signalling molecules and transcription factors. Here, we demonstrate a direct interaction between two such factors, the paired-type transcription factor Pax3 and the secretory glycoprotein Wnt1. We found that the Wnt1 promoter can be regulated by Pax3 in a dose-dependent manner. Sequence analysis predicted a conserved binding site for Pax3 within the Wnt1 promoter region. Deletion or mutation of this sequence abolished the promoter response to Pax3. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays, we demonstrated that Pax3 interacts with the Wnt1 promoter in vivo. These data indicate that Pax3 directly regulates the expression of Wnt1 in the developing embryo.
Electromagnetic sensibility refers to the ability to perceive the electromagnetic field (EMF) without necessarily developing health symptoms attributed to EMF exposure. A large sample of young healthy adults (n = 84) performed two forced-choice tasks on the perception of the GSM mobile phone EMF (902 MHz pulsed at 217 Hz), &quot;Was the field on?&quot; and &quot;Did the field change?&quot; (3 conditions x 100 trials for each task, n = 600 trials in total). A monetary prize was announced for good performance (correct response rate &gt; or =75%, n = 600 trials). The performance was no better than expected by chance, and thus none of the participants won the prize. Two participants showed extraordinary performance in one of the task conditions (&quot;Was the field on?&quot;, n = 100 trials), with correct response rates of 97% (P = 1.28 x 10(-25)) and 94% (P = 9.40 x 10(-22)), but they failed to replicate the result in the retest of six blocks of the same condition 1 month later. Six participants had reported being able to perceive the mobile phone EMF in the preliminary inquiry, but they performed no better than the others. This study provides empirical evidence against the existence of electromagnetic sensibility to the mobile phone EMF, demonstrating the necessity for replication in EMF studies.
This study investigated whether the SAR value is a purchase-relevant characteristic of mobile phones for laypersons and what effect the disclosure of a precautionary SAR value has on laypersons' risk perception. The study consisted of two parts: Study part 1 used a conjoint analysis design to explore the relevance of the SAR value and other features of mobile phones for an intended buying decision. Study part 2 used an experimental, repeated measures design to examine the effect of the magnitude of SAR values and the disclosure of a precautionary SAR value on risk perception. In addition, the study included an analysis of prior concerns of the study participants with regard to mobile phone risks. Part 1 indicates that the SAR value has a high relevance for laypersons' purchase intentions. In the experimental purchase setting it ranks even before price and equipment features. The results of study part 2 show that providing information of a precautionary limit value does not influence risk perception. This result suggests that laypersons' underlying subjective &quot;safety model&quot; for mobile phones resembles more a &quot;margin of safety&quot; concept than a threshold concept. The latter observation holds true no matter how concerned the participants are.
The discovery of neurogenesis and neural stem cells (NSC) in the adult CNS has overturned a long-standing and deep-routed &quot;dogma&quot; in neuroscience, established at the beginning of the 20(th) century. This dogma lasted for almost 90 years and died hard when NSC were finally isolated from the adult mouse brain. The scepticism in accepting adult neurogenesis has now turned into a rush to find applications to alleviate or cure the devastating diseases that affect the CNS. Here we highlight a number of methodological, technical and conceptual drawbacks responsible for the historical denial of adult neurogenesis. Furthermore, we discuss old and new issues that need to be faced before NSC or endogenous neurogenesis can safely enter into the doctor's bag for therapies.
Understanding the gene networks that orchestrate the differentiation of retinal progenitors into photoreceptors in the developing retina is important not only due to its therapeutic applications in treating retinal degeneration but also because the developing retina provides an excellent model for studying CNS development. Although several studies have profiled changes in gene expression during normal retinal development, these studies offer at best only a starting point for functional studies focused on a smaller subset of genes. The large number of genes profiled at comparatively few time points makes it extremely difficult to reliably infer gene networks from a gene expression dataset. We describe a novel approach to identify and prioritize from multiple gene expression datasets, a small subset of the genes that are likely to be good candidates for further experimental investigation. We report progress on addressing this problem using a novel approach to querying multiple large-scale expression datasets using a 'seed network' consisting of a small set of genes that are implicated by published studies in rod photoreceptor differentiation. We use the seed network to identify and sort a list of genes whose expression levels are highly correlated with those of multiple seed network genes in at least two of the five gene expression datasets. The fact that several of the genes in this list have been demonstrated, through experimental studies reported in the literature, to be important in rod photoreceptor function provides support for the utility of this approach in prioritizing experimental targets for further experimental investigation. Based on Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway annotations for the list of genes obtained in the context of other information available in the literature, we identified seven genes or groups of genes for possible inclusion in the gene network involved in differentiation of retinal progenitor cells into rod photoreceptors. Our approach to querying multiple gene expression datasets using a seed network constructed from known interactions between specific genes of interest provides a promising strategy for focusing hypothesis-driven experiments using large-scale 'omics' data.




L-Theanine is an amino acid found naturally in tea. Despite the common consumption of L-theanine, predominantly in combination with caffeine in the form of tea, only one study to date has examined the cognitive effects of this substance alone, and none have examined its effects when combined with caffeine. The present randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, balanced crossover study investigated the acute cognitive and mood effects of L-theanine (250 mg), and caffeine (150 mg), in isolation and in combination. Salivary caffeine levels were co-monitored. L-Theanine increased 'headache' ratings and decreased correct serial seven subtractions. Caffeine led to faster digit vigilance reaction time, improved Rapid Visual Information Processing (RVIP) accuracy and attenuated increases in self-reported 'mental fatigue'. In addition to improving RVIP accuracy and 'mental fatigue' ratings, the combination also led to faster simple reaction time, faster numeric working memory reaction time and improved sentence verification accuracy. 'Headache' and 'tired' ratings were reduced and 'alert' ratings increased. There was also a significant positive caffeine x L-theanine interaction on delayed word recognition reaction time. These results suggest that beverages containing L-theanine and caffeine may have a different pharmacological profile to those containing caffeine alone.
Non-peptidic compounds containing the octahydro-indolo[4,3-fg]quinoline (ergoline) structural element have been optimized into derivatives with high affinity (pK(d) r sst(1)&gt;9) and selectivity (&gt;1000-fold for h sst(1) over h sst(2)-h sst(5)) for the somatostatin sst(1) receptor. In functional assays, these ergolines act as antagonists at human recombinant sst(1) receptors. Pharmacokinetic studies in rodents reveal good oral bioavailability and brain penetration for some of these compounds.
Over the last decade, a number of distinct mutations in the mtDNA (mitochondrial DNA) have been found to be associated with both syndromic and non-syndromic forms of hearing impairment. Their real incidence as a cause of deafness is poorly understood and generally underestimated. Among the known mtDNA mutations, the A1555G mutation in the 12S gene has been identified to be one of the most common genetic cause of deafness, and it has been described to be both associated to non-syndromic progressive SNHL (sensorineural hearing loss) and to aminoglycoside-induced SNHL. In the present study, we have investigated the presence of mtDNA alterations in patients affected by idiopathic non-syndromic SNHL, both familiar and sporadic, in order to evaluate the frequency of mtDNA alterations as a cause of deafness and to describe the audiological manifestations of mitochondrial non-syndromic SNHL. In agreement with previous studies, we found the A1555G mutation to be responsible for a relevant percentage (5.4%) of cases affected with isolated idiopathic sensorineural hearing impairment.
Autonomous systems are the result of self-sustaining processes of constitution of an identity under precarious circumstances. They may transit through different modes of dynamical engagement with their environment, from committed ongoing coping to open susceptibility to external demands. This paper discusses these two statements and presents examples of models of autonomous behaviour using methods in evolutionary robotics. A model of an agent capable of issuing self-instructions demonstrates the fragility of modelling autonomy as a function rather than as a property of a system's organization. An alternative model of behavioural preference based on homeostatic adaptation avoids this problem by establishing a mutual constraining between lower-level processes (neural dynamics and sensorimotor interaction) and higher-level metadynamics (experience-dependent, homeostatic triggering of local plasticity and re-organization). The results of these models are lessons about how strong autonomy should be approached: neither as a function, nor as a matter of external vs. internal determination.


Prothrombotic conditions are associated with ischemic stroke in young women. In particular, the combination of oral contraceptive use and prothrombotic genetic variants appears to increase the risk of ischemic stroke. We performed a population-based case-control study in 190 women aged 20 to 49 years with ischemic stroke and 767 women without cardiovascular disease stratified for age, calendar year of the index event, and residence. A total of 4 variants of coagulation factor XIII subunit A and B genes (F13A1 and F13B) were investigated. The Phe allele of the F13A1 Tyr204Phe variant was present in 59 (31%) patients and 43 (6%) controls; the odds ratio for ischemic stroke was 9.1 for Phe/Phe and Phe/Tyr versus Tyr/Tyr genotype; the 95% confidence interval was 5.5 to 15. Homozygous genotypes (Phe/Phe) conferred a higher risk (odds ratio, 77; 95% confidence interval, 7.0-848) than heterozygous (Tyr/Phe) genotypes (odds ratio, 8.2; 95% confidence interval, 4.9-14). The risk of ischemic stroke was further increased in carriers of the 204Phe allele using oral contraceptives (odds ratio, 20; 95% confidence interval, 9-46) compared with nonusers with Tyr/Tyr genotype. In conclusion, the F13A1 204Phe allele was strongly associated with ischemic stroke in young women. Oral contraceptive use further increased the risk of ischemic stroke.

Depression is one of the most common mental illnesses and has a high impact on individuals and society. Despite the numerous treatment approaches, poor response combined with the burden of residual symptoms negatively affects the overall outcome. Novel pharmacological approaches could help to address this issue.
We report the case of a 51-year-old woman who underwent excision of a left postero-inferior, para-vermian cerebellar hemangioblastoma and foramen magnum decompression for an associated acquired Chiari I malformation. Two weeks postoperatively she developed a pseudomeningocele, bilateral supra- and infratentorial subdural hygromata, and a clinical disorder compatible with the cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome. There was no response to drainage of the left supratentorial collection. CSF aspiration from a pseudomeningocele lead to resolution of her syndrome and the subdural effusions. The relationships between the subdural hygromas, pseudomeningocele, location of the lesion within the cerebellum, cerebellar oedema, and the cause of her cognitive-affective syndrome are discussed.
Primary intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) is associated with considerable morbidity and mortality. Local endothelin release following ICH may contribute to the pathophysiology of perilesional ischaemia. In diabetics, endothelin release can be enhanced by hyperglycaemia and cerebrovascular dilation may be inhibited by vascular endothelial dysfunction. To examine the effects of endothelin-mediated vasoconstriction after spontaneous ICH in the normal and diabetic brain, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was examined in insulin dependent BB-rats and non-diabetic BB control rats. These experiments were performed 24 h following experimental ICH in both groups of animals that were either given the endothelin antagonist SB209670 or saline. Perilesional oligaemia was similar in control and SB209670 treated diabetic rats, but SB209670 reduced perilesional oligaemia in normal rats. In brain contralateral to the experimental ICH, rCBF was increased by SB209670 in diabetic rats, but not in non-diabetic rats. These studies show that there are differences in the cerebrovascular effects of endothelin in perilesional and contralateral brain in non-diabetic and diabetic rats following ICH.
Pneumocephalus is the presence of air within the intracranial vault. Intraventricular pneumocephalus, also known as pneumoventricle is relatively rare and commonly occurs following cerebrospinal fluid diversion procedures. This may occur immediately or be delayed. Although a small amount of pneumoventriculus is asymptomatic and may not require any treatment, when present under tension it needs to be evacuated. We present a case of tension pneumoventricle following exposure of the shunt chamber, which resulted in deterioration of the patients' neurological condition and required evacuation.


The concept of intuition has, until recently, received scant scholarly attention within and beyond the psychological sciences, despite its potential to unify a number of lines of inquiry. Presently, the literature on intuition is conceptually underdeveloped and dispersed across a range of domains of application, from education, to management, to health. In this article, we clarify and distinguish intuition from related constructs, such as insight, and review a number of theoretical models that attempt to unify cognition and affect. Intuition's place within a broader conceptual framework that distinguishes between two fundamental types of human information processing is explored. We examine recent evidence from the field of social cognitive neuroscience that identifies the potential neural correlates of these separate systems and conclude by identifying a number of theoretical and methodological challenges associated with the valid and reliable assessment of intuition as a basis for future research in this burgeoning field of inquiry.
The development of biomarkers for the diagnosis and monitoring disease progression in Parkinson's disease (PD) is of great importance since diagnosis based on clinical parameters has a considerable error rate. In this study, we utilized metabolomic profiling using high performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical coulometric array detection (LCECA) to look for biomarkers in plasma useful for the diagnosis of PD. We examined 25 controls and 66 PD patients. We also measured 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels as a marker of oxidative damage to DNA. We initially examined the profiles of unmedicated PD subjects compared to controls to rule out confounding effects of symptomatic medications. We found a complete separation of the two groups. We then determined the variables, which played the greatest role in separating the two groups and applied them to PD subjects taking dopaminergic medications. Using these parameters, we achieved a complete separation of the PD patients from controls. 8-OHdG levels were significantly increased in PD patients, but overlapped controls. Two other markers of oxidative damage were measured in our LCECA profiles. Uric acid was significantly reduced while glutathione was significantly increased in PD patients. These findings show that metabolomic profiling with LCECA coulometric array has great promise for developing biomarkers for both the diagnosis, as well as monitoring disease progression in PD.
With ageing, an increasingly disturbed sleep is reported as a significant complaint affecting the health and well-being of many people. The available treatments for sleep disturbance have their limitations, so we have adopted a different approach to the improvement of sleep. Since in animal and human studies skin warming has been found to increase neuronal activity in brain areas that are critically involved in sleep regulation, we investigated whether subtle skin temperature manipulations could improve human sleep. By employing a thermosuit to control skin temperature during nocturnal sleep, we demonstrate that induction of a mere 0.4 degrees C increase in skin temperature, whilst not altering core temperature, suppresses nocturnal wakefulness (P&lt;0.001) and shifts sleep to deeper stages (P&lt;0.001) in young and, especially, in elderly healthy and insomniac participants. Elderly subjects showed such a pronounced sensitivity, that the induced 0.4 degrees C increase in skin temperature was sufficient to almost double the proportion of nocturnal slow wave sleep and to decrease the probability of early morning awakening from 0.58 to 0.04. Therefore, skin warming strongly improved the two most typical age-related sleep problems; a decreased slow wave sleep and an increased risk of early morning awakening. EEG frequency spectra showed enhancement of low-frequency cortical oscillations. The results indicate that subtle feedback control of in-bed temperature through very mild manipulations could have strong clinical relevance in the management of disturbed sleep especially in the elderly, who have an attenuated behavioural response to suboptimal environmental temperature, which may hamper them from taking appropriate action to optimize their bed temperature.
Russian scientists are certainly among those who contributed actively to the search for the neuroanatomical basis of exceptional mental capacity and talent. Research into brain anatomy was one of the topics of special interest in various Russian universities. A number of independent reports on the study of famous Russian brains appeared both in Russia and abroad. Collecting and mapping brains of elite Russians in a structured manner began in Moscow in 1924 with the brain of V. I. Lenin. In 1928, the Moscow Brain Research Institute was founded, the collection of which includes the brains of several prominent Russian neuroscientists, including V. M. Bekhterev, G. I. Rossolimo, L. S. Vygotsky and I. P. Pavlov. The fact that the brain of two of the most outstanding scholars of Russian neurology and psychiatry, A. Ya. Kozhevnikov (1836-1902) and S. S. Korsakov (1854-1900), have been studied is largely unknown. A report of the results of this study was published by A. A. Kaputsin in 1925 providing a detailed neuroanatomical assessment of the brains. A considerable weight, a predominance of the left hemisphere and a particularly complex convolution of the frontal and parietal lobes of both brains were reported, the assumption being that these brain parameters can serve as an indicator of mental capacity. The names Kozhevnikov and Korsakov are among those most cherished by Russian neuroscientists; they are also familiar to Western colleagues. The (re)discovery of the records of the brain autopsies is meaningful, maybe not so much from a neuroanatomical point of view as from a historical perspective.
Cognitive deficits occur even in the earliest stages of Parkinson's disease. Some such deficits are known to relate to dysfunction in dopaminergic frontostriatal networks, and may be influenced by a common functional polymorphism (val(158)met) within the catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene. Abnormal attentional shifting behaviour is an important and well-recognized cognitive problem in PD, but nonetheless its precise cognitive and neural basis remains unclear. Here we explored this impairment in an fMRI study employing a recently developed cognitive task designed to fractionate components of attentional control. We investigated the impact of the COMT val(158)met genotype and dopaminergic medication on both patterns of behaviour and associated brain activation in 29 medicated patients with early PD. Genotype had a critical impact on task strategy: whilst patients with high activity COMT genotypes (val/val) adopted a typical approach of preferentially shifting attention within rather than between dimensions, those with low activity genotypes (met/met) failed to adopt such a strategy, suggesting an inability to form an attentional 'set'. Moreover, this behaviour was associated with significant underactivation across the frontoparietal attentional network. Furthermore, we demonstrated an interactive effect of COMT genotype and dopaminergic medication on task performance and BOLD response. Hence we have shown for the first time that attentional control in PD is critically determined by genetic and pharmacological influences on dopaminergic activity in frontoparietal networks. This has important implications for understanding the neurobiological basis of attentional control, and highlights the risk of medication-induced cognitive dysfunction in certain genotypic groups of PD patients, which may ultimately impact on clinical practice.
Pallido-nigro-luysial atrophy (PNLA) is a rare disorder that in many cases has histopathological features similar to progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). In a pathological series of over 400 cases of PSP, eight cases were noted to have features similar to those described in PNLA, including severe atrophy and neuronal loss in the globus pallidus, substantia nigra and subthalamic nucleus, in addition to many axonal spheroids in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra. These eight cases of PSP-PNLA were compared to 11 typical PSP cases with quantitative neuropathologic indices and assessment of demographics, clinical features and the timing of clinical features. PSP-PNLA cases were younger, had longer disease duration and more often were not initially diagnosed with PSP; in the end, they did not differ from PSP with respect to any major clinical feature. The clinical course of PSP-PNLA, however, was different, with earlier gait abnormalities and difficulty with handwriting, but later falls, rigidity and dysphagia than PSP. Pathologically, the same types of lesions were detected in both PSP and PSP-PNLA, but there were differences in the distribution and density of tau-pathology, with less tau-pathology in motor cortex, striatum, pontine nuclei and cerebellum in PSP-PNLA. These clinical and pathological findings suggest that PSP-PNLA should be considered a variant of PSP.
Epilepsy surgery has been questioned for patients with low IQ, since a low cognitive level is taken to indicate a widespread disturbance of cerebral function with unsatisfactory prognosis following resective surgery. The prevalence of epilepsy in patients with cognitive dysfunction is, however, higher than in the general population and the epilepsy is often more severe and difficult to treat. It is therefore important to try to clarify whether IQ predicts seizure outcome after resective epilepsy surgery. The Swedish National Epilepsy Surgery Register, which includes data on all epilepsy surgery procedures in Sweden since 1990, was analysed for all resective procedures performed 1990-99. Sustained seizure freedom with or without aura at the 2-year follow-up was analysed as a function of pre-operative IQ level categorized as IQ &lt;50, IQ 50-69 and IQ &gt;or=70 and was also adjusted for the following variables: age at epilepsy onset, age at surgery, pre-operative seizure frequency, pre-operative neurological impairment, resection type and histopathological diagnosis. Four hundred and forty-eight patients underwent resective epilepsy surgery in Sweden from 1990 to 1999 and completed the 2-year follow-up: 72 (16%) had IQ &lt;70, (18 with IQ &lt;50 and 54 with IQ 50-69) and 376 IQ &gt;or=70. There were 313 adults and 135 children &lt;or=18 years. Three hundred and twenty-five patients underwent temporal lobe resections (TLR) and 123 underwent various extratemporal resections (XTLR). At the 2-year follow-up, 56% (252/448) of the patients were seizure free: 22% (4/18) in the IQ &lt;50 group, 37% (20/54) in the IQ 50-69 group and 61% (228/376) in the IQ &gt;or=70 group. There was a significant relation between IQ category and seizure freedom [odds ratio (OR) 0.41, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.27-0.62] and this held also when adjusting for clinical variables [OR 0.58 (95% CI 0.35-0.95)]. In this population-based epilepsy surgery series, IQ level was shown to be an independent predictor of seizure freedom at the 2-year follow-up. However, many of the low-IQ patients benefit from surgery, especially patients with lesions. Low IQ should not exclude patients from resective epilepsy surgery, but is an important prognostic factor to consider in the counselling process.
An important component of psychoneuroimmunology research is to reveal the myriad ways that behaviors and health are inter-related, with a focus on the immunological mechanisms that underlie these interactions. Research in human psychoneuroimmunology has shown that immunoregulatory processes are an integral part of a complex network of adaptive responses. As such, this review provides a perspective from our laboratory over the last 20 years to define the inter-relationships between behavior and immunity; to identify the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) and autonomic mechanisms that link the central nervous system and immune responses; to examine the clinical implications of immune alterations during depression or life stress on inflammatory and infectious disease risk; and to explore the reciprocal role of immune mediators on behavior in humans.
Feline defensive rage, a form of aggressive behavior that occurs in response to a threat can be elicited by electrical stimulation of the medial hypothalamus or midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG). Our laboratory has recently begun a systematic examination of the role of cytokines in the regulation of rage and aggressive behavior. It was shown that the cytokine, interleukin-2 (IL-2), differentially modulates defensive rage when microinjected into the medial hypothalamus and PAG by acting through separate neurotransmitter systems. The present study sought to determine whether a similar relationship exists with respect to interleukin 1-beta (IL-1 beta), whose receptor activation in the medial hypothalamus potentiates defensive rage. Thus, the present study identified the effects of administration of IL-1 beta into the PAG upon defensive rage elicited from the medial hypothalamus. Microinjections of IL-1 beta into the dorsal PAG significantly facilitated defensive rage behavior elicited from the medial hypothalamus in a dose and time dependent manner. In addition, the facilitative effects of IL-1 beta were blocked by pre-treatment with anti-IL-1 beta receptor antibody, while IL-1 beta administration into the PAG had no effect upon predatory attack elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. The findings further demonstrated that IL-1 beta's effects were mediated through 5-HT(2) receptors since pretreatment with a 5-HT(2C) receptors antagonist blocked the facilitating effects of IL-1 beta. An extensive pattern of labeling of IL-1 beta and 5-HT(2C) receptors in the dorsal PAG supported these findings. The present study demonstrates that IL-beta in the dorsal PAG, similar to the medial hypothalamus, potentiates defensive rage behavior and is mediated through a 5-HT(2C) receptor mechanism.
To examine the neural correlates and timing of human visual awareness, we recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) in two experiments while the observers were detecting a grey dot that was presented near subjective threshold. ERPs were averaged for conscious detections of the stimulus (hits) and nondetections (misses) separately. Our results revealed that hits, as compared to misses, showed a negativity around 180-350 ms at occipital and posterior temporal sites. It was followed by a positive wave after 400-500 ms, peaking at parietal sites. These correlates were not affected by a manipulation of attention. The early negativity, called 'visual awareness negativity' (VAN), may be a general, primary electrophysiological correlate of visual awareness. The present data show that it can be observed in response to appearance of a stimulus in visual awareness and that it generalizes across different manipulations of stimulus visibility.
Deficits in working memory have been shown to contribute to poor performance on the Iowa Gambling Task [IGT: Bechara, A., &amp; Martin, E.M. (2004). Impaired decision making related to working memory deficits in individuals with substance addictions. Neuropsychology, 18, 152-162]. Similarly, a secondary memory load task has been shown to impair task performance [Hinson, J., Jameson, T. &amp; Whitney, P. (2002). Somatic markers, working memory, and decision making. Cognitive, Affective, &amp; Behavioural Neuroscience, 2, 341-353]. In the present study, we investigate whether the latter findings were due to increased random responding [Franco-Watkins, A. M., Pashler, H., &amp; Rickard, T. C. (2006). Does working memory load lead to greater impulsivity? Commentary on Hinson, Jameson, and Whitney's (2003). Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory &amp; Cognition, 32, 443-447]. Participants were tested under Low Working Memory (LWM; n=18) or High Working Memory (HWM; n=17) conditions while performing the Reversed IGT in which punishment was immediate and reward delayed [Bechara, A., Dolan, S., &amp; Hindes, A. (2002). Decision making and addiction (part II): Myopia for the future or hypersensitivity to reward? Neuropsychologia, 40, 1690-1705]. In support of a role for working memory in emotional decision making, compared to the LWM condition, participants in the HWM condition made significantly greater number of disadvantageous selections than that predicted by chance. Performance by the HWM group could not be fully explained by random responding.
We used fMRI to directly compare activation in two cortical regions previously identified as relevant to real-world scene processing: retrosplenial cortex and a region of posterior parahippocampal cortex functionally defined as the parahippocampal place area (PPA). We compared activation in these regions to full views of scenes from a global perspective, close-up views of sub-regions from the same scene category, and single objects highly diagnostic of that scene category. Faces were included as a control condition. Activation in parahippocampal place area was greatest for full scene views that explicitly included the 3D spatial structure of the environment, with progressively less activation for close-up views of local scene regions containing diagnostic objects but less explicitly depicting 3D scene geometry, followed by single scene-diagnostic objects. Faces did not activate parahippocampal place area. In contrast, activation in retrosplenial cortex was greatest for full scene views, and did not differ among close-up views, diagnostic objects, and faces. The results showed that parahippocampal place area responds in a graded fashion as images become more completely scene-like and include more explicit 3D structure, whereas retrosplenial cortex responds in a step-wise manner to the presence of a complete scene. These results suggest scene processing areas are particularly sensitive to the 3D geometric structure that distinguishes scenes from other types of complex and meaningful visual stimuli.
MOVE problems, like the Tower of London (TOL) or the Water Jug (WJ) task, are planning tasks that appear structurally similar and are assumed to involve similar cognitive processes. Carder et al. [Carder, H.P., Handley, S.J., &amp; Perfect, T.J. ( 2004). Deconstructing the Tower of London: Alternative moves and conflict resolution as predictors of task performance. The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 57a, 8, 1459-1483] showed that one predictor of TOL performance was the number of alternative move choices there were at a given point in the solution. In two experiments an individual move experienced on the WJ task was manipulated (perceptually consistent/counterintuitive) along with the number of alternative moves there were to choose between. A verification paradigm was employed in which participants made speeded judgements about the correctness of a move. Results showed performance was consistent with the application of a perceptual strategy accompanied by a process involving the evaluation of non-redundant alternative moves. These are discussed in the context of recent research that has examined the impact of executive dysfunction on Water Jug performance [Colvin, M.K., Dunbar, K., &amp; Grafman, J. (2001). The effects of frontal lobe lesions on goal achievement in the Water Jug task. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 13, 1129-1147].
Dutch speakers with agrammatic Broca's aphasia are known to have problems with the production of finite verbs in main clauses. This performance pattern has been accounted for in terms of the specific syntactic complexity of the Dutch main clause structure, which requires an extra syntactic operation (Verb Second), relative to the basic Subject-Object-Verb order surfacing in Dutch subordinate clauses. We report an fMRI study into the question whether this syntactic complexity is reflected in increased brain activation correlated with the production of Dutch main clause word order, in speakers without language impairment. Nineteen healthy subjects performed a covert sentence completion task, during which main and subordinate clauses were alternately elicited in a block design. Results show a left middle to superior frontal cluster of activation correlated to production of Verb-Second over Verb-Final clauses, with no activation in the opposite contrast. This activation pattern is counter to what might be expected from the frequency distribution of main and subordinate clauses. We conclude that the Verb-Second deviation from the basic Dutch SOV word order costs extra neural resources and that this also underlies the agrammatic problems with the production of finite verbs in Dutch main clauses.
The present study used the signal detection theory to test the hypothesis that the right hemisphere (RH) is more sensitive than the left hemisphere (LH) to the distant semantic relations in novel metaphoric expressions. In two divided visual field experiments, sensitivity (d') and criterion (beta) were calculated for responses to different types of word pairs. In the first experiment, subjects were presented with unfamiliar two-word novel metaphoric expressions (&quot;signal&quot;) and unrelated word-pairs (&quot;noise&quot;). In the second experiment, literal expressions (&quot;signal&quot;) and unrelated word pairs (&quot;noise&quot;) were presented. In line with the Coarse Semantic Coding Theory [Beeman, M. (1998). Coarse semantic coding and discourse comprehension. In: M. Beeman &amp; C. Chiarello (Eds.). Right hemisphere language comprehension: Perspectives from cognitive neuroscience. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum, pp. 255-284.] as well as with the Graded Salience Hypothesis [Giora, R. (2003). On our mind: Salience, context and figurative language. New York: Oxford University Press.], the findings suggest that the RH is more sensitive than the LH to unfamiliar metaphoric relations. Furthermore, this RH advantage in processing distant semantic relations did not extend to familiar semantic relations.
We report a 65-years-old man suffering from slowly progressive dyspnea of four years' clinical history followed by dysphagia. His range of motion was severely restricted in the four extremities and trunk, however, neither motor weakness nor sensory disturbance was noted. Radiographic examination showed diffuse osteophyte formation in front of whole vertebrae but no apparent change was observed in the sacroiliac joint. These radiographic features suggested the diagnosis of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) in this patient. We consider that the restrictive ventilatory impairment in the present patient was due to the decreased thoracic cage compliance caused by hyperostosis of thoracic costovertebral joints, and the prominent osteophyte formation in front of the cervical vertebrae compressing esophagus was responsible for dysphagia.
The maternal separation paradigm has been applied to C57BL/6J mice as an animal developmental model for understanding structural deficits leading to abnormal behaviour. A maternal separation (MS) model was used on postnatal day (PND) 9, where the pups were removed from their mother for 24 h (MS24). When the pups were 10 weeks old, the level of anxiety and fear was measured with two behavioural tests; an open field test and an elevated plus maze test. The Barnes platform maze was used to test spatial learning, and memory by using acquisition trials followed by reverse trial sessions. The MS24 mice spent more time in the open arms of the elevated plus maze compared to controls, but no other treatment differences were found in the emotional behavioural tests. However, in the reverse trial for the Barnes maze test there was a significant difference in the frequency of visits to the old goal, the number of errors made by the MS24 mice compared to controls and in total distance moved. The mice were subsequently sacrificed and the total number of neurons estimated in the hippocampus using the optical fractionator. We found a significant loss of neurons in the dentate gyrus in MS mice compared to controls. Apparently a single maternal separation can impact the number of neurons in mouse hippocampus either by a decrease of neurogenesis or as an increase in neuron apoptosis. This study is the first to assess the result of maternal separation combining behaviour and stereology.
Cytoarchitectonic characterization of borders is necessary for stereological studies (e.g., total cell number estimation), in which particular cortical areas have to be defined. In this study, cytoarchitectonic characteristics are described and illustrated for the rat ventral or orbital frontal cortical areas, i.e., the lateral-, ventrolateral-, ventral- and medial-orbital areas; and for the lateral frontal cortical areas, i.e., the agranular insular and the dorsolateral orbital cortical area. Each cytoarchitectonic-defined boundary is corroborated by one or more of the immunocytochemical stainings for dopaminergic fibers, SMI-32 positive neurons, calbindin and parvalbumin positive neurons. Each immunocytochemical staining, however, shows a characteristic subset of the cytoarchitectonical borders. The dorsal agranular insular area (AId) and the dorsolateral orbital area (DLO) have been subdivided into a dorsal and a ventral part based upon differences between these parts in the Nissl and immunocytochemical stainings. The posterior part of VLO has a different structure and is, therefore, indicated as VLOp (VLO, posterior part).

In the present study, we investigated the role of recombinant human phospholipase D2 (rhPLD2) on proliferation and apoptosis in human leukemia HL-60 cells which induced by camptothecin. Our research demonstrated that various concentrations of rhPLD2 inhibit the growth of HL-60 cells in a dose-dependent manner, and rhPLD2 plus camptothecin can produce a synergistic effect on growth inhibition of HL-60 cells in vitro. So, we conclude that rhPLD2 alone cannot induce apoptosis in HL-60 cells, but it can potentiate the apoptosis of HL-60 cells induced by camptothecin. Similarly, we show that both rhPLD2 and standard PLD were able to enhance camptothecin-induced apoptosis of HL-60 cells.
Mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (mtSOD1) causes dominantly inherited amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The mechanism for mtSOD1 toxicity remains unknown. Two main hypotheses are the impairment of proteasomal function and chaperone depletion by misfolded mtSOD1. Here, we employed FRET/FLIM and biosensor imaging to quantitatively localize ubiquitination, as well as chaperone binding of mtSOD1, and to assess their effect on proteasomal and protein folding activities. We found large differences in ubiquitination and chaperone interaction levels for wild-type (wt) SOD1 versus mtSOD1 in intact single cells. Moreover, SOD1 ubiquitination levels differ between proteasomal structures and cytoplasmic material. Hsp70 binding and ubiquitination of wt and mtSOD1 species are highly correlated, demonstrating the coupled upregulation of both cellular detoxification mechanisms upon mtSOD1 expression. Biosensor imaging in single cells revealed that mtSOD1 expression alters cellular protein folding activity but not proteasomal function in the neuronal cell line examined. Our results provide the first cell-by-cell-analysis of SOD1 ubiquitination and chaperone interaction. Moreover, our study opens new methodological avenues for cell biological research on ALS.
The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH) is a key component of hypothalamic pathways regulating energy balance, and leptin is required for normal development of ARH projections. Diet-induced obesity (DIO) has a polygenic mode of inheritance, and DIO individuals develop the metabolic syndrome when a moderate amount of fat is added to the diet. Here we demonstrate that rats selectively bred to develop DIO, which are known to be leptin resistant before they become obese, have defective ARH projections that persist into adulthood. Furthermore, the ability of leptin to activate intracellular signaling in ARH neurons in vivo and to promote ARH neurite outgrowth in vitro is significantly reduced in DIO neonates. Thus, animals that are genetically predisposed toward obesity display an abnormal organization of hypothalamic pathways involved in energy homeostasis that may be the result of diminished responsiveness of ARH neurons to the trophic actions of leptin during postnatal development.
E6-AP is a founding member of HECT (homologous to E6-AP C terminus) domain subfamily of E3 ubiquitin ligases. It degrades tumor suppressor p53 in association with the E6 oncoprotein of the human papilloma virus. However, there are conflicting reports on its role in the degradation of p53 in the absence of E6 oncoprotein. Here, we studied the role of E6-AP in regulation of p53 in mouse neuro 2a cells. Overexpression of E6-AP in neuro 2a cells increased the ubiquitylation and degradation of p53, which could be prevented upon deletion of HECT domain. E6-AP also directly ubiquitylated p53 in an in vitro ubiquitylation assay. Partial knockdown of E6-AP increased the levels of p53 and p53-dependent transcription. Partial knockdown also increased neuronal cell death, which may be mediated partly via p53. Our result suggests that E6-AP not only enhances the degradation of p53 but also regulates the neuronal cell growth.
The tropomodulins are a family of proteins that cap the slow-growing (pointed) end of actin filaments and require tropomyosin for optimal function. Tropomodulin is an elongated molecule with a molecular mass of about 40 kDa. The C-terminal half of tropomodulin contains one compact cooperatively melting domain, whereas the N-terminal half has no cooperatively melting structure. The N-terminal half of tropomodulin contains two tropomysin-binding sites and a tropomyosin-dependent actin-binding site, the tropomyosin-independent actin-binding site being located at the C terminus. One tropomodulin molecule binds two tropomyosin molecules, and thus one molecule of tropomodulin is necessary and sufficient for capping at the pointed end. Tropomyosin/tropomodulin interactions are isoform specific. Differences in tropomyosin affinity for the two binding sites in tropomodulin may regulate its correct positioning at the pointed end as well as effectiveness of capping the actin filament.
In recent years, Chinese neuropharmacologists have done a lot of basic and practical work in neuropharmacology, especially in the fields of pain, drug dependence, depression, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, having obtained some exciting results that are of great significance for the development of neuropharmacology. Here I would like to review recent progress in the research fields of neuropharmacology in China.
(1) The present study was designed to investigate whether histamine is involved in the protective effect of carnosine on Abeta42-induced impairment in differentiated PC12 cells. (2) PC12 cells were exposed to Abeta42 (5 muM) for 24 h after carnosine (5 mM) applied for 18 h. Histamine receptor antagonists (diphenhydramine, zolantidine, thioperamide, clobenpropit) or histidine decarboxylase inhibitor (alpha-fluoromethylhistidine) were added 15 min before carnosine. Cell viability, glutamate release or cell surface expression of NMDA receptor was examined. (3) Abeta42 caused a concentration-dependent reduction of viability in PC12 cells and pretreatment with carnosine ameliorated this impairment. This amelioration was reversed by the H(3) receptor antagonists thioperamide and clobenpropit, but not by either the H(1) receptor antagonist diphenhydramine or the H(2) receptor antagonist zolantidine. Further, alpha-fluoromethylhistidine, an irreversible inhibitor of histidine decarboxylase, also had no effect. In the presence of Abeta42, carnosine significantly decreased glutamate release and carnosine increased the surface expression of NMDA receptor. (4) These results indicate that the mechanism by which carnosine attenuates Abeta42-induced neurotoxicity is independent of the carnosine-histidine-histamine pathway, but may act through regulation of glutamate release and NMDA receptor trafficking.
(1) A Little information exists on the distribution of Slit-Robo-GTPase activating proteins (srGAPs), particularly about their intracellular locations, which may provide further clues to their functions. The purpose of this study is to elucidate the expression patterns of the three srGAPs in wild-type rat brains at adult and various developmental stages, and in the cultured cortical neurons. (2) Immunohistochemical method was applied to detect the distribution and localization of the srGAPs in the normal rat brains at adult and various developmental stages, and in the cultured cortical neurons using the rabbit polyclonal antibodies. (3) Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that the three srGAPs were mainly expressed in neurons throughout the brain. More importantly, srGAPs translocated during development by a highly regulated shuttling process between the nucleus and the cytoplasm of neurons and their expression patterns were not overlapping. In cultured cortical neurons srGAPs were found in equal amounts in the cytoplasm, nucleus, in neurites, and growth cones. When neurons were maintained in vitro for longer time, the amount of srGAPs in the nucleus strongly increased. (4) These results suggest that srGAPs are not only involved in the regulation of the Slit-Robo signal transduction, but also in neuronal development and that the translocation of srGAPs is important for their functions.
The effect of chronic immobilization stress (CIS) on the biochemical parameters has been one of the hot topics in neuroscience. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of CIS on the levels of glucocorticoid receptor (GR), corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA in brains of rats. The rats were randomly divided into stressed and control groups. The stressed group was given CIS 3 h a day for 21 days continuously. GR of rats' hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) were detected by immunohistochemistry method. In addition, the CRF mRNA and POMC mRNA of rats' brain regions (hypothalamus, pituitary, hippocampus, and PFC) were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). After exposure to CIS for 21 days, the GR immuno staining (the gray values) of the stressed group was less than that of the control group in hippocampal CA(1), dentate gyrus, and PFC (P &lt; 0.01). Quantitative analysis indicated the presence of CRF mRNA in hypothalamus and pituitary, while POMC mRNA in PFC, hippocampus and pituitary of the stressed group was less than that of the control group (P &lt; 0.01). The decreased levels of GR, CRF mRNA, and POMC mRNA in different brain regions may contribute to explanation of the CIS induced mechanism.
Two agonist-releasable Ca(2+)stores have been identified in human platelets differentiated by the distinct sensitivity of their SERCA isoforms to thapsigargin (TG) and 2,5-di-(tert-butyl)-1,4-hydroquinone (TBHQ). Here we have examined whether the SERCA isotypes might be involved in store-operated Ca(2+)entry (SOCE) activated by the physiological agonist thrombin in human platelets. Ca(2+)-influx evoked by thrombin (0.01 U/mL) reached a maximum after 3 min, which was consistent with the decrease in the Ca(2+)content in the stores; afterwards, the extent of SOCE decreased with no correlation with the accumulation of Ca(2+)in the stores. Inhibition of SERCA2b, by 10 nM TG, and SERCA3, with 20 microM TBHQ, individually or simultaneously, accelerated Ca(2+) store discharge and subsequently enhanced the extent of SOCE stimulated by thrombin. In addition, TG and TBHQ modified the time course of thrombin-evoked SOCE from a transient to a sustained increase in Ca(2+) influx, which reveals a negative role for SERCAs in the regulation of SOCE. This effect was consistent under conditions that inhibit Ca(2+) extrusion by PMCA or the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments revealed that thrombin stimulates direct interaction between SERCA2b and 3 with the hTRPC1 channel, an effect that was found to be independent of SERCA activity. In summary, our results suggest that SERCA2b and 3 modulate thrombin-stimulated SOCE probably by direct interaction with the hTRPC1 channel in human platelets.
Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) have been shown to synergize in several paradigms of neuronal survival. We have previously shown that cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) degenerate in low potassium via ERK1/2 (extra-cellular-regulated kinase)-dependent plasma membrane (PM) damage and caspase-3-dependent DNA fragmentation. Here, we have investigated the putative synergistic function of GDNF and TGF-beta in CGN degeneration. GDNF alone prevents low-potassium-induced caspase-3 activation and DNA fragmentation but does not affect either low-potassium-induced ERK activation or PM damage. TGF-beta alone does not affect low-potassium-induced DNA fragmentation but potentiates low-potassium-induced PM damage. This effect of TGF-beta is independent of ERK1/2 activation but dependent on p38-MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) activation. When co-applied with TGF-beta, GDNF paradoxically antagonizes TGF-beta-induced potentiation of PM damage by inhibiting TGF-beta-induced p38-MAPK activation. In addition, PI3K (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase) inhibitors abolish the GDNF effect. This study thus demonstrates a differential mechanism of action of GDNF and TGF-beta on CGN degeneration. GDNF inhibits caspase-3-dependent DNA fragmentation but does not affect ERK-dependent PM damage. However, GDNF can attenuate TGF-beta-induced p38-MAPK-dependent PM damage via the PI3K pathway.
The pathophysiology of cluster headache (CH) is supposed to involve the lower posterior part of the hypothalamus, the trigeminal nerve, autonomic nerves and vessels in the orbital/retro-orbital region. The exact connection of this hypothalamic-trigemino-autonomic-vascular axis is not fully understood. The presence of inflammation in the perivascular tissue of the retro-orbital region has been presented as a possible mechanism behind the pain and the sympatheticoplegia sometimes observed during headache attacks. In a previous study we found neither increased levels of erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein or acute-phase reactants nor clinical signs of a generalized inflammatory disorder. However, these tests may not be sensitive enough to detect a focal inflammatory process in the retro-orbital region. In the present study, we analysed serum levels of three soluble adhesion molecules; soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1), soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) and soluble E-selectin (sE-selectin) in patients with episodic CH and in patients with biopsy-positive giant cell arteritis (GCA), a known vasculitic disorder of large and medium-sized arteries. A control group of healthy volunteers was also included. Within the CH group, sICAM-1, sVCAM-1 and sE-selectin showed an increasing trend in remission compared with the active CH period, but the difference was statistically significant for sE-selectin only. The mean sICAM-1 value was higher in patients with active GCA than in CH patients during the active cluster period. Compared with the healthy control group, the mean levels of soluble adhesion molecules in CH patients also tended to be higher, but statistically significantly so only for sVCAM-1. We hypothesize that CH is not a vasculitic disorder of the medium-sized arteries, but CH patients may have an immune response that reacts differently from that of healthy volunteers.
Associations between headache, including migraine, and gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms were studied in a large questionnaire-based cross-sectional study (the Head-HUNT Study). The headache questionnaire was completed by 43,782 individuals, who answered all the questions concerning nausea, reflux symptoms, diarrhoea and constipation. In the multivariate analyses, adjusting for age, sex, educational level, medication use, depression and anxiety, a higher prevalence of headache was found in individuals with much reflux [odds ratio (OR) 2.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.2, 2.6], diarrhoea (OR 2.4, 95% CI 2.1, 2.8), constipation (OR 2.1, 95% CI 1.9, 2.4) and nausea (OR 3.2, 95% CI 2.6, 3.8) compared with those without such complaints. All the GI symptoms investigated seemed to be approximately as common among persons with non-migrainous headache as among migraine sufferers, but the association between headache and GI complaints increased markedly with increasing headache frequency. This may suggest that headache sufferers generally are predisposed to GI complaints.
Age-related alterations in white matter have the potential to profoundly affect cognitive functioning. In fact, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies using fractional anisotropy (FA) to measure white matter integrity reveal a positive correlation between FA and behavioral performance in older adults. Confounding these results are imaging studies demonstrating age-related white matter atrophy in some areas displaying altered FA, suggesting changes in diffusion may be simply an epiphenomenon of tissue loss. In the current study, structural MRI techniques were used to identify the relationship between white matter integrity and decreased volume in healthy aging adults. The data demonstrated that white matter atrophy did in fact account for differences in some areas, but significant FA decreases remained across much of the white matter after adjusting for atrophy. Results suggest a complex relationship between changes in white matter integrity and volume. FA appears to be more sensitive than volume loss to changes in normal appearing tissue, and these FA changes may actually precede white matter atrophy in some brain areas. As such, the ability to detect early white matter alterations may facilitate development of targeted treatments that prevent or slow age-related white matter degradation and associated cognitive sequelae.
Previous studies showed that the processing of numerical information and spatial information such as physical size causes a mutual interference. The neuronal correlate of such interference was suggested to be in the parietal lobe. However, a previous study showed that such interference does not occur between numerical information and nonspatial dimensions such as luminance level (Pinel P, Piazza M, Le Bihan D, Dehaene S. 2004. Distributed and overlapping cerebral representations of number, size, and luminance during comparative judgments. Neuron. 41:983-993). Here it is shown that numerical value and luminance level do cause a behavioral interference and that this interference modulates the activity in the parietal lobe. The current results support the idea that the parietal lobe might be equipped with neuronal substrates for magnitude processing even for nonspatial dimensions.
Explaining the emergence of a coherent conscious percept and an intentional agent from the activity of distributed neurons is key to understanding how the brain produces higher cognitive processes. Gamma-band synchronization has been proposed to be a mechanism for the functional integration of neural populations that together form a transitory, large-scale, task- and/or percept-specific network. The operation of this mechanism in the context of attention orienting entails that cortical regions representing attended locations should show more gamma-band synchronization with other cortical areas than would those representing unattended locations. This increased synchronization should be apparent in the same time frame as that of the deployment of attention to a particular location. In order to observe this effect, we made electroencephalogram recordings while subjects attended to one side or the other of the visual field (which we confirmed by event-related potential analysis) and calculated phase-locking statistics between the signals recorded at relevant electrode pairs. We observed increased gamma-band phase synchronization between visual cortex contralateral to the attended location and other, widespread, cortical areas approximately 240-380 ms after the directional cue was presented, confirming the prediction of a large-scale gamma synchronous network oriented to the cued location.
Several studies have shown a cortico-spinal facilitation during motor imagery. This facilitation effect is weaker when the actual hand posture is incompatible with the imagined movement. To determine whether the source of this interference effect arises from online proprioceptive information, we examined transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)-induced motor-evoked potentials during motor imagery in the deafferented subject G.L. The patient and 7 control subjects were asked to close their eyes and imagine joining the tips of the thumb and the little finger while maintaining a hand posture compatible or incompatible with the imagined movement. Contrary to control subjects' performance, G.L.'s results show that the facilitation observed during motor imagery was independent of the hand posture. To examine how vision of the hand interacts with the imagery process, G.L. and control subjects performed the same task with the eyes open. Like control subjects, when G.L. looked at her hand, a greater facilitation was observed when her hand posture was compatible with the imagined movement than when it was incompatible. These results suggest that in the absence of proprioception, vision may facilitate or inhibit motor representations and support the idea that limb position in the brain is organized around multisensory representations.
Inputs to the layer I apical dendritic tufts of pyramidal cells are crucial in &quot;top-down&quot; interactions in the cerebral cortex. A large population of thalamocortical cells, the &quot;matrix&quot; (M-type) cells, provides a direct robust input to layer I that is anatomically and functionally different from the thalamocortical input to layer VI. The developmental timecourse of M-type axons is examined here in rats aged E (embryonic day) 16 to P (postnatal day) 30. Anterograde techniques were used to label axons arising from 2 thalamic nuclei mainly made up of M-type cells, the Posterior and the Ventromedial. The primary growth cones of M-type axons rapidly reached the subplate of dorsally situated cortical areas. After this, interstitial branches would sprout from these axons under more lateral cortical regions to invade the overlying cortical plate forming secondary arbors. Moreover, retrograde labeling of M-type cell somata in the thalamus after tracer deposits confined to layer I revealed that large numbers of axons from multiple thalamic nuclei had already converged in a given spot of layer I by P3. Because of early ingrowth in such large numbers, interactions of M-type axons may significantly influence the early development of cortical circuits.
Involvement of the right inferior parietal area in action awareness was investigated while taking into account differences in the conscious experiences of one's own actions; especially, the awareness that an intended action is consistent with movement consequences and the awareness of the authorship of the action (i.e., the sense of agency). We hypothesized that these experiences are both associated with processes implemented in inferior parietal cortex, specifically, right angular gyrus (Ag). Two blood-oxygenation-level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging studies employed a novel delayed visual feedback technique to distinguish the neural correlates of these 2 forms of action awareness. We showed that right Ag is associated with both awareness of discrepancy between intended and movement consequences and awareness of action authorship. We propose that this region is involved in higher-order aspects of motor control that allows one to consciously access different aspects of one's own actions. Specifically, this region processes discrepancies between intended action and movement consequences in such a way that these will be consciously detected by the subject. This joint processing is at the core of the various experiences one uses to interpret an action.

Coordinate adaptation of myocyte metabolism and function is fundamental to survival of the stressed heart, but the mechanisms for this coordination remain unclear. Bioinformatics led us to discover that Foxs are key transcription factors involved. We performed experiments on the mouse atrial cell line HL-1, neonate rat heart myocytes, and an adult rat model of myocardial infarction. In electrophoretic mobility-shift assays, FoxO1 binds to the FoxO concensus site of the KATP channel subunit KIR6.1 promoter. In primary atrial culture, targeting FoxO1 and FoxO3 with siRNA specifically reduces mRNA expression of FoxO1 and -O3 and KIR6.1. Western blots, confocal immunofluorescence, and quantitative RT-PCR was applied for measuring expression of 10 Fox, 6 KATP channel subunits, and 12 metabolic genes. FoxF2, -O1, and -O3 strongly associate with expression of KATP channel subunits (in particular, KIR6.1, SUR1A and SUR2B) in different heart tissues and in the periinfarct zone of the left ventricle. Patch-clamp recordings demonstrate that molecular plasticity of these channels is matched by pharmacological plasticity and increased sensitivity to a metabolic challenge mimicked by the protonophore CCCP. A balance of FoxF2 and FoxO also regulates expression of at least 9 metabolic genes involved in setting the balance of glycolysis and beta-oxidation. Bioinformatics shows that the transcriptional mechanisms are highly conserved among chicken, mouse, rat, and human, and Fox are intimately linked to other metabolic sensors. Thus, FoxF2 and -O are key transcription factors coordinating expression of KATP channels and energy metabolism.


Current immunology research is generating many new approaches to immunotherapy. However, the recent disaster surrounding the testing of TGN1412, has unsettled regulators and the pharmaceutical industry regarding new immunotherapies and highlighted the complexities of conducting clinical trials with agents that target the immune system. Here we discuss the critical role for immunologists in ensuring that the development of new immunotherapies continues.
1. In cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in the rat, cholinergic function of the bladder and muscarinic receptor expression are altered. In the present study, we investigated whether the toad urothelial cell line TBM-54 expresses functional muscarinic receptors and whether changes in muscarinic receptors can be induced in vitro by treating cells with acrolein, a metabolite of cyclophosphamide causing cystitis. 2. The occurrence of muscarinic receptors on cells was assessed by microphysiometry, a method analysing receptor function by measuring changes in the extracellular acidity rate (ECAR) in response to receptor stimulation. 3. Challenging untreated cells with the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol gave rise to a concentration-dependent increase in changes in ECAR, with a maximal response at 1 mmol/L carbachol of 51 +/- 6%. Pre-incubating cells with different muscarinic receptor antagonists (i.e. pirenzepine (M(1) receptor selective), methoctramine (M(2)/M(4) receptor selective) and 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methobromide (4-DAMP; M(3)/M(1)/M(5) receptor selective)), gave rise to a concentration-dependent decrease in the effects of carbachol (0.5 mmol/L) on changes in ECAR. 4. Western blot analysis was used to determine the expression of all muscarinic receptor subtypes (M(1)-M(5)) by the cell line. Following acrolein treatment, cells were markedly less sensitive to carbachol and the expression of muscarinic M(2) receptors was decreased, whereas the expression of muscarinic M(3) receptors was increased. 5. In conclusion, the urothelial cell line TBM-54 expresses functional muscarinic receptors and exposure to acrolein leads to a modulation in the expression of muscarinic receptors. Consequently, acrolein may have direct effects on muscarinic receptor function and expression that contribute to the pathogenesis of cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis.
Most of the previous research on aphasia and writing ability concentrates on the production of words in isolation. The purpose of the current study was to examine the process of producing written texts by clients with aphasia. By using keystroke logging, it was possible to analyse the participants' ongoing work during text writing. Results showed that the participants with aphasia composed their texts in what may be described as a linear way. Edits concerning syntax or text structure were almost absent in the subjects' data, but they spent much time and effort on revising smaller units of text, that is, letters and words, possibly as a result of changing their minds or not being able to realize their intentions. However, these changes did not always result in correctly written words in the final text. The findings are discussed in relation to current writing theories.
The organisation of the musical brain is a major focus of interest in contemporary neuroscience. This reflects the increasing sophistication of tools (especially imaging techniques) to examine brain anatomy and function in health and disease, and the recognition that music provides unique insights into a number of aspects of nonverbal brain function. The emerging picture is complex but coherent, and moves beyond older ideas of music as the province of a single brain area or hemisphere to the concept of music as a 'whole-brain' phenomenon. Music engages a distributed set of cortical modules that process different perceptual, cognitive and emotional components with varying selectivity. 'Why' rather than 'how' the brain processes music is a key challenge for the future.
A patient fulfilling central, core and supportive clinical diagnostic criteria for dementia with Lewy bodies deteriorated rapidly in the absence of neuroleptic drug treatment, prompting suspicion of a diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. At postmortem examination, the brain showed features typical of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease of the MV1 subtype. We review the phenotypic overlap between dementia with Lewy bodies and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease which may cause clinical misdiagnosis.



Two decades of research conducted to date has examined selective visual attention to threat and reward stimuli as a function of individual differences in anxiety using the dot-probe task. The present study tests a connectionist neural-network model of meta-analytic and key individual-study results derived from this literature. Attentional bias for threatening and reward-related stimuli is accounted for by connectionist model implementation of the following clinical psychology and affective neuroscience principles: 1) affective learning and temperament, 2) state and trait anxiety, 3) intensity appraisal, 4) affective chronometry, 5) attentional control, and 6) selective attention training. Theoretical implications for the study of mood and anxiety disorders are discussed.
Neurotrophic factors, and in particular the neurotrophins, restore the function of damaged neurons and prevent apoptosis in adults. The potential therapeutic property of the neurotrophins is however, complicated by the peptidergic structure of these trophic factors, which impairs their penetration into the brain parenchyma, and therefore makes their pharmaco-therapeutic properties difficult to evaluate. In this article we will focus on the neurotrophin Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptors to address various therapeutic strategies that may overcome this problem. We will call this strategy &quot;small molecule approach&quot; because it relies on increasing the function of endogenous neurotrophins by pharmacological compounds that induce synthesis and release of neurotrophins in relevant brain areas or by small synthetic molecules that bind and activate specific neurotrophin receptors. The ability of small molecules to mimic BDNF has a potential therapeutic importance in preventing neuronal damage in several chronic neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's Disease, Alzheimer's Disease, and AIDS dementia.
Oxidative stress occurs early in the progression of Alzheimer disease, significantly before the development of the pathologic hallmarks, neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques. All classes of macromolecules (sugar, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids) are affected by oxidative stress leading, inevitably, to neuronal dysfunction. Extensive data from the literature support the notion that mitochondrial and metal abnormalities are key sources of oxidative stress in Alzheimer disease. Furthermore, it has been suggested that in the initial stages of the development of Alzheimer disease, amyloid-beta deposition and hyperphosphorylated tau function as compensatory responses to ensure that neuronal cells do not succumb to oxidative damage. However, during the progression of the disease, the antioxidant activity of both agents is either overwhelmed or, according to others, evolves into pro-oxidant activity resulting in the exacerbation of reactive species production.
In synaesthesia one type of stimulation evokes the sensation of another, such as when hearing a sound produces photisms--that is, mental percepts of colours. In the past, the idiosyncrasy of this phenomenon, as well as the natural mistrust of scientists towards the subjective, consigned synaesthesia to the periphery of scientific interest. However, the landscape has changed radically in the last two decades. The labour of many researchers, inside as well as outside of cognitive neuroscience, has transformed synaesthesia into a scientific reality whose existence can be demonstrated and studied empirically. The present paper summarizes and reflects on our current knowledge concerning synaesthesia in all its aspects (cognition, behaviour, neurology, genetics, and demographics).
Early school-aged children listened to stories that contained correct and incorrect facts. All ages answered more questions correctly after having heard the correct fact in the story. Only the older children, however, produced story errors on a later general knowledge test. Source errors did not drive the increased suggestibility in older children, as they were better at remembering source than were the younger children. Instead, different processes are involved in learning correct and incorrect facts from fictional sources. All ages benefited from hearing correct answers because they activated a pre-existing semantic network. Older children, however, were better able to form memories of the misinformation and thus showed greater suggestibility on the general knowledge test.
Retroviral and lentiviral based gene delivery vectors have been used in numerous pre-clinical studies and clinical trials due to their advantages, including stable and prolonged expression of therapeutic transgenes and minimal immune responses against the vector. Despite such advantages, however, retroviral vectors also have several limitations for gene therapy applications. For example, they can suffer from a lack of efficient or targeted gene delivery to key cell types. In addition, retroviral vector stability can be compromised by their envelope proteins. This review briefly describes how such limitations have been overcome by recently developed library selection approaches that borrow a lesson from nature: the ability of evolution to generate biomolecules with novel function. These library selection approaches are based on the construction of retroviral libraries where the sequences encoding natural viral components are partially randomized using a variety of methods in order to generate diverse libraries that can be selected to create improved or novel functions. These high throughput, library-based approaches provide a strong complement to rational engineering of viral components for the rapid development of efficient and safe retroviral and lentiviral vector systems for gene therapy.
Many rodents use day length to time reproduction to occur when resources are abundant, but some species also use supplementary environmental cues. One supplementary cue is the plant-derived compound, 6-methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (6-MBOA). Most rodents grow their gonads in response to 6-MBOA in their diets, but it is presently unknown whether they also use 6-MBOA to adjust other aspects of physiology, specifically their immune systems. 6-MBOA is structurally similar to melatonin, and seasonal changes in rodent immune activities are often mediated by melatonin. We therefore predicted that white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus), which breed seasonally and are reproductively sensitive to melatonin, would adjust their immune systems when fed 6-MBOA. 6-MBOA treated mice in long day lengths regressed their testes to a greater extent than mice fed a standard diet, or mice kept in short day lengths and fed 6-MBOA or a standard diet. One type of immune activity (delayed-type hypersensitivity) was not affected by 6-MBOA, however, although responses were greater in short versus long day mice. In sum, P. leucopus responded reproductively to 6-MBOA, although differently than other species; immune activity was unaffected. Other aspects of the immune system, especially in herbivorous rodents, may be affected by 6-MBOA and thus warrant further study.
The aim of the present study was to explore the nature and prevalence of phenotypic variations in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuropsychological profiles of a large cross-sectional cohort of patients with a clinical diagnosis of the disease were examined. All tests distinguished the AD group from controls confirming their sensitivity to the presence of early AD. Factor analysis of test scores revealed five factors, reflecting the discrete cognitive domains of memory, language, perceptuospatial abilities, executive skills, and praxis. Cluster analysis revealed distinct performance profiles that could not be accounted for by disease severity. Some patients showed an accentuation of memory impairment relative to other domains, whereas others showed relative sparing. Cognitive deficits other than memory were the salient presenting feature in a relatively high proportion of patients. A subset of the cohort (22%) showed grossly disproportionate impairments in one cognitive domain. The findings emphasise variability in presentation and indicate that distinct phenotypic variations appear to lie on a continuum rather than representing discrete forms of disease.
The functional mechanisms and the neural correlates of visual mental imagery (the faculty whereby we can use our &quot;mind's eye&quot; to visualize objects in their absence) are at the centre of a lively debate in cognitive neuroscience. Neurocognitive models have proposed a functional equivalence between visual perception and visual mental imagery, which would be subserved by common neural substrates, such as the retinotopic areas in the occipital lobe. However, brain-damaged patients may demonstrate either impaired imagery and preserved perception, such as the classical Charcot and Bernard case and the patients described by Moro et al. (2008, this issue), or the opposite pattern of performance, consisting of preserved imagery and impaired perception. This double dissociation provides a strong challenge to models postulating a functional and anatomical equivalence of perception and imagery, and suggests that these functions have partly distinct neural correlates.
Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is a significant cause of death and disability in the United States. It has been 10 years since tissue plasminogen activator became the first medication approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for treatment for AIS. However, this treatment simply reopens arteries. The identification of deleterious cellular reactions that occur secondary to cerebral ischemia has led investigators to search for neuroprotection strategies to complement reperfusion. More than 100 human trials, including a handful of phase III trials, had failed to produce an efficacious neuroprotective agent. In 2006, the first positive trial of neuroprotection was published: the SAINT I (Stroke-Acute Ischemic NXY Treatment) study. In February 2008, the SAINT II study was published, indicating that NXY-059 was not effective for AIS treatment.
Despite recent advances in the acute treatment of stroke, prevention and risk factor modification remain the mainstays of management for patients with ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack. The majority of noncardioembolic ischemic strokes are atherothrombotic, presumed to be associated with the activation and aggregation of platelets. Antiplatelet medications have been shown to be effective in the secondary prevention of stroke of presumed arterial origin, both as monotherapy and in combination. Among combination of antiplatelet agents, aspirin plus extended-release dipyridamole has demonstrated statistically significant additive benefit over monotherapy with each agent. Clopidogrel plus aspirin does not prevent recurrent ischemic stroke over each component individually, and the combination increases the risk of hemorrhagic side effects. This article reviews the most recent studies on antiplatelet medications, including the combination of aspirin and clopidogrel or extended-release dipyridamole, and discusses some of the controversies that still exist with the use of antiplatelet agents.
Diabetes Mellitus (DM), a state of chronic hyperglycemia, is a major cause of serious micro and macrovascular diseases, affecting, therefore, nearly every system in the body. Growing evidence indicates that oxidative stress is increased in diabetes due to overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and decreased efficiency of antioxidant defences, a process that starts very early and worsens over the course of the disease. During the development of diabetes, oxidation of lipids, proteins and DNA increase with time. Mitochondrial DNA mutations have also been reported in diabetic tissues, suggesting oxidative stress-related mitochondrial damage. Diabetes-related oxidative stress may also be the trigger for many alterations on sexual function, which can also include decreased testicular mitochondrial function. Although sexual disorders have been extensively studied in diabetic men, possible changes in the sexual function of diabetic women have only recently received attention. The prevalence of sexual dysfunction in diabetic men approaches 50%, whereas in diabetic women it seems to be slightly lower. Testicular dysfunction, impotence, decreased fertility potential and retrograde ejaculations are conditions that have been described in diabetic males. Diabetes is also the most common cause of erectile dysfunction in men. Poor semen quality has also been reported in diabetic men, including decreased sperm motility and concentration, abnormal morphology and increased seminal plasma abnormalities. In addition, diabetic men may have decreased serum testosterone due to impaired Leydig cell function. Among diabetic women neuropathy, vascular impairment and psychological complaints have been implicated in the pathogenesis of decreased libido, low arousability, decreased vaginal lubrication, orgasmic dysfunction, and dyspareunia. An association between the production of excess radical oxygen species and disturbed embryogenesis in diabetic pregnancies has also been suggested. In fact, maternal diabetes during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of complications in the offspring, such as altered fetal growth, polyhydramnios, fetal loss and congenital malformations. In addition, hypocalemia and reduced bone mineral content are found in neonates of diabetic mothers. Abnormalities in gametogenesis and sexual function have also been documented in animal models for both types of Diabetes, which thus constitute an important research tool to both study the effects of the disease, and to test novel therapeutical interventions. Because sexuality and fertility are important aspects in the lives of individuals and couples, and considering that over 124 million individuals worldwide suffer from Diabetes, this review highlights the impact of Diabetes and associated oxidative stress on sexual function.
The polarization of axon and dendrites underlies the ability of neurons to integrate and transmit information in the brain. Important progress has been made toward the identification of the molecular mechanisms regulating neuronal polarization using primarily in vitro approaches such as dissociated culture of rodent hippocampal neurons. The predominant view emerging from this paradigm is that neuronal polarization is initiated by intrinsic activation of signaling pathways underlying the initial break in neuronal symmetry that precedes the future asymmetric growth of the axon. Recent evidence shows that (i) axon-dendrite polarization is specified when neurons engage migration in vivo, (ii) that a kinase pathway defined by LKB1and SAD-kinases (Par4/Par1 dyad) is required for proper neuronal polarization in vivo and that (iii) extracellular cues can play an instructive role during neuronal polarization. Here, we review some of these recent results and highlight future challenges in the field including the determination of how extracellular cues control intracellular responses underlying neuronal polarization in vivo.
New neurons are continuously generated in the dentate gyrus of the mammalian hippocampus and in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles throughout life. The origin of these new neurons is believed to be from multipotent adult neural stem cells. Aided by new methodologies, significant progress has been made in the characterization of neural stem cells and their development in the adult brain. Recent studies have also begun to reveal essential extrinsic and intrinsic molecular mechanisms that govern sequential steps of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus and subventricular zone/olfactory bulb, from proliferation and fate specification of neural progenitors to maturation, navigation, and synaptic integration of the neuronal progeny. Future identification of molecular mechanisms and physiological functions of adult neurogenesis will provide further insight into the plasticity and regenerative capacity of the mature central nervous system.
An increasing body of evidence indicates that local axonal translation is required for growing axons to respond appropriately to guidance cues and other stimuli. Recent studies suggest that asymmetrical synthesis of cytoskeletal proteins mediates growth cone turning and that local translation and retrograde transport of transcription factors mediate neuronal survival. Axonal translation is regulated partly by selective axonal localization of mRNAs and by translation initiation factors and RNA-binding proteins. We discuss possible rationales for local axonal translation, including distinct properties of nascent proteins, precise localization, and axonal autonomy.

The Kv7 potassium channel family encompasses five members (from Kv7.1 to Kv7.5) having distinct expression pattern and functional role. Although Kv7.1 is prevalently expressed in the cardiac muscle, Kv7.2, Kv7.3, Kv7.4, and Kv7.5 are expressed in neural tissue. Mutations in Kv7.2 and/or Kv7.3 genes are responsible for an autosomal-dominant epilepsy of the newborn defined as benign familial neonatal seizures (BFNS), whereas defects in the Kv7.4 gene have been found in families affected by a rare form of nonsyndromic autosomal-dominant hearing loss (DFNA2). Compounds acting as direct activators of neuronal channels formed by Kv7 subunits have been approved for clinical use as analgesics or are in advanced stages of clinical evaluation as anticonvulsants; in addition to these indications, solid preclinical studies reveal their potential usefulness in other diseases characterized by neuronal hyperexcitability. In the present work, we will summarize the available evidence providing proof-of-principles that neuronal Kv7 channels are highly attractive pharmacological targets, review the molecular basis of their peculiar pharmacological sensitivity, introduce some newly synthesized I(KM) openers showing improved pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic properties compared to older congeners, and discuss the potential novel therapeutic application of neuronal Kv7 channels in diseases additional to epilepsy.
Dendritic cells (DCs) play a crucial role in linking innate and adaptive immunity and, thus, in the generation of a protective immune response against both infectious diseases and tumors. The ability of DCs to prime and expand an immune response is regulated by signals acting through soluble mediators, mainly cytokines and chemokines. Understanding how cytokines influence DC functions and orchestrate the interactions of DCs with other immune cells is strictly instrumental to the progress in cancer immunotherapy. Herein, we will illustrate how certain cytokines and immune stimulating molecules can induce and sustain the antitumor immune response by acting on DCs. We will also discuss these cytokine-DC interactions in the light of clinical results in cancer patients.
Neurons of cranial sensory ganglia are derived from the neural crest and ectodermal placodes, but the mechanisms that control the relative contributions of each are not understood. Crest cells of the second branchial arch generate few facial ganglion neurons and no vestibuloacoustic ganglion neurons, but crest cells in other branchial arches generate many sensory neurons. Here we report that the facial ganglia of Hoxa2 mutant mice contain a large population of crest-derived neurons, suggesting that Hoxa2 normally represses the neurogenic potential of second arch crest cells. This may represent an anterior transformation of second arch neural crest cells toward a fate resembling that of first arch neural crest cells, which normally do not express Hoxa2 or any other Hox gene. We additionally found that overexpressing Hoxa2 in cultures of P19 embryonal carcinoma cells reduced the frequency of spontaneous neuronal differentiation, but only in the presence of cotransfected Pbx and Meis Hox cofactors. Finally, expression of Hoxa2 and the cofactors in chick neural crest cells populating the trigeminal ganglion also reduced the frequency of neurogenesis in the intact embryo. These data suggest an unanticipated role for Hox genes in controlling the neurogenic potential of at least some cranial neural crest cells.
Although it is well established that the ventral telencephalon is the primary source of GABAergic cortical interneurons in rodents, little is known about the specification of specific interneuron subtypes. It is also unclear whether the potential to achieve a given fate is established at their place of origin or by signals received during their migration to or during their maturation within the cerebral cortex. Using both in vivo and in vitro transplantation techniques, we find that two major interneuron subgroups have largely distinct origins within the MGE. Somatostatin (SST)-expressing interneurons are primarily generated within the dorsal MGE, while parvalbumin (PV)-expressing interneurons primarily originate from the ventral MGE. In addition, we show that significant heterogeneity exists between gene expression patterns in the dorsal and ventral MGE. These results suggest that, like the spinal cord, neuronal fate determination in the ventral telencephalon is largely the result of spatially segregated, molecularly distinct microdomains arranged on the dorsal-ventral axis.
The transcription cofactor Pbx3 is critical for the function of hindbrain circuits controlling respiration in mammals, but the perinatal lethality caused by constitutively null mutations has hampered investigation of other roles it may play in neural development and function. Here we report that the conditional loss of Pbx3 function in most tissues caudal to the hindbrain resulted in progressive deficits of posture, locomotion, and sensation that became apparent during adolescence. In adult mutants, the size of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and the numbers of calbindin-, PKC-gamma, and calretinin-expressing neurons in laminae I-III were markedly reduced, but the ventral cord and peripheral nervous system appeared normal. In the embryonic dorsal horn, Pbx3 expression was restricted to a subset of glutamatergic neurons, but its absence did not affect the initial balance of excitatory and inhibitory interneuron phenotypes. By embryonic day 15 a subset of Meis(+) glutamatergic neurons assumed abnormally superficial positions and the number of calbindin(+) neurons was increased three-fold in the mutants. Loss of Pbx3 function thus leads to the incorrect specification of some glutamatergic neurons in the dorsal horn and alters the integration of peripheral sensation into the spinal circuitry regulating locomotion.
Developmental axon pruning is widely used to refine neural circuits. We performed a mosaic screen to identify mutations affecting axon pruning of Drosophila mushroom body gamma neurons. We constructed a modified piggyBac vector with improved mutagenicity and generated insertions in &gt;2000 genes. We identified two cohesin subunits (SMC1 and SA) as being essential for axon pruning. The cohesin complex maintains sister-chromatid cohesion during cell division in eukaryotes. However, we show that the pruning phenotype in SMC1(-/-) clones is rescued by expressing SMC1 in neurons, revealing a postmitotic function. SMC1(-/-) clones exhibit reduced levels of the ecdysone receptor EcR-B1, a key regulator of axon pruning. The pruning phenotype is significantly suppressed by overexpressing EcR-B1 and is enhanced by a reduced dose of EcR, supporting a causal relationship. We also demonstrate a postmitotic role for SMC1 in dendrite targeting of olfactory projection neurons. We suggest that cohesin regulates diverse aspects of neuronal morphogenesis.
Synthetic corticosteroids, such as dexamethasone, are frequently administered to pregnant women at risk for preterm delivery. Endogenous corticosteroids are essential for normal development, but exposure to therapeutic doses at critical developmental stages may have adverse effects on the central nervous system. Major concern has arisen about long-term effects of corticosteroid treatment on brain plasticity, particularly in the hippocampus. Therefore, we analyzed the molecular, cellular, and behavioral effects of prenatal dexamethasone treatment on the adult hippocampus. Pregnant mice were treated at embryonic day 15.5 with a single dose of dexamethasone or saline. Adult offspring was analyzed for hippocampal neuron loss, cell proliferation, and NMDA receptor subunit expression. Hippocampal function was assessed in the Morris water maze and synaptic plasticity in the CA1 field by determining frequency dependence of LTP and LTD in hippocampal slices. Prenatal dexamethasone treatment decreased hippocampal cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus. Treated mice showed reduced LTD, impaired spatial learning, and a marked reduction in lifespan. Our data show long-term adverse effects of prenatal dexamethasone treatment on hippocampal function in mice and suggest accelerated aging. These findings indicate that it is important to be restrictive with corticosteroid administration during fetal development because of the lifelong consequences.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is one of the key players in the response of the brain cortex to injury. We have described previously that astrocyte-driven production of IL-6 (GFAP-IL6) in transgenic mice, although causing spontaneous neuroinflammation and long term damage, is beneficial after an acute (freeze) injury in the cortex, increasing healing and decreasing oxidative stress and apoptosis. To determine the transcriptional basis for these responses here we analyzed the global gene expression profile of the cortex, at 0 (unlesioned), 1 or 4 days post lesion (dpl), in both GFAP-IL6 mice and their control littermates. GFAP-IL6 mice showed an increase in genes associated with the inflammatory response both at 1 dpl (Iftm1, Endod1) and 4 dpl (Gfap, C4b), decreased expression of proapoptotic genes (i.e. Gadd45b, Clic4, p21) as well as reduced expression of genes involved in the control of oxidative stress (Atf4). Furthermore, the presence of IL-6 altered the expression of genes involved in hemostasis (Vwf), cell migration and proliferation (Cap2), and synaptic activity (Vamp2). All these changes in gene expression could underlie the phenotype of the GFAP-IL6 mice after injury, but many other possible factors were also identified in this study, highlighting the utility of this approach for deciphering new pathways orchestrated by IL-6.
Stem-cell-based therapies may offer treatments for a variety of intractable diseases. A fundamental goal in stem-cell biology concerns the characterization of diverse populations that exhibit different potentials, growth capabilities, and therapeutic utilities. We report the characterization of a stem-cell population isolated from tissue explants of rat amniotic membrane. Similar to mesenchymal stem cells, these amnion-derived stem cells (ADSCs) express the surface markers CD29 and CD90, but were negative for the lymphohematopoietic markers CD45 and CD11b. ADSCs exist in culture in a multidifferentiated state, expressing neuroectodermal (neurofilament-M), mesodermal (fibronectin), and endodermal (alpha-1-antitrypsin) genes. To assess plasticity, ADSCs were subjected to a number of culture conditions intended to encourage differentiation into neuroectodermal, mesodermal, and endodermal cell types. ADSCs cultured in a defined neural induction media assumed neuronal morphologies and up-regulated neural-specific genes. Under different conditions, ADSCs were capable of differentiating into presumptive bone and fat cells, indicated by the deposition of mineralized matrix and accumulated lipid droplets, respectively. Moreover, ADSCs cultured in media that promotes liver cell differentiation up-regulated liver-specific genes (albumin) and internalized low-density lipoprotein (LDL), consistent with a hepatocyte phenotype. To determine whether this observed plasticity reflects the presence of true stem cells within the population, we have derived individual clones from single cells. Clonal lines recapitulate the expression pattern of parental ADSC cultures and are multipotent. ADSCs have been cultured for 20 passages without losing their plasticity, suggesting long-term self-renewal. In sum, our data suggest that ADSCs and derived clonal lines are capable of long-term self-renewal and multidifferentiation, fulfilling all the criteria of a stem-cell population.
The anteroventral region of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) stimulates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis responses to acute stress. However, the role of the anterior BST nuclei in chronic drive of the HPA axis has yet to be established. Therefore, this study tests the role of the anteroventral BST in physiological responses to chronic drive, using a chronic variable stress (CVS) model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received either bilateral ibotenate lesions, targeting the anteroventral BST, or vehicle injection into the same region. Half of the lesion and control rats were exposed to a 14-d CVS paradigm consisting of twice-daily exposure to unpredictable, alternating stressors. The remaining rats were nonhandled control animals that remained in home cages. On the morning after the end of CVS exposure, all rats were exposed to a novel restraint stress challenge. CVS induced attenuated body weight gain, adrenal hypertrophy, thymic involution, and enhanced CRH mRNA in hypophysiotrophic neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, none of which were affected by anteroventral BST lesions. In the absence of CVS, lesions attenuated the plasma corticosterone and paraventricular nucleus c-fos mRNA responses to the acute restraint stress. In contrast, lesions of the anteroventral BST elevated plasma ACTH and corticosterone responses to novel restraint in the rats previously exposed to CVS. These data suggest that the anterior BST plays very different roles in integrating acute stimulation and chronic drive of the HPA axis, perhaps mediated by chronic stress-induced recruitment of distinct BST cell groups or functional reorganization of stress-integrative circuits.
A growing body of evidence suggests that maternal undernutrition sensitizes the offspring to the development of energy balance metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, and obesity. The present study aimed at examining the impact of maternal undernutrition on leptin plasma levels in newborn male rats and on the arcuate nucleus proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurons that are major leptin targets. Using a model of perinatal maternal 50% food-restricted diet (FR50) in the rat, we evaluated leptin plasma levels and hypothalamic POMC and NPY gene expression from postnatal day (PND) 4 to PND30 in both control and FR50 offspring. In control rats, a postnatal peak of plasma leptin was observed between PND4 and PND14 that reached a maximal value at PND10 (5.17 +/- 0.53 ng/ml), whereas it was dramatically reduced in FR50 pups with the higher concentration at PND7 (0.93 +/- 0.23 ng/ml). In FR50 animals, using semiquantitative RT-PCR and in situ hybridization, we showed that the hypothalamic POMC mRNA level was decreased from PND14 until PND30, whereas NPY gene expression was not significantly modified. In PND21 FR50 animals, we observed strikingly reduced immunoreactive beta-endorphin nerve fibers projecting to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus without affecting NPY projections. Our data showed that maternal undernutrition drastically reduces the postnatal surge of plasma leptin, disturbing particularly the hypothalamic wiring as well as the gene expression of the anorexigenic POMC neurons in male rat pups. These alterations might contribute to the adult metabolic disorders resulting from perinatal growth retardation.
The regulation of neuroendocrine electrical activity and gene expression by glucose is mediated through several distinct metabolic pathways. Many studies have implicated AMP and ATP as key metabolites mediating neuroendocrine responses to glucose, especially through their effects on AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), but other studies have suggested that glycolysis, and in particular the cytoplasmic conversion of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) to reduced NAD (NADH), may play a more important role than oxidative phosphorylation for some effects of glucose. To address these molecular mechanisms further, we have examined the regulation of agouti-related peptide (AgRP) in a clonal hypothalamic cell line, N-38. AgRP expression was induced monotonically as glucose concentrations decreased from 10 to 0.5 mm glucose and with increasing concentrations of glycolytic inhibitors. However, neither pyruvate nor 3-beta-hydroxybutyrate mimicked the effect of glucose to reduce AgRP mRNA, but on the contrary, produced the opposite effect of glucose and actually increased AgRP mRNA. Nevertheless, 3beta-hydroxybutyrate mimicked the effect of glucose to increase ATP and to decrease AMPK phosphorylation. Similarly, inhibition of AMPK by RNA interference increased, and activation of AMPK decreased, AgRP mRNA. Additional studies demonstrated that neither the hexosamine nor the pentose/carbohydrate response element-binding protein pathways mediate the effects of glucose on AgRP expression. These studies do not support that either ATP or AMPK mediate effects of glucose on AgRP in this hypothalamic cell line but support a role for glycolysis and, in particular, NADH. These studies support that cytoplasmic or nuclear NADH, uniquely produced by glucose metabolism, mediates effects of glucose on AgRP expression.
We aimed to determine whether analysis of EEG envelope trend aids bedside detection of neonatal seizures. Five neonatal EEGs with multiple seizures were used to determine optimal trend parameters for seizure detection. Using these parameters, envelope trends were generated on eight additional EEGs, evaluated by experienced and inexperienced users, and compared to traditional EEG interpretation. Seizures were best detected using envelope trend of 2-6 Hz activity over 20-s epochs. Experienced and inexperienced users identified 88% and 55% of prolonged seizures, respectively, 40% and 6% of brief seizures, and 20% and 0% of slowly evolving seizures. All users identified less than two false positives per hour. Thus, an experienced envelope trend user accurately identified longer seizures but did not identify brief or slowly evolving seizures. Less experienced users were less accurate. Trending may be a useful tool for seizure detection in some neonates.
Electroencephalographic source localization (ESL) by noninvasive means is an area of renewed interest in clinical epileptology. This has been driven by innovations in the computer-assisted modeling of dipolar and distributed sources for the investigation of focal epilepsy; a process fueled by the ever-increasing computational power available to researchers for the analysis of scalp EEG recordings. However, demonstration of the validity and clinical utility of these mathematically derived source modeling techniques has struggled to keep pace. This review evaluates the current clinical &quot;fitness' of ESL as applied to the focal epilepsies by examining some of the key studies performed in the field, with emphasis given to clinical work published in the last five years. In doing so, we discuss why ESL techniques have not made an impact on routine epilepsy practice, underlining some of the current problems and controversies in the field. We conclude by examining where ESL currently sits alongside magnetoencephalography and combined EEG-functional magnetic resonance imaging in the investigation of focal epilepsy.
The practice of yoga regulates body physiology through control of posture, breathing, and meditation. Effects of yoga on autonomic functions of patients with refractory epilepsy, as quantified by standardized autonomic function tests (AFTs), were determined. The yoga group (n=18) received supervised training in yoga, and the exercise group (n=16) practiced simple routine exercises. AFTs were repeated after 10 weeks of daily sessions. Data were compared with those of healthy volunteers (n=142). The yoga group showed significant improvement in parasympathetic parameters and a decrease in seizure frequency scores. There was no improvement in blood pressure parameters in either group. Two patients in the yoga group achieved normal autonomic functions at the end of 10 weeks of therapy, whereas there were no changes in the exercise group. The data suggest that yoga may have a role as an adjuvant therapy in the management of autonomic dysfunction in patients with refractory epilepsy.
The objective of this case study was to describe the clinical and electroencephalography (EEG)/functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data of a case of isolated hemifacial spasm due to epilepsia partialis continua in a 59-year-old man with abnormal hemifacial movements that disappeared during voluntary tasks, were absent during sleep, and responded to carbamazepine. His neurological examination was normal; EEG revealed right inferior frontal epileptiform discharges. EEG/fMRI demonstrated increased blood oxygenation level-dependent contrast in the right inferior and middle frontal gyri corresponding to the contralateral motor and premotor cortex responsible for facial movements (BA 44, 45, 45, 9), with widespread BOLD signal deactivations suggestive of epileptic network involvement despite a very focal epileptogenic process. We hypothesize that the response of some cases of hemifacial spasm to carbamazepine, a first-line treatment in the pre-botulinum toxin era, may have been due to its antiepileptic effects, rather than to modulation of facial nerve hyperexcitability.


Innate immune mechanisms essential for priming encephalitogenic T cells in autoimmune neuroinflammation are poorly understood. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a IL-17-producing Th (Th17) cell-mediated autoimmune disease and an animal model of multiple sclerosis. To investigate how upstream TLR signals influence autoimmune T cell responses, we studied the role of individual TLR and MyD88, the common TLR adaptor molecule, in the initiation of innate and adaptive immune responses in EAE. Wild type (WT) C57BL/6, TLR-deficient and MyD88-deficient mice were immunized with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) in CFA. MyD88(-/-) mice were completely EAE resistant. Purified splenic myeloid DC (mDC) from MyD88(-/-) mice expressed much less IL-6 and IL-23, and serum and T cell IL-17 were absent. TLR4(-/-) and TLR9(-/-) mice surprisingly exhibited more severe EAE symptoms than WT mice. IL-6 and IL-23 expression by mDC and Th17 responses were higher in TLR4(-/-) mice, suggesting a regulatory role of TLR4 in priming Th17 cells. IL-6 expression by splenocytes was higher in TLR9(-/-) mice. Our data suggest that MyD88 mediates the induction of mDC IL-6 and IL-23 responses after MOG immunization, which in turn drives IL-17-producing encephalitogenic Th17 cell activation. Importantly, we demonstrate that TLR4 and TLR9 regulate disease severity in MOG-induced EAE.
Arterial stiffness, a known risk factor for atherosclerosis, can be measured directly with carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (CPWV) and indirectly with central pulse pressure (CPP). We aimed to compare central and brachial pulse pressures, and to profile CPWV and CPP among ischemic stroke patients. We studied 198 consecutive prospective ethnic Chinese and South Asian ischemic stroke patients, measuring brachial pressures, central pressures and CPWV under standardized conditions using established methods. The mean CPWV was 11.6 +/- 3.2 m/s and CPP was 64 +/- 28 mmHg. CPP was significantly lower than brachial pulse pressure. CPWV and CPP were both independently associated with older age and hypertension. Among ischemic stroke patients, brachial pulse pressure cannot be used as a surrogate for CPP. Older age and hypertension are associated with arterial stiffening.
Codon 129 polymorphism of the prion protein gene represents a major genetic risk factor for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). Both CJD and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are brain amyloidoses and it would be possible that codon 129 polymorphism plays a role in the susceptibility to AD. In order to investigate this polymorphism in AD the distribution of polymorphic codon 129 of the PRNP gene in 194 probable AD and 124 controls selected in Italy and 109 neuropathologically verified AD and 58 matched controls recruited in the USA was studied. No significant association was found for the PRNP polymorphism in AD compared to controls either in Probable or in Definite AD series even after stratification for APOE polymorphism. This study does not support a role of PRNP polymorphism as a susceptibility factor for AD.
Basal dendrites of neocortical pyramidal neurons are relatively short and directly attached to the cell body. This allows electrical signals arising in basal dendrites to strongly influence the neuronal output. Likewise, somatic action potentials (APs) should readily propagate back into the basilar dendritic tree to influence synaptic plasticity. Two recent studies, however, determined that sodium APs are severely attenuated in basal dendrites of cortical pyramidal cells, so that they completely fail in distal dendritic segments. Here we used the latest improvements in the voltage-sensitive dye imaging technique (Zhou et al., 2007) to study AP backpropagation in basal dendrites of layer 5 pyramidal neurons of the rat prefrontal cortex. With a signal-to-noise ratio of &gt; 15 and minimal temporal averaging (only four sweeps) we were able to sample AP waveforms from the very last segments of individual dendritic branches (dendritic tips). We found that in short- (&lt; 150 microm) and medium (150-200 microm in length)-range basal dendrites APs backpropagated with modest changes in AP half-width or AP rise-time. The lack of substantial changes in AP shape and dynamics of rise is inconsistent with the AP-failure model. The lack of substantial amplitude boosting of the third AP in the high-frequency burst also suggests that in short- and medium-range basal dendrites backpropagating APs were not severely attenuated. Our results show that the AP-failure concept does not apply in all basal dendrites of the rat prefrontal cortex. The majority of synaptic contacts in the basilar dendritic tree actually received significant AP-associated electrical and calcium transients.
The primate prefrontal cortex (PF) plays a central role in choosing goals and strategies. To better understand its mechanisms, we recorded from PF neurons as monkeys used abstract response strategies to select a spatial goal. A visual cue, selected randomly from a set of three cues, appeared on each trial. All three cues were novel when neuronal recording commenced. From trial to trial, the cue could have either been repeated or changed from the previous trial; these were called repeat trials and change trials, respectively. On repeat trials, the monkeys used a Repeat-stay strategy to gain a reward by choosing the same spatial goal as on the previous trial; on change trials, they used a Change-shift strategy to reject the previous goal in favour of an alternative. We reported previously that when monkeys performed the task correctly, many PF neurons had activity encoding one of these two strategies. The monkeys sometimes chose the incorrect strategy, however. Strategy coding was weak or absent during the cue period of error trials which was, for correct trials, the time when the monkeys used a strategy to choose a future goal. By contrast, later in the trial, after the chosen goal had been attained and the monkeys awaited feedback, strategy coding was present and it reflected the strategy used, whether correct or incorrect. The weak cue-period strategy signal could, whatever its cause, have contributed to the errors made, whereas the activity prior to feedback suggests a role in monitoring task performance.
Relatively little is known about the function of the biological clock and its efferent pathways in diurnal species, despite the fact that its major transmitters and neuronal connections are also conserved in humans. The mammalian biological clock is located in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). Several lines of evidence suggest that the activity cycle of the SCN itself is similar in nocturnal and diurnal mammals. Previously, we showed that, in the rat, vasopressin (VP) derived from the SCN has a strong inhibitory effect on the release of adrenal corticosterone and is an important component in the generation of a daily rhythm in plasma corticosterone concentrations. In the present study we investigated the role of VP in the control of the daily corticosterone rhythm in a diurnal rodent, i.e. Arvicanthis ansorgei. Contrary to our previous (rat) results, VP administered to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus in A. ansorgei had a stimulatory effect on the release of corticosterone. Moreover, both the morning and evening rise in corticosterone were blocked by the administration of a VP receptor antagonist. These results show that with regard to the circadian control of the corticosterone rhythm in diurnal and nocturnal rodents, temporal information is carried along the same pathway from the SCN to its target areas, but the response of the target area may be quite different. We propose that the reversed response to VP is due to a change in the phenotype of the target neurons that are contacted by the SCN efferents, i.e. glutamatergic instead of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic.
Overexpression of ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) in mice rescues amyloid beta-protein-induced decreases in synaptic plasticity and memory. However, the physiological role of UCH-L1 in the brain is not fully understood. In the present study, we investigated the role of UCH-L1 in the brain by utilizing gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) mice with a spontaneous deletion in the gene Uch-l1 as a loss-of-function model. Although gad mice exhibit motor paresis beginning at approximately 12 weeks of age, it is possible to analyse their brain phenotypes at a younger age when no motor paresis is evident. Maintenance of memory in a passive avoidance test and exploratory behaviour in an open field test were reduced in 6-week-old gad mice. The maintenance of theta-burst stimulation-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of field synaptic responses from Schaffer collaterals to CA1 pyramidal cells in hippocampal slices was also impaired in gad mice. The LTP in gad mice was insensitive to actinomycin D, suggesting that a transcription-dependent component of the LTP is impaired. Phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices from gad mice occurred earlier than in the slices from wild-type mice and was transient, suggesting that CREB phosphorylation is altered in gad mice. These results suggest that memory in passive avoidance learning, exploratory behaviour and hippocampal CA1 LTP are reduced in gad mice. We propose that UCH-L1-mediated maintenance of the temporal integrity and persistence of CREB phosphorylation underlies these impairments.
Transient receptor potential (TRP)A1 channel has been implicated in various physiological processes, including thermosensation and pain. A recent study of TRPA1 knockout mice demonstrated deficits in sensing mechanical stimuli, suggesting a role for TRPA1 also in somatic mechanosensation. However, direct evidence of TRPA1 activation by mechanical forces has thus far been lacking. Here we show, using an intracellular calcium assay, that hypertonic solution (HTS) activates TRPA1 channels in human embryonic kidney 293 cells transiently expressing rat TRPA1. In contrast, hypotonic solution has no effect. Single-channel recordings reveal that HTS opens an ion channel that displays similar single-channel conductance to that evoked by the TRPA1 agonist allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) in both recombinant rat TRPA1 cell lines and rat dorsal root ganglia neurons. Ruthenium red reduces the open probability of the single-channel currents and blocks the whole-cell currents evoked by HTS. Camphor also blocks the whole-cell currents evoked by HTS. HTS-activated channel openings are only observed in patches that are also sensitive to AITC. Finally, like AITC, HTS depolarizes the membrane potential of dorsal root ganglia neurons leading to the generation of action potentials. Taken together, these findings indicate that TRPA1 mediates an osmotically-activated ion channel and support a role for TRPA1 in mechanosensation.

In an earlier experiment we showed that selective attention plays a critical role in rabbit eye blink conditioning (Steele-Russell et al. in Exp Brain Res 173:587-602, 2006). The present experiments are concerned to examine the extent to which visual recognition processes are a separate component from the motor learning that is also involved in conditioning. This was achieved by midline section of the optic chiasma which disconnected the direct retinal projections via the brainstem to the cerebellar oculomotor control system. By comparing both normal and chiasma-sectioned rabbits it was possible to determine the dependence or independence of conditioning on the motor expression of the eye blink response during training. Both normal and chiasma-sectioned animals were tested using a multiple test battery to determine the effect of this redirection of the visual input pathways on conditioning. All animals were first tested for any impairment in visual capability following section of the optic chiasma. Despite the loss of 90% of retinal ganglion cell fibres, no visual impairment for either intensity or pattern vision was seen in the chiasma animals. Also no difference was seen in nictitating membrane (NM) conditioning to an auditory signal between normal and chiasma animals. Testing for motor learning to a visual signal, the chiasma rabbits showed a complete lack of any NM conditioning. However the sensory tests of visual conditioning showed that chiasma-sectioned animals had completely normal sensory recognition learning. These results show that NM Pavlovian conditioning involves anatomically separate and independent sensory recognition and motor output components of the learning.
The aim of the present paper is to study effects of short and long duration transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on the human motor cortex. In eight normal volunteers, motor evoked potentials (MEPs) induced by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) were recorded from the right first dorsal interosseous muscle, and tDCS was given with electrodes over the left primary motor cortex (M1) and the contralateral orbit. We performed two experiments: one for short duration tDCS (100 ms, 1, 3 or 5 mA) and the other for long duration tDCS (10 min, 1 mA). The stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) between the onset of tDCS and TMS were 1-7 and 10-120 ms for the former experiment. In the latter experiment, TMS was given 0-20 min after the end of 10 min tDCS. We evaluated the effect of tDCS on the motor cortex by comparing MEPs conditioned by tDCS with control MEPs. Cathodal short duration tDCS significantly reduced the size of responses to motor cortical stimulation at SOAs of 1-7 ms when the intensity was equal to or greater than 3 mA. Anodal short duration tDCS significantly increased MEPs when the intensity was 3 mA, but the enhancement did not occur when using 5 mA conditioning stimulus. Moreover, both anodal and cathodal short duration tDCS decreased responses to TMS significantly at SOAs of 20-50 ms and enhanced them at an SOA of 90 ms. Long duration cathodal tDCS decreased MEPs at 0 and 5 min after the offset of tDCS and anodal long duration tDCS increased them at 1 and 15 min. We conclude that the effect at SOAs less than 10 ms is mainly caused by acute changes in resting membrane potential induced by tDCS. The effect at SOAs of 20-100 ms is considered to be a nonspecific effect of a startle-like response produced by activation of skin sensation at the scalp. The effect provoked by long duration tDCS may be short-term potentiation or depression like effects.
Reduced depression of transmitter release from Ia afferents following previous activation (post-activation depression) has been suggested to be involved in the pathophysiology of spasticity. However, the effect of this mechanism on the myotatic reflex and its possible contribution to increased reflex excitability in spastic participants has not been tested. To investigate these effects, we examined post-activation depression in Soleus H-reflex responses and in mechanically evoked Soleus stretch reflex responses. Stretch reflex responses were evoked with consecutive dorsiflexion perturbations delivered at different intervals. The magnitude of the stretch reflex and ankle torque response was assessed as a function of the time between perturbations. Soleus stretch reflexes were evoked with constant velocity (175 degrees /s) and amplitude (6 degrees) plantar flexion perturbations. Soleus H-reflexes were evoked by electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve in the popliteal fossa. The stretch reflex and H-reflex responses of 30 spastic participants (with multiple sclerosis or spinal cord injury) were compared with those of 15 healthy participants. In the healthy participants, the magnitude of the soleus stretch reflex and H-reflex decreased as the interval between the stimulus/perturbation was decreased. Similarly, the stretch-evoked torque decreased. In the spastic participants, the post-activation depression of both reflexes and the stretch-evoked torque was significantly smaller than in healthy participants. These findings demonstrate that post-activation depression is an important factor in the evaluation of stretch reflex excitability and muscle stiffness in spasticity, and they strengthen the hypothesis that reduced post-activation depression plays a role in the pathophysiology of spasticity.
Real-world speech perception relies on both auditory and visual information that fall within the tolerated range of temporal coherence. Subjects were presented with audiovisual recordings of speech that were offset by either 30 or 300 ms, leading to perceptually coherent or incoherent audiovisual speech, respectively. We provide electroencephalographic evidence of a phase-synchronous gamma-oscillatory network that is transiently activated by the perception of audiovisual speech asynchrony, showing both topological and time-course correspondence to networks reported in previous neuroimaging research. This finding addresses a major theoretical hurdle regarding the mechanism by which distributed networks serving a common function achieve transient functional integration. Moreover, this evidence illustrates an important dissociation between phase-synchronization and stimulus coherence, highlighting the functional nature of network-based synchronization.
Discrete numerosities can be represented by various finger configurations. The impact of counting strategies on these configurations and their possible semantic status were investigated in young adults. Experiment 1 showed that young adults named numerical finger configurations faster when they conformed to their own canonical finger-counting habits than when they did not. Experiment 2 showed that numeral finger configurations used as unconsciously presented primes speeded up numerical comparative judgements of Arabic numeral targets. Participants responded faster and made fewer errors with numerical than with non-numerical primes, and when primes and targets were congruent (i.e., leading to the same response). Moreover, this priming effect generalised to novel never consciously seen numerosities for canonical configurations but not for non-canonical ones. These results support the idea that canonical finger configurations automatically activate number semantics whereas non-canonical ones do not.
Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can be used to non-invasively evaluate human motor cortical inhibitory circuits such as short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and long interval intracortical inhibition (LICI). Pharmacological studies suggested that SICI is mediated by GABA(A) receptors while LICI is probably mediated by GABA(B) receptors. A previous study also showed that SICI and LICI are mediated by separate neuronal populations and that LICI inhibits SICI, possibly through presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. The aim of this study was to examine whether the time course of motor-evoked potentials (MEP) inhibition by LICI, likely mediated through postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors, is different from SICI inhibition by LICI, likely mediated through presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. Nine healthy volunteers were studied and MEP were recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle. A triple-stimulus TMS paradigm was used to evaluate the effect of LICI at ISIs of 100 and 150 ms on SICI. LICI at 100 and 150 ms caused a similar degree of MEP inhibition. LICI at 100 ms led to a significant reduction of SICI but LICI at 150 ms had no effect on SICI. Repeated measures ANOVA revealed a significant interaction between the LICI mediated inhibition of SICI and ISI (P = 0.0072). These findings suggest that the time courses of presynaptic and postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors mediated inhibition are different in the human motor cortex.
Dopaminergic drugs and deep brain stimulation restore cortical inhibition in Parkinson disease (PD) patients. High-frequency rTMS was also found to increase cortical inhibition in PD but its therapeutic effect is still controversial. Here we hypothesize that, if dopaminergic drugs reverse to normal cortical excitability in M1, the effect of high-frequency (hf)-rTMS in PD patients could depend on whether they are in a medicated or unmedicated state. The present study aims to explore the lasting effects of sub-threshold hf rTMS trains over M1 on cortical inhibition in patients with &quot;on&quot; and without &quot;off&quot; L-DOPA treatment. Fourteen PD patients were examined twice while &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; medication. In both conditions, a paired-pulse paradigm was used to evaluate short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and long intracortical inhibition (LICI) that were evaluated before and after hf rTMS trains applied on the motor cortex. The results were compared with those obtained from normal controls. In baseline condition, SICI and LICI were significantly reduced in &quot;off&quot; compared to &quot;on&quot; patients and controls. hf-rTMS over the motor cortex significantly increased SICI and LICI in &quot;off&quot; medication PD patients. Magnetic stimulation proved to be ineffective when the same patients were in &quot;on&quot; state. The results showed that hf-rTMS affected intracortical inhibition (ICI) only in unmedicated patients. By restoring cortical inhibitory circuits dopaminergic drugs, normalize the excitability changes in M1 subsequent to motor rTMS. Whether patients are in a medicated or an unmedicated state would therefore appear to be critical for rTMS effects in PD patients. If a positive correlation exists between increased cortical inhibition and clinical improvement, hf-rTMS during the &quot;off&quot; state could be regarded as a potential add-on treatment to reduce the need of L-dopa and thus delay the adverse effects of its chronic use.
Cell transplantation is a promising way to treat spinal cord injury and neurodegenerative disorders. Neural stem cells taken from the embryonic spinal cord are an appealing source of cells for transplantation because these cells are committed to making spinal cord progeny. However these stem cells are rare and require expansion in tissue culture to generate sufficient cells for transplantation. We have developed a novel method for expanding embryonic mouse spinal cord stem cells using a co-culture system with endothelial cells. This method improves neural stem cell survival and preserves their multipotency, including their ability to make motor neurons. Transplantation of endothelial-expanded neural stem cells that were treated with sonic hedgehog(Shh) and retinoic acid (RA) during the expansion phase, into an adult mouse SCI model resulted in significant recovery of sensory and motor function.
There has been remarkable progress in the last 20 years in understanding mechanisms that underlie the success of axonal regeneration in the peripheral nervous system, and the failure of axonal regeneration in the central nervous system. Following the identification of these underlying mechanisms, several distinct therapeutic approaches have been tested in in vivo models of spinal cord injury (SCI) to enhance central axonal structural plasticity, including the therapeutic administration of neurotrophic factors. While several tested mechanisms apparently enhance axonal growth, more recent, properly controlled studies indicate that experimental approaches to combine therapies that target distinct neural mechanisms achieve greater axonal growth than therapies applied in isolation. The search for combination therapies that optimize axonal growth after SCI continues.

The failure of axons to regenerate after spinal cord injury remains one of the greatest challenges facing both medicine and neuroscience, but in the last 20 years there have been tremendous advances in the field of spinal cord injury repair. One of the most important of these has been the identification of inhibitory proteins in CNS myelin, and this has led to the development of strategies that will enable axons to overcome myelin inhibition. Elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) has been one of the most successful of these strategies, and in this review we examine how cAMP signaling promotes axonal regeneration in the CNS. Intracellular cAMP levels can be increased through a peripheral conditioning lesion, administration of cAMP analogues, priming with neurotrophins or treatment with the phosphodiesterase inhibitor rolipram, and each of these methods has been shown to overcome myelin inhibition both in vitro and in vivo. It is now known that the effects of cAMP are transcription dependent, and that cAMP-mediated activation of CREB leads to upregulated expression of genes such as arginase I and interleukin-6. The products of these genes have been shown to directly promote axonal regeneration, which raises the possibility that other cAMP-regulated genes could yield additional agents that would be beneficial in the treatment of spinal cord injury. Further study of these genes, in combination with human clinical trials of existing agents such as rolipram, would allow the therapeutic potential of cAMP to be fully realized.
Multiple lines of evidence have indicated that the inability of adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) axons to regenerate after injury is partly due to the growth inhibitory property of central myelin. Three prototypical myelin-associated inhibitors of neurite outgrowth have been identified, including Nogo, myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein (OMgp). These inhibitory ligands, their receptors and signaling pathways are being intensively investigated for their roles in CNS axon regeneration failure. In addition, several members of the axon guidance molecules have been implicated in restricting CNS axon regeneration, some of which are expressed by mature oligodendrocytes. Here we review in vitro and in vivo studies of these molecules in neurite growth and in axon regeneration failure and discuss the implications of these studies. While the increasing number of potential axon regeneration inhibitors highlights the complexity of the restrictive CNS environment, it provides new windows of opportunity as well as new challenges for therapeutic development for spinal cord injury and related neurological conditions.
The optic nerve offers a number of advantages for investigating mechanisms that govern axon regeneration in the CNS. Although mature retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) normally show no ability to regenerate injured axons through the optic nerve, this situation can be partially reversed by inducing an inflammatory response in the eye. The secretion of a previously unknown growth factor, oncomodulin, along with co-factors, causes RGCs to undergo dramatic changes in gene expression and regenerate lengthy axons into the highly myelinated optic nerve. By themselves, strategies that counteract inhibitory signals associated with myelin and the glial scar are insufficient to promote extensive regeneration in this system. However, combinatorial treatments that activate neurons' intrinsic growth state and overcome inhibitory signals result in dramatic axon regeneration in vivo. Because of the ease of introducing trophic factors, soluble receptors, drugs, or viruses expressing any gene or small interfering RNA of interest into RGCs, this system is ideal for identifying intracellular signaling pathways, transcriptional cascades, and ligand-receptor interactions that enable axon regeneration to occur in the CNS.

Neural stem cells are cells that can self-renew ad infinitum and have the potential to generate immature precursors and mature cells of both neuronal and glial lineages. During recent years, neural stem cells gained attention as major candidates for regenerative and cell replacement therapies in various pathological brain conditions; however, they have recently revealed unforeseen valuable characters. Here the authors review on the state of the field, with a particular focus on the most recent results on the optimisation of neural stem cells isolation/derivation and homogeneous long-term expansion, highlighting advantages of this resource and outlining their potential applications. Bearing in mind that stem-cell based therapies for the diseased and injured brain are still far from being a reality, these cells have been recently opened up to valuable exploitation for disease modelling, drug discovery and toxicology tests as short-term applications.

With the confirmation that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain and neural stem cells reside in the adult CNS, the focus of research has now shifted to the understanding of the function of newborn neuronal cells in the adult brain, and particularly in the pathologies of the nervous system. Neurogenesis has been reported to be modulated in a broad range of pathological conditions, including neurological diseases and disorders. More strikingly, studies have revealed that drugs currently used to treat neurological diseases and disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and depression, increase adult neurogenesis, which may mediate their activities. However, some of these studies are the source of debates and controversies, and remain to be confirmed. Hence, the role and contribution of newly generated neuronal cells in neurological diseases and disorders, as well as the effect of drugs on adult neurogenesis and its significance remain to be elucidated and understood. This shows that adult neurogenesis is not only important for our understanding of development and therapy, but also for the physiopathology of the CNS and its pharmacology.
Despite sequence information from many vertebrates the evolution of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) family of peptides has been difficult to resolve, particularly among ray-finned fishes. We have used chromosomal location and sequence analyses to identify orthologs and gene duplicates in teleost fish genomes. Our analyses support origin of NPY and peptide YY (PYY) from a common ancestor in early vertebrate evolution through a chromosome duplication. We report here that the teleost tetraploidization generated duplicates of both NPY and PYY and that all four genes are still present in the two sequenced pufferfish genomes Tetraodon nigroviridis and Takifugu rubripes as well as three-spined stickleback, Gasterosteus aculeatus. The zebrafish Danio rerio NPYb gene has probably been lost whereas medaka, Oryzias latipes seems to lack PYYb. Some of the previously published PYY sequences were misidentified and actually constitute NPYb. Our analyses confirm that the peptide previously named PY in some fish species is a duplicate of the PYY gene and hence should be called PYYb. The NPYa and NPYb genes in Takifugu rubripes are predominantly expressed in brain, as detected by RT-PCR, whereas PYYa and PYYb are expressed in several organs including brain, intestine and gonads. Thus, also the resemblance in expression pattern supports the fish gene duplication scenario. Our study shows that when sequence comparisons give ambiguous results, chromosomal location can serve as a useful criterion to identify orthologs. This strategy may help to resolve relationships in several families of short peptides.
This review addresses the role of adult hippocampal neurogenesis and stem cells in some of the most common neurodegenerative disorders and their related animal models. We discuss recent literature in relation to Alzheimer's disease and dementia, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, alcoholism, ischemia, epilepsy and major depression.
Neuronal cell death underlies the majority of age-related human neurodegenerative disorders that culminate with salient and severe cognitive decline affecting patients' quality of life, identity and eventually leading to death. The identification of disease-causing genes in familial forms of neurodegenerative diseases enabled the development of genetic models closely replicating pathologies found in human central nervous system. These models dramatically precipitated our understanding of molecular events leading to neuronal death in many neurodegenerative disorders. Today's large range of cellular and animal models generate rapidly accumulating biochemical and neuropathological data on changes induced by mutated or dysfunctional proteins implicated in neuronal loss. Most of these models are complementary, although all have intrinsic limitations as well as specific advantages. Development of conditional transgenic mouse models in which a deleterious effect of a transgene can be regulated in a controlled way created new possibilities of addressing the basic mechanisms of neurodegeneration and provided a new angle for the development and testing of new therapeutic approaches.
There is evidence that the peptide urocortin 1 (Ucn1) may be involved in mediating some of the effects of ethanol. The purpose of the present study was to characterize Ucn1 immunoreactivity in mice selectively bred for either high or low sensitivity to ethanol-induced sedation, with additional differences in their response to ethanol-induced hypothermia. The brains of nave male mice of the inbred long sleep/short sleep (ILS/ISS) selected lines were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Significant differences were found between lines in the number of Ucn1-containing cells in the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW, the main source of Ucn1 in the brain); with the ISS mice having more cells. However, significant differences in the optical density of Ucn1 immunoreactivity in individual npEW cells and differences in cell area were also found between lines, with ILS mice having a greater density of Ucn1 per cell and having larger cells in the npEW. Importantly, the ILS mice also had a significantly greater number of Ucn1-positive terminal fibers than ISS mice in the lateral septum and the dorsal raphe nucleus, projection areas of Ucn1-containing neurons. These results suggest that the greater sensitivity of ILS than ISS mice to the hypothermic effects of ethanol could be mediated by stronger innervation of the dorsal raphe by Ucn1-containing fibers. In addition, these results lend further support to previous findings implicating Ucn1-containing projections from npEW to the dorsal raphe in ethanol-induced hypothermia.
We previously reported on the differential presence of transcripts related to the human endogenous retrovirus (HERV)-W family in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma from patients with first-episode schizophrenia compared with control individuals. Whether this is a consequence of qualitative or quantitative differences in transcription of genomic regions harboring HERV-W elements is not known. The purpose of the present study was therefore to characterize the transcribed HERV-W elements in mononuclear cells obtained from 30 patients first hospitalized for schizophrenia-related psychosis and from 26 healthy control individuals. We observed elevated total levels of HERV-W gag (2.1-fold, P &lt; 0.01) but not env transcripts in the cells of patients compared with controls. By using the melting temperatures of the amplicons as a proxy marker for sequence identity, no absolute qualitative differences was detected between the two groups. Mapping of the detected transcripts identified several intronic and intergenic HERV-W elements transcribed in the cells, including elements previously considered transcriptionally silent. Element-specific assays revealed elevated levels of intronic transcripts containing HERV-W gag sequence from the putative gene PTD015 on chromosome 11q13.5 (1.6-fold, P &lt; 0.05) in the patients compared with the controls. Thus, studies aiming to further understanding of complex human disease such as schizophrenia may need to be extended beyond the strictly protein-coding fraction of the transcriptome.
Many of the transcription factors and target genes that pattern the developing adult remain unknown. In the present study, we find that an ortholog of the poorly understood transcription factor, glucose transporter (GLUT4) enhancer factor (Glut4EF, GEF) [also known as the Huntington's disease gene regulatory region-binding protein (HDBP) 1], plays a critical role in specifying normal wing positioning in adult Drosophila. Glut4EF proteins are zinc-finger transcription factors named for their ability to regulate expression of GLUT4 but nothing is known of Glut4EF's in vivo physiological functions. Here, we identify a family of Glut4EF proteins that are well conserved from Drosophila to humans and find that mutations in Drosophila Glut4EF underlie the wing-positioning defects seen in stretch mutants. In addition, our results indicate that previously uncharacterized mutations in Glut4EF are present in at least 11 publicly available fly lines and on the widely used TM3 balancer chromosome. These results indicate that previous observations utilizing these common stocks may be complicated by the presence of Glut4EF mutations. For example, our results indicate that Glut4EF mutations are also present on the same chromosome as two gain-of-function mutations of the homeobox transcription factor Antennapedia (Antp) and underlie defects previously attributed to Antp. In fact, our results support a role for Glut4EF in the modulation of morphogenetic processes mediated by Antp, further highlighting the importance of Glut4EF transcription factors in patterning and morphogenesis.
Microglia is activated by brain injury. They migrate in response to ATP and although adenosine alone has no effect on wild type microglial migration, we show that inhibition of adenosine receptors impedes ATP triggered migration. CD39 is the dominant cellular ectonucleotidase that degrades nucleotides to nucleosides, including adenosine. Importantly, ATP fails to stimulate P2 receptor mediated migration in cd39(-/-) microglia. However, the effects of ATP on migration in cd39(-/-) microglia can be restored by co-stimulation with adenosine or by addition of a soluble ectonucleotidase. We also tested the impact of cd39-deletion in a model of ischemia, in an entorhinal cortex lesion and in the facial nucleus after facial nerve lesion. The accumulation of microglia at the pathological sites was markedly decreased in cd39(-/-) animals. We conclude that the co-stimulation of purinergic and adenosine receptors is a requirement for microglial migration and that the expression of cd39 controls the ATP/adenosine balance.
Microglial activation has been reported to promote neurotoxicity and also neuroprotective effects. A possible contributor to this dichotomy of responses may be the degree to which proximal neurons are injured. The aim of this study was to determine whether varying the severity of neuronal injury influenced whether microglia were neuroprotective or neurotoxic. We exposed cortical neuronal cultures to varying degrees of hypoxia thereby generating mild (&lt;20% death, 30 min hypoxia), moderate (40-60% death, 2 h hypoxia), or severe (&gt;70% death, 6 h hypoxia) injuries. Twenty-four hours after hypoxia, the media from the neuronal cultures was collected and incubated with primary microglial cultures for 24 h. Results showed that the classic microglial proinflammatory mediators including inducible nitric oxide synthase, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and interleukin-1-beta were upregulated only in response to mild neuronal injuries, while the trophic microglial effectors brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor were upregulated in response to all degrees of neuronal injury. Microglia stimulated with media from damaged neurons were co-cultured with hypoxic neurons. Microglia stimulated by moderate, but not mild or severe damage were neuroprotective in these co-cultures. We also showed that the severity-dependent phenomenon was not related to autocrine microglial signaling and was dependent on the neurotransmitters released by neurons after injury, namely glutamate and adenosine 5'-triphosphate. Together our results show that severity of neuronal injury is an important factor in determining microglial release of &quot;toxic&quot; versus &quot;protective&quot; effectors and the resulting neurotoxicity versus neuroprotection.
In order to establish causal or protective treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD), it is necessary to identify the cascade of deleterious events that lead to the dysfunction and death of dopaminergic neurons. Paraquat (PQ) is a pesticide used as xenobiotic compound to model PD. However, the mechanism(s) of PQ-induced cell death and the mechanism(s) of cytoprotection in a single cell model are still unknown. In this study, lymphocytes were treated with (0.1-1 mM) PQ. Apoptotic morphology was assessed with acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining. Further evaluation included (i) superoxide radicals, reflected by nitroblue tetrazolium reduction to formazan, (ii) the production of hydrogen peroxide, reflected by rhodamine-positive fluorescent cells, (iii) the generation of hydroxyl radicals, reflected by dimethylsulfoxide and melatonin ( radical)OH scavengers, (iv) activation and/or translocation of NF-kappaB, p53 and c-Jun transcription factors showed by immunocytochemical staining, and by ammonium pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate, pifithrin-alpha and SP600125 inhibition and (V) caspase-3 activation, reflected by caspase Ac-DEVD-cho inhibition. To elucidate the mechanism of cytoprotection, lymphocytes were treated with PQ in the presence of cannabinoids, insulin-like growth factor-1 and glucose. We provide evidence that PQ induces apoptosis in lymphocytes in a concentration- and time-dependent fashion by an oxidative stress mechanism involving O(2)( radical - ), H(2)O(2)/(( radical)OH) generation, simultaneous activation of NF-kappaB/p53/c-Jun transcription factors, mitochondrial depolarization and caspase-3 activation leading to morphological apoptosis. Moreover, dying lymphocytes are protected and rescued from PQ noxious stimuli by direct antioxidant effect by cannabinoids, receptor mediated signaling by IGF-1, and/or energetic protection by glucose. It is concluded that PQ-induced apoptosis in lymphocytes by a mechanism involving reactive oxygen species generation, mitochondrial dysfunction, transcriptional factors and caspase-3 activation. However, this cell death routine can be reversed by the action of cannabinoids, IGF-1 and glucose. These data may provide innovating therapeutic strategies to intervene environmentally or genetically susceptible PD population to oxidative stress.
This is a clinical report of a 63-year-old woman, with a 3-year history of severe episodes of hypnic headache responding to low-doses of topiramate (25 mg at bedtime). Topiramate has been used at the dosage of 100 mg/day for hypnic headache prevention in one recent case report with benefit. This report confirms the efficacy of topiramate in hypnic headache even using low-dose regimen therapy.
The current study assessed the normal development of cortical auditory evoked potentials (CAEPs) in humans presented with pure tone stimuli at relatively fast stimulus rates. Traditionally, maturation of sound processing indexed by CAEPs has been studied in paradigms using inter-stimulus intervals (ISIs) generally slower than 1 Hz. While long ISIs may enhance the amplitude of CAEP components, speech information generally occurs at more rapid rates. These slower rates of sound presentation may not accurately assess auditory cortical functions in more realistic sound environments. We examined the effect of temporal rate on the elicitation of the P1-N1-P2-N2 components to unattended sounds at four levels of stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA, onset to onset, 200, 400, 600, and 800 ms) in children grouped separately by year (ages 8, 9, 10, 11 years), in adolescents (age 16 years) and in one group of young adults (ages 22-40 years). We found that both age and stimulus rate produced profound changes in CAEP morphology. Between the ages of 8-11 years, the P1 and N2 components dominated the ERP waveform at all stimulus rates. N1, the dominant CAEP component in adults, appeared as a bifurcation in a broad positive peak at earlier ages, and did not emerge as a separate component until adolescence. While the P1-N1-P2 components are more &quot;adult-like&quot; than &quot;child-like&quot; in the adolescent subjects, the N2 component, a hallmark of the child obligatory response, was still present. Faster rates resulted in the suppression of discrete components such that by 200 ms, only P1 in the adults and adolescents, and both P1 and N2 in the youngest children were discernable. We conclude that both age and ISI are important variables in the assessment of auditory cortex function and maturation. The presence of N2 in adolescents indicates that auditory cortical maturation persists into teen years.
Deafness commonly results from a lesion of the sensory cells and/or of the neurons of the auditory part of the inner ear. There are currently no treatments designed to halt or reverse the progression of hearing loss. A key goal in developing therapy for sensorineural deafness is the identification of strategies to replace lost hair cells. In amphibians and birds, a spontaneous post-injury regeneration of all inner ear sensory hair cells occurs. In contrast, in the mammalian cochlea, hair cells are only produced during embryogenesis. Many studies have been carried out in order to demonstrate the persistence of endogenous progenitors. The present review is first focused on the occurrence of spontaneous supernumerary hair cells and on nestin positive precursors found in the organ of Corti. A second approach to regenerating hair cells would be to find genes essential for their differentiation. This review will also focus on critical genes for embryonic hair cell formation such as the cell cycle related proteins, the Atoh1 gene and the Notch signaling pathway. Understanding mechanisms that underlie hair cell production is an essential prerequisite to defining therapeutic strategies to regenerate hair cells in the mature inner ear.
Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) are synthetic derivatives of testosterone used by over half a million adolescents in the United States for their tissue-building potency and performance-enhancing effects. AAS also affect behavior, including reports of heightened aggression and changes in sexual libido. The expression of sexual and aggressive behaviors is a function of complex interactions among hormones, social context, and the brain, which is extensively remodeled during adolescence. Thus, AAS may have different consequences on behavior during adolescence and adulthood. Using a rodent model, these studies directly compared the effects of AAS on the expression of male sexual and aggressive behaviors in adolescents and adults. Male Syrian hamsters were injected daily for 14 days with either vehicle or an AAS cocktail containing testosterone cypionate (2 mg/kg), nandrolone decanoate (2 mg/kg), and boldenone undecylenate (1 mg/kg), either during adolescence (27-41 days of age) or in adulthood (63-77 days of age). The day after the last injection, males were tested for either sexual behavior with a receptive female or agonistic behavior with a male intruder. Adolescent males treated with AAS showed significant increases in sexual and aggressive behaviors relative to vehicle-treated adolescents. In contrast, AAS-treated adults showed significantly lower levels of sexual behavior compared with vehicle-treated adults and did not show heightened aggression. Thus, adolescents, but not adults, displayed significantly higher behavioral responses to AAS, suggesting that the still-developing adolescent brain is more vulnerable than the adult brain to the adverse consequences of AAS on the nervous system and behavior.

Recent evidence from neuroscience indicates that the anticipation of external rewards may enhance declarative memory consolidation by increasing dopaminergic-modulated plasticity in the hippocampus. A number of studies in psychology, however, have shown that external rewards may have null, or even negative, effects on learning. To shed light on this issue, we developed a novel task, in which native Japanese speakers were rewarded to learn unknown English words inside a functional MRI scanner. Rewards had no effect on recall performance unless we used a rating of reward-induced anxiety as a covariate. In this case, for highly rewarded words, we found a negative correlation between recall performance and anxiety ratings. For those words, high recall performance and low anxiety ratings were associated with enhanced activity in the midbrain dopaminergic centers, the hippocampus, and the amygdala. On the other hand, low recall performance and high anxiety ratings were associated with enhanced activity in the anterior cingulate and middle frontal gyrus, brain regions that have been shown to be involved with anxiety and divided attention, respectively. A connectivity analysis indicated positive functional connectivity between the midbrain dopaminergic centers and both the hippocampus and the amygdala, as well as negative connectivity between the anterior cingulate and the amygdala. Thus, both our behavioral and imaging results suggest that the anticipation of rewards can, depending on the individual level of reward-induced anxiety, have either a beneficial effect or a negative effect on word learning.
The survival of all organisms depends upon their ability to overcome stressful conditions, an ability that involves adaptive changes in cells and molecules. Findings from studies of animal models and human populations suggest that hormesis (beneficial effects of low levels of stress) is an effective means of protecting against many different diseases including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancers and neurodegenerative disorders. Such stress resistance mechanisms can be bolstered by diverse environmental factors including exercise, dietary restriction, cognitive stimulation and exposure to low levels of toxins. Some commonly used vitamins and dietary supplements may also induce beneficial stress responses. Several interrelated cellular signaling molecules are involved in the process of hormesis. Examples include the gases oxygen, carbon monoxide and nitric oxide, the neurotransmitter glutamate, the calcium ion and tumor necrosis factor. In each case low levels of these signaling molecules are beneficial and protect against disease, whereas high levels can cause the dysfunction and/or death of cells. The cellular and molecular mechanisms of hormesis are being revealed and include activation of growth factor signaling pathways, protein chaperones, cell survival genes and enzymes called sirtuins. Knowledge of hormesis mechanisms is leading to novel approaches for preventing and treating a range of human diseases.
Although ubiquitin-enriched protein inclusions represent an almost invariant feature of neurodegenerative diseases, the mechanism underlying their biogenesis remains unclear. In particular, whether the topology of ubiquitin linkages influences the dynamics of inclusions is not well explored. Here, we report that lysine 48 (K48)- and lysine 63 (K63)-linked polyubiquitination, as well as monoubiquitin modification contribute to the biogenesis of inclusions. K63-linked polyubiquitin is the most consistent enhancer of inclusions formation. Under basal conditions, ectopic expression of K63 mutant ubiquitin in cultured cells promotes the accumulation of proteins and the formation of intracellular inclusions in the apparent absence of proteasome impairment. When co-expressed with disease-associated tau and SOD1 mutants, K63 ubiquitin mutant facilitates the formation of tau- and SOD-1-positive inclusions. Moreover, K63-linked ubiquitination was found to selectively facilitate the clearance of inclusions via autophagy. These data indicate that K63-linked ubiquitin chains may represent a common denominator underlying inclusions biogenesis, as well as a general cellular strategy for defining cargo destined for the autophagic system. Collectively, our results provide a novel mechanistic route that underlies the life cycle of an inclusion body. Harnessing this pathway may offer innovative approaches in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
The localization of dipolar sources in the brain based on electroencephalography (EEG) or magnetoencephalography (MEG) data is a frequent problem in the neurosciences. Deterministic standard approaches such as the Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) method often have problems in finding the global optimum of the associated nonlinear optimization function, when two or more dipoles are to be reconstructed. In such cases, probabilistic approaches turned out to be superior, but their applicability in neuromagnetic source localizations is not yet satisfactory. The objective of this study was to find probabilistic optimization strategies that perform better in such applications. Thus, hybrid and nested evolution strategies (NES) which both realize a combination of global and local search by means of multilevel optimizations were newly designed. The new methods were benchmarked and compared to the established evolution strategies (ES), to fast evolution strategies (FES), and to the deterministic LM method by conducting a two-dipole fit with MEG data sets from neuropsychological experiments. The best results were achieved with NES.
A growing number of brain-machine interfaces have now been developed that allow movements of an external device to be controlled using recordings from the brain. This work has been undertaken with a number of different animal models, as well as several human patients with quadriplegia. The resulting movements, whether of computer cursors or robotic limbs, remain quite slow and unstable compared to normal limb movements. It is an open question, how much of this instability is the result of the limited forward control path, and how much has to do with the total lack of normal proprioceptive feedback. We have begun preliminary studies of the effectiveness of electrical stimulation in the proprioceptive area of the primary somatosensory cortex (area 3a) as a potential means to deliver an artificial sense of proprioception to a monkey. We have demonstrated that it is possible for the monkey to detect brief stimulus trains at relatively low current levels, and to discriminate between trains of different frequencies. These observations need to be expanded to include more complex, time-varying waveforms that could potentially convey information about the state of the limb.
Initially used mainly in the neurosciences, two-photon microscopy has become a powerful tool for the analysis of immunological processes. Here, we describe currently available two-photon microscopy techniques with a focus on novel approaches that allow very high image acquisition rates compared with state-of-the-art systems. This improvement is achieved through a parallelization of the excitation process: multiple beams scan the sample simultaneously, and the fluorescence is collected with sensitive charge-coupled device (CCD)-based line or field detectors. The new technique's performance is compared with conventional single beam laser-scanning systems that detect signals by means of photomultipliers. We also discuss the use of time- and polarization-resolved fluorescence detection, especially fluorescence lifetime imaging (FLIM), which goes beyond simple detection of cells and tissue structures and allows insight into cellular physiology. We focus on the analysis of endogenous fluorophores such as NAD(P)H as a way to analyze the redox status in cells with subcellular resolution. Here, high-speed imaging setups in combination with novel ways of data analysis allow the generation of FLIM data sets almost in real time. The implications of this technology for the analysis of immune reactions and other cellular processes are discussed.
The fetal and newborn brain is particularly susceptible to hypoxia, which increases the risk for neurodevelopmental deficits, seizures, epilepsy and life-span motor, behavioral and cognitive disabilities. Here, we report that prenatal hypoxia at gestation day 17 in mice caused an immediate decrease in fetal cerebral cortex levels of glutamate decarboxylase, a key proteins in the GABA pathway. While maternal MgSO4 treatment prior to hypoxia did not have an early effect, it did accelerate maturation at a later stage based on the observed protein expression profile. In addition, MgSO4 reversed the hypoxia-induced loss of a subpopulation of inhibitory neurons that express calbindin in cortex at postnatal day 14. In the hippocampus, responses to prenatal hypoxia were also evident 4 days after the hypoxia. However, in contrast to the observations in cerebral cortex, hypoxia stimulated key protein expression in the hippocampus. The hippocampal response to hypoxia was also reversed by maternal MgSO4 treatment. The data presented here suggests that decreased levels of key proteins in the GABA pathway in the cerebral cortex may lead to high susceptibility to seizures and epilepsy in newborns after prenatal or perinatal hypoxia and that maternal MgSO4 treatment can reverse the hypoxia-induced deficits in the GABA pathway.
The non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone reduces cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behaviour in abstinent rats. The current study sought to determine whether the opioid system is also involved in cocaine-seeking behaviour induced by cocaine-associated stimuli in abstinent rats. Adult male rats were trained to press a lever either to self-administer cocaine or to obtain sucrose pellets in the presence of distinctive discriminative and conditioned stimuli. After a period of extinction, re-exposure to cocaine-associated cues selectively elicited robust and enduring responding at the active lever; sucrose pellet-associated cues revived seeking behaviour less pronouncedly. Pretreatment with naltrexone (0.25, 1, 2.5 mg/kg s.c., 20 min before reinstatement tests) dose dependently prevented cue-induced cocaine-seeking behaviour, whereas (2.5 mg/kg s.c.) did not affect the degree of cue-induced sucrose-seeking behaviour. These results provide the first evidence that naltrexone influences cocaine seeking induced by conditioned stimuli in abstinent rats; this effect appears selective for cocaine reinstatement as opposed to a non-drug reinforcer.
The aim of this study was to describe additional patients (n= 3) exhibiting the Unertan syndrome (UTS), resident in rural areas of Canakkale. The 8th and 9th families with the UTS, with a total of 16 members affected, have not been previously characterized. A single, non-familial case (Bayramic, Canakkale) occurred during early childhood after an infection with a high fever. Three cases of familial UTS were located in another village in Canakkale. All cases exhibited the three key symptoms of the UTS: (1) walking on all four extremities, (2) primitive language (only sounds), and (3) rudimentary intelligence. Magnetic resonance imaging showed mild vermial hypoplasia in the non-familial case, while there was cerebellar and vermial hypoplasia with a flattened cerebral cortex in the familial cases. Dexterity of the fingers was normal. The man from the latter family was fond of dragging a wooden box after fastening a string around his belt. The collective observations and clinical findings suggest two etiologies for the UTS: (1) genetic, via autosomal recessive transmission and (2) viral, likely the poliovirus affecting the cerebro-cerebellar structures. At a minimum, vermial hypoplasia is suggested to cause fully developed UTS. The subjects could stand upright and even walk bipedally, despite difficulties in balance (ataxia), but they preferred quadrupedal walking. The main difficulty with gait was maintaining a dynamic-asymmetric lateral balance and initiation of the first step during standing. Apparently, a quadrupedal gait in an adult is a developmental regression with absence of the higher control mechanisms for asymmetric lateral balance during bipedal walking. It is suggested that these individuals exhibit ancestral traits; the quadrupedal gait with rudimentary intelligence and primitive speech resulting from viral infections and/or genetic damage may cause devolution (reverse evolution), a manifestation of an experiment of nature as well as experimental studies in animal models. The results support the notion of punctuated evolution, in contrast to Darwin's theory of graded evolution. Dragging a wooden box using a string wrapped around the belt may also be an example of reverse evolution with regard to tool making, illuminating the very long-lasting period before the invention of the wheel. Herein, there has been no intent to insult or injure these individuals affected by the UTS; rather, this is an endeavor to better understand the mystery of human evolution. Go to the publisher's online edition of International Journal of Neuroscience for the following free supplemental resource: video clips.
Despite advances in biological and molecular characteristics, the prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinomas is still very unfavourable and is based on the classical clinicopathological parameters. However, tumors with similar clinicopathological characteristics may differ dramatically in their clinical outcome. Thus, the identification of novel prognostic factors is necessary to improve prognostic and therapeutic approaches. Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is a potent growth inhibitor of epithelial cell proliferation, thus, inactivation of TGF-beta1 signalling may play a role in cancer. The expression levels of TGF-beta1 and its type I and type II receptors (TbetaRI and TbetaRII) were assessed by immunohistochemical and Western blot analyses in 22 oral squamous cell carcinoma lesions, in their normal adjacent mucosa and in the squamous carcinoma cell lines FaDu and CAL27. Immunohistochemistry on 22 oral carcinomas and case-matched normal oral mucosae demonstrated that TGF-beta1, TbetaRI, and TbetaRII were intensively and homogeneously expressed in all normal epithelia. In contrast, TGF-beta1 and its receptors were significantly reduced in poorly (G3) differentiated tumors as compared to moderately (G2) and well differentiated (G1) lesions (p=2.8 x 10(-3), p=1.3 x 10(-3), p=2.8 x 10(-3) and p=1.3 x 10(-3), respectively). The progressive reduction of the expression levels was confirmed by Western blotting. The oral squamous carcinoma cell lines Cal27 and FaDu demonstrated a reduced and a lack of TbetaRI expression, respectively. A significant decrease of TbetaRII expression, as compared to Cal27 cells, was shown in FaDu cells. Thus, the decreased expression of TbetaRII combined with the absence of TbetaRI could account for the resistance of FaDu cells to the growth-inhibiting effect of TGF-beta1. TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta1 receptor expression significantly decreased as tumors became less differentiated and thus more aggressive, suggesting a functional role of these molecules in oral tumor progression.
Stroke is Singapore's fourth leading cause of death, with a crude death rate of 40.4/100 000 in 2006, a prevalence of 3.65% and an incidence of 1.8/1000, and is among the top 10 causes of hospitalization. Approximately one-quarter of strokes are hemorrhagic. Hospital care for acute stroke costs about US$5000. Subsidized healthcare is widely available for primary level and hospital care, as are rehabilitative services. A national stroke support group has been established. With our rapidly aging population, coupled with the high prevalence of stroke risk factors in the community, the burden of stroke is expected to increase dramatically in the years to come, posing challenges to the healthcare system and society. A national disease management plan incorporating high-quality clinical care coupled with research would be essential.
Carotid imaging is key to effective secondary stroke prevention. It is commonly performed, but is a rather specialist procedure requiring regular practice to maintain acceptable accuracy. Previously the domain of the neuroradiologist, noninvasive carotid imaging is now widely practiced in general departments where specialist knowledge of anatomy and intracranial disorders may be less available. Noninvasive imaging is largely replacing intraarterial angiography in the assessment of carotid stenosis in most centres because the accuracy is perceived to be sufficient. However, effective stroke prevention needs to be delivered rapidly, guided by imaging tests that are used with an understanding of their limitations and accuracy. This review will discuss currently available imaging methods, their advantages and disadvantages, difficulties in determining their accuracy, current estimates of accuracy and gaps in knowledge.


Effective combination antiretroviral therapies (ART) have markedly lengthened survival among HIV infected individuals. In this long-surviving cohort, both psychiatric comorbidities and HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) remain common. Even mild neurocognitive impairment can significantly disrupt of activities of daily living and reduce quality of life. Persistence of HAND might reflect incomplete containment of HIV within the central nervous system (CNS) due to the limited penetration of most antiretrovirals (ARVs) across the blood-brain barrier. Recent data support that certain medications used to treat psychiatric comorbidities in HIV-infected individuals may also protect the brain from toxic byproducts of HIV replication and neuroinflammation. Two drug classes in particular, glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3b) inhibitors and serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs), may benefit individuals with HAND. Valproic acid (VPA) and lithium are potentially beneficial GSK-3b inhibitors. While the mechanism of benefit of SRIs in HAND remains unknown, evidence supports some benefit of citalopram and paroxetine. The present brief review focuses on these drugs and assesses their possible adjunct roles in the treatment of HIV-infected individuals.
Huntington disease (HD) in indigenous Australians is a poorly analysed and difficult problem. This study addresses the issue of HD in remote indigenous Australian populations in the north-west of Western Australia. Proband identification, clinical assessment, neurogenetic studies and pedigree analysis led to the discovery of HD in the 63-year-old male proband and his family. HD in remote indigenous Australian communities is a challenging diagnostic and management problem compounded by the complexity of distance.

Dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function is associated with suicidal behavior. In suicide attempters with mood disorder, the non-suppressor status in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) is associated with suicide indicating that HPA-axis hyperactivity is a biological risk factor for suicide and may be a useful predictor. The threshold of 5 microg/dl for cortisol levels measured at 08:00 a.m. or 4:00 p.m. following dexamethasone at 11:00 p.m. to define the DTS nonsuppression was derived as being optimal for the separation of melancholia and nonmelancholic conditions rather than the prediction of suicide. A different threshold may offer a better identification of suicide. The aim of this study was to find the optimal threshold level of post DST plasma cortisol at 4 p.m. for suicide prediction using receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis. A cohort of 106 depressed inpatients with an index suicide attempt admitted to the department of Psychiatry at the Karolinska University Hospital between 1980 and 2000, were submitted to DST and followed up for causes of death. During the follow-up (mean 17 years), 25 suicides (24%) were identified. The ROC analysis revealed that a lower threshold of 3.3 microg/dl for the nonsuppressor status predicted 17 of 25 suicides (sensitivity of 68%) compared with 15 of 25 suicides (sensitivity 60%) with a conventional threshold of 5 microg/dl at 4:00 p.m. In male suicide attempters the lower threshold for pathological DST result (3.3 microg/dl) changed the Odds ratio from 6.7 till 18. In female suicide attempters a higher threshold (7.3 microg/dl) optimised the value of DST as a biological test for suicide prediction indicating a gender difference.



Nucleus accumbens (NAc) medium spiny neurons cycle between two states, a functionally inactive downstate and a functionally active upstate. Here, we show that activation of the transcription factor cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB), a common molecular response to several drugs of abuse, increases both duration of the upstate and action potential firing during the upstate. This effect of CREB is mediated by enhanced N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptor (NMDAR) function: increased CREB activity increases both NMDAR-mediated synaptic currents and surface level of NMDARs, while inhibition of NMDARs abolishes the effect of CREB on upstate duration. Furthermore, mimicking the effect of CREB by pharmacological enhancement of NMDAR function in the NAc in vivo suppressed novelty- and cocaine-elicited locomotor activity. These findings suggest that by enhancing NMDAR-mediated synaptic transmission, CREB activation promotes the proportion of time NAc neurons spend in the upstate. This effect, along with the CREB enhancement of NAc membrane excitability (Dong, Y., Green, T., Saal, D., Marie, H., Neve, R., Nestler, E. J., and Malenka, R. C. (2006) Nat. Neurosci. 9, 475-477), may counteract drug-induced maladaptations in the NAc and thus ameliorate the addictive state.
Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) in vertebrates is initially transcribed as a single 47S precursor which is modified by the addition of 2'-O-methyl ribose moieties, pseudouridines, and methyl groups, followed by cleavage at several sites to produce the mature 28S, 18S, and 5.8S rRNAs. Cleavage of the rRNA precursor to generate the 18S rRNA is mediated by a ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex termed the processome containing U3, a box C/D small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA), and at least 28 cellular proteins. We previously identified a novel human RNA binding protein, NF-kappaB binding protein (NFBP), which is the human homolog of Rrp5p, a protein component of the yeast U3 processome. Here, we show that NFBP colocalizes with and coprecipitates U3 in the nucleolus. We also demonstrate that NFBP is essential for the generation of 18S rRNA as maturation of the 18S rRNA is repressed in the absence of NFBP. Using Northern blot analyses, we further show that NFBP is specifically necessary for cleavages at sites A0, 1, and 2, as unprocessed intermediate forms of rRNA accumulated in the absence of NFBP.
The purpose of this study was to develop a clock-drawing scoring system better suited to detecting possible early markers of dementia in individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We modified the scoring system of Freedman et al. (1994), in which the major components are integrity of the circle, placement and size of the hands, and placement and sequence of the numbers. We rescored the clock-drawing test using a novel 18-point scoring system, which emphasizes hand elements-number of hands, direction indicated, and size differences. We retrospectively assessed 123 individuals (ages 58-88 years) selected from the Memory Clinic at the Jewish General Hospital in Montreal. These consisted of 21 normal elderly individuals (NORM group), 41 participants with mild cognitive impairment who did not develop dementia on follow-up visits (MCI-NP), 41 participants with mild cognitive impairment who became demented after a 48-month follow-up (MCI-D), and 20 participants diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD). On the 18-point system, the MCI-NP and the MCI-D did not show any difference on overall total score (p = .166), However, using Pearson chi-squares to examine the within-categories effects comparing the mildly cognitively impaired groups (MCI-NP and MCI-D), there were three significant hand items that appear to be possible early markers of progression to dementia. The clock has two hands (p = .043), hour hand is towards correct number (p = .023), and size difference of the hands is respected (p = .004), all showed significant differences between progressors and nonprogressors. The 18-point clock-drawing scoring system may have advantages in better indicating MCI individuals more likely to progress to dementia.
Mutation in superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) causes the inherited degenerative neurological disease familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a non-cell-autonomous disease: mutant SOD1 synthesis in motor neurons and microglia drives disease onset and progression, respectively. In this issue of the JCI, Harraz and colleagues demonstrate that SOD1 mutants expressed in human cell lines directly stimulate NADPH oxidase (Nox) by binding to Rac1, resulting in overproduction of damaging ROS (see the related article beginning on page 659). Diminishing ROS by treatment with the microglial Nox inhibitor apocynin or by elimination of Nox extends survival in ALS mice, reviving the proposal that ROS mediate ALS pathogenesis, but with a new twist: it's ROS produced by microglia.
The clinical importance of nondiphtherial Corynebacterium, a ubiquitous member of the normal human microflora of the skin and mucous membrane, for ocular surface infections has been recognized recently. We performed an antimicrobial susceptibility test with Etest strips for three fluoroquinolones (ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, and levofloxacin) and a taxonomic analysis on 21 isolates of Corynebacterium from ophthalmic samples. Of these, 16 isolates were identified as C. macginleyi at the species level on the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence comparisons. The remaining five isolates were determined to be C. mastitidis (four) or C. accolens (one). Eleven of the C. macginleyi isolates showed high levels of resistance to all of the fluoroquinolones tested, and one isolate was resistant to norfloxacin alone. An analysis of the amplified quinolone-resistance-determining regions of the gyrA genes revealed that a single amino acid substitution in position 83 of the gyrA product was sufficient to generate the norfloxacin resistance phenotype, and double mutations leading to amino acid changes in positions 83 and 87 were necessary for high-level resistance against the other fluoroquinolones. We conducted the first example of multilocus sequence typing (MLST) analysis on C. macginleyi. The MLST analysis grouped the majority of C. macginleyi isolates into a single lineage, and another molecular strain typing by random amplified polymorphic DNA fragment patterns supported the finding, indicating that a particular lineage of C. macginleyi is dominant on the human ocular surface. This type of population might be particularly adaptable to the milieu on the human ocular surface.

This study investigated whether children and adolescents diagnosed with the predominantly inattentive and combined subtypes of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (AD/HD-in and AD/HD-com, respectively) differed on psychophysiological indices of working memory updating off- and on-stimulant medication, as compared with control subjects and each other. ERPs were recorded in AD/HD and control participants during a one-back working memory task. The N100 (discrimination), P150 (selection), N300 (memory retrieval), and P450wm (updating) components after nontarget stimuli, which served to update working memory with target identity, were assessed. Premedication abnormalities were obtained for the N300 component, delayed in the child AD/HD-com group, and attenuated in the adolescent AD/HD-in group and P450wm component for all AD/HD groups, expressed as either delayed latency and/or attenuated amplitude. ERP abnormalities were predominantly ameliorated after stimulant medication. There were no psychophysiological differences between the subtypes. A general feature of the disorder relates to a deficit in the conscious updating of working memory systems with newly relevant information (P450wm), which varies with age and subtype. Children with AD/HD-com and adolescents with AD/HD-in also exhibit abnormalities in the retrieval of relevant prior memories (N300). This study indicates that AD/HD is related to abnormalities in the capacity to modulate the content of working memory stores.
Eight right-handed subjects were asked to silently generate a verb to a visual stimulus while the magnetic flux normal to the scalp surface was recorded with a whole-head neuromagnetometer. The spatiotemporal patterns of activation in lateral occipital, inferior parietal, superior temporal, basal temporal, and inferior frontal cortices were estimated using minimum estimation, a distributed source analysis methodology. Although there was significant variability among subjects, averaged data indicated that latencies of peak activation in these regions of interest progressed from posterior to anterior. Peak latencies were earliest in lateral occipital cortex and latest in pars opercularis and pars triangularis in the inferior frontal gyrus. Lateralization of activation was strongest in pars opercularis, which is part of classical Broca's area, with activation being stronger in this area within the left hemisphere in every subject. Results provide support for the use of magnetoencephalography in conjunction with MNE analysis for the purpose of lateralizing and localizing language-specific activation in frontal areas as well as the study of the spatiotemporal parameters of brain activation associated with cognitive function.

We retrospectively assessed the long-term efficacy of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) therapy in 31 patients with refractory partial and generalized seizures who were not candidates for resective epilepsy surgery. Following implantation of VNS there was significant improvement in seizure frequency at 6 months. Sixteen patients continued to have sustained response to VNS therapy 4 years later. Adverse effects of VNS therapy were transient and tolerable. The majority of the patients did not gain body weight and some of them had significant weight loss. Therefore VNS is safe and effective therapy and has a long-term sustained effect in refractory epilepsy.
We present a case of delayed intracerebral abscess due to retained bike wheel valve cap after head trauma.
The aim of this study was to explore the effects of barbiturate coma on cerebral tissue oxygen tension and cerebrovascular pressure reactivity (PRx), as an index of cerebral autoregulation in severe head injury patients. This was a prospective observational clinical study of 12 patients with severe traumatic brain injury, carried out at a tertiary-level neurosurgical intensive care unit between April 2002 and May 2005. All patients received standard neurosurgical intensive care and monitoring. Probes for intracranial pressure (ICP), brain temperature (BT) and brain tissue oxygenation (PTiO2) were inserted into (noncontused) normal-looking white matter. Cerebrovascular PRx was measured as a moving correlation between ICP and arterial blood pressure. Barbiturate coma was instituted when ICP became refractory (ICP&gt;20 mmHg). All data from the multimodal monitoring were digitally extracted and statistically analysed. The mean ICP decreased with barbiturate coma in eight of the 12 patients (75% of the patients), but only four achieved a value below 20 mmHg. Of eight patients with prebarbiturate PTiO2 levels above 10 mmHg, six had a further improvement in oxygenation. Thus, concordant favourable changes in ICP, PRx and PTiO2 with barbiturate coma were seen in those who survived. Effective response to barbiturates can be detected by improved PTiO2 and autoregulation (PRx) in severe head injury patients.

Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) is a distinct clinical entity within a spectrum of adverse cutaneous drug reactions. It is characterized by &gt;30% of the body surface area of skin detachment with an average reported mortality of 25-35%. Drug induced TEN is associated with various antibiotics, anticonvulsants and other drugs. While adverse cutaneous drug reactions are common with antidepressants, the majority eruptions are benign and easily treated. TEN is rarely reported in association with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI's). We describe TEN in a 34-year-old patient from Mozambique associated with the addition of fluoxetine for a major depressive episode with psychotic features.
To thoroughly investigate the phenomenon of atypical antipsychotic-associated weight gain, a feeding laboratory paradigm was developed that included obtaining plasma levels of the orexigenic peptide ghrelin that is associated with appetite and eating. This study is a randomized, double-blind, parallel group trial comparing the effects of a 2-week exposure to olanzapine, risperidone, or placebo on plasma ghrelin area under the plasma-time curve (AUC) in 28 healthy human subjects. Subjects were randomized to receive olanzapine, risperidone, or placebo and titrated over 4 days to 10 mg/d or 4 mg/d, respectively. The mean dose at end point was 8.6 + 1.8 mg/d for the olanzapine group and 2.8 + 0.8 mg/d for the risperidone group. Weight changes were significantly different between groups at end point (F2,44 = 10.193; P = 0.0001). The olanzapine group demonstrated a significant increase in weight at end point (2.25 + 1.84 kg) compared with placebo (0.13 + 1.05 kg; P = 0.007). Because of the small subject number, the comparisons between olanzapine and risperidone and risperidone and placebo did not reach statistical significance, although olanzapine's mean weight gain was numerically greater than that of risperidone (2.25 + 1.84 kg vs 1.10 + 0.99 kg) and risperidone's mean weight gain was numerically larger than placebo (1.10 + 0.99 kg vs 0.13 + 1.05 kg). The baseline adjusted Bonferroni corrected contrast of end point ghrelin AUC demonstrated a significant difference between groups (F2,24 = 4.40; P = 0.024), and the post hoc analysis revealed a significant decrease in ghrelin AUC for the olanzapine group in comparison with the risperidone group (P = 0.021) but not between risperidone and placebo or olanzapine and placebo. Ghrelin AUC values did not change significantly from baseline to end point in either of the other 2 groups. The difference between groups approached but did not reach significance (F2,23 = 3.299; P = 0.055) when body mass index change was included as a covariate, suggesting that the difference in ghrelin AUC change followed the change in body weight. Sedation associated with both active drugs (P = 0.006) and &quot;stuffy nose&quot; associated with risperidone (P = 0.020) were the only statistically different adverse reactions when compared with placebo. Thus, a human feeding laboratory paradigm using a brief exposure to atypical antipsychotics functions as a method to investigate pharmacologically induced weight gain and its association with changes in the orexigenic peptide ghrelin. This rejects the hypothesis that ghrelin levels are elevated by the antipsychotic and that this is a potential cause of the weight gain phenomenon.
How does the sleeping brain process external stimuli, and in particular, up to which extent does the sleeping brain detect and process modifications in its sensory environment? In order to address this issue, we investigated brain reactivity to simple auditory stimulations during sleep in young healthy subjects. Electroencephalogram signal was acquired continuously during a whole night of sleep while a classical oddball paradigm with duration deviance was applied. In all sleep stages, except Sleep Stage 4, a mismatch negativity (MMN) was unquestionably found in response to deviant tones, revealing for the first time preserved sensory memory processing during almost the whole night. Surprisingly, during Sleep Stage 2 and paradoxical sleep, both P3a-like and P3b-like components were identified after the MMN, whereas a P3a alone followed the MMN in wakefulness and in Sleep Stage 1. This totally new result suggests elaborated processing of external stimulation during sleep. We propose that the P3b-like response could be associated to an active processing of the deviant tone in the dream's consciousness.
In everyday life, temporal information is used for both perception and action, but whether these two functions reflect the operation of similar or different neural circuits is unclear. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the neural correlates of processing temporal information when either a motor or a perceptual representation is used. Participants viewed two identical sequences of visual stimuli and used the information differently to perform either a temporal reproduction or a temporal estimation task. By comparing brain activity evoked by these tasks and control conditions, we explored commonalities and differences in brain areas involved in reproduction and estimation of temporal intervals. The basal ganglia and the cerebellum were commonly active in both temporal tasks, consistent with suggestions that perception and production of time are subserved by the same mechanisms. However, only in the reproduction task was activity observed in a wider cortical network including the right pre-SMA, left middle frontal gyrus, left premotor cortex, with a more reliable activity in the right inferior parietal cortex, left fusiform gyrus, and the right extrastriate visual area V5/MT. Our findings point to a role for the parietal cortex as an interface between sensory and motor processes and suggest that it may be a key node in translation of temporal information into action. Furthermore, we discuss the potential importance of the extrastriate cortex in processing visual time in the context of recent findings.
Behavioral studies have demonstrated that time perception in adults, children, and nonhuman animals is subject to Weber's Law. More specifically, as with discriminations of other features, it has been found that it is the ratio between two durations rather than their absolute difference that controls the ability of an animal to discriminate them. Here, we show that scalp-recorded event-related electrical brain potentials (ERPs) in both adults and 10-month-old human infants, in response to changes in interstimulus interval (ISI), appear to obey the scalar property found in time perception in adults, children, and nonhuman animals. Using a timing-interval oddball paradigm, we tested adults and infants in conditions where the ratio between the standard and deviant interval in a train of homogeneous auditory stimuli varied such that there was a 1:4 (only for the infants), 1:3, 1:2, and 2:3 ratio between the standard and deviant intervals. We found that the amplitude of the deviant-triggered mismatch negativity ERP component (deviant-ISI ERP minus standard-ISI ERP) varied as a function of the ratio of the standard to deviant interval. Moreover, when absolute values were varied and ratio was held constant, the mismatch negativity did not vary.
In the retina of warm-blooded vertebrates, photoreceptors are specified many days before the onset of synaptogenesis and the expression of photopigments. The factors that regulate the maturation of photoreceptors in the developing retina remain unknown. We report here that photoreceptors transiently express LIM-domain transcription factors during the development of the chicken retina. We examined the differentiation of photoreceptors through the normal course of embryonic development and at the far periphery of the postnatal retina, where the differentiation of photoreceptors is slowed and persists across a spatial gradient. In the embryonic retina, we find visinin-positive photoreceptors that transiently express Islet2 and Lim3 starting at E8 and ending around E15, but persisting in far peripheral regions of the retina through the first 2 weeks of postnatal development. During early stages of photoreceptor maturation, there is coincident and transient expression of the LIM-domain factors with axonin1, a cell surface glycoprotein that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. Coincident with the downregulation of Islet2 and Lim3, we find the upregulation of calbindin, red/green opsin, rhodopsin, and a synaptic marker in the outer plexiform layer (OPL; dystrophin). In the periphery of the postnatal retina, photoreceptors that express Islet2, Lim3, and axonin1 do not overlap with photoreceptors that express calbindin, red/green opsin, rhodopsin, and dystrophin. We propose that Islet2 and Lim3 may promote the expression of genes that are involved in the early stages of differentiation but may suppress the expression of genes that are required in the mature photoreceptors.
The regional, laminar, and longitudinal organization of intrinsic projections in the presubiculum was examined in the rat with the retrograde tracer horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin and the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin. Cells of origin of intrinsic projections in the presubiculum were distributed in layers II and V, with almost none in layers III and VI. Projections from layer II cells were bilateral and confined to layers II and V and also to the deep portion of layer I, whereas projections from layer V cells were ipsilateral and confined largely to layer V, with fewer projections to layer II. Septotemporal and proximodistal differences in both the projection and the distribution of layer II cells were found: layer II cells in the septal and mid presubiculum, especially those located in the distal part, provided long projections to the temporal presubiculum, whereas layer II cells in the temporal presubiculum provided slightly shorter projections almost entirely within the mid and temporal presubiculum. Layer II cells aggregated massively in the distal portions of the septal and mid presubiculum, but very few layer II cells were found in the most proximal part, especially in the temporal presubiculum. On the other hand, in layer V, cells of origin and their terminals were diffusely and equally distributed throughout the entire proximodistal extent of the presubiculum. Layer V cells did not project longitudinally as far as layer II cells. These longitudinal connections, in layers II and V, make it possible to merge information conveyed by parallel pathways in the presubiculum.
Theodore H. Bullock (1905-2005) was a pioneer of integrative and comparative neurobiology and one of the founders of neuroethology. His work--distinguished by the tremendous number of different research themes and animal taxa studied--provided the basis for a comprehensive analysis of brain evolution. Among his major achievements are: one of the first physiological analyses of rhythmic central pattern generators; the first simultaneous recording from both the presynaptic and postsynaptic region of a chemical synapse; the demonstration of intercellular communication through graded potentials; and the discovery of two novel sensory organs formed by infrared receptors in pit vipers and electroreceptors in electric fish. He was also one of the first who applied computational tools to the analysis of complex neural signals and to perform a comparative analysis of cognitive events. His two-volume treatise &quot;Structure and function in the nervous system of invertebrates&quot; (with G. Adrian Horridge) remains the most comprehensive, authoritative review of this topic ever written. In addition to his research merits, his legacy is particularly based on his cosmopolitan way of thinking and acting, his large, worldwide school of students, and his committed advocacy for comparative and systems-oriented neurobiology.
Using multiple measures of hand preference, the authors investigated lateralization at an individual level in 21 common marmosets. Despite showing group biases for sensory and communication functions, these same marmosets did not show a group bias in direction of lateralized hand use. Hand preferences were recorded on four novel reaching tasks requiring different levels of visual guidance and postural control. As found for simple food holding (with the same subjects), they displayed strong individual hand preferences but no group bias indicative of handedness. The strength of hand preference was influenced by task demands: stronger preferences were expressed when subjects adopted a suspended posture, and when &quot;successful&quot; versus &quot;unsuccessful&quot; foraging strategies were compared. Comparisons between visuospatial reaching and simple food holding preferences also revealed that half of the subjects displayed a division of function between the hands/hemispheres; subjects displayed opposing preferences in simple and visuospatial reaching, which would be beneficial for the performance of coordinated bimanual tasks. Given the apparent absence of a selective advantage for handedness, the authors suggest that hand preferences may reflect hemispheric dominance of other cognitive domains (i.e., temperament).
Neurons can make different responses to identical inputs. According to the emerging frequency of repetitive firing, neurons are classified into two types: type 1 and type 2 excitability. Though in mathematical simulations, minor modifications of parameters describing ionic currents can result in transitions between these two excitabilities, empirical evidence to support these theoretical possibilities is scarce. Here we report a joint theoretical and experimental study to test the hypothesis that changes in parameters describing ionic currents cause predictable transitions between the two excitabilities in mesencephalic V (Mes V) neurons. We developed a simple mathematical model of Mes V neurons. Using bifurcation analysis and model simulation, we then predicted that changes in conductance of two low-threshold currents would result in transitions between type 1 and type 2. Finally, by applying specific channel blockers, we observed the transition between two excitabilities forecast by the mathematical model.
Our goal is to understand how nearly synchronous modes arise in heterogenous networks of neurons. In heterogenous networks, instead of exact synchrony, nearly synchronous modes arise, which include both 1:1 and 2:2 phase-locked modes. Existence and stability criteria for 2:2 phase-locked modes in reciprocally coupled two neuron circuits were derived based on the open loop phase resetting curve (PRC) without the assumption of weak coupling. The PRC for each component neuron was generated using the change in synaptic conductance produced by a presynaptic action potential as the perturbation. Separate derivations were required for modes in which the firing order is preserved and for those in which it alternates. Networks composed of two model neurons coupled by reciprocal inhibition were examined to test the predictions. The parameter regimes in which both types of nearly synchronous modes are exhibited were accurately predicted both qualitatively and quantitatively provided that the synaptic time constant is short with respect to the period and that the effect of second order resetting is considered. In contrast, PRC methods based on weak coupling could not predict 2:2 modes and did not predict the 1:1 modes with the level of accuracy achieved by the strong coupling methods. The strong coupling prediction methods provide insight into what manipulations promote near-synchrony in a two neuron network and may also have predictive value for larger networks, which can also manifest changes in firing order. We also identify a novel route by which synchrony is lost in mildly heterogenous networks.
In heterologous expression systems, human GnRH receptors (hGnRHRs) are poorly expressed at the cell surface and this may reflect inefficient exit from the endoplasmic reticulum. Here, we have defined the proportion of GnRHRs at the cell surface using a novel assay based on adenoviral transduction with epitope-tagged GnRHRs followed by staining and semi-automated imaging. We find that in MCF7 (breast cancer) cells, the proportional cell surface expression (PCSE) of hGnRHRs is remarkably low (&lt;1%), when compared with Xenopus laevis (X) GnRHRs ( approximately 40%). This distinction is retained at comparable whole cell expression levels, and the hGnRHR PCSE is increased by addition of the XGnRHR C-tail (h.XGnRHR) or by a membrane-permeant pharmacological chaperone (IN3). The IN3 effect is concentration- and time-dependent and IN3 also enhances the hGnRHR-mediated (but not h.XGnRHR- or mouse GnRHR-mediated) stimulation of [(3)H]inositol phosphate accumulation and the hGnRHR-mediated reduction in cell number. We also find that the PCSE for hGnRHRs and h.XGnRHRs is low and is greatly increased by IN3 in two hormone-dependent cancer lines, but is higher and less sensitive to IN3 in a gonadotrope line. Finally, we show that the effect of IN3 on hGnRHR PCSE is not mimicked or blocked by two peptide antagonists although they do increase the PCSE for h.XGnRHRs, revealing that an antagonist-occupied cell surface GnRHR conformation can differ from that of the unoccupied receptor. The low PCSE of hGnRHRs and this novel peptide antagonist effect may be important for understanding GnRHR function in extrapituitary sites.
We investigated the effect of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonist Org 34850 on fast and delayed inhibition of corticosterone secretion in response to the synthetic glucocorticoid methylprednisolone (MPL). Male rats were implanted with a catheter in the right jugular vein, for blood sampling and MPL administration, and with an s.c. cannula for Org 34850 administration. All experiments were conducted at the diurnal hormonal peak in the late afternoon. Rats were connected to an automated sampling system and blood samples were collected every 5 or 10 min. Org 34850 (10 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (5% mulgofen in saline) was injected at 1630 h; 30 min later, rats received an injection of MPL (500 microg/rat, i.v.) or saline (0.1 ml/rat). We found that an acute administration of MPL rapidly decreased the basal corticosterone secretion and this effect was not prevented by acute pretreatment with Org 34850. However, blockade of GR with Org 34850 prevented delayed inhibition of MPL on corticosterone secretion measured between 4 and 12 h after MPL administration. Our data suggest an involvement of GR in modulating delayed, but not fast, inhibition induced by MPL on basal corticosterone secretion.
Ghrelin is an octanoylated 28 amino acid peptide predominantly secreted by the stomach, and has potent stimulatory effects on appetite. Several laboratories, including our own, have demonstrated that ghrelin levels fall in states of acute inflammation brought about by injection of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We now demonstrate that the decrease in circulating ghrelin is not due to a decrease in ghrelin gene expression, but is instead likely to be due to an acute decrease in ghrelin secretion. Furthermore, we have found that the change in circulating ghrelin during acute inflammation required a prostaglandin second messenger, but did not require the synthesis of nitric oxide. Interestingly, i.v. injection of prostaglandin E(2) failed to decrease circulating ghrelin levels, whereas prostacyclin decreased circulating ghrelin to a similar extent as did LPS. We also provide anatomical evidence for the mechanism of the regulation of ghrelin by inflammation. We demonstrate that the type 1 interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) receptor is expressed within the gastric mucosa, but is not expressed by ghrelin cells. The prostacyclin receptor was also expressed in the gastric mucosa, and the majority of ghrelin-producing cells were found to co-express this receptor. Mice with genetic deletion of the type 1 IL-1 receptor do not suppress circulating ghrelin levels with LPS administration. Collectively, these data support a model in which the mechanism of inflammation induced decreases in ghrelin are due to the action of IL-1beta on cells within the gastric mucosa that in turn produce prostacyclin as a second messenger. These data provide further support for the potential role of ghrelin as a therapeutic agent in acute and chronic inflammatory diseases.
According to the size principle the fine control of muscle tension depends on the orderly recruitment of motor neurons from a heterogeneous pool. We took advantage of the small number of excitatory motor neurons (about 12) that innervate the depressor muscle of the crayfish walking leg to determine if the size principle applies to this muscle. We found that in accordance with the size principle, when stimulated by proprioceptive input, neurons with small extracellular spikes were recruited before neurons with medium or large spikes. Because only a small fraction of the motor neurons responded strongly enough to sensory input to be recruited in this way, we extended our analysis to all neurons by characterizing properties that have classically been associated with recruitment order such as speed of axonal conduction and extracellular spike amplitude. Through a combination of physiological and anatomical criteria we were able to identify seven classes of excitatory depressor motor neurons. The majority of these classes responded to proprioceptive input with a resistance reflex, while a few responded with an assistance reflex, and yet others did not respond. Our results are in general agreement with the size principle. However, we found qualitative differences between neuronal classes in terms of synaptic input and neuronal structure that would in theory be unnecessary, according to a strict interpretation of the size principle. We speculate that the qualitative heterogeneity observed may be due to the fact that the depressor is a complex muscle, consisting of two muscle bundles that share a single insertion but have multiple origins.
The perception of visual aftereffects has been long recognized, and these aftereffects reveal a relationship between perceptual categories. Thus, emotional expression aftereffects can be used to map the categorical relationships among emotion percepts. One might expect a symmetric relationship among categories, but an evolutionary, functional perspective predicts an asymmetrical relationship. In a series of 7 experiments, the authors tested these predictions. Participants fixated on a facial expression, then briefly viewed a neutral expression, then reported the apparent facial expression of the 2nd image. Experiment 1 revealed that happy and sad are opposites of one another; each evokes the other as an aftereffect. The 2nd and 3rd experiments reveal that fixating on any negative emotions yields an aftereffect perceived as happy, whereas fixating on a happy face results in the perception of a sad aftereffect. This suggests an asymmetric relationship among categories. Experiments 4-7 explored the mechanism driving this effect. The evolutionary and functional explanations for the category asymmetry are discussed.

To characterize early blood and tissue markers predictive of decompression sickness (DCS), this study focused on identifying changes in inflammatory mediators during the 24-h period immediately following compression-decompression of female Sprague-Dawley rats. Early blood and tissue markers predictive of DCS include inflammatory cytokines and cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). Increased levels of inflammatory cytokines, especially tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), were detected in the circulation 6 h after decompression. Increased levels of only IL-6 were observed at 24 h. Compared with control animals maintained at 1 atmospheres absolute pressure ATA (101 kPascal), significant increases in expression of E-selectin, and L-selectin, as well as intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), were observed immunohistochemically in the lungs and brains of the rats 6 h after exposure to 2 (203 kPascal), 3 (303 kPascal), or 4 (404 kPascal) ATA, followed by rapid decompression. These levels drop by 24 h. In contrast to the observations in brain, greater increases in expression of E-selectin and L-selectin around vessels and connective tissue were seen at 24 h after decompression in the quadriceps of rats exposed to either 3 or 4 ATA. Significant increases in expression of the A(2A) receptor, which modulates inflammation by downregulating production of these cytokines, were detected only in the quadriceps removed at 24 h after decompression from 4 ATA. This study demonstrated that rapid decompression induces the release of mediators of inflammation and resulting tissue inflammation cascades, as well as a protective anti-inflammatory response.
A neurogenic component in atopy and allergy is evident and potentially of great pathogenic relevance. Stress was recently shown to activate elements of this component and is vividly discussed as a cause of exacerbation. However, to date, scientific proof of stress-induced neuronal plasticity and neuro-immune interaction in atopy or allergy remains lacking. Here we show early evidence that exposure to sound stress and atopic dermatitis-like allergic dermatitis (AD) equipotently raise the number of cutaneous nerve fibers containing the prototypic stress neuropeptide substance P (SP) in mice. Stress increases AD readout parameters by at least 30% (eosinophil infiltration, vascular cell adhesion molecule-positive blood vessels, epidermal thickness). This dramatic pathologic exacerbation is associated with increased neurogenic inflammation (degranulated mast cells; interstitial neuropeptidergic dense core granules, mast cell apoptosis, endothelial gaping). Key features of AD exacerbation could not be induced in mice lacking the neurokinin-1 SP receptor (NK1). Interestingly, stress had no significant additional effect on CD4+ cell number, but shifted the cytokine profile toward TH2 in skin. Thus, we conclude that stress primarily exacerbates AD via SP-dependent cutaneous neurogenic inflammation and subsequent local cytokine shifting and should be considered as a therapeutic target, while it offers a convincing pathogenic explanation to affected patients and their frustrated physicians alike.

We placed negative electrodes on the body and positive electrodes at the medial and lateral canthi, measured their potentials separately, evaluated their characteristics, and analyzed cross-talk. We recorded EOG in 6 normal subjects and found the following. The potential at the medial was lower than that at the lateral canthus in the bilateral eyes. The polarity of waves at the lateral was reverse to that at the medial canthus in the bilateral eyes. We recorded EOG in 6 patients with unilateral anophthalmia and found the following. On the anophthalmia side, the potential at the lateral was considerably lower than that at the medial canthus. The polarity of the potential was the same between the medial and lateral canthi. The mean cross-talk to the medial canthus on the anophthalmia side was 8.7%-54.0% of the potential at the medial canthus on the normal side. The mean cross-talk to the lateral canthus on the anophthalmia side was 4.4%-16.9%. The influence of cross-talk of the other eye was marked at the medial but slight at the lateral canthus. In EOG recording, results with minimum errors due to cross-talk can be obtained by paying attention to the potential at the lateral canthus.

The successful application of gene therapy depends highly on understanding the properties of gene carriers and their correlation with the ability to mediate transfection. An important parameter that has been described to improve transfection mediated by cationic liposomes involves association of ligands to cationic liposome-DNA complexes (lipoplexes). In this study, ternary complexes composed of 1,2-dioleoyl-3-(trimethylammonium) propane:cholesterol, plasmid DNA and transferrin (Tf, selected as a paradigm of a ligand) were prepared under various conditions, namely, in medium with different ionic strengths (HEPES-buffered saline [HBS] or dextrose), at different lipid/DNA (+/-) charge ratios and using different modes for component addition. We investigated the effect of these formulation parameters on transfection (in the absence and presence of serum), size of the complexes, degree of DNA protection and extent of their association with cells (in terms of both lipid and DNA). Our results show that all the tested parameters influenced to some extent the size of the complexes and their capacity to protect the carried genetic material, as well as the levels of cell association and transfection. The best transfection profile was observed for ternary complexes (Tf-complexes) prepared in high ionic strength solution (HBS), at charge ratios close to neutrality and according to the following order of component addition: cationic liposomes-Tf-DNA. Interestingly, in contrast to what was found for dextrose-Tf-complexes, transfection mediated by HBS-Tf-complexes in the presence of serum was highly enhanced.
The scaffold protein GRIP1 (glutamate receptor interacting protein 1) binds to and regulates both the trafficking and membrane organization of a large number of transmembrane proteins. Mutation of GRIP1 in mice displays essentially the same phenotype of the mutations of Fras1 or Frem2, which are the animal models of the human genetic disorder Fraser syndrome. However, the molecular basis governing the interaction between GRIP1 and Fras1/Frem2 is unknown. Here, we show that interaction between Fras1 and GRIP1 requires the first two PDZ domains (PDZ1 and PDZ2) to be connected in tandem, as the folding of PDZ1 strictly depends on the covalent attachment of PDZ2. The crystal structure of GRIP1 PDZ12 in complex with the Fras1 C-terminal peptide reveals that the PDZ12 tandem forms a supramodule in which only the peptide-binding groove of PDZ1 is bound with the Fras1 peptide. The GRIP1 PDZ12/Fras1 peptide complex not only provides a mechanistic explanation of the link between GRIP1 and the Fraser syndrome but may also serve as a foundation for searching for potential mutations in GRIP1 that could lead to the Fraser syndrome.
The somatostatin receptor subtype 2 (sst2) mediates inhibition of hormone secretion and cell proliferation, and modulates neurotransmission. Its expression is widespread in various normal tissues and many malignant cells, and is up-regulated by estrogen in breast cancer cells. This study was undertaken to investigate molecular mechanism of transcriptional regulation of the human sst2 gene, for which an additional exon (exon 1) in the 5'-untranslated region was recently found. Transient transfection and mutational analysis showed that the immediate 5'-upstream region containing two Sp1 (-54/-45 and -88/-79) and an ATF/CRE (-69/-62) sites provided full promoter activity. An EMSA together with transfection analysis in Sp1-deficient Drosophila Schneider line (SL2) cells showed that Sp1 acted on the proximal Sp1 site, whereas Sp3, Sp1, and Sp2 did on the distal Sp1 site. Activating transcription factor-2 (ATF)-2, c-Jun, and cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) interacted with the ATF/CRE site. Transcriptional activation by estrogen occurred through two different regions; one included these proximal elements and the other existed in the upstream region containing estrogen response element (ERE) half-site (-348/-344) and GC-rich sequence (-447/-414). This upstream estrogen responsiveness was observed in a human breast cancer T47D cell, but not in GH(3) or estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) -expressing HeLa cells, and was potentiated by overexpression of ERalpha or ERbeta, whose binding to the ERE half-site was verified by EMSAs. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay suggested that ERalpha was recruited to the ERE half-site after estrogen treatment in T47D cells. The present results should provide a molecular basis for transcriptional regulation in a variety of physiological and pathological contexts of sst2-expressing tissues.
It is well known that bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) grafted into the hippocampus of the rat model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) could survive and differentiate into cholinergic neurons as well as contribute towards functional restoration. The present study evaluated the effects of BMSC as a seed cell modified by nerve growth factor (NGF) gene into the hippocampus of AD rats. The beta-amyloid protein was injected bilaterally into the rat hippocampus to reproduce the AD model. After the human total RNA was extracted, the NGF gene was amplified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, then cloned into the pcDNA3. BMSC derived from a green fluorescence protein transgenic mouse were isolated, cultured, identified, and transfected by the NGF recombinant. The NGF-gene-modified BMSC were then transplanted into the hippocampus of AD rats. The results showed that implanted BMSC survived, migrated and expressed NGF as well as differentiated into ChAT-positive neurons. A significant improvement in learning and memory in AD rats was also seen in NGF-gene-modified BMSC group, when compared with the BMSC group. The present findings suggested that BMSC provided an effective carrier for delivery of NGF into AD rats, and the administration of NGF-gene-modified BMSC may be considered as a potential strategy for the development of effective therapies for the treatment of AD.
The microtubule-binding protein gephyrin is known to play a pivotal role in targeting and clustering postsynaptic inhibitory receptors. Here, the Intracellular Antibodies Capture Technology (IATC) was used to select two single-chain antibody fragments or intrabodies, which, fused to nuclear localization signals (NLS), were able to efficiently and selectively remove gephyrin from glycine receptor (GlyR) clusters. Co-transfection of NLS-tagged individual intrabodies with gephyrin-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in HEK 293 cells revealed a partial relocalization of gephyrin aggregates onto the nucleus or in the perinuclear area. When expressed in cultured neurons, these intrabodies caused a significant reduction in the number of immunoreactive GlyR clusters, which was associated with a decrease in the peak amplitude of glycine-evoked whole cell currents as assessed with electrophysiological experiments. Hampering protein function at a posttranslational level may represent an attractive alternative for interfering with gephyrin function in a more spatially localized manner.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize the integrity of non-nutritive suck (NNS) parameters among three groups of preterm infants ranging from normal to those with progressive degrees of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). STUDY DESIGN: NNS compression waveforms were sampled from 55 infants in the neonatal intensive care unit using a silicone pacifier electronically instrumented for intraluminal pressure. Seven select NNS parameters were measured at two different sessions, and statistically analyzed using a General Linear Model Analysis of Covariance. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Preterm infants with a more extensive history of RDS and oxygen therapy manifest significantly (p0.001) degraded performance on six of the seven NNS measures. This trend was disproportionately amplified in preterm infants with moderate-to-severe RDS. Prolonged periods of RDS requiring oxygen therapy may cause maladaptive orosensory experiences, and restrict oral movements which may contribute to delayed NNS development.
A series of peptides, termed dekafins, were derived from the beta10-beta11 loop regions of fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, and 17. The dekafins share a homologous amino acid sequence similar to a sequence in the first fibronectin type III module of the neural cell adhesion molecule. All dekafins were shown by surface plasmon resonance analysis to bind fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR)1-IIIc-Ig2-3 and FGFR2-IIIb-Ig2-3, respectively, with K(d) values of approximately 10(-7) to 10(-8) mol/L. Binding of dekafin1 to FGFR1-IIIc-Ig2-3 was inhibited by a heparin analog, sucrose octasulfate, indicating that heparin sulfate moiety can modulate dekafin binding to FGFRs. Treatment of transcription and mRNA export (TREX) cells permanently expressing Strep-tag-labeled FGFR1-IIIc with dekafins resulted in receptor phosphorylation. FGF1-induced FGFR1-IIIc phosphorylation was inhibited by dekafin1 and 10 in high concentrations, indicating that dekafins are FGFR partial agonists. The dekafins induced neuronal differentiation as reflected by neurite outgrowth from cerebellar granule neurons, an effect that was abolished by SU5402, a specific inhibitor of the FGFR tyrosine kinase, and by inositolhexaphosphate, an extracellularly acting FGFR antagonist. Some, but not all, dekafins were capable of promoting survival of cerebellar granule neurons induced to undergo apoptosis. Thus, the dekafins are functional FGFR agonists with apparent therapeutic potential.
The complex molecular pathways that mediate the effects of vitamin A and its derivatives, are increasingly recognized as a component of the repair capacity that could be activated to induce protection and regeneration in the mature nervous tissue. Retinoid and retinoid-associated signaling plays an essential role in normal neurodevelopment and appears to remain active in the adult CNS. In this paper, we review evidence which supports the hypothesis of an activation of retinoid-associated signaling molecular pathways in the mature nervous tissue and its significance in the context of neurodegenerative, trauma-induced and psychiatric disorders, at spinal and supra-spinal levels. Finally, we summarize the potential therapeutic avenues based on the modulation of retinoid targets undergoing reactivation under conditions of acute injury and chronic degeneration in the central nervous system, and discuss some of the unresolved issues linked to this treatment strategy.
Previous studies have shown that GABAergic neuroactive steroids increase Y1 receptor (Y1R) gene expression in the amygdala of Y1R/LacZ transgenic mice, harbouring the murine Y1R gene promoter linked to a LacZ reporter gene. As ethanol is known to increase GABAergic neuroactive steroids, we investigated the relationship between fluctuations in the brain content of neuroactive steroids induced by chronic voluntary ethanol consumption or ethanol discontinuation and both the level of neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunoreactivity and Y1R gene expression in the amygdala of Y1R/LacZ transgenic mice. Ethanol discontinuation (48 h) after voluntary consumption of consecutive solutions of 3%, 6%, 10% and 20% (v/v) ethanol over 4 weeks produced an anxiety-like behaviour as measured by elevated plus maze. Voluntary ethanol intake increased the cerebrocortical concentration of the progesterone metabolite 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG) that returned to control level 48 h after discontinuation of ethanol intake. Ethanol discontinuation significantly decreased NPY immunoreactivity and concomitantly increased Y1R/LacZ transgene expression in the amygdala, whereas chronic ethanol intake failed to affect these parameters. The 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride prevented both the increase in the cerebrocortical concentration of 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG apparent after 4 weeks of ethanol intake and the changes in NPY immunoreactivity and transgene expression induced by ethanol discontinuation. Data suggest that 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG plays an important role in the changes in NPY-Y1R signalling in the amygdala during ethanol discontinuation.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) plays important roles in neuronal development, regeneration, and synaptic plasticity. NCAM homophilic binding mediates cell adhesion and induces intracellular signals, in which the fibroblast growth factor receptor plays a prominent role. Recent studies on axon guidance in Drosophila suggest that NCAM also regulates the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) (Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, 28, 2005, 141). A possible interaction between NCAM and EGFR in mammalian cells has not been investigated. The present study demonstrates for the first time a functional interaction between NCAM and EGFR in mammalian cells and investigates the molecular mechanisms underlying this interaction. First, NCAM and EGFR are shown to play opposite roles in neurite outgrowth regulation in cerebellar granular neurons. The data presented indicate that negative regulation of EGFR is one of the mechanisms underlying the neuritogenic effect of NCAM. Second, it is demonstrated that expression of the NCAM-180 isoform induces EGFR down-regulation in transfected cells and promotes EGFR down-regulation induced by EGF stimulation. It is demonstrated that the mechanism underlying this NCAM-180-induced EGFR down-regulation involves increased EGFR ubiquitination and lysosomal EGFR degradation. Furthermore, NCAM-180-mediated EGFR down-regulation requires NCAM homophilic binding and interactions of the cytoplasmic domain of NCAM-180 with intracellular interaction partners, but does not require NCAM-mediated fibroblast growth factor receptor activation.
Prion disorders are progressive neurodegenerative diseases characterized by extensive neuronal loss and by the accumulation of the pathogenic form of prion protein, designated PrP(Sc). Recently, we have shown that PrP(106-126) induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, leading to mitochondrial cytochrome c release, caspase 3 activation and apoptotic death. In order to further clarify the role of mitochondria in ER stress-mediated apoptotic pathway triggered by the PrP peptide, we investigated the effects of PrP(106-126) on the Ntera2 human teratocarcinoma cell line that had been depleted of their mitochondrial DNA, termed NT2 rho0 cells, characterized by the absence of functional mitochondria, as well as on the parental NT2 rho+ cells. In this study, we show that PrP(106-126) induces ER stress in both cell lines, given that ER Ca2+ content is low, glucose-regulated protein 78 levels are increased and caspase 4 is activated. Furthermore, in parental NT2 rho+ cells, PrP(106-126)-activated caspase 9 and 3, induced poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage and increased the number of apoptotic cells. Dantrolene was shown to protect NT2 rho+ from PrP(106-126)-induced cell death, demonstrating the involvement of Ca2+ release through ER ryanodine receptors. However, in PrP(106-126)-treated NT2 rho0 cells, apoptosis was not able to proceed. These results demonstrate that functional mitochondria are required for cell death as a result of ER stress triggered by the PrP peptide, and further elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in the neuronal loss that occurs in prion disorders.
A CAG-repeat gene expansion translated into a pathogenic polyglutamine stretch at the N-terminus of huntingtin triggers Huntington's Disease. Mutated huntingtin is predicted to adopt toxic properties mainly if aggregation-prone N-terminal fragments are released by proteolysis. Huntingtin-aggregates are indeed a major hallmark of this disorder and could represent useful markers of disease-onset or progression. We designed a simple method for qualitative and quantitative characterization of aggregates. For this, we analyzed samples from in vitro and in vivo Huntington's Disease models by agarose gel electrophoresis and showed that in the brain of transgenic mice huntingtin-aggregates became larger as a function of disease progression. This appears to be a property of cytoplasmic but not nuclear aggregates. In cell cultures, treatment with Congo Red inhibited aggregate growth but not total load. Finally, we showed that in primary striatal neurons and in brains of R6/2 and HdhQ150 mice, the presence of aggregates preceded initiation of any other functional deficits. This observation argues for a pathogenic role of huntingtin-aggregation in Huntington's Disease. Our results emphasize that thorough analysis of huntingtin metabolism and aggregation is now feasible, thus significantly improving the power of studies assessing therapies designed to lower huntingtin levels or to interfere with its aggregation.
Huntington's disease is caused by a polyglutamine expansion in the huntingtin (htt) protein, and previous data indicate that over-activation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) may be involved in the selective degeneration of cells expressing NR1/NR2B NMDARs. We used Kinetworkstrade mark multi-immunoblotting screens to examine expression of 76 protein kinases, 18 protein phosphatases, 25 heat shock/stress proteins, and 27 apoptosis proteins in human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with NR1/NR2B and htt containing 15 (htt-15Q; wild-type) or 138 (htt-138Q; mutant) glutamine repeats. Follow-up experiments revealed several proteins involved in the heat-shock response pathway to be up-regulated in the soluble fraction from cells expressing htt-138Q, including protein phosphatase 5 and cyclin-dependent kinase 5. Increased expression in the soluble fraction of htt-138Q-expressing cells was also noted for the stress- and calcium-activated protein-serine/threonine kinase casein kinase 2, a change which was confirmed in striatal tissue of yeast artificial chromosome transgenic mice expressing full-length mutant htt. Inhibition of casein kinase 2 activity in cultured striatal neurons from these mice significantly exacerbated NMDAR-mediated toxicity, as assessed by labeling of apoptotic nuclei. Our findings are consistent with up-regulation of components of the stress response pathway in the presence of polyglutamine-expanded htt and NR1/NR2B which may reflect an attempt at the cellular level to ameliorate the detrimental effects of mutant htt expression.
In rodents, entrainment and/or resetting by feeding of the central circadian clock, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), is more efficient when food cues arise from a timed calorie restriction. Because timed calorie restriction is associated with a single meal each day at the same time, its resetting properties on the SCN possibly depend on a combination of meal time-giving cues and hypocaloric conditions per se. To exclude any effect of daily meal timing in resetting by calorie restriction, the present study employed a model of ultradian feeding schedules, divided into six meals with different durations of food access (6 x 8-min versus 6 x 12-min meal schedule) every 4 h over the 24-h cycle. The effects of such an ultradian calorie restriction were evaluated on the rhythms of wheel-running activity (WRA) and body temperature (Tb) in rats. The results indicate that daily/circadian rhythms of WRA and Tb were shifted by a hypocaloric feeding distributed in six ultradian short meals (i.e. 6 x 8-min meal schedule), showing both phase advances and delays. The magnitude of phase shifts was positively correlated with body weight loss and level of day-time behavioural activity. By contrast, rats fed daily with six ultradian meals long enough (i.e. 6 x 12-min meal schedule) to prevent body weight loss, showed only small, if any, phase shifts in WRA and Tb rhythms. The results obtained reveal the potency of calorie restriction to reset the SCN clock without synchronisation to daily meal timing, highlighting functional links between metabolism, calorie restriction and the circadian timing system.
Angiocidin was originally identified as a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo. In addition to its involvement in the regulation of carcinogenesis, recent studies indicate that angiocidin may also play a significant role in immune system modulation. This report describes the expression and potential function of angiocidin in multiple sclerosis (MS), a severe demyelinating, inflammatory and autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS). We demonstrated that angiocidin and interleukin-7 (IL-7) are over-expressed in brain lesions of MS patients. Angiocidin-treated monocytes, peripheral blood T cells and primary astrocytes secreted various cytokines and chemokines including, IL-6, IL-7, GM-CSF, and MCP-1. Addition of recombinant angiocidin to cell cultures was able to promote differentiation of monocytes into a macrophage-like cell, induce MHC class I and class II gene expression and activate CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes. Consistent with these findings, angiocidin induced mononuclear phagocyte migration and adhesion as well as increased the IL-2 response by antigen-specific T cells to myelin basic protein peptide presented to them by autologous mononuclear phagocytes. Furthermore, we examined STAT3 expression in angiocidin stimulated mononuclear phagocytes, T cells, and primary astrocytes. We found that angiocidin markedly stimulates STAT3 expression in these cell populations. Angiocidin, therefore appears to play a previously unappreciated and potentially important role in the regulation of immune response during the clinical course of MS.
Direct intra-cerebral administration of substances into the brain parenchyma is a common technique used by researchers in neuroscience. However, inflammatory responses to the needle may confound the results obtained following injection of these substances. In this paper we show that the use of a glass micro-needle for intra-cerebral injection reduces mechanical injury, blood-brain barrier breakdown and neutrophil recruitment in response to the injection of vehicle or interleukin-1, compared to using a 26-gauge Hamilton syringe. Therefore, the use of a glass micro-needle to inject substances intra-cerebrally appears to cause minimal injection artefact and should be the method of choice.
Variants of the gene coding for interleukin 23 receptor (IL23R) have been confirmed to be associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Based on similarities in the autoimmune features of IBD and multiple sclerosis (MS), we selected this gene for analysis as a candidate gene in MS. We tested 32 single nucleotide polymorphisms tagging all parts of the gene including 10 markers previously studied in IBD for association with MS. The study population consisted of 1114 MS patients and 1235 controls of Scandinavian origin. None of the tests showed more than very modest differences between patients and controls. Haplotypes were constructed and were also similarly distributed in patients and controls. We conclude that it is unlikely that the IL23R gene confers any significant risk for MS.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) exhibits several clinical subtypes such as the relapsing-remitting (RR) and secondary progressive (SP) forms. In accordance with this, formation of demyelinating plaques in the central nervous system (CNS) occurs by different mechanisms. In the present study, we induced acute, biphasic and chronic (RR or SP) EAE in rats and examined the effects of decoy chemokine (7ND) gene therapy, which inhibits the migration of macrophages, to address the above issue. Interestingly, it was demonstrated that the clinical signs of acute EAE and the first attack of biphasic EAE were minimally affected, whereas chronic EAE and the relapse of biphasic EAE were completely suppressed with 7ND treatment. In the CNS, the number of infiltrating macrophages was reduced in all the stages of the three types of EAE. These findings suggest that in acute EAE and in the first attack of biphasic EAE, where anti-macrophage migration therapy was almost ineffective, pathogenic T cells are mainly involved in lesion formation. In contrast, the relapse of biphasic EAE and chronic EAE macrophages play a major role in the disease process. Thus, the mechanisms of lesion formation are not uniform and immunotherapy should be performed on the basis of information about the pathomechanisms of autoimmune diseases.

To determine the reliability of assessment of alpha-synuclein-immunoreactive (alphaS-IR) structures by neuropathologists, 28 evaluators from 17 centers of BrainNet Europe examined current methods and reproducibility of alphaS-IR evaluation using a tissue microarray (TMA) technique. Tissue microarray blocks were constructed of samples from the participating centers that contained alphaS-IR structures. Slides from these blocks were stained in each center and assessed for neuronal perikaryal inclusions, neurites, and glial cytoplasmic inclusions. The study was performed in 2 phases. First, the TMA slides were stained with the antibody of the center's choice. In this phase, 59% of the sections were of good or acceptable quality, and 4 of 9 antibodies used performed consistently. Differences in interpretation and categorization of alphaS-IR structures, however, led to differing results between the laboratories. Prior to the second phase, the neuropathologists participated in a training session on the evaluation of alphaS-IR structures. Based on the results of the first phase, selected antibodies using designated antigen retrieval methods were then applied to TMA slides in the second phase. When the designated methods of both staining and evaluation were applied, all 26 subsequently stained TMA sections evaluated were of good/acceptable quality, and a high level of concordance in the assessment of the presence or absence of specific alphaS-IR structures was achieved. A semiquantitative assessment of alphaS-IR neuronal perikaryal inclusions yielded agreements ranging from 49% to 82%, with best concordance in cortical core samples. These results suggest that rigorous methodology and dichotomized assessment (i.e. determining the presence or absence of alphaS-IR) should be applied, and that semiquantitative assessment can be recommended only for the cortical samples. Moreover, the study demonstrates that there are limitations in the scoring of alphaS-IR structures.
Dementia is common in Parkinson disease (PD), although its anatomic and pathologic substrates remain undefined. Recently, striatal abnormalities in Lewy body diseases have been described, but their clinical relevance is not clear. Thirty PD cases from the United Kingdom Parkinson's Disease Society Tissue Bank were grouped as demented (PDD; n = 16) and nondemented (PD; n = 14) based on a review of clinical records. The extent of alpha-synuclein, tau, and amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) deposition in the caudate nucleus, putamen, and nucleus accumbens was assessed. All cases showed severe dopaminergic striatal terminal denervation based on tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Alpha-synuclein and tau deposition in the striatum were rare in both groups, but the Abeta burden was significantly greater in the striatum of PD cases with dementia than present in the nondemented PD group. Striatal Abeta deposition was type-independent of Alzheimer disease changes in the cortex and was minimal in nondemented PD cases. We conclude that Abeta deposition in the striatum strongly correlates with dementia in PD.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are H(+)-gated channels that produce transient cation currents in response to extracellular acid. ASICs are expressed in neurons throughout the brain, and ASIC1 knockout mice show behavioral impairments in learning and memory. The role of ASICs in synaptic transmission, however, is not thoroughly understood. We analyzed the involvement of ASICs in synaptic transmission using microisland cultures of hippocampal neurons from wild-type and ASIC knockout mice. There was no significant difference in single action potential (AP)-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) between wild-type and ASIC knockout neurons. However, paired-pulse ratios (PPRs) were reduced and spontaneous miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) occurred at a higher frequency in ASIC1 knockout neurons compared with wild-type neurons. The progressive block of NMDA receptors by an open channel blocker, MK-801, was also faster in ASIC1 knockout neurons. The amplitude and decay time constant of mEPSCs, as well as the size and refilling of the readily releasable pool, were similar in ASIC1 knockout and wild-type neurons. Finally, the release probability, which was estimated directly as the ratio of AP-evoked to hypertonic sucrose-induced charge transfer, was increased in ASIC1 knockout neurons. Transfection of ASIC1a into ASIC1 knockout neurons increased the PPRs, suggesting that alterations in release probability were not the result of developmental compensation within the ASIC1 knockout mice. Together, these findings demonstrate that neurons from ASIC1 knockout mice have an increased probability of neurotransmitter release and indicate that ASIC1a can affect presynaptic mechanisms of synaptic transmission.
To investigate the effects of postlesion training on motor recovery, we compared the motor recovery of macaque monkeys that had received intensive motor training with those that received no training after a lesion of the primary motor cortex (M1). An ibotenic acid lesion in the M1 digit area resulted in impairment of hand function, with complete loss of digit movement. In the monkeys that had undergone intensive daily training (1 h/day, 5 days/wk) after the lesion, behavioral indexes used to evaluate manual dexterity recovered to the same level as in the prelesion period after 1 or 2 mo of postlesion training period. Relatively independent digit movements, including precision grip (prehension of a small object with finger-to-thumb opposition), were restored in the trained monkeys. Although the behavioral indexes of manual dexterity recovered to some extent in the monkeys without the postlesion training, they remained lower than those in the prelesion period until several months after M1 lesion. The untrained monkeys frequently used alternate grip strategies to grasp a small object with the affected hand, holding food pellets between the tip of the index finger and the dorsum of the thumb. These results suggest that the recovery after M1 lesion includes both use-dependent and use-independent processes and that the recovery of precision grip can be promoted by intensive use of the affected hand in postlesion training.
To determine the direction of object motion in external space, the brain must combine retinal motion signals and information about the orientation of the eyes in space. We assessed the accuracy of this process in eight laterally tilted subjects who aligned the motion direction of a random-dot pattern (30% coherence, moving at 6 degrees /s) with their perceived direction of gravity (motion vertical) in otherwise complete darkness. For comparison, we also tested the ability to align an adjustable visual line (12 degrees diameter) to the direction of gravity (line vertical). For small head tilts (&lt;40 degrees ), systematic errors in either task were almost negligible. In contrast, tilts &gt;60 degrees revealed a pattern of large systematic errors (often &gt;30 degrees ) that was virtually identical in both tasks. Regression analysis confirmed that mean errors in the two tasks were closely related, with slopes close to 1.0 and correlations &gt;0.89. Control experiments ruled out that motion settings were based on processing of individual single-dot paths. We conclude that the conversion of both motion direction and line orientation on the retina into a spatial frame of reference involves a shared computational strategy. Simulations with two spatial-orientation models suggest that the pattern of systematic errors may be the downside of an optimal strategy for dealing with imperfections in the tilt signal that is implemented before the reference-frame transformation.
In the present study, we examined the way that scene complexity and saccades combine to sculpt the temporal response patterns of V1 neurons. To bridge the gap between conventional and free viewing experiments, we compared responses of neurons across four paradigms ranging from less to more natural. An optimal bar stimulus was either flashed into a receptive field (RF) or brought into it via saccade and was embedded in either a natural scene or a uniform gray background. Responses to a flashed bar tended to be higher with a uniform rather than natural background. The most novel result reported here is that responses evoked by stimuli brought into the RF via saccades were enhanced compared with the same stimuli flashed during steady fixation. No single factor appears to account entirely for this surprising effect, but there were small contributions from fixational saccades and residual activity carried over from the previous fixation. We also found a negative correlation with cells' response &quot;history&quot; in that a larger response on one fixation was associated with a lower response on the subsequent fixation. The effects of the natural background and saccades exhibited a significant nonlinear interaction with the suppressive effects of the natural background less for stimuli entering RFs with saccades. Together, these results suggest that even responses to standard optimal stimuli are difficult to predict under conditions similar to natural vision, and further demonstrate the importance of naturalistic experimental paradigms to the study of visual processing in V1.
We describe intracranial local field potentials (LFP) recorded in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) of macaque monkeys performing a saccade countermanding task. The most prominent feature at approximately 70% of sites was greater negative polarity after errors than after rewarded correct trials. This negative polarity was also evoked in unrewarded correct trials. The LFP evoked by the visual target was much less polarized, and the weak presaccadic modulation was insufficient to control the initiation of saccades. When saccades were cancelled, LFP modulation decreased slightly with the magnitude of response conflict that corresponds to the coactivation of gaze-shifting and -holding neurons estimated from the probability of canceling. However, response time adjustments on subsequent trials were not correlated with LFP polarity on individual trials. The results provide clear evidence that error- and feedback-related, but not conflict-related, signals are carried by the LFP in the macaque ACC. Finding performance monitoring field potentials in the ACC of macaque monkeys establishes a bridge between event-related potential and functional brain-imaging studies in humans and neurophysiology studies in non-human primates.
The stress hormone corticosterone increases the amplitude of the slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) in CA1 pyramidal neurons, without affecting resting membrane potential, input resistance, or action potential characteristics. We here examined how corticosterone affects these properties in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). In the amygdala, corticosterone does not change the AHP amplitude, nor any of the passive and active membrane properties studied. The lack of effect on the AHP is surprising since in both areas corticosterone increases high-voltage-activated sustained calcium currents, which supposedly regulate the sAHP. We wondered whether corticosterone targets different calcium channel subunits in the two areas because currents through only one of the subunits (Cav1.3) are thought to alter the AHP amplitude. In situ hybridization studies revealed that CA1 cells express Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 subunits; corticosterone does not transcriptionally regulate Cav1.2 but increases Cav1.3 expression compared with vehicle treatment. In the BLA, Cav1.3 expression was not detectable, both after control and corticosterone treatment. Cav1.2 is moderately expressed. In a modeling study, we examined putative consequences of changes in specific calcium channel subunit expression and calcium extrusion by corticosterone for the AHP in CA1 and amygdala neurons. A differential distribution and transcriptional regulation of Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 in the CA1 area versus BLA partly explain the observed differences in AHP amplitude. The functional implication of these findings could be that stress-induced arousal of activity in the BLA is more prolonged than that in the CA1 hippocampal area, so that information with an emotional component is more effectively encoded.
Short trains of suprathreshold 5-Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over primary motor cortex (M1) evoke motor potentials (MEPs) in hand muscles that progressively increase in amplitude via a mechanism that is thought to be similar to short-term potentiation described in animal preparations. Long trains of subthreshold rTMS over dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) are known to affect the amplitude of single-pulse MEPs evoked from M1. We tested whether PMd-rTMS affects short-term facilitation in M1. We also explored the effect of PMd-rTMS on M1 responses evoked by single-pulse TMS of different polarities. We tested in 15 healthy subjects short-term facilitation in left M1 (10 suprathreshold TMS pulses at 5 Hz) after applying rTMS to left PMd (1,500 subthreshold pulses at 1 and 5 Hz). In a sample of subjects we delivered single-pulse TMS with different polarities and paired-pulse TMS at short intervals (SICI) after PMd-rTMS. Short-term facilitation in M1 was reduced after applying 1 Hz to PMd, but was unaffected after 5-Hz PMd-rTMS. PMd-rTMS with 1 Hz reduced the amplitude of MEPs evoked by monophasic posteroanterior (PA) or biphasic anteroposterior (AP)-PA but had little effect on MEPs by monophasic AP or biphasic PA-AP single-pulse TMS. PMd-rTMS left SICI unchanged. PMd-rTMS (1 Hz) reduces short-term facilitation in M1 induced by short 5-Hz trains. This effect is likely to be caused by reduced facilitation of I-wave inputs to corticospinal neurons.
Neuronal response properties are typically probed by intracellular measurements of current-voltage (I-V) relationships during application of current or voltage steps. Here we demonstrate the measurement of a novel I-V curve measured while the neuron exhibits a fluctuating voltage and emits spikes. This dynamic I-V curve requires only a few tens of seconds of experimental time and so lends itself readily to the rapid classification of cell type, quantification of heterogeneities in cell populations, and generation of reduced analytical models. We apply this technique to layer-5 pyramidal cells and show that their dynamic I-V curve comprises linear and exponential components, providing experimental evidence for a recently proposed theoretical model. The approach also allows us to determine the change of neuronal response properties after a spike, millisecond by millisecond, so that postspike refractoriness of pyramidal cells can be quantified. Observations of I-V curves during and in absence of refractoriness are cast into a model that is used to predict both the subthreshold response and spiking activity of the neuron to novel stimuli. The predictions of the resulting model are in excellent agreement with experimental data and close to the intrinsic neuronal reproducibility to repeated stimuli.
N-Methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activation may promote cell survival or initiate cell death, with the outcome dependent on whether synaptic or extrasynaptic receptors are activated. Similarly, this differential activation has been proposed to govern the direction of plasticity. However, the physiological parameters necessary to activate extrasynaptic NMDARs in brain slices remain unknown. Using the irreversible use-dependent NMDAR antagonist MK-801 to isolate extrasynaptic NMDARs, we have tested the ability of short-stimulation trains from 5 to 400 Hz to activate these receptors on CA1 hippocampal slice pyramidal neurons. Frequencies as low as 25 Hz engage extrasynaptic NMDARs, with maximal activation at frequencies between 100 and 200 Hz. Since similar bursts of synaptic input occur during exploratory behavior in rats, our results demonstrate that &quot;extrasynaptic&quot; NMDARs regularly participate in synaptic transmission. Further, 175-Hz-stimulation trains activate all available synaptic and extrasynaptic dendritic NMDARs, suggesting these NMDARs act as synaptic receptors as needed, transiently increasing synaptic strength. Thus extrasynaptic NMDARs play a vital role in synaptic physiology, calling into question their status as &quot;extrasynaptic.&quot;
The ability of inhibitory synaptic inputs to dampen the excitability of motoneurons is augmented when persistent inward currents (PICs) are activated. This amplification could be due to an increase in the driving potential of inhibitory synapses or the deactivation of the channels underlying PICs. Our goal was to determine which mechanism leads to the amplification of inhibitory inputs by PICs. To reach this goal, we measured inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in decerebrate cats during somatic voltage-clamp steps. These IPSCs were generated by tonic activation of Renshaw cells. The IPSCs exhibited a rapid rise and a slower decay to a plateau level. Activation of PICs always led to an increase in the peak of the IPSC, but the amount of decay after the peak of the IPSC was inversely related to the size of the IPSC. These results were replicated in simulations based on compartmental models of motoneurons incorporating distributions of Renshaw cell synapses based on anatomical observations, and L-type calcium channels distributed as 100-microm-long hot spots centered 100 to 400 microm away from the soma. For smaller IPSCs, amplification by PICs was due to an increase in the driving force of the inhibitory synaptic current. For larger IPSCs, amplification was caused by deactivation of the channels underlying PICs leading to a lesser decay of the IPSCs. As a result of this change in the time course of the IPSC, deactivation of the channels underlying PICs leads to a greater amplification of the total inhibitory synaptic current.
In some motoneurons, L-type Ca2+ channels that partly mediate persistent inward currents (PICs) have been estimated to be arranged in 50- to 200-microm-long discrete regions in the dendrites, centered 100 to 400 microm from the soma. As a consequence of this nonuniform distribution, the interaction between synaptic inputs to motoneurons and these channels may vary according to the distribution of the synapses. For instance, &gt;93% of synapses from Renshaw cells have been observed to be located 65 to 470 microm away from the cell body of motoneurons. Our goal was to assess whether Renshaw cell synapses are distributed in a position to more effectively control the activation of the L-type Ca2+ channels. Using compartmental models of motoneurons with L-type Ca2+ channels distributed in 100-microm-long hot spots centered 100 to 400 microm away from the soma, we compared the inhibition generated by four distributions of inhibitory synapses: proximal, distal, uniform, and one based on the location of Renshaw cell synapses on motoneurons. Regardless of whether the synapses were activated tonically or transiently, in the presence of L-type Ca2+ channels, inhibitory synapses distributed according to the Renshaw cell synapse distribution generate the largest inhibitory currents. The effectiveness of a particular distribution of inhibitory synapses in the presence of PICs depends on their ability to deactivate the channels underlying PICs, which is influenced not only by the superposition between synapses and channels, but also by the distance away from the somatic voltage clamp.
Hair bundles are critical to mechanotransduction by vestibular hair cells, but quantitative data are lacking on vestibular bundles in mice or other mammals. Here we quantify bundle heights and their variation with macular locus and hair cell type in adult mouse utricular macula. We also determined that macular organization differs from previous reports. The utricle has approximately 3,600 hair cells, half on each side of the line of polarity reversal (LPR). A band of low hair cell density corresponds to a band of calretinin-positive calyces, i.e., the striola. The relation between the LPR and the striola differs from previous reports in two ways. First, the LPR lies lateral to the striola instead of bisecting it. Second, the LPR follows the striolar trajectory anteriorly, but posteriorly it veers from the edge of the striola to reach the posterior margin of the macula. Consequently, more utricular bundles are oriented mediolaterally than previously supposed. Three hair cell classes are distinguished in calretinin-stained material: type II hair cells, type ID hair cells contacting calretinin-negative (dimorphic) afferents, and type IC hair cells contacting calretinin-positive (calyceal) afferents. They differ significantly on most bundle measures. Type II bundles have short stereocilia. Type IC bundles have kinocilia and stereocilia of similar heights, i.e., KS ratios (ratio of kinocilium to stereocilia heights) approximately 1, unlike other receptor classes. In contrast to these class-specific differences, bundles show little regional variation except that KS ratios are lowest in the striola. These low KS ratios suggest that bundle stiffness is greater in the striola than in the extrastriola.
Modulation of afterhyperpolarization (AHP) represents an important mechanism by which excitability of a neuron can be regulated. In the leech brain, sensitization enhances excitability of the S-cell, an interneuron thought to play an important role in this form of nonassociative learning. This increase in excitability is serotonin (5-HT) dependent, but it is not known whether changes in AHP contribute to 5-HT-mediated enhancement of excitability. Therefore electrophysiological recordings and computational modeling were used to determine whether 5-HT enhances excitability via modulation of AHP. 5-HT reduced S-cell AHP and this decrease in the AHP corresponded with an increase in excitability. Little or no AHP is observed in the presence of Ca2+-free saline, suggesting the involvement of Ca2+-dependent K+ channels. Furthermore, AHP amplitude decreased following treatment with drugs (tubocurare and charybdotoxin) that block Ca2+-dependent K+ channel activity. The S-cell also exhibits an afterdepolarization (ADP), which is usually masked by the AHP, and was inhibited by the Na+ channel blocker saxitoxin. A model of the S-cell AHP was constructed using two Ca2+-dependent K+ currents and a Na+-driven ADP current. Reduction of the model conductances underlying the AHP to mimic the effects of 5-HT was sufficient to enhance excitability. These findings were confirmed in occlusion experiments in which pretreatment with tubocurare was able to block 5-HT-mediated decreases in mAHP levels and increases in excitability. These data show that modulation of S-cell AHP can contribute to 5-HT-mediated increases in excitability and that the S-cell afterpotential is due to the combined effects of AHP- and ADP-producing currents.
Neonatal forelimb amputation in rats produces sprouting of sciatic nerve afferent fibers into the cuneate nucleus (CN) and results in 40% of individual CN neurons expressing both forelimb-stump and hindlimb receptive fields. The forelimb-stump region of primary somatosensory cortex (S-I) of these rats contains neurons in layer IV that express both stump and hindlimb receptive fields. However, the source of the aberrant input is the S-I hindlimb region conveyed to the S-I forelimb-stump region via intracortical projections. Although the reorganization in S-I reflects changes in cortical circuitry, it is possible that these in turn are dependent on the CN reorganization. The present study was designed to directly test whether the sprouting of sciatic afferents into the CN is required for expression of the hindlimb inputs in the S-I forelimb-stump field. To inhibit sprouting, neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) was applied to the cut nerves following amputation. At P60 or older, NT-3-treated rats showed minimal sciatic nerve fibers in the CN. Multiunit electrophysiological recordings in the CN of NT-3-treated, amputated rats revealed 6.3% of sites were both stump/hindlimb responsive, compared with 30.5% in saline-treated amputated animals. Evaluation of the S-I following GABA receptor blockade, revealed that the percentage of hindlimb responsive sites in the stump representation of the NT-3-treated rats (34.2%) was not significantly different from that in saline-treated rats (31.5%). These results indicate that brain stem reorganization in the form of sprouting of sciatic afferents into the CN is not necessary for development of anomalous hindlimb receptive fields within the S-I forelimb/stump region.
The relay of information at the retinogeniculate synapse, the connection between retina and visual thalamus, begins days before eye opening and is thought to play an important role in the maturation of neural circuits in the thalamus and visual cortex. Remarkably, during this period of development, the retinogeniculate synapse is immature, with single retinal ganglion cell inputs evoking an average peak excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) of only about 40 pA compared with 800 pA in mature synapses. Yet, at the mature synapse, EPSCs &gt;400 pA are needed to drive relay neuron firing. This raises the question of how small-amplitude EPSCs can drive transmission at the immature retinogeniculate synapse. Here we find that several features of the immature synapse, compared with the mature synapse, contribute to synaptic transmission. First, although the peak amplitude of EPSC is small, the decay time course of both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) currents is significantly slower. The prolonged time course of NMDAR currents is a result of the presence of both NR2B and NR2C/D subunits. In addition, the extended presence of neurotransmitter released prolongs the synaptic current time course. Second, reduced sensitivity to magnesium block results in significantly greater synaptic charge transfer through NMDAR. Third, AMPAR currents contribute to the spike latency, but not to temporal precision, at the immature synapse. Furthermore, intrinsic excitability is greater. These properties enable immature synapses with predominantly NMDARs and little or no AMPARs to contribute to the relay of information from retina to visual cortex.
The type 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1) plays an import role in the synaptic physiology and development of cerebellar Purkinje neurons. mGluR1 expression occurs early in the developmental program of Purkinje neurons, at an age that precedes expression of the dendritic structure. Few studies have investigated the physiological response produced by mGluR1 activation in early-developing Purkinje neurons. To address this question, simultaneous recording of membrane potential and intracellular Ca(2+) was performed in immature cultured Purkinje neurons coupled with exogenous application of mGluR1 agonists. Membrane potential was measured using the perforated patch method of whole-cell recording, and intracellular Ca(2+) was measured using fura-2-based Ca(2+) imaging. Brief, 1-sec micropressure application of the group I mGluR-selective agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) evoked a prominent Ca(2+) signal and coincident fast hyperpolarization in the immature neurons. The mGluR1-selective antagonist 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester blocked the Ca(2+) signal and fast hyperpolarization, confirming the involvement of mGluR1s. Amplitude of the fast hyperpolarization varied as a function of membrane potential and intracellular Ca(2+) and was blocked by apamin, an antagonist of the small-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel (SK), identifying this K(+) channel as an underlying mechanism. In similar experiments with mature cultured Purkinje neurons, DHPG elicited a Ca(2+) signal, but fast membrane hyperpolarization was not evident. These results suggest that mGluR1 activation and the resulting release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores and activation of SK channels may be a mechanism through which mGluR1 can modulate neuronal excitability of Purkinje neurons during early development.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder characterized by a progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Microglia activation and neuroinflammation have been associated with the pathogenesis of PD. Indeed, cytokines have been proposed as candidates that mediate the apoptotic cell death of dopaminergic neurons seen in PD. In this study, we investigated the effect of two natural polyphenols, resveratrol and quercetin, on neuroinflammation. For glial cells, we observed that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced mRNA levels of two proinflammatory genes, interleukin 1-alpha and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, are strongly decreased by treatments with resveratrol or quercetin. We also undertook microglial-neuronal coculture to examine the influence of resveratrol and quercetin on dopaminergic neuronal cell death evoked by LPS-activated microglia. Cytotoxicity assays were performed to evaluate the percentage of cell death, with apoptotic cells identified by both the TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling technique and the detection of cleaved caspase-3. We report that treatment of N9 microglial cells with resveratrol or quercetin successfully reduced the inflammation-mediated apoptotic death of neuronal cells in our coculture system. Altogether our results demonstrate that resveratrol and quercetin diminished apoptotic neuronal cell death induced by microglial activation and suggest that these two phytoestrogens may be potent antiinflammatory compounds.
Opioids can induce analgesia and also hyperalgesia in humans and in animals. It has been shown that systemic administration of morphine induced a hyperalgesic response at an extremely low dose. However, the exact mechanism(s) underlying opioid-induced hyperalgesia has not yet been clarified. Here, we have investigated cellular events involved in low-dose morphine hyperalgesia in male Wistar rats. The data showed that morphine (0.01 microg i.t.) could elicit hyperalgesia as assessed by the tail-flick test. G(alphas) mRNA and protein levels increased significantly following exposure to the hyperalgesic dose of morphine. Furthermore, morphine at an analgesic dose (20 microg i.t.) significantly decreased cAMP levels in the dorsal half of the lumbar spinal cord, whereas the tissue cAMP levels were not affected by morphine treatment at a hyperalgesic dose. Intrathecal administration of nifedipine, an L-type calcium channel blocker, antagonized the hyperalgesia induced by the low-dose of morphine. Furthermore, pretreatment with the selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerytrine resulted in prevention of the morphine-induced hyperalgesia. KT 5720, a specific inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), did not show any effect on low-dose morphine-induced hyperalgesia. These results indicate a role for G(alphas), the PLC-PKC pathway, and L-type calcium channels in intrathecal morphine-induced hyperalgesia in rats. Activation of ordinary G(alphas) signaling through cAMP levels did not appear to play a major role in the induction of hyperalgesia by low-dose of morphine.
Aquaporin-4 is a water channel predominantly found in astrocytes in the central nervous system and is believed to play a critical role in the formation and maintenance of the blood-brain barrier and in water secretion from the brain. As enteric glial cells were found to share several similarities with astrocytes, we hypothesized that enteric glia might also contain aquaporin-4. We used immunohistochemistry to identify aquaporin-4 in the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of the mouse and the rat colon. We found that subpopulations of neurons in both enteric plexuses were positively labeled for human aquaporin-4. Double staining of the enteric ganglia with antibodies to the neuronal marker neurofilament-heavy chain 100 and to aquaporin-4 showed that a minority of myenteric neurons were aquaporin-4 positive (about 12% in the mouse and 13% in the rat). In contrast, in the submucosal plexus significant numbers of neurons were positive for aquaporin-4 (about 79% in both the mouse and the rat). Double labeling for aquaporin-4 and for the glial marker glial fibrillary acidic protein verified that glial cells were not immunoreactive to aquaporin-4. We further confirmed our findings with additional aquaporin-4 antibodies and Western blot analysis. We found that, in addition to expressing aquaporin-4, the myenteric plexus and, to a greater extent, the submucosal plexus both expressed aquaporin-1. We conclude that neurons rather than glial cells contain aquaporin-4 in the colonic enteric plexuses. It is known that submucosal neurons control transport processes in the intestinal mucosa, and the high percentage of aquaporin-4-positive submucosal neurons suggests that aquaporin-4 contributes to this function.
Motoneuron number and expression of cytoplasmic RNA and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene transcription activity in the facial nucleus were examined quantitatively and chronologically for up to 4 weeks in rats after facial nerve axotomy and avulsion in order to elucidate interrelationships in axonal changes. The right facial nerves of adult Fischer rats were avulsed at a portion of the outlet or axotomized at a portion of the foramen stylomastoideus. The number of large motoneurons in the facial nucleus was reduced by 40% 2 weeks after avulsion and by 70% 4 weeks after avulsion but displayed a 19% loss even 4 weeks after axotomy. The amount of cytoplasmic RNA decreased significantly and progressively from 1 day after avulsion. rRNA gene transcription activity in the large motoneurons of the facial nucleus decreased significantly beginning 30 min after both axotomy and avulsion, but the severity of the decrease was far more marked in the avulsion group, showing a 59% loss from the control value 4 weeks after avulsion. These findings indicate that rRNA gene transcription activity, expression of cytoplasmic RNA, and the number of motoneurons that survive are interrelated and that the decrease in rRNA gene transcription activity is a very early event in the phenomena observed in the axonal reactions of motoneurons.
Chemokine receptors, in particular, CXCR4 and CCR5, mediate human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection of immunocompetent cells and the apoptosis of these cells. However, the virus does not infect neurons. Yet through a variety of mechanisms, HIV promotes glial cell activation, synaptodendritic alterations, and neuronal loss that ultimately lead to motor and cognitive impairment. Chemokines and chemokine receptors are abundant in the adult central nervous system and play a role in neuronal apoptosis evoked by HIV proteins. Thus, reducing the availability of chemokine receptors may prevent the neuronal degeneration seen in HIV-positive patients. In this article, we present and discuss a recent experimental approach aimed at testing effective neuroprotective therapies against HIV-mediated neuronal degeneration.
Vesicular zinc (Zn(2+)) is found in a subset of glutamatergic nerve terminals throughout the mammalian forebrain and is colocalized with glutamate. Despite well-documented neuromodulatory roles, exocytosis of endogenous Zn(2+) from presynaptic terminals has never been directly demonstrated, because existing studies have measured elevated Zn(2+) concentrations by examining the perfusate. Thus, the specific origin of synaptic Zn(2+) remains a controversial subject. Here, we describe synaptic Zn(2+) trafficking between cellular compartments at hippocampal mossy fiber synapses by using the fluorescent indicator Zinpyr-1 to label the hippocampal mossy fiber boutons. We determined endogenous Zn(2+) exocytosis by direct observation of vesicular Zn(2+) as decreasing fluorescence intensity from presynaptic axonal boutons in the stratum lucidum of CA3 during neural activities induced by the stimulation of membrane depolarization. This presynaptic fluorescence gradually returned to a level near baseline after the withdrawal of moderate stimulation, indicating an endogenous mechanism to replenish vesicular Zn(2+). The exocytosis of the synaptic Zn(2+) was also dependent on extracellular Ca(2+) and was sensitive to Zn(2+)-specific chelators. Vesicular Zn(2+) loading was sensitive to the vacuolar-type H(+)-ATPase inhibitor concanamycin A, and our experiments indicated that blockade of vesicular reloading with concanamycin A led to a depletion of that synaptic Zn(2+). Furthermore, synaptic Zn(2+) translocated to the postsynaptic cell body upon release to produce increases in the concentration of weakly bound Zn(2+) within the postsynaptic cytosol, demonstrating a feature unique to ionic substances released during neurotransmission. Our data provide important evidence for Zn(2+) as a substance that undergoes release in a manner similar to common neurotransmitters.
Myricetin (3,3',4',5,5',7-hexahydroxyflavone) is classified as a flavonoid with strong antioxidant effects. Oxidative stress plays a key role in various neurological diseases such as ischemia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). To elucidate whether myricetin could counter the progress of AD, we examined the effects of myricetin on neurotoxicity induced by beta-amyloid (A beta), a component of senile plaques in the AD brain. We found that cultured rat primary cortical neurons treated for 48 hr with A beta1-42 (1 microM) induced significant neuronal injury. Conformationally altered A beta1-42 caused apoptotic changes, such as nuclear fragmentation, as shown by DAPI staining. Pre- and simultaneous administration of myricetin and A beta1-42 reduced A beta neurotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner. By using circular dichroism spectroscopy and a thioflavin T binding assay, we show that myricetin (10 microM, 48 hr) prevented structural changes in A beta1-42 from a random coil to a beta-sheet-rich structure. A beta1-42-induced apoptotic changes and caspase-3 activation were reduced by myricetin treatment. Furthermore, we determined that administration of myricetin significantly decreased A beta1-40 and A beta1-42 levels in culture media. These effects were based on two mechanisms: the activation and up-regulation of alpha-secretase (ADAM10) protein levels as indicated by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assay and immunoblot analysis and the direct binding and inhibition of beta-secretase (BACE-1) indicated by cell-free FRET assays. Evidently, myricetin has multiple functions to counter the progress of AD by the reduction of A beta production and the detoxification of A beta through a structural change.
The localization of cortical sites essential for language was assessed by stimulation mapping in the left, dominant hemispheres of 117 patients. Sites were related to language when stimulation at a current below the threshold for afterdischarge evoked repeated statistically significant errors in object naming. The language center was highly localized in many patients to form several mosaics of 1 to 2 sq cm, usually one in the frontal and one or more in the temporoparietal lobe. The area of individual mosaics, and the total area related to language was usually much smaller than the traditional Broca-Wernicke areas. There was substantial individual variability in the exact location of language function, some of which correlated with the patient's sex and verbal intelligence. These features were present for patients as young as 4 years and as old as 80 years, and for those with lesions acquired in early life or adulthood. These findings indicate a need for revision of the classical model of language localization. The combination of discrete localization in individual patients but substantial individual variability between patients also has major clinical implications for cortical resections of the dominant hemisphere, for it means that language cannot be reliably localized on anatomic criteria alone. A maximal resection with minimal risk of postoperative aphasia requires individual localization of language with a technique like stimulation mapping.
The patient in this report had a parasagittal meningioma with an intrasinus extension that presented with features of benign intracranial hypertension and no focal neurological deficit or seizure. The meningioma was managed with a combination of endovascular stent placement and radiotherapy. The authors describe the investigation and technical aspects of stent placement for the stenosed sinus. Good symptomatic relief in the patient was achieved.


Astroblastoma is a rare primary brain neoplasm that accounts for 0.45-2.8% of brain gliomas. Intraventricular localization is extremely rare. The authors report a case of well-differentiated completely intraventricular astroblastoma in a 6-year-old girl and review the relevant literature. Their patient presented with a 5-week history of progressive nausea and vomiting. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed a large, well-demarcated, solid-cystic mass in the left temporooccipital ventricular horn. Macroscopic radical resection of the tumor was performed via the superior temporal sulcus. The postoperative course was uneventful and no adjuvant therapy was administered after surgery. No recurrence was detected at 9-months follow-up. Gross-total resection has the greatest impact on patient survival. In differentiated tumors, recurrence is usually local, and adjuvant therapy is recommended after repeated resection for the treatment of recurrence. In patients harboring anaplastic astroblastoma, gross-total resection and adjuvant therapy after the initial surgery seems to be the best choice. It is important to distinguish astroblastoma from ependymoma in clinical practice because of the differences in therapeutic approaches.
Previous studies in our laboratory have demonstrated the preclinical efficacy of nicotinamide (NAM; vitamin B3) treatment following fluid percussion injury (FPI). At a dose of 500 or 50 mg/kg, NAM significantly facilitated recovery of function on a variety of motor and sensorimotor tasks in rodents, and the 500 mg/kg dose improved cognitive performance. The purpose of the present study was to examine the acute neuroprotective ability of NAM following FPI. Rats were given a moderate FPI (1.8 atm) or sham injury. NAM (500 or 50 mg/kg) or saline was administered 15 min and 20 h after FPI. Rats were sacrificed at 24 h or 7 days following injury and prepared for histological analysis. Systematic volumetric measurements were conducted to examine cortical loss in a series of cresyl violet stained slices to examine the development of the injury cavity. To assess the extent of astrocytic activity and neurodegeneration, triple labeling with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), Fluoro-Jade B (FJ), and DAPI was performed. GFAP(+) astrocytes and FJ(+) neurons in the ipsilateral and contralateral cortex, and ipsilateral hippocampus and thalamus were assessed. While not significant at 24 h, NAM significantly attenuated cortical tissue loss at 7 days. At 24 h, the number of GFAP(+) astrocytes was significantly reduced by NAM. However, the inverse was observed at 7 days where NAM treatment significantly increased the number of GFAP(+) astrocytes. Both doses of NAM also significantly reduced FJ expression at the 24-h and 7-day time intervals. The results of this study suggest that NAM has strong neuroprotective abilities in the injured brain and may have therapeutic potential for brain injury.
In trauma practice, basilar skull fracture is an extremely common finding while transverse/sigmoid venous sinus thrombosis is generally considered quite a rare complication. During evaluation of cervical computed tomography (CT) angiography after trauma, we identified five patients in just three months with unexpected transverse/sigmoid venous sinus obstruction ipsilateral to a basilar skull fracture. This number represented a surprisingly high percentage of our neurosurgical trauma consults for the study period (31%). Three of the five patients were found to have sinus thrombosis: two with right transverse/sigmoid sinus thrombosis experienced significant neurological deficits and prolonged hospital courses even with anti-coagulation therapy; one patient with a left transverse/sigmoid sinus thrombosis had a good outcome with anti-coagulation therapy. The other two of the five patients had outflow obstruction, likely from focal epidural bleeding and extrinsic compression: one patient with partial obstruction in the right transverse-sigmoid junction, due to epidural bleeding, experienced a difficult recovery; one patient with a right sigmoid sinus obstruction presented and remained asymptomatic and experienced a benign hospital course. Two of the five patients had a posterior temporal hemorrhagic area ipsilateral to the affected sinus, suggesting that this finding may have represented hemorrhagic venous infarction rather than traumatic contusion. We propose that a basilar skull fracture in the region of temporal or occipital bone should be considered as a significant risk factor for the development of transverse/sigmoid venous sinus obstruction and may be an under-recognized and treatable cause of increased intracranial pressure. Failure to detect this complication may explain, in part, unexpected clinical outcomes.
In recent years, our understanding of motor learning, neuroplasticity, and functional recovery after the occurrence of brain lesion has grown significantly. New findings in basic neuroscience have stimulated research in motor rehabilitation. Repeated motor practice and motor activity in a real-world environment have been identified in several prospective studies as favorable for motor recovery in stroke patients. Electrical stimulation can be applied in a variety of ways to the hemiparetic upper extremity following stroke. In this paper, an overview of current research into clinical and therapeutic applications of functional electrical stimulation (FES) is presented. In particular, electromyography (EMG)-initiated electrical muscle stimulation--but not electrical muscle stimulation alone--improves the motor function of the hemiparetic arm and hand. Triggered electrical stimulation is reported to be more effective than untriggered electrical stimulation in facilitating upper extremity motor recovery following stroke. Power-assisted FES induces greater muscle contraction by electrical stimulation in proportion to the voluntary integrated EMG signal picked up, which is regulated by a closed-loop control system. Power-assisted FES and motor point block for antagonist muscles have been applied with good results as a new hybrid FES therapy in an outpatient rehabilitation clinic for patients with stroke. Furthermore, a daily home program therapy with power-assisted FES using new equipment has been able to effectively improve wrist and finger extension and shoulder flexion. Proprioceptive sensory feedback might play an important role in power-assisted FES therapy. Although many physiotherapeutic modalities have been established, conclusive proof of their benefit and physiological models of their effects on neuronal structures and processes are still missing. A multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy study to noninvasively and dynamically measure hemoglobin levels in the brain during functional activity has shown that cerebral blood flow in the sensory-motor cortex on the injured side is higher during a power-assisted FES session than during simple active movement or simple electrical stimulation. Nevertheless, evidence-based strategies for motor rehabilitation are more easily available, particularly for patients with hemiparesis.


The ability of cholesterol to modulate receptor-mediated increases in the volume-dependent release of the organic osmolyte, taurine, has been examined. Depletion of cholesterol from SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma by preincubation of the cells with 5 mM methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (CD) for 10 min resulted in a 40 to 50% reduction in cholesterol and an enhancement of the ability of proteinase-activated receptor (PAR) 1, muscarinic cholinergic receptor (mAChR), and sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor to stimulate taurine efflux, when monitored under hypoosmotic conditions. Basal (swelling-induced) release of taurine was also enhanced by cholesterol depletion, but less markedly. Both basal- and receptor-mediated increases in taurine efflux were mediated via a volume-sensitive organic osmolyte and anion channel in control and cholesterol-depleted cells. Studies with the PAR-1 and mAChR receptor subtypes indicated that the stimulatory effect of CD pretreatment could be reversed by incubation of the cells with either CD/cholesterol or CD/5-cholesten-3alpha-ol donor complexes and that cholesterol depletion increased agonist efficacy, but not potency. The ability of cholesterol depletion to promote the PAR-1 receptor-mediated stimulation of osmolyte release was most pronounced under conditions of isotonicity or mild hypotonicity. In contrast to CD pretreatment, preincubation of the cells with cholesterol oxidase, a condition under which lipid microdomains are also disrupted, had no effect on either basal- or receptor-stimulated taurine efflux. Taken together, the results suggest that cholesterol regulates receptor-mediated osmolyte release via its effects on the biophysical properties of the plasma membrane, rather than its presence in lipid microdomains.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide and new treatment strategies are clearly needed. The recent discovery that lung and other cancers synthesize and secrete acetylcholine (ACh) which acts as an autocrine growth factor suggests that this cholinergic autocrine loop may present new therapeutic targets. In normal bronchial epithelium, small airway epithelium and pulmonary neuroendocrine cells synthesize Ach; and in squamous cell lung carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, and small cell lung carcinoma, the respective lung cancers that derive from those cell types similarly synthesize ACh. ACh secreted by those cancers stimulates growth of the tumors by binding to nicotinic and muscarinic receptors expressed on lung cancers. Thus antagonists to nicotinic and muscarinic receptors can inhibit lung cancer growth. The muscarinic receptor (mAChR) subtype utilized for cell proliferation is the M(3) subtype and consistent with this M(3) mAChR antagonists inhibit growth of SCLC and squamous cell carcinomas. This is significant as M(3) mAChR antagonists have low toxicity and are in wide clinical use. As multiple other cancer types besides lung carcinomas express both M(3) mAChR and acetylcholine, other cancer types besides lung carcinoma may respond to M(3) mAChR antagonists.
The endogenous brain constituent, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), as well as its prodrug, gamma-butyrolactone (GBL), have recently gained interest in the drug addiction field due to their abuse potential and fatalities caused by overdose. It is known that GHB has two sites of actions: the gamma-aminobutyric acid(B) (GABA(B)) receptor and a specific-GHB binding site. The present study was designed to extend to GBL the investigations on the contribution of the GABA(B) receptor and the specific-GHB binding site to its in vivo effects. To this aim, DBA mice were pretreated either with GABA(B)-receptor antagonists, (3-aminopropyl)(diethoxymethyl)phosphinic acid (CGP 35348) and (2S)(+)-5,5-dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid (SCH 50911), or a putative antagonist of the specific-GHB binding site, 6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-5-hydroxy-5H-benzocyclohept-6-ylideneacetic acid (NCS-382), prior to the administration of doses of GBL that induced hypothermia, motor-incoordination (measured as motor-impairment at the Rota-Rod task), and sedation/hypnosis. The capability of SCH 50911 and NCS-382 to protect against GBL-induced lethality was also investigated. Pretreatment with either GABA(B)-receptor antagonist completely prevented GBL-induced hypothermia, motor-incoordination, and sedation /hypnosis. SCH 50911 also provided complete protection against GBL-associated lethality. Vice versa, NCS-382 failed to exert any antagonistic or protective effect. These results suggest that the in vivo GBL effects tested in the present study are mediated by activation of the GABA(B) receptor.


Regulation of ligand-gated ion channel (LGIC) function and trafficking by cytoskeleton proteins has been the topic of recent research. Here, we report that the light chain (LC1) of microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B) specifically interacted with the 5-HT(3A) receptor, a predominant serotonin-gated ion channel in the brain. LC1 and 5-HT(3A) receptors were colocalized in central neurons and in HEK 293 cells expressing 5-HT(3A) receptors. LC1 reduced the steady-state density of 5-HT(3A) receptors at the membrane surface of HEK 293 cells and significantly accelerated receptor desensitization time constants from 3.8 +/- 0.3 s to 0.8 +/- 0.1 s. However, LC1 did not significantly alter agonist binding affinity and single-channel conductance of 5-HT(3A) receptors. On the other hand, application of specific LC1 antisense oligonucleotides and nocodazole, a microtubule disruptor, significantly prolonged the desensitization time of the recombinant and native neuronal 5-HT(3) receptors by 3- to 6-fold. This kinetic change induced by nocodazole was completely rescued by addition of LC1 but not GABA(A) receptor-associated protein (GABARAP), suggesting that LC1 can specifically interact with 5-HT(3A) receptors. These observations suggest that the LC1-5-HT(3A) receptor interaction contributes to a mechanism that regulates receptor desensitization kinetics. Such dynamic regulation may play a role in reshaping the efficacy of 5-HT(3) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission.
NMDA receptors are present at glutamatergic synapses throughout the brain, and are important for the development and plasticity of neural circuits. Their subunit composition is developmentally regulated. We have investigated the developmental profile of functional synaptic NMDA receptor subunits in dopaminergic neurones of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). In SNc dopaminergic neurones from rats aged postnatal day (P)7, ifenprodil inhibited NMDA-EPSCs with an estimated IC(50) of 0.36 microm and a maximum inhibition of 73.5 +/- 2.7% (10 microm), consistent with a substantial population of NR1/NR2B-containing diheteromeric receptors. UBP141, a novel NR2D-preferring antagonist, inhibited NMDA-EPSCs with an estimated IC(50) of 6.2 microm. During postnatal development, the maximum inhibitory effect of 10 microm ifenprodil significantly decreased. However, NMDA-EPSCs were not inhibited by Zn(2+) (200 nM) or potentiated by the Zn(2+) chelator TPEN (1 microm), and the effect of UBP141 did not increase during development, indicating that NR2B subunits are not replaced with diheteromeric NR2A or NR2D subunits. The time course of the decay of NMDA-EPSCs was not significantly changed in ifenprodil at any age tested. Together, these data suggest that diheteromeric NR1/NR2A or NR1/NR2D receptors do not account for the ifenprodil-resistant component of the NMDA-EPSC. We propose that NR1/NR2B/NR2D triheteromers form a significant fraction of synaptic NMDA receptors during postnatal development. This is the first report of data suggesting NR2D-containing triheteromeric NMDA receptors at a brain synapse.
Attempts to characterize recombinant integral membrane proteins (IMPs) by mass spectrometry are frequently hindered by several factors including the detergents required for extraction and purification that interferes with analysis, poor solubility, incomplete digestion, and limited identification of the transmembrane domain-spanning peptides. The goal of this study was to examine and develop methods for purification of an IMP that are amenable to downstream digestion of the protein and peptide analysis by mass spectrometry. In this study, we have overexpressed a candidate IMP, the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1) in Pichia pastoris and examined conditions for the efficient affinity purification, in-solution digestion, and analysis of the protein. Analysis of the intact purified protein without detergent was performed by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. The purified IMP was digested with trypsin, and the resulting peptides were identified. A method that utilizes differential solubility and ionization properties of hydrophobic and hydrophilic peptides was developed. Large hydrophobic peptides were only detected in solutions containing 50% formic acid. Ionization of hydrophilic peptides was suppressed in formic acid, but they produced a strong signal in 50% acetonitrile. Eighty-seven percent sequence coverage of the protein was obtained with only one large hydrophobic peptide that remained unidentified. The results demonstrate a simple method to purify and digest a recombinant IMP for analysis by mass spectrometry.

Dopaminergic abnormalities have been described in anorexia nervosa but studies about plasma level of homovanillic acid (pHVA) have yielded conflicting results probably due to the small number and the heterogeneity of patients. Plasma HVA, nutritional and hormonal parameters and several scales - the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT), the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), the Leyton Obsessional Inventory-child version (LOI-C) and the State and Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) - were assessed in 44 adolescent anorexia nervosa patients (mean age 14.7 years, SD 1.7) consecutively admitted to an Eating Disorder Unit. They were evaluated at admission, at discharge and, in 34 cases, after 9 months of follow-up. pHVA was also assessed in 16 control adolescents. Patients had significantly higher pHVA than controls (p = .002). About 31% of patients had a very high level of pHVA, a significantly higher (p = .006) mean score in the BDI and a non significantly higher mean score in the EAT. After weight recovery some laboratory parameters improved as well as the EAT (p = .019), the BDI (p = 001) and the Interference score of the LOI-C (p = .004). Moreover, pHVA decreased significantly (p=.036). At follow-up, patients with normal weight had lower (p = .037) pHVA than patients with low weight. The conclusion would be that there is a dopaminergic dysfunction in anorexic patients, specially in a subgroup with high depressive and anorexic symptomatology. With weight recovery and psychopathological improvement, pHVA tends to normalization.



In contrast to most enveloped viruses that enter the host cell via clathrin-dependent endocytosis, the Old World arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) enters cells via noncoated vesicles that deliver the virus to endosomes, where pH-dependent membrane fusion occurs. Here, we investigated the initial steps of LCMV infection. We found that the attachment of LCMV to its cellular receptor alpha-dystroglycan occurs rapidly and is not dependent on membrane cholesterol. However, subsequent virus internalization is sensitive to cholesterol depletion, indicating the involvement of a cholesterol-dependent pathway. We provide evidence that LCMV entry involves an endocytotic pathway that is independent of clathrin and caveolin and that does not require the GTPase dynamin. In addition, neither the structural integrity nor the dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton are required for infection. These findings indicate that the prototypic Old World arenavirus LCMV uses a mechanism of entry that is different from clathrin-mediated endocytosis, which is used by the New World arenavirus Junin virus, and pathways used by other enveloped viruses.
Productive infection of oligodendrocytes, which are responsible for the formation of myelin sheath in the central nervous system, with the human neurotropic virus JC virus (JCV) causes the fatal demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). In addition to encoding T antigen and the capsid proteins, which are produced at the early and late phases of the infection cycle, respectively, JCV encodes a small regulatory protein named agnoprotein that is important for successful completion of the virus life cycle. Here we used bipotential CG-4 cells to examine the impact of agnoprotein on oligodendrocyte differentiation and survival in the absence of JCV lytic infection. We demonstrate that the expression of agnoprotein delayed the formation of complex outgrowth networks of the cells during oligodendrocyte differentiation. These alterations were accompanied by high levels of DNA damage, induction of proapoptotic proteins, and suppression of prosurvival signaling. Accordingly, apoptosis was significantly increased upon the induction of CG-4 cells toward differentiation in cells expressing agnoprotein. These observations provide the first evidence for the possible involvement of agnoprotein, independent from its role in viral replication, in a series of biological events that may contribute to the pathological features seen in PML lesions.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with cognitive dysfunction and abnormalities that can be seen with brain imaging. Recent studies provide important new insights into the nature and severity of these cerebral complications that help to explain why some patients with diabetes have clinically relevant neurocognitive morbidity, whereas most are apparently unaffected. This Personal View investigates the hypothesis that clinically relevant diabetes-related cognitive decrements mainly occur at two crucial periods in life: when the brain is developing in childhood, and when the brain undergoes neurodegenerative changes associated with ageing. Outside of these periods cognitive decrements mainly occur in patients with notable diabetes-related comorbidities, in particular microvascular or macrovascular complications. The identification of crucial periods and conditions for the development of diabetes-related cognitive decrements helps to draw the attention of physicians to individuals at risk and can direct future studies into the mechanisms that underlie these conditions.
Technological advances have led to greater use of both structural and functional brain imaging to assist with the diagnosis of dementia for the increasing numbers of people with cognitive decline as they age. In current clinical practice, structural imaging (CT or MRI) is used to identify space-occupying lesions and stroke. Functional methods, such as PET scanning of glucose metabolism, could be used to differentiate Alzheimer's disease from frontotemporal dementia, which helps to guide clinicians in symptomatic treatment strategies. New neuroimaging methods that are currently being developed can measure specific neurotransmitter systems, amyloid plaque and tau tangle concentrations, and neuronal integrity and connectivity. Successful co-development of neuroimaging surrogate markers and preventive treatments might eventually lead to so-called brain-check scans for determining risk of cognitive decline, so that physicians can administer disease-modifying medications, vaccines, or other interventions to avoid future cognitive losses and to delay onset of disease.

Vascular-space-occupancy (VASO) MRI without contrast injection was explored for imaging cerebral blood volume (CBV) and tissue heterogeneity in gliomas (n = 10). VASO contrast complemented contrast-enhanced T(1)-weighted (GAD-T(1)w), FLAIR and T(1)w magnetization-prepared-rapid-gradient-echo (MPRAGE) images. High-grade gliomas showed a VASO-outlined hyperintense zone corresponding to long-T(1) regions in MPRAGE and to nonenhancing regions in GAD-T(1)w images. FLAIR, MPRAGE, and VASO data were used to segment tumors into multiple zones of different T(1). After removal of known resection areas using pre- and postsurgical MRI, the volume of overlap between the hyperintense VASO-zone and the long-T(1) MPRAGE zone correlated with that of GAD-T(1)w enhancement (R(2) = 0.99) and tumor grade. Based on these correlations, this remaining long T(1) overlap area was tentatively assigned to necrosis. In one promising case the collective T(1)-weighted approach accurately identified a low-grade glioma despite the presence of contrast enhancement in GAD-T(1)w images consequential to chemoradiation-associated treatment effect. The results suggest that this collective T(1)-weighted approach may provide useful information for regional assessment of heterogeneous tumors and for guiding treatment-related decisions in patients with gliomas.
Exchange of hepatic glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate via transaldolase modifies hepatic G6P enrichment from glucose or gluconeogenic tracers. Transaldolase exchange was quantified in five healthy, fed subjects following an oral bolus of [1,2,3-(13)C(3)]glycerol (25-30 mg/kg) and paracetamol (10-12 mg/kg). (13)C Isotopomers of hepatic G6P were quantified by (13)C NMR spectroscopy of urinary glucuronide. [1,2,3-(13)C(3)]- and [4,5,6-(13)C(3)]glucuronide isotopomers, representing the conversion of [1,2,3-(13)C(3)]glycerol to G6P via dihydroxyacetone phosphate, were resolved from [1,2-(13)C(2)]- and [5,6-(13)C(2)]glucuronide (13)C-isotopomers, derived from metabolism of [1,2,3-(13)C(3)]glycerol via pyruvate and phosphoenolpyruvate. Enrichment of [1,2,3-(13)C(3)]glucuronide was significantly less than that of [4,5,6-(13)C(3)]glucuronide (1.30 +/- 0.57% versus 1.67 +/- 0.42%, P &lt; 0.05). Also, [1,2-(13)C(2)]glucuronide enrichment was significantly less than that of [5,6-(13)C(2)]glucuronide (0.28 +/- 0.08% versus 0.36 +/- 0.03%, P &lt; 0.05). Transaldolase and triose phosphate isomerase exchange activities were estimated by applying the (13)C-isotopomer data to a model of hepatic sugar phosphate metabolism. Triose phosphate isomerase exchange was approximately 99% complete and did not contribute significantly to the unequal (13)C-isotopomer distributions of the glucuronide triose halves. Instead, this was attributable to 25 +/- 23% of hepatic G6P flux undergoing transaldolase exchange. This results in substantial overestimates of indirect pathway contributions to hepatic glycogen synthesis with tracers such as [5-(3)H]glucose and (2)H(2)O.
A literature has been emerging showing that estrogen exhibits functions that transcends its role in reproduction. 17beta-estradiol stimulates nitric oxide (NO) release from human internal thoracic artery fragments and from cultured arterial endothelial cells by acting on an estrogen cell surface receptor. Estrogen down regulates immunocyte functions, i.e. chemotaxis and phagocytosis, as well. Monocytes express estrogen receptor mRNA as well as an estrogen receptor binding site. Importantly, estrogen exerts non reproductive roles in invertebrates. These reports also demonstrate that invertebrate estrogen receptors are coupled to constitutive NO release and are located on the cell surface, suggesting they first appear very early in evolution. All in all, estrogen's ability to stimulate constitutive nitric oxide synthase derived NO is significant since NO is also considered an important inhibitory agent that diminishes immunocyte adhesion and the vascular endothelium's capability to adhere immunocytes, as well as down regulating various immunocytes both before and after proinflammatory events. These findings promise to open up new areas of investigation concerning estrogen associated biomedical phenomena, including cellular protection processes.
With this work we examine common pathways and autoregulatory similarities between different physiological phenomena, particularly with regard to stress, relaxation and love responses, against the background of recent research findings. Various stress reducing practices that incorporate an initial and short-lived stress pathway activation, e.g., love, relaxation and placebo responses, exhibit anticipatory stress response (ASR) physiology. The initial activation of this stress component of the total response, i.e., love, relaxation, and mental or physical stress responses, is significant and, as we speculate, may represent a common protective mechanism, since activation (i.e., stress response) is started first and, if the situation appears to be 'safe', may be followed by relaxation, if appropriate. Also, the emergence of love became evolutionarily important in organisms exhibiting cognition, because it deployed the validation for emotionality-controlling logical behavior. Therefore, love and relaxation responses may be considered as intrinsic health promoting physiological capabilities.
The amnesic patient H.M. has been solving crossword puzzles nearly all his life. Here, we analysed the linguistic content of 277 of H.M.'s crossword-puzzle solutions. H.M. did not have any unusual difficulties with the orthographic and grammatical components inherent to the puzzles. He exhibited few spelling errors, responded with appropriate parts of speech, and provided answers that were, at times, more convincing to observers than those supplied by the answer keys. These results suggest that H.M.'s lexical word-retrieval skills remain fluid despite his profound anterograde amnesia. Once acquired, the maintenance of written language comprehension and production does not seem to require intact medial temporal lobe structures.
mRNA decapping is a critical step in the control of mRNA stability and gene expression and is carried out by the Dcp2 decapping enzyme. Dcp2 is an RNA binding protein that must bind RNA in order to recognize the cap for hydrolysis. We demonstrate that human Dcp2 (hDcp2) preferentially binds to a subset of mRNAs and identify sequences at the 5' terminus of the mRNA encoding Rrp41, a core subunit component of the RNA exosome, as a specific hDcp2 substrate. A 60-nucleotide element at the 5' end of Rrp41 mRNA was identified and shown to confer more efficient decapping on a heterologous RNA both in vitro and upon transfection into cells. Moreover, reduction of hDcp2 protein levels in cells resulted in a selective stabilization of the Rrp41 mRNA, confirming it as a downstream target of hDcp2 regulation. These findings demonstrate that hDcp2 can specifically bind to and regulate the stability of a subset of mRNAs, and its intriguing regulation of the 3'-to-5' exonuclease exosome subunit suggests a potential interplay between 5'-end mRNA decapping and 3'-end mRNA decay.
Glutamate receptors of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type play an important role in synaptic plasticity and contribute to cell death under excitotoxic conditions. AMPA receptors form heterotetramers of four homologous subunits (GluR1-4), which exist in two functionally different isoforms, flip and flop, generated by alternative splicing. We identified transcripts for alternatively spliced isoforms of AMPA receptor subunits which lack both the flip and the flop exons, in hippocampal and retinal cultures. These transcripts originate AMPA receptor subunits lacking the flip/flop cassette, the fourth transmembrane domain and the intracellular C-terminus. Truncated GluR1 associates with full-length GluR1 and exerts a dominant negative effect, giving rise to non-functional receptors. Moreover, truncated GluR1 reaches the cell surface, but is not efficiently targeted to the synapse. Hippocampal neuronal transfection with truncated GluR1 resulted in a significant reduction in apoptotic neuronal death triggered by toxic concentrations of glutamate. Furthermore, mRNA coding for the truncated subunits is consistently detected in some regions of the brain in epileptic rats and in hippocampal neurons submitted to toxic concentrations of glutamate. The existence of truncated AMPA receptor subunits may constitute an intrinsic neuroprotective mechanism.
Transduction and activation of an inducible form of STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription) sufficed to increase VIP (vasoactive intestinal protein) mRNA concentrations in neuroblastoma cells. Overexpression of SOCS3 (suppressor of cytokine signaling) inhibited and mutant SOCS3 (with an inactivating point mutation in amino acid 25) enhanced the induction of VIP mRNA by CNTF (ciliary neurotrophic factor). Because mutant SOCS3 did not augment the increase in STAT transcriptional activity following CNTF stimulation, the enhancement by mutant SOCS3 of the actions of CNTF cannot be attributed to changes in STAT3 signaling. Mutant SOCS3 increased AP-1 (activator protein) transcriptional activity and JNK (c-Jun N-terminal kinase) activity and SOCS3 bound to the scaffolding protein, JNK-interacting protein-1: these observations provide a plausible explanation for the enhancement by mutant SOCS3 of the actions of CNTF. We conclude that endogenous SOCS3 inhibits AP-1 activity through blocking of JNK phosphorylation.
Growing genetic and clinical evidence has shown that disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is one of the most compelling risk genes for schizophrenia and other major mental disorders. The understanding of the role that DISC1 plays in neuronal development and cell signaling has been greatly enhanced by the identification of DISC1 binding partners, an appreciation of its expression during development and functional studies using RNA interference. But what is the impact of this explosion of data for psychiatric drug discovery? Though we are at a very early stage of our understanding of DISC1 biology, it is an important time to review what has already been achieved and to discuss its impact. DISC1 biology has enabled the identification of new therapeutic targets in the form of DISC1 binding partners and other molecules found within a large DISC1 interaction network, the so-called 'DISC1 interactome'. We will review the better characterized of these interactions and also emphasize the richness of potential targets in the more poorly studied areas of the interactome. Furthermore, DISC1 has encouraged the development of new animal models for psychiatric disorders, which is critical for the study of disease biology. Thus, DISC1 may have the potential to not only point us in the direction of novel drug targets but also provide more relevant animal models for compound testing.
Clock proteins like PER1 and PER2 are expressed in the brain, but little is known about their functionality outside the main suprachiasmatic clock. Here we show that PER1 and PER2 were neither uniformly present nor identically phased in forebrain structures of mice fed ad libitum. Altered expression of the clock gene Cry1 was observed in respective Per1 or Per2 mutants. In response to hypocaloric feeding, PERs timing was not markedly affected in few forebrain structures (hippocampus). In most other forebrain oscillators, including those expressing only PER1 (e.g., dorsomedial hypothalamus), PER2 (e.g., paraventricular hypothalamus) or both (e.g., paraventricular thalamus), PER1 was up-regulated and PER2 largely phase-advanced. Cry1 expression was selectively modified in the forebrain of Per mutants challenged with hypocaloric feeding. Our results suggest that there is not one single cerebral clock, but a system of multiple brain oscillators ticking with different clock hands and differentially sensitive to nutritional cues.
In the present study, we demonstrate a direct role for d-aspartate in regulating hippocampal synaptic plasticity. These evidences were obtained using two different experimental strategies which enabled a non-physiological increase of endogenous d-aspartate levels in the mouse hippocampus: a genetic approach based on the targeted deletion of d-aspartate oxidase gene and another based on the oral administration of d-aspartate. Overall, our results indicate that increased d-aspartate content does not affect basal properties of synaptic transmission but enhances long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices from both genetic and pharmacological animal models. Besides electrophysiological data, behavioral analysis suggests that altered levels of d-aspartate in the hippocampus do not perturb basal spatial learning and memory abilities, but may selectively interfere with the dynamic NMDAR-dependent processes underlying cognitive flexibility.
Recombinant versions of the seven equine IgG subclasses were expressed in CHO cells. All assembled into intact immunoglobulins stabilised by disulphide bridges, although, reminiscent of human IgG4, a small proportion of equine IgG4 and IgG7 were held together by non-covalent bonds alone. All seven IgGs were N-glycosylated. In addition IgG3 appeared to be O-glycosylated and could bind the lectin jacalin. Staphylococcal protein A displayed weak binding for the equine IgGs in the order: IgG1&gt;IgG3&gt;IgG4&gt;IgG7&gt;IgG2=IgG5&gt;IgG6. Streptococcal protein G bound strongly to IgG1, IgG4 and IgG7, moderately to IgG3, weakly to IgG2 and IgG6, and not at all to IgG5. Analysis of antibody effector functions revealed that IgG1, IgG3, IgG4, IgG5 and IgG7, but not IgG2 and IgG6, were able to elicit a strong respiratory burst from equine peripheral blood leukocytes, predicting that the former five IgG subclasses are able to interact with Fc receptors on effector cells. IgG1, IgG3, IgG4 and IgG7, but not IgG2, IgG5 and IgG6, were able to bind complement C1q and activate complement via the classical pathway. The differential effector function capabilities of the subclasses suggest that, for maximum efficacy, equine vaccine strategies should seek to elicit antibody responses of the IgG1, IgG3, IgG4, and IgG7 subclasses.
Many members of the TRP superfamily oligomerize in the ER before trafficking to the plasma membrane. For membrane localization of the non-selective cation channel TRPV4 specific domains in the N-terminus are required, but the role of the C-terminus in the oligomerization and trafficking process has been not determined until now. Therefore, the localization of recombinant TRPV4 in two cell models was analyzed: HaCaT keratinocytes that express TRPV4 endogenously were compared to CHO cells that are devoid of endogenous TRPV4. When deletions were introduced in the C-terminal domain three states of TRPV4 localization were defined: a truncated TRPV4 protein of 855 amino acids was exported to the plasma membrane like the full-length channel (871 aa) and was also functional. Mutants with a length of 828 to 844 amino acids remained in the ER of CHO cells, but in HaCaT cells plasma membrane localization was partially rescued by oligomerization with endogenous TRPV4. This was confirmed by coexpression of recombinant full-length TRPV4 together with these deletion mutants, which resulted in an almost complete plasma membrane localization of both proteins and significant FRET in the plasma membrane and the ER. All deletions upstream of amino acid 828 resulted in total ER retention that could not rescued by coexpression with the full-length protein. However, these deletion mutants did not impair export of full-length TRPV4, implying that no oligomerization took place. These data indicate that the C-terminus of TRPV4 is required for oligomerization, which takes place in the ER and precedes plasma membrane trafficking.
The beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) shares intracellular and extracellular-binding partners with the family of receptors for apolipoprotein E (apoE). Binding of APP and apoE receptors to specific extracellular matrix proteins (F-spondin and Reelin) promotes their presence on the cell surface and influences whether they will interact with specific cytoplasmic adaptor proteins. Cleavage of APP and apoE receptors at the cell surface occurs by alpha-secretase activities; thus, the processing of these proteins can be regulated by their trafficking either to or from the cell surface. Their cleavages can also be regulated by tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 (TIMP-3), a metalloprotease inhibitor in the extracellular matrix. ApoE receptors have functions in neuronal migration during development and in proper synaptic function in the adult. Thus, the functions of apoE receptors and by analogy of APP will be modified by the various extracellular and intracellular interactions reviewed in this paper.
Converging evidence has suggested that anandamide (AEA), an endogenous agonist of cannabinoid (CB) receptors, can directly interact with certain types of ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs). However, little is known about the molecular and cellular mechanisms of AEA-induced direct effects on LGICs. Here, we report that AEA inhibited the function of serotoningated ion channels (5-HT(3A)) expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and human embryonic kidney 293 cells in a manner that was dependent on the steady-state receptor density at the cell surface. The magnitude of AEA inhibition was inversely correlated with the expression levels of receptor protein and function. With increasing surface receptor expression, the magnitude of AEA inhibition decreased. Consistent with this idea, pretreatment with actinomycin D, which inhibits transcription, decreased the amplitude of current activated by maximal concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and increased the magnitude of AEA inhibition. AEA did not significantly alter 5-HT(3A) receptor trafficking. However, AEA accelerated 5-HT(3A) receptor desensitization time in a concentration-dependent manner without significantly changing receptor activation and deactivation time. The desensitization time was correlated with the AEA-induced inhibiting effect and mean 5-HT current density. Applications of 5-hydroxyindole and nocodazole, a microtubule disruptor, significantly slowed 5-HT(3A) receptor desensitization and reduced the magnitude of AEA inhibition. These observations suggest that 5-HT(3) receptor density at the steady state regulates receptor desensitization kinetics and the potency of AEA-induced inhibiting effect on the receptors. The inhibition of 5-HT(3) receptors by AEA may contribute to its physiological roles in control of pain and emesis.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is frequently used for gene transfer into the central nervous system (CNS). Similar to adenovirus and rabies virus, AAV can be taken up by axons and retrogradely transported, resulting in neuronal gene expression distant from the injection site. We investigated the retrograde transport properties of self-complementary AAV (scAAV) serotypes 1-6 following peripheral injection. Injection of scAAV into either rat extensor carpi muscle or sciatic nerve resulted in detectable retrograde vector transport and reporter gene expression in spinal cord motor neurons (MNs). Serotype 1 resulted in the highest level of retrograde transport, with 4.1 +/- 0.3% of cervical MNs projecting to the extensor carpi transduced following intramuscular injection, and 7.5 +/- 3.1% of lumbar MNs transduced after sciatic nerve injection. In contrast to scAAV1, retrograde transduction with scAAV2 was undetectable following intramuscular injection, and was detected in only 0.81 +/- 0.15% of MNs projecting to the sciatic nerve following intranerve injection. Furthermore, sciatic injection of single-stranded AAV1 required injection of tenfold higher numbers of viral particles for detectable transgene expression compared to scAAV1, and then only 0.91 +/- 0.24% of lumbar MNs were transduced. Our data provide the basis for increased retrograde transduction efficiency using peripheral injections of scAAV1 vectors for therapeutic gene delivery to the spinal cord.


The axon initial segment (AIS) is a specialized region in neurons where action potentials are initiated. It is commonly assumed that this process requires a high density of voltage-gated sodium (Na(+)) channels. Paradoxically, the results of patch-clamp studies suggest that the Na(+) channel density at the AIS is similar to that at the soma and proximal dendrites. Here we provide data obtained by antibody staining, whole-cell voltage-clamp and Na(+) imaging, together with modeling, which indicate that the Na(+) channel density at the AIS of cortical pyramidal neurons is approximately 50 times that in the proximal dendrites. Anchoring of Na(+) channels to the cytoskeleton can explain this discrepancy, as disruption of the actin cytoskeleton increased the Na(+) current measured in patches from the AIS. Computational models required a high Na(+) channel density (approximately 2,500 pS microm(-2)) at the AIS to account for observations on action potential generation and backpropagation. In conclusion, action potential generation requires a high Na(+) channel density at the AIS, which is maintained by tight anchoring to the actin cytoskeleton.
Ephrin-Eph signaling is involved in axon guidance during development, but it may also regulate synapse development after the axon has contacted the target cell. Here we report that the activation of ephrin-B reverse signaling in the developing Xenopus laevis optic tectum promotes morphological and functional maturation of retinotectal synapses. Elevation of ephrin-B signaling increased the number of retinotectal synapses and stabilized the axon arbors of retinal ganglion cells. It also enhanced basal synaptic transmission and activity-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of retinotectal synapses. The functional effects were caused by a rapid enhancement of presynaptic glutamate release and a delayed increase in the postsynaptic glutamate responsiveness. The facilitated LTP induction occurred during the early phase of enhanced transmitter release and appeared to be causally related to the late-phase postsynaptic maturation via an NMDA receptor-dependent mechanism. This ephrin-B-dependent synapse maturation supports the notion that the ephrin/Eph protein families have multiple functions in neural development.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an often debilitating mental illness that is characterized by recurrent distressing memories of traumatic events. PTSD is associated with hypoactivity in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), hyperactivity in the amygdala and reduced volume in the hippocampus, but it is unknown whether these neuroimaging findings reflect the underlying cause or a secondary effect of the disorder. To investigate the causal contribution of specific brain areas to PTSD symptoms, we studied a unique sample of Vietnam War veterans who suffered brain injury and emotionally traumatic events. We found a substantially reduced occurrence of PTSD among those individuals with damage to one of two regions of the brain: the vmPFC and an anterior temporal area that included the amygdala. These results suggest that the vmPFC and amygdala are critically involved in the pathogenesis of PTSD.
The current view of brain organization supports the notion that there is a considerable degree of functional specialization and that many regions can be conceptualized as either 'affective' or 'cognitive'. Popular examples are the amygdala in the domain of emotion and the lateral prefrontal cortex in the case of cognition. This prevalent view is problematic for a number of reasons. Here, I will argue that complex cognitive-emotional behaviours have their basis in dynamic coalitions of networks of brain areas, none of which should be conceptualized as specifically affective or cognitive. Central to cognitive-emotional interactions are brain areas with a high degree of connectivity, called hubs, which are critical for regulating the flow and integration of information between regions.
Basic neuroscientific research has greatly contributed to a deeper understanding of the cognitive functions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Injuries of the PFC typically give rise to severe cognitive disorders that usually are subsumed under the broad rubric of executive dysfunctions (EDF). The umbrella term of EDF denotes a high-level disorder in the control of thought and action. The existence of EDF is of critical importance for the prognosis of disabilities in daily living, vocational rehabilitation, and social integration. Neuropsychological assessment instruments and intervention programs are discussed.
Human and invertebrate tissues have the ability to synthesize morphine, making it an endogenous chemical messenger. Given this new insight we sought to investigate whether substances of abuse have the ability to interact with endogenous morphine processes. Moreover we have shown that cocaine, alcohol and nicotine significantly enhance (125)I-trace labeled morphine release from invertebrate ganglia and human white blood cells. These data and newer research contribute to an evolving hypothesis linking the reinforcing and addictive properties of a variety of drugs of abuse to convergent mechanisms, involving endogenous morphine signaling and establish an opiate foundation as a unifying principle by which we may advance our understanding of polymodal drug abuse mechanisms.
The hyperphosphorylation of tau protein is one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and of the associated cognitive decline. EMK1 (MARK2) is a serine/threonine kinase which phosphorylates tau and MAP2. An involvement of this kinase in memory functions is not established. We used a behavioral approach to study the phenotype of EMK1-null mice (EMK1-KO) as a possible model of MAP2/tau altered phophorylation. Compared to wild type mice, EMK1-KO mice did not differ in non-cognitive aspects of behavior, such as locomotion in activity cages, or anxiety in the elevated plus maze. However, they exhibited lower performance in the first stage of acquisition of a hippocampal-dependent spatial learning, as assessed in a radial water maze, although, they acquired the task with repeated training. They were again found to be impaired on re-learning a new platform position. In addition, they exhibited poor long-term retention performance. These data underline the importance on both early memory processes and long-term retrieval, of the dynamic instability of microtubules generated by the phosphorylation of MAPs.
The Golgi apparatus processes intracellular proteins, but undergoes disassembly and fragmentation during apoptosis in several neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. It is well known that other cytoplasmic organelles play important roles in cell death pathways. Thus, we hypothesized that Golgi fragmentation might participate in transduction of cell death signals. Here, we found that Golgi fragmentation and dispersal precede neuronal cell death triggered by excitotoxins, oxidative/nitrosative insults, or ER stress. Pharmacological intervention or overexpression of the C-terminal fragment of Grasp65, a Golgi-associated protein, inhibits fragmentation and decreases or delays neuronal cell death. Inhibition of mitochondrial or ER cell death pathways also decreases Golgi fragmentation, indicating crosstalk between organelles and suggesting that the Golgi may be a common downstream-effector of cell death. Taken together, these findings implicate the Golgi as a sensor of stress signals in cell death pathways.
Cocaine addiction is associated with long-term cognitive alterations including deficits on tests of declarative/spatial learning and memory. To determine the extent to which cocaine exposure plays a causative role in these deficits, adult male Long-Evans rats were given daily injections of cocaine (30 mg/kg/day x 14 days) or saline vehicle. Three months later, rats were trained for 6 sessions on a Morris water maze protocol adapted from Gallagher, Burwell, and Burchinal [Gallagher, M., Burwell, R., &amp; Burchinal, M. (1993). Severity of spatial learning impairment in aging: development of a learning index for performance in the Morris water maze. Behavioral Neuroscience, 107, 618-626]. Rats given prior cocaine exposure performed similarly to controls on training trials, but searched farther from the platform location on probe trials interpolated throughout the training sessions and showed increased thigmotaxis. The results demonstrate that a regimen of cocaine exposure can impair Morris water maze performance as long as 3 months after exposure. Although the impairments were not consistent with major deficits in spatial learning and memory, they may have resulted from cocaine-induced increases in stress responsiveness and/or anxiety. Increased stress and anxiety would be expected to increase thigmotaxis as well as cause impairments in searching for the platform location, possibly through actions on ventral striatal dopamine signaling.
Although septal infusions of glucose typically have positive effects on memory, we have shown repeatedly that this treatment exacerbates memory deficits produced by co-infusions of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor agonists. The present experiments tested whether this negative interaction between glucose and GABA in the medial septum would be observed in the hippocampus, a brain region where glucose typically has positive effects on memory. Specifically, we determined whether hippocampal infusions of glucose would reverse or exacerbate memory deficits produced by hippocampal co-infusions of the GABA receptor agonist muscimol. Fifteen minutes prior to either assessing spontaneous alternation (SA) or continuous multiple trial inhibitory avoidance (CMIA) training, male Sprague-Dawley-derived rats were given bilateral hippocampal infusions of vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline [PBS], 1 microl/2 min), glucose (33 or 50 nmol), muscimol (0.3 or 0.4 microg, SA or 3 microg, CMIA) or muscimol and glucose combined in one solution. The results indicated that hippocampal infusions of muscimol alone decreased SA scores and CMIA retention latencies. More importantly, hippocampal infusions of glucose, at doses that had no effect when infused alone, attenuated (33 nmol) or reversed (50 nmol) the muscimol-induced memory deficits. Thus, although co-infusions of glucose with muscimol into the medial septum impair memory, the present findings show that an opposite effect is observed in the hippocampus. Collectively, these findings suggest that the memory-impairing interaction between glucose and GABA in the medial septum is not a general property of the brain, but rather is brain region-dependent.
Previous experiments have demonstrated that the rat dorsomedial striatum is one brain area that plays a crucial role in learning when conditions require a shift in strategies. Further evidence indicates that muscarinic cholinergic receptors in this brain area support adaptations in behavioral responses. Unknown is whether specific muscarinic receptor subtypes in the dorsomedial striatum contribute to a flexible shift in response patterns. The present experiments investigated whether blockade of M1-type and/or M4-type cholinergic receptors in the dorsomedial striatum underlie place reversal learning. Experiment 1 investigated the effects of the M1-type muscarinic cholinergic antagonist, muscarinic-toxin 7 (MT-7) infused into the dorsomedial striatum in place acquisition and reversal learning. Experiment 2 investigated the effects of the M4-type muscarinic cholinergic antagonist, muscarinic-toxin 3 (MT-3) injected into the dorsomedial striatum in place acquisition and reversal learning. All testing occurred in a modified cross-maze across two consecutive sessions. Bilateral injections of MT-7 into the dorsomedial striatum at 1 or 2 microg, but not 0.05 microg impaired place reversal learning. Analysis of the errors revealed that MT-7 at 1 and 2 microg significantly increased regressive errors, but not perseverative errors. An injection of MT-7 2 microg into the dorsomedial striatum prior to place acquisition did not affect learning. Experiment 2 revealed that dorsomedial striatal injections of MT-3 (0.05, 1 or 2 microg) did not affect place acquisition or reversal learning. The findings suggest that activation of M1-type muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the dorsomedial striatum, but not M4-type muscarinic cholinergic receptors facilitate the flexible shifting of response patterns by maintaining or learning a new choice pattern once selected.
Spatial working memory and the ability of a cholinesterase inhibitor to enhance memory were assessed at 4, 10, and 16 months of ages in control and Ts65Dn mice, a partial trisomy model of Down syndrome, with possibly significant relationships to Alzheimer's disease as well. In addition, ACh release during memory testing was measured in samples collected from the hippocampus using in vivo microdialysis at 4, 10, and 22-25 months of age. When tested on a four-arm spontaneous alternation task, the Ts65Dn mice exhibited impaired memory scores at both 4 and 10 months. At 16 months, control performance had declined toward that of the Ts65Dn mice and the difference in scores across genotypes was not significant. Physostigmine (50 microg/kg) fully reversed memory deficits in the Ts65Dn mice in the 4-month-old group but not in older mice. Ts65Dn and control mice exhibited comparable baseline levels of ACh release at all ages tested; these levels did not decline significantly across age in either genotype. ACh release increased significantly during alternation testing only in the young Ts65Dn and control mice. However, the increase in ACh release during alternation testing was significantly greater in control than Ts65Dn mice at this age. The controls exhibited a significant age-related decline in the testing-related increase in ACh release. With only a small increase during testing in young Ts65Dn mice, the age-related decline in responsiveness of ACh release to testing was not significant in these mice. Overall, these results suggest that diminished responsiveness of ACh release in the hippocampus to behavioral testing may contribute memory impairments in Ts65Dn mice.
Acute nicotine enhances contextual fear conditioning, whereas withdrawal from chronic nicotine produces impairments. However, the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) that are involved in nicotine withdrawal deficits in contextual fear conditioning are unknown. The present study used genetic and pharmacological techniques to investigate the nAChR subtype(s) involved in the effects of nicotine withdrawal on contextual fear conditioning. beta2 or alpha 7 nAChR subunit knockout (KO) and corresponding wild-type (WT) mice were withdrawn from 12 days of chronic nicotine treatment (6.3mg/kg/day), and trained with 2 conditioned stimulus (CS; 85 dB white noise)--unconditioned stimulus (US; 0.57 mA footshock) pairings on day 13. On day 14, mice were tested for contextual and cued freezing. beta2 KO mice did not show nicotine withdrawal-related deficits in contextual fear conditioning, in contrast to WT mice and alpha 7 KO mice. A follow-up study investigated if nicotine withdrawal disrupts acquisition or recall of contextual fear conditioning. The high affinity nAChR antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DH beta E; 3mg/kg) was administered prior to training or testing to precipitate withdrawal in chronic nicotine-treated C57BL/6 mice. Deficits in contextual fear conditioning were observed in chronic nicotine-treated mice when DH beta E was administered prior to training, but not when administered at testing. These results indicate that beta2-containing nAChRs, such as the alpha 4 beta 2 receptor, mediate nicotine withdrawal deficits in contextual fear conditioning. In addition, nicotine withdrawal selectively affects acquisition but not recall or expression of the learned response.
High resolution SPECT imaging is an emerging field and there are only limited studies as yet available in this direction. Still there is continuous effort to achieve better spatial and temporal resolution in order to obtain detailed structural and functional information of different brain regions in small experimental animals. Recently, SPECT imaging system has been used to perform in vivo imaging using specific radioligands to further elucidate the role of dopaminergic, serotonergic, and cholinergic neurotransmission in relation to regional cerebral blood flow in various human CNS disorders and in gene-manipulated mouse models of neurodegeneration. Although in vivo and non-invasive translational research can be performed by high-resolution microPET imaging system, its limited spatial resolution restricts detailed anatomical and functional information of different brain regions involved in disease process. Recently developed NanoSPECT/CT imaging system has a better spatial resolution hence can be used to correlate and confirm microPET imaging data and determine the precise structural and functional anatomy of CNS disorders and their remission. Moreover SPECT imaging system reduces the cost and number of animals and provides detailed information of CNS disorders at the cellular, molecular and genetic level. Furthermore, SPECT system is economical, provides less radiation burden, and can be used to study bio-distribution of newly synthesized radioligands with increased target to non-target ratios, quality control, and clinical applications. It is envisaged that high-resolution SPECT imaging system will further improve in vivo non-invasive translational research on CNS disorders of unknown etiopathogenesis and their treatment in future.
In this work, brain cell metabolism was investigated by (13)C NMR spectroscopy and metabolic flux analysis (MFA). Monotypic cultures of astrocytes were incubated with labeled glucose for 38 h, and the distribution of the label was analyzed by (13)C NMR spectroscopy. The analysis of the spectra reveals two distinct physiological states characterized by different ratios of pyruvate carboxylase to pyruvate dehydrogenase activities (PC/PDH). Intracellular flux distributions for both metabolic states were estimated by MFA using the isotopic information and extracellular rate measurements as constraints. The model was subsequently checked with the consistency index method. From a biological point of view, the occurrence of the two physiological states appears to be correlated with the presence or absence of extracellular glutamate. Concerning the model, it can be stated that the metabolic network and the set of constraints adopted provide a consistent and robust characterization of the astrocytic metabolism, allowing for the calculation of central intracellular fluxes such as pyruvate recycling, the anaplerotic flux mediated by pyruvate carboxylase, and the glutamine formation through glutamine synthetase.
Protein nitration due to oxidative and nitrative stress has been linked to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), but its relationship to the loss of dopamine (DA) or tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity is not clear. Here we quantified protein-bound 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) by a novel gas chromatography/negative chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry technique and DA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) by HPLC in tissues or medium of organotypic, mouse mesencephalon cultures after acute or chronic treatments with the peroxynitrite donor 3-morpholino-sydnonimine (SIN-1), the dopaminergic toxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) or the lipophilic complex I inhibitor rotenone. Incubation with SIN-1 (24 h) or MPP(+) treatments (48 h) caused dose-dependent protein nitration reaching a maximum of eightfold increase by 10 mM SIN-1 or twofold by 10 microM MPP(+), but significant DA depletions occurred at much lower concentrations of MPP(+) (1 microM). Chronic MPP(+) or rotenone treatments (3 weeks) caused maximum protein nitration by 1 microM (twofold) or 10nM (fourfold), respectively. Co-treatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor l-NAME (300 microM) prevented protein nitration by MPP(+), but did not protect against MPP(+)-induced DA depletion or inhibition of TH activity. Acute incubation with 100 microM SIN-1 inhibited TH activity, which could be blocked by co-treatment with the tetrahydrobiopterin precursor l-sepiapterin, but tissue DA depletions required higher doses of SIN-1 (&gt;1 mM, 24 h) and longer survival. In conclusion, protein nitration and TH activity or DA depletion are not directly related in these models.
The presence and roles of N-glycosylation of the human (h) 5-ht(5A) receptor were investigated using a heterologous expression system. Following transient transfection of COS-7 cells with h5-ht(5A) receptor cDNA, SDS-PAGE/Western blot analysis of immunoreactivity demonstrated two protein species; a predominant species with a molecular weight of approximately 35-45 kDa and a minor species of approximately 45-55 kDa. Transfected cells grown in the presence of the N-glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin, failed to express the minor immunoreactive species indicating this represented the N-glycosylated form of the h5-ht(5A) receptor. Comparison of the molecular weights of immunoreactive bands arising from the wild-type and each of the mutant 5-ht(5A) receptors with disruption of the predicted N-glycosylation sites (N6S and N21S) demonstrated that both identified asparagines were N-glycosylated. Immunocytochemical and ELISA studies demonstrated that the [N6S]h5-ht(5A) receptor mutation, but not the [N21S]h5-ht(5A) receptor mutation, reduced protein expression in the cell membrane, indicating that N-glycosylation of the N6 residue is important for the membrane expression of this neurotransmitter receptor; a requirement for receptor function.
The neuropeptide galanin and its three receptor subtypes (Gal R1-3) are highly expressed in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), a region of the brain that contains a large population of serotonergic neurons. Galanin is co-expressed with serotonin in approximately 40% of the DRN neurons, and galanin and GALR2 expression are elevated by antidepressants like the SSRI fluoxetine, suggesting an interaction between serotonin and galanin. The present study examines the effect of galanin (Gal 1-29), a pan ligand for GalR (1-3) and the GalR2/GalR3-selective ligand, Gal 2-11, on the electrophysiological properties of DRN serotonergic neurons in a slice preparation. We recorded from cells in the DRN with electrophysiological characteristics consistent with those of serotonergic neurons that exhibit high input resistance, large after-hyperpolarizations and long spike duration as defined by Aghajanian and Vandermaelen. Both Gal 1-29 and Gal 2-11 decreased the amplitudes pharmacologically-isolated GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in these putative serotonergic neurons. Furthermore, based on paired pulse facilitation studies, we show that Gal 1-29 likely decreases GABA release through a presynaptic mechanism, whereas Gal 2-11 may act postsynaptically. These findings may enhance understanding of the cellular mechanisms underlying the effects of antidepressant treatments on galanin and galanin receptors in DRN.
Noncyclic fluorine-substituted and cyclic analogs of glutamic acid were tested for their ability to inhibit glutamate uptake in isolated bovine presynaptic vesicles, in order to assess the specific structural requirements of the glutamate translocation system in the vesicle membrane. Cyclic analogs that permitted close interaction between the positive and negative charges of the glutamate molecule were effective inhibitors; maximum inhibitory potency was observed with L-trans-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (L-t-ACPD), while D-t-ACPD was less active. Analogs with a larger or smaller ring (as in trans-1-aminocyclohexane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid or trans-1-aminocyclobutane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid) were also inhibitory, but somewhat less so. trans-ACPD was also taken up by the vesicles with a time course and ATP dependence similar to uptake of glutamate, and this uptake was inhibited by glutamate. The K(m) value for t-ACPD uptake was similar to its K(i) for inhibition of glutamate uptake, while its rate of uptake was lower than that of glutamate. Fluorine-substituted noncyclic analogs with substitutions at the 4-carbon were less effective than glutamic acid itself, although 4,4-difluoroglutamic acid was equal in activity to the unsubstituted compound. Inhibition by these derivatives appeared to be competitive in nature, and they probably were also transported by the vesicle uptake system.
S-sulfo-cysteine (SSC) is an agonist of glutamate receptors which could be involved in cysteine-induced neurotoxicity. Here we analyzed SSC by HPLC and demonstrated that the concentration of SSC in cortex of cysteine-injected rats increased to 1.4 microM, about four times the value of control rats. The neurotoxic effect of SSC was evaluated in slice cultures of rat hippocampus and compared to NMDA and cysteine. The neurotoxicity threshold of SSC was well above the tissue concentration. Our results show that SSC increases in neonatal rat brain after cysteine injection but reaches a tissue concentration far below concentrations that induce neurotoxicity in vitro. Thus, even if all the tissue SSC after cysteine injection was extracellular it would be below the threshold for toxicity, indicating that SSC is not a main excitotoxin involved in cysteine toxicity.
A better understanding is needed of how glutamate metabolism is affected in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). Here we investigated glial-neuronal metabolism in the chronic phase of the kainate (KA) model of MTLE. Thirteen weeks following systemic KA, rats were injected i.p. with [1-(13)C]glucose. Brain extracts from hippocampal formation, entorhinal cortex, and neocortex, were analyzed by (13)C and (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy to quantify (13)C labeling and concentrations of metabolites, respectively. The amount and (13)C labeling of glutamate were reduced in the hippocampal formation and entorhinal cortex of epileptic rats. Together with the decreased concentration of NAA, these results indicate neuronal loss. Additionally, mitochondrial dysfunction was detected in surviving glutamatergic neurons in the hippocampal formation. In entorhinal cortex glutamine labeling and concentration were unchanged despite the reduced glutamate content and label, possibly due to decreased oxidative metabolism and conserved flux of glutamate through glutamine synthetase in astrocytes. This mechanism was not operative in the hippocampal formation, where glutamine labeling was decreased. In neocortex labeling and concentration of GABA were increased in epileptic rats, possibly representing a compensatory mechanism. The changes in the hippocampus might be of pathophysiological importance and merit further studies aiming at resolving metabolic causes and consequences of MTLE.
Women and men differ in serotonin associated psychiatric conditions, such as depression, anxiety and suicide. Despite this, very few studies focus on sex differences in the serotonin system. Of the biomarkers in the serotonin system, serotonin(1A) (5-HT(1A)) receptor is implicated in depression, and anxiety and serotonin transporter (5-HTT) is a target for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, psychotropic drugs used in the treatment of these disorders. The objective of the present study was to study sex related differences in the 5-HT(1A) receptor and 5-HTT binding potentials (BP(ND)s) in healthy humans, in vivo. Positron emission tomography and selective radioligands [(11)C]WAY100635 and [(11)C]MADAM were used to evaluate binding potentials for 5-HT(1A) receptors (14 women and 14 men) and 5-HTT (8 women and 10 men). The binding potentials were estimated both on the level of anatomical regions and voxel wise, derived by the simplified reference tissue model and wavelet/Logan plot parametric image techniques respectively. Compared to men, women had significantly higher 5-HT(1A) receptor and lower 5-HTT binding potentials in a wide array of cortical and subcortical brain regions. In women, there was a positive correlation between 5-HT(1A) receptor and 5-HTT binding potentials for the region of hippocampus. Sex differences in 5-HT(1A) receptor and 5-HTT BP(ND) may reflect biological distinctions in the serotonin system contributing to sex differences in the prevalence of psychiatric disorders such as depression and anxiety. The result of the present study may help in understanding sex differences in drug treatment responses to drugs affecting the serotonin system.
Motor skills emerge from learning feedforward commands as well as improvements in feedback control. These two components of learning were investigated in a compensatory visuomotor tracking task on a trial-by-trial basis. Between-trial learning was characterized with a state-space model to provide smoothed estimates of feedforward and feedback learning, separable from random fluctuations in motor performance and error. The resultant parameters were correlated with brain activity using magnetic resonance imaging. Learning related to the generation of a feedforward command correlated with activity in dorsal premotor cortex, inferior parietal lobule, supplementary motor area and cingulate motor area, supporting a role of these areas in retrieving and executing a predictive motor command. Modulation of feedback control was associated with activity in bilateral posterior superior parietal lobule as well as right ventral premotor cortex. Performance error correlated with activity in a widespread cortical and subcortical network including bilateral parietal, premotor and rostral anterior cingulate cortex as well as the cerebellar cortex. Finally, trial-by-trial changes of kinematics, as measured by mean absolute hand acceleration, correlated with activity in motor cortex and anterior cerebellum. The results demonstrate that incremental, learning-dependent changes can be modeled on a trial-by-trial basis and neural substrates for feedforward control of novel motor programs are localized to secondary motor areas.
In order to make spatial inferences about the brain across a group of patients, it is usually necessary to employ some means of bringing each brain image into register with either a group mean image or a standard template. In the presence of focal brain lesions, automated methods for performing such so-called normalization are liable to distortion from the abnormal signal within the lesion, especially when the non-linear warping necessary for maximum registration fidelity is used. The most frequently used method for minimizing this distortion--cost function masking--simply eliminates the lesioned area when deriving the normalization parameters. As lesion size increases, however, the normalization error may be expected to rise steeply since the volume of brain from which the parameters are derived falls with it. Here we propose an alternative non-linear registration method that exploits a natural redundancy in the brain--the enantiomorphic relation between the two hemispheres--to correct the signal within the lesion using information from the undamaged homologous region within the contralesional hemisphere. As lesion size increases, the normalization error should theoretically asymptote to inter-hemispheric differences, which are both quantifiable and much lower than the inter-subject difference. Using SPM's non-linear normalization routines, we evaluate this technique with images of normal brains to which lesions selected from a large dataset have been artificially applied. Our results show the enantiomorphic method to be vastly superior to cost function masking across subjects, lesion characteristics, and brain voxels. We therefore propose that it should be the method of choice for normalizing images of focally lesioned brains.
The present fMRI study sought to investigate the neural basis of perceiving learned action effects and thereby to test for hypotheses based on the ideomotor principle. For this purpose, we had subjects undergo a two-phase experimental procedure comprising an acquisition and a test phase, the latter administered inside the MR scanner. During the acquisition phase, free-choice button presses were contingently followed by one of two tones of different pitch which thereby should become &quot;learned action effects&quot;. During the following test phase, subjects were presented with the action effects either when in a passive (non-acting) state or when they carried out forced-choice button presses. Conform to our expectations, we found evidence for a motor effector activation following the passive perception of effect tones which elicited activation in the neural motor system (premotor and somatosensory cortices, SMA, and cerebellum). Surprisingly, however, this activation was observed for left-hand effect tones only, suggesting a basic asymmetry in the impact of ideomotor learning. Moreover, we found activation in the posterior prefrontal and temporo-parietal cortex in response to action effects during the pursuit of goal-directed action. This suggests that action effects attracted special attention and thereby engaged selective cognitive control processes to ensure task-appropriate performance. Finally, there was reduced premotor activation for response-compatible as compared to response-incompatible action effects which can be taken as indication for differential requirements on the motor system and thus for behavioral interference and/or facilitation by learned action effects.
Identifying task-related activation in the basal ganglia (BG) is an important area of interest in normal motor systems and cognitive neuroscience. The purpose of this study was to compare changes in brain activation in the BG using results obtained from two different masking methods: a mask drawn in standardized space from a T1-weighted anatomical image and individual region of interest (ROI) masks drawn from each subject's echo-planar image (EPI) from different tasks with reference to the high resolution fast spin echo image of each subject. Two standardized masks were used: a mask developed in Talairach space (Basal Ganglia Human Area Template (BGHAT)) and a mask developed in Montreal Neurological Institute space (MNI mask). Ten subjects produced fingertip force pulses in five separate contraction tasks during fMRI scanning. ROIs were the left caudate, putamen, external and internal portions of the globus pallidus, and subthalamic nucleus. ANOVA revealed a similar average number of voxels in the EPI mask across tasks in each BG region. The percent signal change (PSC) was consistent within each region regardless of which mask was used. Linear regression analyses between PSC in BGHAT and EPI masks and MNI and EPI masks yielded r(2) values between 0.74-0.99 and 0.70-0.99 across regions, respectively. In conclusion, PSC in different BG ROIs can be compared across studies using these different masking methods. The masking method used does not affect the overall interpretation of results with respect to the effect of task. Use of a mask drawn in standardized space is a valid and time saving method of identifying PSC in the small nuclei of the BG.
Human prion diseases, in common with other neurodegenerative diseases, may be sporadic or inherited and are characterized by the accumulation of cellular proteins accompanied by neuronal death and synaptic loss. Prion diseases are, however, unique in being transmissible. Central to the pathogenesis of all forms of prion disease is the prion protein. This article provides a brief overview of the biology of human prion diseases followed by a more in-depth discussion of the neuropathology of these diseases, including features of neuroradiologic relevance.
Many viral infections of the nervous system cause stereotyped pathologic features and overlapping clinical and imaging features. Neuroimaging usually offers neuroanatomical localization of the pathology, degree of involvement of the nervous system, and response to therapy during follow up in a few instances. Neuroimaging is a useful adjunct for diagnosis.
Diagnosis of CNS viral infections is challenging; yet, significant progress in laboratory diagnosis of CNS infections has come through applications of serology and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to CSF and tissues. Advances in molecular and laboratory techniques, together with neuroimaging, epidemiologic, and surveillance efforts, are yielding greater success in CNS viral diagnosis and treatment.
Weight lifting and other forms of strength training are becoming more common because of an increased awareness of the need to maintain individual physical fitness. Emergency room data indicate that injuries caused by weight training have become more universal over time, likely because of increased participation rates. Neurologic injuries can result from weight lifting and related practices. Although predominantly peripheral nervous system injuries have been described, central nervous system disease may also occur. This article illustrates the types of neurologic disorders associated with weight lifting.
Many different sports and recreational activities are associated with injuries to the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Although some of those injuries are specific to an individual sport, other peripheral nerve injuries occur ubiquitously within many sporting activities. This review of sport-specific PNS injuries should assist in the understanding of morbidity associated with particular sporting activities, professional or amateur. Proper recognition of these syndromes can prevent unnecessary diagnostic testing and delays in proper diagnosis. The sports most commonly associated with peripheral nerve injuries are likely football, hockey, and baseball, but many other sports have unique associations with peripheral nerve injury. This article should be of assistance for the neurologist, neurosurgeon, orthopedic surgeon, physiatrist, sports medicine doctor, and general physician in contact with athletes at risk for neurologic injuries.
Sports and recreational activities are associated with a variety of injuries. Although many of these injuries are musculoskeletal in nature, both the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system are at risk for injury as well. This article examines the incidence of nervous system injuries in particular sports. The association between particular forms of injuries and the sports in which they are likely to be incurred are also investigated. Further assessment of preventative measures is provided when possible.
A 33-year-old female presented with a rare synovial sarcoma manifesting as a painful 12 x 15 mm tumor in the median palmar carpus. Preoperative neurological examination detected only radiating spontaneous pain in her right radial palm and decreased right grasping power. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging confirmed the presence of the tumor. The preoperative diagnosis was schwannoma originating from the right median nerve. Subcapsular removal of the tumor was performed for preservation of the nerve function. However, postoperative histological and immunohistochemical studies suggested synovial sarcoma originating from the median nerve. No systemic metastasis was detected and the residual tumor capsule was totally removed. Local radiation therapy of 40 Gy, 2 Gy per day, was administered. Fourteen months later, local recurrence was detected on MR imaging. Total removal of the recurrent tumor was performed. Synovial sarcoma was finally diagnosed by the identification of SYT-SSX1 fusion gene transcripts using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction with a frozen tumor tissue sample.
Cervical artery dissection is an important cause of stroke in young patients and accounts of 10%-20% of stroke or TIA in patients aged less than 50 years. Basilar artery occlusion (BAO) is an infrequent cause of acute stroke, which invariably leads to death or long-term disability if not recanalized. We describe three patients with BAO caused by vertebral dissection, successfully treated with intra-arterial thrombolysis. The lysis of the occluding embolus was obtained by injection of the thrombolytic drug directly or near the thrombus without haemorrhagic complications. Our cases confirm the safety and efficacy of intra-arterial thrombolysis in patients with BAO due to a vertebral artery dissection.
Desmin myopathy was identified in a Chinese man with complete heart block and mild proximal and distal limb weakness. A novel heterozygous missense S13F mutation of the desmin gene was found to be associated with the myopathy. Family members carrying the mutation showed a similar or milder phenotype. The mutation is located at a protein kinase-C phosphorylation site within a highly conserved nonapeptide sequence in the head domain of the desmin protein. Expression of the mutant desmin cDNA in cell lines induced large desmin accumulations associated with preservation of a filamentous network.
A key neurotrophin responsible for the survival and function of basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic neurons is brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). A number of studies now indicate that a source of this factor may be BF astrocytes. This study was designed to define the role of BF-astrocyte-derived BDNF on cholinergic neurons. Moreover, it investigated regulatory events that modulate BDNF content and release. In initial work BDNF derived from BF-astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) was found to increase both numbers of BF acetylcholinesterase (AChE+) cholinergic neurons and the cholinergic synthetic enzyme choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). Western blots, immunocytochemistry and pharmacological inhibition studies revealed that glutamate, through group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR), increases the intracellular levels of BDNF in BF astrocytes in culture, as well as its release. Furthermore, the release of BDNF is mediated by the actions of PLC, IP3 and internal stores of Ca2+. These results suggest that BF astrocytes serve as local sources of BDNF for cholinergic neurons, and that they may be regulated as such by the neuronal signal, glutamate, through the mediation of group I metabotropic receptors and the PLC pathway.
Mounting evidence demonstrates that glial cells might have important roles in regulating the physiology and behavior of adult animals. We summarize some of this evidence here, with an emphasis on the roles of glia of the differentiated nervous system in controlling neuronal excitability, behavior and plasticity. In the review we highlight studies in Drosophila and discuss results from the analysis of mammalian astrocytes that demonstrate roles for glia in the adult nervous system.
The neurobiology and neuropathology of the autism spectrum disorders (ASD) remain poorly defined. Brain imaging studies suggest that the deficits in social cognition, language, communication and stereotypical patterns of behaviour that are manifest in individuals with ASD, are related to functional disturbance and 'disconnectivity', affecting multiple brain regions. These impairments are considered to arise as a consequence of abnormal pre- and postnatal development of a distributed neural network. Examination of the brain post mortem continues to provide fundamental information concerning the cellular and subcellular alterations that take place in the brain of autistic individuals. Neuropathological observations that have emerged over the past decade also point towards early pre- and postnatal developmental abnormalities that involve multiple regions of the brain, including the cerebral cortex, cortical white matter, amygdala, brainstem and cerebellum. However, the neuropathology of autism is yet to be clearly defined, and there are several areas that remain open to further investigation. In this respect, more concerted efforts are required to examine the various aspects of cellular pathology affecting the brain in autism. This paper briefly highlights four key areas that warrant further evaluation.
The gut-derived hormone, peptide YY (PYY) reduces food intake and enhances satiety in both humans and animals. Obese individuals also have a deficiency in circulating peptide YY, although whether this is a cause or a consequence of obesity is unclear. Our aims were to determine whether peptide YY (PYY) over-expression may have therapeutic effects for the treatment of obesity by altering energy balance and glucose homeostasis. We generated PYY transgenic mice and measured body weight, food intake, temperature, adiposity, glucose tolerance, circulating hormone and lipid concentrations and hypothalamic neuropeptide levels (neuropeptide Y; proopiomelanocortin, and thyrotropin-releasing hormone) under chow and high-fat feeding and after crossing these mice onto the genetically obese leptin-deficient ob/ob mouse background. PYY transgenic mice were protected against diet-induced obesity in association with increased body temperature (indicative of increased thermogenesis) and sustained expression of thyrotropin-releasing hormone in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Moreover, PYY transgenic mice crossed onto the genetically obese ob/ob background had significantly decreased weight gain and adiposity, reduced serum triglyceride levels and improved glucose tolerance compared to ob/ob controls. There was no effect of PYY transgenic over expression on basal or fasting-induced food intake measured at 11-12 weeks of age. Together, these findings suggest that long-term administration of PYY, PYY-like compounds or agents that stimulate PYY synthesis in vivo can reduce excess adiposity and improve glucose tolerance, possibly via effects on the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis and thermogenesis.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptides have a wide CNS distribution and appear to play an important role in a number of physiological processes including reward and reinforcement, feeding, locomotion, stress responses and perception of pain. We have further investigated the expression of CART peptides in rat cerebellum, using multiple fluorescent antibodies. Dense fibre-like immunofluorescence was observed in the molecular layer of the vestibular cerebellum (paraflocculus and lobes IX and X of the vermis). There was little or no immunofluorescence in any other region of the cerebellum (vermis or hemispheres). The immunofluorescence in lobes IX and X of the vermis showed a parasagittal banding pattern, with one medial and two lateral bands. We have provided several lines of evidence that CART peptides are expressed by climbing fibres: (1) There is CART peptide immunofluorescence in the inferior olivary complex, the source of climbing fibres. (2) No cerebellar cell bodies were labelled by the CART peptide antibody. (3) The developmental profile of CART peptide expression was consistent with climbing fibre development and finally (4) triple antibody labelling revealed co-expression of CART peptides with VGluT2 (the glutamate transporter at climbing fibre synapses) at boutons innervating calbindin D-28K labelled proximal Purkinje cell dendrites. Analysis of VGluT2 and CART peptide labelling in more detail showed that not all climbing fibres in the vestibular cerebellum expressed CART peptides but those fibres which did express CART peptides were immunofluorescent at all Purkinje cell synapses.
The phenotype of genetically modified animals is strongly influenced by both the genetic background of the animal as well as environmental factors. We have previously reported the behavioral and neurochemical characterization of PDE10A knockout mice maintained on a DBA1LacJ (PDE10A(DBA)) genetic background. The aim of the present studies was to assess the behavioral and neurochemical phenotype of PDE10A knockout mice on an alternative congenic C57BL/6N (PDE10A(C57)) genetic background. Consistent with our previous results, PDE10A(C57) knockout mice showed a decrease in exploratory locomotor activity and a delay in the acquisition of conditioned avoidance responding. Also consistent with previous studies, the elimination of PDE10A did not alter basal levels of striatal cGMP or cAMP or affect behavior in several other well-characterized behavioral assays. PDE10A(C57) knockout mice showed a blunted response to MK-801, although to a lesser degree than previously observed in the PDE10A(DBA) knockout mice, and no differences were observed following a PCP challenge. PDE10A(C57) knockout mice showed a significant change in striatal dopamine turnover, which was accompanied by an enhanced locomotor response to AMPH, These studies demonstrate that while many of the behavioral effects of the PDE10A gene deletion appear to be independent of genetic background, the impact of the deletion on behavior can vary in magnitude. Furthermore, the effects on the dopaminergic system appear to be background-dependent, with significant effects observed only in knockout mice on the C57BL6N genetic background.
Major depressive disorder is a major health problem in adults and is now recognized as a substantial problem in children as well. Tricyclic antidepressants, including desipramine (DMI), are no better than placebo in treating childhood and adolescent depression, but are effective in treating adult depression. Several studies have suggested that normal BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) signaling is necessary for antidepressant drug action. Antidepressant drugs induce several plastic changes in the rodent brain which may be associated with changes in BDNF levels and/or with BDNF function. In the present study we report parallel measurements of BDNF mRNA and protein in the frontal cortex and hippocampus after four days of twice daily treatments with escitalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, and desipramine, a tricyclic antidepressant. Post-natal day 13, 21, 28 and adult rats were used in this study. TrkB (the primary receptor for BDNF) mRNA levels were also examined under the same treatment conditions. BDNF mRNA and protein levels, as well as TrkB mRNA levels, were increased significantly in post-natal day 13 pups after escitalopram treatment as compared to control, but desipramine failed to increase either BDNF or TrkB. The failure of desipramine to increase BDNF and TrkB levels in juvenile rats is consistent with the lack of efficacy of desipramine in children and adolescents. The serotonergic nervous system matures earlier than the noradrenergic system, which may explain why escitalopram, but not desipramine, increases BDNF and TrkB levels.
The GABAergic neurosteroid allopregnanolone (ALLO) has been repeatedly shown to have an increased anticonvulsant effect during ethanol withdrawal in rats and in C57BL/6J mice. In contrast, the seizure prone DBA/2J inbred strain and the Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) selected line exhibited decreased sensitivity to ALLO's anticonvulsant effect during ethanol withdrawal, with no change in sensitivity in the Withdrawal Seizure-Resistant (WSR) line. To date, only male mice have been tested. Thus, the present study examined ALLO sensitivity during ethanol withdrawal in female WSP and WSR mice, since females display less severe physical symptoms of withdrawal and have higher circulating ALLO levels than males. Female WSP and WSR mice were exposed to ethanol vapor or air for 72h. During peak ethanol withdrawal, separate groups of mice were injected with vehicle or ALLO (0, 3.2, 10, or 17mg/kg, i.p.) prior to the timed tail vein infusion of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ). ALLO injection significantly increased the threshold dose for onset to PTZ-induced convulsions, indicating an anticonvulsant effect, in female WSP and WSR mice. During ethanol withdrawal, sensitivity to ALLO's anticonvulsant effect was slightly increased in female WSR mice but was significantly decreased in female WSP mice. This line difference in sensitivity to ALLO during ethanol withdrawal in female mice was similar to that in the male mice. Notably, all seizure prone genotypes tested to date displayed tolerance to the anticonvulsant effect of ALLO during ethanol withdrawal, suggesting that decreased sensitivity of GABA(A) receptors to ALLO may contribute to the increased ethanol withdrawal phenotype.
Changes in the levels of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) have been found in brains of schizophrenia patients, suggesting a possible involvement of angiotensin in the illness. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a measure of sensorimotor gating and is disrupted in patients with schizophrenia. In a previous study, a reduction of ACE activity, either in ACE knockout mice or after ACE inhibitor treatment, markedly inhibited the disruption of PPI caused by the dopamine receptor agonist, apomorphine. ACE is not specific for the angiotensin system and, therefore, in the present study we assessed pharmacological regulation of PPI in two other, more specific genetic mouse models of altered angiotensin activity. We used renin-enhancer knockout (REKO) mice, which display reduced renin activity, and neuron-specific enolase (NSE)-AT1A mice, which selectively over-express angiotensin AT1A receptors in the brain. Treatment of these mice with apomorphine, the dopamine releaser, amphetamine or the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, significantly disrupted PPI. There was, however, no difference in these effects between the genotypes. These data suggest that genetically induced changes in the activity of the angiotensin system do not alter regulation of PPI in mice. Our previous results on the effects of reduced ACE activity could be explained by mechanisms other than angiotensin, such as effects on enkephalin or bradykinin metabolism.
The uptake of neurotransmitter by plasma membrane transporters is a principal method for regulating extracellular transmitter levels. Neurotransmitter-mediated signals in turn are able to regulate transporter expression and function. Thus, there is a continual interplay between transporters and the transmitters they transport. Previously we showed that extracellular gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) increases the expression of the GABA transporter 1 (GAT1) on a time scale of minutes by acting via the transporter to slow transporter internalization. This mechanism requires in part direct tyrosine phosphorylation of the transporter. In the present study we show that the presence of GABA on a longer time scale causes a net decrease in GAT surface expression. The decrease in expression represents the contributions of transporter-mediated up-regulation and a more substantial GABA-receptor-mediated down-regulation. This receptor-mediated down-regulation is the result of both changes in the rates of transporter trafficking and in the number of transporters available for trafficking. As with transporter-mediated regulation of GAT1, the receptor-mediated regulation is associated with changes in the direct phosphorylation of GAT1. These data suggest that multiple pathways, perhaps converging upon mechanisms involving protein phosphorylation, act to regulate GAT1 expression in neurons.
A number of studies have noted that the pattern of resting frontal brain electrical activity (EEG) is related to individual differences in affective style in healthy infants, children, and adults and some clinical populations when symptoms are reduced or in remission. We measured self-reported trait shyness and sociability, concurrent depressive mood, and frontal brain electrical activity (EEG) at rest and in anticipation of a speech task in a non-clinical sample of healthy young adults selected for high and low social anxiety. Although the patterns of resting and reactive frontal EEG asymmetry did not distinguish among individual differences in social anxiety, the pattern of resting frontal EEG asymmetry was related to trait shyness after controlling for concurrent depressive mood. Individuals who reported a higher degree of shyness were likely to exhibit greater relative right frontal EEG activity at rest. However, trait shyness was not related to frontal EEG asymmetry measured during the speech-preparation task, even after controlling for concurrent depressive mood. These findings replicate and extend prior work on resting frontal EEG asymmetry and individual differences in affective style in adults. Findings also highlight the importance of considering concurrent emotional states of participants when examining psychophysiological correlates of personality.
Panic disorder (PD) is a disabling condition which appears in late adolescence or early adulthood and affects more frequently women than men. PD is frequently characterized by recurrences and sometimes by a chronic course and, therefore, most patients require long-term treatments to achieve remission, to prevent relapse and to reduce the risks associated with comorbidity. Pharmacotherapy is one of the most effective treatments of PD. In this paper, the pharmacological management of PD is reviewed. Many questions about this effective treatment need to be answered by the clinician and discussed with the patients to improve her/his collaboration to the treatment plan: which is the drug of choice; when does the drug become active; which is the effective dose; how to manage the side effects; how to manage nonresponse; and how long does the treatment last. Moreover, the clinical use of medication in women during pregnancy and breastfeeding or in children and adolescents was reviewed and its risk-benefit balance discussed.
After 40 years of clinical experience, levodopa remains the gold standard treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD) despite the recent emergence of a host of new therapies. Some physicians are cautious when prescribing levodopa because of its association with motor complications. Evidence now suggests that levodopa-associated complications are a result of deep troughs in delivery of levodopa to the brain caused by the short plasma half-life of conventional levodopa formulations (levodopa and a dopa decarboxylase inhibitor [DDCI]). Dosing strategies, such as dose increases and dose fractionation, may be effective in the short term. For the longer-term, levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone provides pharmacokinetically optimized levodopa therapy that significantly increases the plasma half-life and bioavailability of levodopa, providing more consistent plasma levodopa levels without deep troughs. Evidence from clinical trials in PD patients experiencing re-emergence of symptoms due to wearing-off has consistently shown that levodopa/DDCI and entacapone significantly increases ON-time and affords greater functionality, as measured by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) with conventional levodopa. These trials have also shown that levodopa/DDCI and entacapone is generally well tolerated, with notable adverse events including worsening dyskinesia, nausea and diarrhea. Patients experiencing re-emergence of symptoms due to wearing-off may benefit from optimized levodopa therapy with levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone.
The neurotoxicity of beta-amyloid protein (AbetaP) is implicated in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. We previously have demonstrated that AbetaP forms Ca(2+)-permeable pores on neuronal membranes, causes a marked increase in intracellular calcium level, and leads to neuronal death. Here, we investigated in detail the features of AbetaP-induced changes in intracellular Ca(2+) level in primary cultured rat hippocampal neurons using a multisite Ca(2+)-imaging system with fura-2 as a fluorescent probe. Only a small fraction of short-term cultured hippocampal neurons (ca 1 week in vitro) exhibited changes in intracellular Ca(2+) level after AbetaP exposure. However, AbetaP caused an acute increase in intracellular Ca(2+) level in long-term cultured neurons (ca 1 month in vitro). The responses to AbetaP were highly heterogeneous, and immunohistochemical analysis using an antibody to AbetaP revealed that AbetaP is deposited on some but not all neurons. Considering that the disruption of Ca(2+) homeostasis is the primary event in AbetaP neurotoxicity, substances that protect neurons from an AbetaP-induced intracellular Ca(2+) level increase may be candidates as therapeutic drugs for Alzheimer's disease. In line with the search for such protective substances, we found that the preadministration of neurosteroids including dehydroepiandrosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, and pregnenolone significantly inhibits the increase in intracellular calcium level induced by AbetaP. Our results suggest the possible significance of neurosteroids, whose levels are reduced in the elderly, in preventing AbetaP neurotoxicity.
Current theory suggests that neurocognitive late effects of treatments for childhood cancer such as difficulties with attention, processing speed and visual-motor ability are the result of white matter damage. Neuroimaging studies have produced a variety of white matter findings. However, although white matter is thought to be differentially affected, previous studies have not demonstrated a discrepancy between white and gray matter function. The present study included 36 children treated for childhood leukemia with hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT). Their performance on neurocognitive measures traditionally thought to measure white matter was compared to performance on measures thought to measure gray matter function. Composite white and gray matter standard scores were created based on neuropsychological measures that individuals with known white or gray matter damage perform poorly. As predicted, composite white matter scores (mean = 98.1) were significantly lower (t = 2.26, p = 0.03) than composite gray matter scores (mean = 102.5). Additionally, as gray matter performance increased, the difference between gray and white matter scores increased (R = 0.353, p = 0.035). Overall, the results of this study support the current theory that white matter damage is responsible for the more subtle neurocognitive late effects resulting from treatment for childhood leukemia.
Social anxiety disorder (SAD) is a debilitating and chronic illness characterized by persistent fear of one or more social or performance situations, with a relatively high lifetime prevalence of 7% to 13% in the general population. Although the last two decades have witnessed enormous growth in the study of biological and dispositional factors underlying SAD, comparatively little attention has been directed towards environmental factors in SAD, even though there has been much ongoing work in the area. In this paper, we provide a recent review and critique of proposed environmental risk factors for SAD, focusing on traditional as well as some understudied and overlooked environmental risk factors: parenting and family environment, adverse life events, cultural and societal factors, and gender roles. We also discuss the need for research design improvements and considerations for future directions.
Functional glycine receptors (GlyRs) are enriched in the hippocampus, but their role in hippocampal function remains unclear. Since the concentration of ambient glycine is determined by the presence of powerful glycine transporter (GlyT), we blocked the reuptake of glycine in hippocampal slices to examine the role of GlyRs. Antagonists of GlyT type 1 (GlyT1) but not that of GlyT type 2 (GlyT2) induced excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP)-spike depression, which was reversed by the specific GlyR antagonist strychnine. Moreover, endogenously elevating the glycine concentration with the GlyT1 antagonists facilitated NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation induction, and elicited a strychnine-sensitive chloride current. In addition, impairment of glial function with fluoroacetate blocked the effect of GlyT1 antagonists on the EPSP-spike curve. Furthermore, pretreatment with sarcosine was effective in controlling pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. These results indicate an essential role of GlyTs in fine-tuning tonic activation of GlyRs and suggest a potential role of GlyR-dependent EPSP-spike depression in hippocampal network stability.
The receptor tyrosine kinase product of the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene has been implicated in oncogenesis as a product of several chromosomal translocations, although its endogeneous role in the hematopoietic and neural systems has remained poorly understood. We describe that the generation of animals homozygous for a deletion of the ALK tyrosine kinase domain leads to alterations in adult brain function. Evaluation of adult ALK homozygotes (HOs) revealed an age-dependent increase in basal hippocampal progenitor proliferation and alterations in behavioral tests consistent with a role for this receptor in the adult brain. ALK HO animals displayed an increased struggle time in the tail suspension test and the Porsolt swim test and enhanced performance in a novel object-recognition test. Neurochemical analysis demonstrates an increase in basal dopaminergic signalling selectively within the frontal cortex. Altogether, these results suggest that ALK functions in the adult brain to regulate the function of the frontal cortex and hippocampus and identifies ALK as a new target for psychiatric indications, such as schizophrenia and depression, with an underlying deregulated monoaminergic signalling.
The mammalian pineal gland is an important component of the circadian system. In the present study, we examined the expression of roughly 8000 genes in the rat pineal gland as a function of time of day under light-dark (LD) cycles and in constant dark (DD) using oligo DNA microarray technique. We identified 47 and 13 genes that showed higher levels at night and day, respectively, under LD. The same patterns of expression were also observed in DD. About half of the genes that peaked at night have a known biological function, i.e., transcription factors and proteins that are involved in signaling cascades, whereas 14 are expressed sequence tags and 8 have an unknown biological function. Twelve of the genes that were up-regulated at night were also up-regulated after 1h NE stimulation, thus suggesting that the expression of these genes is controlled by adrenergic mechanisms. Of the 13 genes that were up-regulated in the daytime, 6 coded for proteins that are involved in intracellular signaling pathways. The results obtained with microarray analysis were well correlated with data obtained using real time quantitative RT-PCR. The present results provide new materials to dissect and understand the pineal physiology.
During disease, infection, or trauma, the cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) causes fever, fatigue, malaise, allodynia, anorexia, gastric stasis associated with nausea, and emesis via interactions with the central nervous system. Our studies have focused on how TNF alpha produces a profound gastric stasis by acting on vago-vagal reflex circuits in the brainstem. Sensory elements of this circuit (i.e., nucleus of the solitary tract [NST] and area postrema) are activated by TNF alpha. In response, the efferent elements (i.e., dorsal motor neurons of the vagus) cause gastroinhibition via their action on the gastric enteric plexus. We find that TNF alpha presynaptically modulates the release of glutamate from primary vagal afferents to the NST and can amplify vagal afferent responsiveness by sensitizing presynaptic intracellular calcium-release mechanisms. The constitutive presence of TNF alpha receptors on these afferents and their ability to amplify afferent signals may explain how TNF alpha can completely disrupt autonomic control of the gut.
In the past few years, a series of influential review articles have summarized the state of the art with respect to cortical models of language organization. The present article is a mini-review and conceptual meta-analysis of several of the most prominent recent contributions. Based on the models, the authors extract some generalizations to arrive at a more robust model that 1) does justice to the range of neurological data, 2) is more connected to research in linguistics and psycholinguistics, and 3) stimulates hypothesis-driven research in this domain. In particular, the article attempts to unify a few of the current large-scale models of the functional neuroanatomy of language in a more principled manner. First, the authors argue that the relevant type of processing in a given cortical area, that is, memorizing (temporal cortex) versus analyzing (parietal) versus synthesizing (frontal), lies at the basis of local neuronal structure and function. Second, from an anatomic perspective, more dorsal regions within each of these (temporal, parietal, and frontal) systems specialize more in phonological processing, middle areas in syntactic processing, and more ventral areas in semantic processing.
In the past few years, genetic fate mapping experiments have changed our vision of cerebellar development, particularly in redefining the origin of gabaergic and glutamatergic neurons of the cerebellar cortex and highlighting the precise spatio-temporal sequence of their generation. Here the authors review cerebellar neurogenesis and discuss the fate mapping studies with other new information stemming from transplantation experiments, in an effort to link the developmental potential of neural progenitor populations of the cerebellum with their spatio-temporal origin.





Neurosurgery in the future will witness an increasing influx of novel technologies, many of which will be based on developments in the emerging science of nanotechnology. Additionally, the continued trend in medicine toward minimally invasive diagnostic and surgical techniques will be aided by incorporation of applications of nanotechnology. Neurosurgeons of the future must facilitate the development of nanotechnology and nanomedicine in their clinical practice and research efforts to optimize patient benefit and facilitate scientific advancement. The fields of nanotechnology and nanomedicine remain in their infancy. Recently, however, the literature regarding nanoscience has rapidly expanded. This article is the second of two and provides a review of recent nanotechnology research relevant to clinical neurosurgery and neurology. The first article reviewed recent developments and issues in nanotechnology with a particular focus on applications to the neurosciences. This article also discusses current developments in nanotechnology and nanomedicine that may yield applications in neurosurgery in the future. Additional attention is given to other emerging technologies that are not truly nanotechnology, such as microelectromechanical systems, which will influence the future of medicine and neurosurgery. The goal is to provide the reader with a brief outline and description of some of the new developments in nanotechnology that may affect the clinical practice or operative experience of neurosurgeons. Continued innovation in nanotechnology presents novel opportunities for translation to the clinical arena. Neuroscience, neurology, and neurosurgery will be greatly affected by the influx of nanoscience and its applications. Through continued collaboration, physicians, scientists, and engineers will shape the futures of nanomedicine and nanoneurosurgery.

Maternal smoking during pregnancy is associated with several adverse developmental outcomes in the offspring. These include preterm delivery, spontaneous abortion, growth restriction, increased risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), as well as long-term behavioral and psychiatric disorders. However, the underlying physiological mechanisms for these ill-effects are not fully understood. The aim of this paper is to review the animal and human data to date, linking in utero smoke exposure to negative neurodevelopmental outcomes. It is known that nicotine from cigarette smoke exerts its effects by affecting placental vasculature, and also by nicotinic acetylcholine receptor binding in fetal membranes. Thus, subsequent consequences involve a cascade of events causing not only dysregulation of the nicotinic and muscarinic, but also catecholaminergic and serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. These observations provide some insight into how smoking can impair neurodevelopment, but the long-term neurotransmitter involvement in dysregulation of emotion and attention awaits further elucidation. It is important that pregnant women are warned of the detrimental effects of smoking, and encouraged to abstain for healthy fetal development.

Use of methamphetamine and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is an extremely serious and growing problem throughout the world, including Japan. Antipsychotic drugs have been used for psychotic symptoms associated with these abused drugs. However, there are currently no particular pharmacological treatments for the wide range of symptoms associated with these abused drugs. Recently, we reported that the second generation antibiotic drug minocycline can attenuate behavioral abnormalities and neurotoxicity in the brain after administration of methamphetamine or MDMA. In this review, we discuss minocycline as a new potential therapeutic drug for schizophrenia as well as psychosis associated with these abused drugs.


Perinatal and early childhood stroke are relatively frequent occurrences in Western populations compared with a number of more well publicised diseases of childhood. They have devastating consequences for the child and their family. Despite this, little remains known about the aetiology, pathophysiology and outcome of perinatal and childhood stroke. This review describes the epidemiology, known risk factors, clinical presentation and management of stroke in neonates and children. In particular, we focus on the mechanisms of stroke and the associations with different clinical conditions. There is an urgent need for coordinated research into perinatal and childhood stroke and the recently formed International Paediatric Stroke Study group (IPSS) will hopefully contribute much to improving our understanding and management of these children.
Central nervous system (CNS) tumors comprise 15% to 20% of all malignancies occurring in childhood and adolescence. They may present in a myriad of ways, often delaying diagnosis. Symptoms and signs depend on the growth rate of the tumor, its location in the central nervous system (CNS), and the age of the child. This article describes the presentation, diagnosis and management of these tumors.
Channelopathies are a recently delineated, emerging group of neurologic disorders united by genetically determined defects in ion-channel function. These disorders are characterized by a prominent genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity that can make them challenging and bewildering to understand. This systematic review attempts to categorize these disorders according to their predominant clinical manifestations (i.e., myotonia, weakness, migraine, ataxia, epilepsy, and movement disorders) within the context of what is presently known about the molecular basis of recognized clinical syndromes. Areas of both genetic and phenotypic overlap are highlighted. The review is intended to assist clinicians in enhancing their diagnostic acumen and in targeting specific genetic tests.

Pheromones are known to be important to the innate behavior of marine animals. Attraction in Aplysia involves the long-distance water-borne protein pheromones attractin, enticin, temptin and seductin, which are released from the albumen gland during egg laying. Other pheromones are predicted to act in concert with these pheromones, but their identities are unknown. To identify additional pheromone candidates, we employed differential library screening of an albumen gland cDNA library, RT-PCR, recombinant protein expression, rhinophore contraction bioassays and immunocytochemistry. Alb-1 is expressed in the Aplysia californica albumen gland and encodes a novel protein that does not share significant sequence identity with any proteins in the database. RT-PCR analysis detected Alb-1 transcripts in the albumen gland, exocrine atrial gland and ovotestis. The Alb-1 precursor has a signal peptide sequence followed by a predicted 101-residue protein sequence containing eight cysteine residues. Recombinant protein expression, RP-HPLC, microsequence analysis and MALDI mass spectrometry analyses demonstrated that mature recombinant Alb-1 was processed at a paired basic residue site to generate an N-terminal and C-terminal protein fragment; this was consistent with immunoblot observations on purified albumen gland extracts. In rhinophore contraction (twitch) bioassays, the recombinant N-terminal protein induced rhinophore contractions whereas the C-terminal protein did not. An antibody generated to the N-terminal protein was used for immunocytochemical and immunoblot analyses and demonstrated that this protein is present in albumen gland secretory cells, egg cordons and egg eluates. Overall, the data suggest that Alb-1 may be processed in the albumen gland and that the Alb-1 1-56 protein released during egg laying may serve a pheromonal function in concert with attractin, enticin, temptin and seductin.


The present study aimed to test the hypothesis that mice lacking the MCHR1 receptor (Melanin-Concentrating Hormone Receptor-1) present an elevated vulnerability towards the neurobehavioural effects of D-amphetamine, presumably due to previously established up-regulations of dopamine D1 receptors in these mice. We examined the psychomotor effects of five once-daily injections of 1.5 and 3 mg/kg D-amphetamine (i.p.) or ten once-daily injections of 2.25 mg/kg D-amphetamine in knockout (KO) mice lacking the MCHR1 receptor. The first injection of D-amphetamine induced a greater psychomotor response amongst the KO mice at 2.25 and 3.0 mg/kg. On all subsequent d-amphetamine injections, KO mice still showed greater levels of psychomotor activity than the WT mice, but with no between-genotype difference in the rate of development of sensitization (similar slopes of the curves). Furthermore, 24 h after the last injection of 2.25 mg/kg D-amphetamine both genotypes exhibited a significant post-sensitization conditioned activity. Thus, MCHR1 receptors are likely not deeply involved in the mechanisms of induction of sensitization and related conditioned activity induced by D-amphetamine, albeit our results confirm a contribution of these receptors to the mechanisms of the acute effects of that drug, possibly via an inhibitory action on the dopaminergic mesolimbic system. Our results do not support the hypothesis of a functional contribution of MCHR1 receptors to the addictive effects of D-amphetamine.
Clinical use of morphine in pain management is a controversial issue. Both nicotine and morphine are widely abused. So, investigating the interaction between nicotinic and opioid receptors is of great interest to both basic mechanistic and clinical view. We investigated the influence of repeated administration of nicotine on the development of morphine tolerance and dependence. Adult male albino mice were rendered dependent on morphine by subcutaneous (s.c.) injections three times daily for 3 days. Repeated intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of nicotine (0.001-2 mg/kg) or saline (1 ml/kg) was performed 15 min prior to each morphine injection. Maximal possible effect (MPE%) of morphine (50 mg/kg; s.c.) was used on the fourth day as an index for the development of tolerance. Likewise, to assess the occurrence of dependence in drug-treated mice, naloxone (5 mg/kg; i.p.) was injected 2 h after the last dose of morphine. Repeated nicotine administration significantly attenuated the development of tolerance in a dose-dependent manner whereas it significantly decreased withdrawal jumping behavior in a biphasic profile (V-shape) manner. Furthermore, the central nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine (0.01-0.1 mg/kg; i.p.) neither the peripheral nicotinic receptor antagonist hexamethonium (0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg; i.p.) nor the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (2.5-10 mg/kg; i.p.), dose-dependently antagonized both the inhibition of withdrawal jumping as well as increase in MPE% which was produced by repeated nicotine administration (0.1 mg/kg; i.p.). On the other hand, 3 days of solely nicotine treatment resulted in significant jumping behavior precipitated by naloxone after single morphine injection on the test day. The data suggests that the inhibitory effect of nicotine on the morphine tolerance and dependence is mediated by central nicotinic receptors and there is a cross-dependence between nicotine and morphine.
Low-grade inflammation is a common feature of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and persistent systemic inflammation is thought to be a strong predictor of cardiovascular events. Inflammation plays a role in determining the serum albumin levels in haemodialysis patients (HD) independently of the nutritional status. Increased cardiovascular mortality in CKD has been associated with the increased incidence of obesity in uremic patients. Ingenbleek suggested a prognostic inflammation and nutritional index (PINI), based on serum albumin, pre-albumin, C-reactive protein, and alpha1 acid glycoprotein, to identify and to follow up acutely ill patients at risk of major complications. The aims of the present study were: to verify the incidence of Normal Weight Obese (NWO) syndrome; to evaluate by PINI the effect of 8 weeks acetyl salicylic (100 mg/die) and atorvastatin (10 mg/die) combined treatment on chronic inflammation in 52 selected HD patients. Laboratory evaluation, anthropometric and body composition measurements were detected. At baseline the 56.25% of non-obese, the 84.21% of pre-obese-obese, and the 41.17% of NWO women showed PINI values &gt;1 (normal status PINI&lt;1). After the pharmacological treatment, high significant (P&lt;0.001) reduction in lipid profile, an elevated increase of HDL levels, and a significant reduction of inflammatory markers were obtained. Firstly, our results showed that ASA and atorvastatin combined treatment was effective in reducing inflammatory status in HD patients independently of body composition: at the end of the study only 7.49% of the patients exhibited PINI&gt;1. Further studies will be necessary to understand the causes of inflammation in non-responder patients.
In the present study, we show that an aqueous extract of Arbutus unedo L. (AuE), a Mediterranean endemic plant widely employed as an astringent, diuretic and urinary anti-septic, in vitro down-regulates the expression of some inflammatory genes, such as those encoding inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and intracellular adhesion molecule-(ICAM)-1, exerting a inhibitory action on both IFN-gamma-elicited STAT1 activation and IL-6-elicited STAT3 activation. To evaluate further the effect of AuE in animal models of acute inflammation, we examined whether AuE administration attenuates inflammatory response of murine induced by intrapleural injection of carrageenan. For this purpose we studied: (1) STAT1/3 activation, (2) TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 production in pleural exudate, (3) lung iNOS, COX-2 and ICAM-1 expression, (4) neutrophil infiltration, (5) the nitration of cellular proteins by peroxynitrite, (6) lipid peroxidation, (7) prostaglandin E2 and nitrite/nitrate levels and (8) lung injury. We show that AuE strongly down-regulates STAT3 activation induced in the lung by carrageenan with concomitant attenuation of all parameters examined associated with inflammation, suggesting that STAT3 should be a new molecular target for anti-inflammatory treatment. This study demonstrates that acute lung inflammation is significantly attenuated by the treatment with AuE.
Chimera states are remarkable spatiotemporal patterns in which coherence coexists with incoherence. As yet, chimera states have been considered as nongeneric, since they emerge only for particular initial conditions. In contrast, we show here that in a network of globally coupled oscillators delayed feedback stimulation with realistic (i.e., spatially decaying) stimulation profile generically induces chimera states. Intriguingly, a bifurcation analysis reveals that these chimera states are the natural link between the coherent and the incoherent states.
Mitf is a transcription factor of the basic/helix-loop-helix/leucine-zipper family which is indispensable for development of melanocytes and the retinal pigment epithelium. Our previous work using Xenopus laevis as a model system suggested that Mitf regulates melanosome dispersal in vivo though whether this was via melanosome transport or melanophore dendricity was not obvious. To better understand the role of Mitf, we have now characterized neural tube cultures from wild-type Mitf-injected or a dominant-negative Mitf-injected embryos and compared them with controls. In vitro, lower levels of Mitf activity induced less dendritic melanophores with aggregated melanosomes, whereas melanophores overexpressing Mitf had an extensive dendritic morphology with dispersed melanosomes. Moreover, immunorfluoresence assays reveal that expression of a dominant-negative Mitf leads to decreased Rab27a expression. These results suggest that Mitf is involved in the regulation of melanosome transport and the level of dendricity in melanophores.

Pavlovian predictions of future aversive outcomes lead to behavioral inhibition, suppression, and withdrawal. There is considerable evidence for the involvement of serotonin in both the learning of these predictions and the inhibitory consequences that ensue, although less for a causal relationship between the two. In the context of a highly simplified model of chains of affectively charged thoughts, we interpret the combined effects of serotonin in terms of pruning a tree of possible decisions, (i.e., eliminating those choices that have low or negative expected outcomes). We show how a drop in behavioral inhibition, putatively resulting from an experimentally or psychiatrically influenced drop in serotonin, could result in unexpectedly large negative prediction errors and a significant aversive shift in reinforcement statistics. We suggest an interpretation of this finding that helps dissolve the apparent contradiction between the fact that inhibition of serotonin reuptake is the first-line treatment of depression, although serotonin itself is most strongly linked with aversive rather than appetitive outcomes and predictions.

Chemotactic cytokines (chemokines) have been traditionally defined as small (10-14kDa) secreted leukocyte chemoattractants. However, chemokines and their cognate receptors are constitutively expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) where immune activities are under stringent control. Why and how the CNS uses the chemokine system to carry out its complex physiological functions has intrigued neurobiologists. Here, we focus on chemokine CXCL12 and its receptor CXCR4 that have been widely characterized in peripheral tissues and delineate their main functions in the CNS. Extensive evidence supports CXCL12 as a key regulator for early development of the CNS. CXCR4 signaling is required for the migration of neuronal precursors, axon guidance/pathfinding and maintenance of neural progenitor cells (NPCs). In the mature CNS, CXCL12 modulates neurotransmission, neurotoxicity and neuroglial interactions. Thus, chemokines represent an inherent system that helps establish and maintain CNS homeostasis. In addition, growing evidence implicates altered expression of CXCL12 and CXCR4 in the pathogenesis of CNS disorders such as HIV-associated encephalopathy, brain tumor, stroke and multiple sclerosis (MS), making them the plausible targets for future pharmacological intervention.
There is a current debate whether the human brain possesses a shared representation for various types of magnitude such as numerical quantities, physical size, or loudness. Here, we critically review evidence from chronometric, neuroimaging, developmental and comparative fields, and supplement it with a meta-analysis of the neuroimaging data. Together, based on such an integrative overview, we discuss limitations inherent in each approach, and the possibility whether shared, or distinct magnitude representation, or both representations exist.



Most models assume that response time (RT) comprises the time required for successive processing stages, but they disagree about whether information is transmitted continuously or discretely between stages. We tested these alternative hypotheses by measuring when movement-related activity began in the frontal eye field (FEF) of macaque monkeys performing visual search. Previous work showed that RT was longer when visual neurons in FEF took longer to select the target, a finding consistent with prolonged perceptual processing during less efficient search. We now report that the buildup of saccadic movement-related activity in FEF is delayed in inefficient visual search. Variability in the delay of movement-related activity accounted for the difference in RT between search conditions and for the variability of RT within conditions. These findings provide neurophysiological support for the hypothesis that information is transmitted discretely between perceptual and response stages of processing during visual search.
Using a novel quantitative model of repeated choice behavior, we investigated the cognitive processes of criminal offenders incarcerated for various crimes. Eighty-one criminals, including violent offenders, drug and sex offenders, drivers operating a vehicle while impaired, and 18 matched controls were tested. The results were also contrasted with those obtained from neurological patients with focal brain lesions in the orbitofrontal cortex and from drug abusers. Participants performed the computerized version of the Iowa gambling task (Bechara, Damasio, Damasio, &amp; Anderson, 1994), and the results were decomposed into specific component processes, using the expectancy valence model (Busemeyer &amp; Stout, 2002). The findings indicated that whereas all the criminal groups tended to select disadvantageously, the cognitive profiles exhibited by different groups were considerably different. Certain subpopulations--most significantly, drug and sex offenders--overweighted potential gains as compared with losses, similar to chronic cocaine abusers. In contrast, assault/murder criminals tended to make less consistent choices and to focus on immediate outcomes and, in these respects, weremore similar to patients with orbitofrontal damage. The present cognitive model provides a novel way for building a bridge between cognitive neuroscience and complex human behaviors.
Steroid hormones modulate memory in animals and human adults. Little is known on the developmental effects of these hormones on the neural networks underlying memory. Using Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) as a naturalistic model of early steroid abnormalities, this study examines the consequences of CAH on memory and its neural correlates for emotionally arousing and neutral material in children. Seventeen patients with CAH and 17 age- and sex-matched healthy children (ages 12-14 years) completed the study. Subjects were presented positive, negative and neutral pictures. Memory recall occurred about 30min after viewing the pictures. Children with CAH showed memory deficits for negative pictures compared to healthy children (p&lt;0.01). There were no group differences on memory performance for either positive or neutral pictures (p&gt;0.1). In patients, 24h urinary-free cortisol levels (reflecting glucocorticoid replacement therapy) and testosterone levels were not associated with memory performance. These findings suggest that early steroid imbalances affect memory for negative material in children with CAH. Such memory impairments may result from abnormal brain organization and function following hormonal dysfunction during critical periods of development.
Exposure to stress during prenatal or early postnatal life can dramatically impact adult behavior and neuroendocrine function. We recently began to selectively breed Sprague-Dawley rats for high (high responder, HR) and low (low responder, LR) novelty-seeking behavior, a trait that predicts a variety of differences in emotional reactivity, including differences in neuroendocrine stress response, fear- and anxiety-like behavior, aggression, and propensity to self-administer drugs of abuse. We evaluated genetic-early environment interactions by exposing HR- and LR-bred animals to prenatal stress (PS) from pregnancy day 3-20, hypothesizing that PS exposure would differentially impact HR versus LR behavior and neuroendocrine reactivity. We evaluated novelty-induced locomotion, anxiety-like behavior, and corticosterone stress response in weanling (25-day-old) and adult HR-LR stressed and control males. Exposure to PS did not alter HR-LR differences in locomotion, but did impact anxiety-like behavior, specifically in LR animals. Surprisingly, LR animals exposed to PS exhibited less anxiety than LR controls. HR rats were not affected by PS, with both stress and control groups showing low levels of anxiety. PS differentially impacted neuroendocrine stress reactivity in young versus adult HR-LR animals, leading to an exaggerated corticosterone response in LR pups compared to LR controls, while HRs pups were unaffected. In contrast, exposure to PS produced an exaggerated stress response in HR adults, compared to HR controls, while LR animals were not significantly affected. These findings highlight how genetic predisposition may shape individual's response to early life stressors, and furthermore, show that a history of early life stress may differentially impact an organism at different points in life. Future work will explore neural mechanisms which underlie the different behavioral and neuroendocrine consequences of PS in HR versus LR animals.




There are two broad themes in psychosomatic medicine research that relate emotions to physical disease outcomes. Theme 1 holds that self-reported negative affect has deleterious effects and self-reported positive affect has salubrious effects on health. Theme 2 holds that interference with the experience or expression of negative affect has adverse health consequences. From the perspective of self-report these two traditions appear contradictory. A key thesis of this paper is that the foundational distinction in cognitive neuroscience between explicit (conscious) and implicit (unconscious) processes, corresponding to Themes 1 and 2, respectively, provides a unifying framework that makes empirical research on unconscious emotional processes more tractable. A psychological model called &quot;levels of emotional awareness&quot; is presented first that places implicit and explicit emotional processes on a cognitive-developmental continuum. This model holds that the ability to become consciously aware of one's own feelings is a cognitive skill that goes through a developmental process similar to that which Piaget described for other cognitive functions. Empirical findings using the Levels of Emotional Awareness Scale are presented. A parallel hierarchical model of the neural substrates of emotional awareness is presented next supported by recent neuroimaging and lesion work. The evidence presented in this review suggests that the neural substrates of implicit and explicit emotional processes are distinct, that the latter have a modulatory effect on the former, and that at the neural level Theme 1 and Theme 2 phenomena share critical similarities. The implications of this psychobiological model for research in psychosomatic medicine are discussed.
Subventricular zone (SVZ) cell cultures contain mixed populations of immature cells, neurons, astrocytes, and progenitors in different stages of development. In the present work, we examined whether cell types of the SVZ could be functionally discriminated on the basis of intracellular free calcium level ([Ca(2+)](i)) variations following KCl and histamine stimulation. For this purpose, [Ca(2+)](i) were measured in SVZ cell cultures from neonatal P1-3 C57Bl/6 donor mice, in single cells, after stimulation with 100 microM histamine or 50 mM KCl. MAP-2-positive neurons and doublecortin-positive neuroblasts were distinguished on the basis of their selective ratio of response to KCl and/or histamine stimulation. Moreover, we could distinguish immature cells on the basis of the selective response to histamine via the histamine 1 receptor activation. Exposure of SVZ cultures to the pro-neurogenic stem cell factor (SCF) induced an increase in the number of cells responding to KCl and a decrease in the number of cells responding to histamine, consistent with neuronal differentiation. The selective response to KCl/histamine in single cell calcium imaging analysis offers a rapid and efficient way for the functional discrimination of neuronal differentiation in SVZ cell cultures, opening new perspectives for the search of potential pro-neurogenic factors.
The aim of this study was to analyze social functioning in patients with schizophrenia and their biological relatives with a Swedish version of the video-based vignette test Assessment of Interpersonal Problem Solving Skills (AIPSS). In a new video production with simulated &quot;real life&quot; situations we tested the ability to receive, process and send social information in 25 individuals with a DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia, 20 siblings to patients with schizophrenia and 25 randomly selected non-psychiatric controls. The test proved to have good validity and interrater reliability. After controlling for positive or negative symptoms, patients had poor performance especially in acting out solutions leading to effective problem solving. Siblings generally did not differ from controls, but showed some deficiencies in non-verbal language. To conclude, AIPSS is appropriate for use in a Swedish-speaking context and might be useful in research on vulnerability indicators and in assessment of treatment interventions.
Prenatal viral infection has been associated with development of schizophrenia and autism. Our laboratory has previously shown that viral infection causes deleterious effects on brain structure and function in mouse offspring following late first trimester (E9) administration of influenza virus. We hypothesized that late second trimester infection (E18) in mice may lead to a different pattern of brain gene expression and structural defects in the developing offspring. C57BL6J mice were infected on E18 with a sublethal dose of human influenza virus or sham-infected using vehicle solution. Male offsping of the infected mice were collected at P0, P14, P35 and P56, their brains removed and prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum dissected and flash frozen. Microarray, qRT-PCR, DTI and MRI scanning, western blotting and neurochemical analysis were performed to detect differences in gene expression and brain atrophy. Expression of several genes associated with schizophrenia or autism including Sema3a, Trfr2 and Vldlr were found to be altered as were protein levels of Foxp2. E18 infection of C57BL6J mice with a sublethal dose of human influenza virus led to significant gene alterations in frontal, hippocampal and cerebellar cortices of developing mouse progeny. Brain imaging revealed significant atrophy in several brain areas and white matter thinning in corpus callosum. Finally, neurochemical analysis revealed significantly altered levels of serotonin (P14, P35), 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid (P14) and taurine (P35). We propose that maternal infection in mouse provides an heuristic animal model for studying the environmental contributions to genesis of schizophrenia and autism, two important examples of neurodevelopmental disorders.
Patients with schizophrenia have difficulty recognising the emotion that corresponds to a given facial expression. According to signal detection theory, two separate processes are involved in facial emotion perception: a sensory process (measured by sensitivity which is the ability to distinguish one facial emotion from another facial emotion) and a cognitive decision process (measured by response criterion which is the tendency to judge a facial emotion as a particular emotion). It is uncertain whether facial emotion recognition deficits in schizophrenia are primarily due to impaired sensitivity or response bias. In this study, we hypothesised that individuals with schizophrenia would have both diminished sensitivity and different response criteria in facial emotion recognition across different emotions compared with healthy controls. Twenty-five individuals with a DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia were compared with age and IQ matched healthy controls. Participants performed a &quot;yes-no&quot; task by indicating whether the 88 Ekman faces shown briefly expressed one of the target emotions in three randomly ordered runs (happy, sad and fear). Sensitivity and response criteria for facial emotion recognition was calculated as d-prime and In(beta) respectively using signal detection theory. Patients with schizophrenia showed diminished sensitivity (d-prime) in recognising happy faces, but not faces that expressed fear or sadness. By contrast, patients exhibited a significantly less strict response criteria (In(beta)) in recognising fearful and sad faces. Our results suggest that patients with schizophrenia have a specific deficit in recognising happy faces, whereas they were more inclined to attribute any facial emotion as fearful or sad.

Recent meta-analytic evidence suggests that clinical neuropsychological methods are not likely to uncover circumscribed cognitive impairments in the deficit syndrome of schizophrenia. To overcome this issue, we adapted a cognitive neuroscience perspective and used a new &quot;chaining&quot; habit learning task. Participants were requested to navigate a cartoon character through a sequence of 4 rooms by learning to choose the open door from 3 colored doors in each room. The aim of the game was to learn the full sequence of rooms until the character reached the outside. In the training phase, each stimulus leading to reward (open door in each room) was trained via feedback until the complete sequence was learned. In the probe phase, the context of rewarded stimuli was manipulated: in a given room, in addition to the correct door of that room, there also appeared a door which was open in another room. Whereas the training phase is dominantly related to basal ganglia circuits, the context-dependent probe phase requires intact medial-temporal lobe functioning. Results revealed that deficit and non-deficit patients were similarly impaired on the probe phase compared with controls. However, the training phase was only compromised in deficit patients. More severe negative symptoms were associated with more errors on the training phase. Executive functions were unrelated to performance on the &quot;chaining&quot; task. These results indicate that the deficit syndrome is associated with prominently impaired stimulus-response reinforcement learning, which may indicate abnormal functioning of basal ganglia circuits.


Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are expressed in the developing, healthy adult and diseased CNS. We emphasize the regulation of neurogenesis and oligodendrogenesis by MMPs during CNS development, and highlight physiological roles of MMPs in the healthy adult CNS, such as in synaptic plasticity, learning and memory. Nonetheless, MMPs as &quot;the good guys&quot; go bad in neurological conditions, likely aided by the sudden and massive upregulation of several MMP members. We stress the necessity of drawing a fine balance in the treatment of neurological diseases, and we suggest that MMP inhibitors do have therapeutic potential early after CNS injury.
A 55-year-old Indian woman with newly-diagnosed diabetes mellitus presented with acute onset right upper limb proximal weakness. This was followed three weeks later by pain, weakness and sensory loss in the left upper limb. Electrodiagnosis showed patchy multiple proximal and distal axonal neuropathies in both upper limbs, consistent with bilateral brachial neuritis. Laboratory investigations, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, and imaging studies were normal except for an antinuclear antibody titre of 1:640. Sural nerve and quadriceps biopsy did not show vasculitis. Brachial plexopathy has seldom been associated with diabetes mellitus and could represent a rare subtype of the diabetic neuropathies.



The pathways to symptoms of common mental disorder and post-traumatic stress symptoms among refugees during resettlement need to be better specified. We aim to identify models of these different mental health outcomes among refugees during resettlement, taking pre-migration, migration and post-migration stress conditions, a person's capacity to handle such stress and socio-demographic variables into consideration. A new questionnaire developed to better cover resettlement stress, as well as pre-resettlement trauma exposures and different measures of a person's capacity to handle stress, was administered to 124 Middle Eastern refugees that had been granted permanent residency in Sweden only a few months before responding. We found four dimensions of resettlement stress: social and economic strain, alienation, discrimination and status loss and violence and threats in Sweden, that account for 62% of the total variance in resettlement stress. Social and economic strain and alienation are important for explaining symptoms of common mental disorder. In the model of core post-traumatic stress symptoms, pre-resettlement trauma exposure seems to have the strongest impact. A person's capacity to handle stress plays significant, direct and mediating roles in both models. The impact of resettlement stressors in the context of the whole migration process for different mental health outcomes is discussed.
Research on work-related health has mainly focused on individual factors. The present study expands the focus by exploring the role of organizational characteristics of workplaces for different individual health outcomes. The aim of the study was to look at differences in relative effect of workplace variations on five health outcomes, and to explain those differences in health outcomes by organizational characteristics. The sample encompassed 90 workplaces in Sweden and about 4300 individuals employed within these workplaces. Measurement of the workplace characteristics was carried out independently of the measurement of the individual's working conditions and health. Organizational data were collected by interviews with local managers at participating workplaces, and individual data were obtained by means of a survey of the employees. The results showed that a significant proportion of the variance in sickness absence, work ability, general health, and musculoskeletal disorders was attributed to the workplace. Of eight tested organizational characteristics, customer adaptation, lean production, and performance control could explain some of this workplace variance. The results also showed that only one organizational effect remained significant when controlled for the individual confounder of age and gender. High customer adaptation is associated with higher sickness absence. This association is not mediated via differences in mental and physical job strain.




The melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) system is anatomically and functionally interlaced with the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system. Therefore, we investigated whether MCH(1) receptor knockout (KO) mice are more susceptible than wild-type (WT) mice to psychostimulant-induced locomotor stimulation and sensitization, dopamine receptor-mediated phosphorylation events and c-fos expression within the frontal cortex and ventral striatum. MCH(1) receptor KO mice have 20% higher basal locomotor activity, are hypersensitive to the locomotor activating effects of d-amphetamine (1 mg/kg), and develop behavioral sensitization to a regimen of repeated d-amphetamine administration that does not induce sensitization in WT mice. In addition, d-amphetamine-mediated regulation of p44-mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation within the frontal cortex was significantly enhanced in MCH(1) receptor KO mice, when compared with WT mice. No significant genotype difference in the effects of d-amphetamine on MAPK phosphorylation events within the ventral striatum, phosphorylation at Ser(897) of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor or Ca(2+) and cyclic AMP response-element binding-protein (CREB) at Ser(133) in the frontal cortex was detected. d-Amphetamine (3 mg/kg) increased c-fos expression within the frontal cortex in MCH(1) receptor KO mice, but not WT mice. There were no d-amphetamine-induced changes in c-fos expression within the ventromedial striatum in KO or WT mice. Overall, MCH(1) receptor KO mice are hypersensitive to the behavioral and molecular effects of the dopaminergic psychostimulant d-amphetamine. Increased frontal cortical MAPK phosphorylation and c-fos expression in MCH(1) receptor KO mice indicates that the MCH(1) receptor may be an important target for treating neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by frontal cortex dysfunction, including depression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and schizophrenia.
Specific cocaine-amphetamine regulated transcript (CART) receptor binding has been reported in AtT20 and PC12 cells. In this study, receptor binding has been examined in primary cell cultures of several rat brain regions. Utilizing (125)I-CART 61-102 as a ligand and CART 55-102 as a displacer, significant levels of specific binding compared with nonspecific binding were found in the nucleus accumbens. Specific CART binding was substantially lower in hippocampal, hypothalamic, and pituitary cells. The specific binding was saturable with a K(d) of 1.43 +/- 0.25 nM and a B(max) of 49.03 +/- 2.33 fmol/mg protein. The binding was also highly specific for CART 55-102 as other inactive CART peptide fragments, unrelated peptides, gamma-aminobutyric acid, or cocaine showed no affinity for the receptor at 10 muM concentrations. Furthermore, addition of the GTP analog, Gpp(NH)p, significantly decreased specific binding but addition of an ATP analog did not, suggesting that the receptor is a g-protein coupled receptor. This is the first demonstration of CART peptide receptor binding in primary cell cultures of the rat brain.
We investigated effects of 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) and endocrine disrupters, nonylphenol (NP) and bisphenol-A (BPA), focusing on the neuronal development in cultures of fetal rat hypothalamic cells. We applied different concentrations of E(2), NP or BPA to the cultured hypothalamic cells and observed their effects on dendritic and synaptic development by immunocytochemistry using anti-microtubule associated protein-2 (MAP2) and anti-synapsin I antibodies, respectively. Administration of E(2) for 7 days affected MAP2-positive area as well as synapsin I-positive area. NP and BPA also influenced neuronal developments. The significant increase both in MAP2- and synapsin I-positive areas was observed at 10 and/or 100 nM of them, while 1 microM of them reduced the positive areas. Synaptic densities calculated from synapsin I-positive area/MAP2-positive area were not constant among different doses of three chemicals, but increased at 10 and/or 100 nM and decreased at 1 microM. Furthermore, immunostaining of NP-treated cells with the antibody against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) revealed that glial development was similarly influenced by NP. Therefore, the present results demonstrated that not only E(2) but also the environmental estrogenic chemicals, NP and BPA, affect development of fetal rat hypothalamic cells in vitro.
The generation and refinement of dendrites is essential for normal brain development and function. However, the molecular mechanisms that govern dendritic morphogenesis are poorly understood. Recent studies from the Crabtree laboratory have uncovered a requirement for the neuron-specific chromatin-remodeling enzyme nBAF in dendritic growth and branching in response to neuronal activity. These findings highlight the significance of epigenetic mechanisms in activity-dependent dendritic morphogenesis, with important implications in brain development and plasticity.
With the increasing interest in the neuroimaging of deception and its commercial application, there is a need to pay more attention to methodology. The weakness of studying deception in an experimental setting has been discussed intensively for over half a century. However, even though much effort has been put into their development, paradigms are still inadequate. The problems that bedevilled the old technology have not been eliminated by the new. Advances will only be possible if experiments are designed that take account of the intentions of the subject and the context in which these occur.
Postmitotic cortical neurons that fail to initiate migration can remain near their site of origin and form persistent periventricular nodular heterotopia (PH). In human telencephalon, this malformation is most commonly associated with Filamin-A (FLNa) mutations. The lack of genetic animal models that reliably produce PH has delayed our understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms. This review examines PH pathogenesis using a new mouse model. Although PH have not been observed in Flna-deficient mice generated thus far, the loss of MEKK4, a regulator of Flna, produces striking PH in mice and offers insight into the mechanisms involved in neuronal migration initiation. Elucidating the basic functions of FLNa and associated molecules is crucial for understanding the causes of PH and for developing prevention for at-risk patients.
Voltage-gated Kv7 (or KCNQ) channels play a pivotal role in controlling membrane excitability. Like typical voltage-gated ion channels, Kv7 channels undergo a closed-to-open transition by sensing changes in transmembrane potential, and thereby mediate inhibitory K(+) currents to reduce membrane excitability. Reduction of Kv7 channel activity as a result of genetic mutation is responsible for various human diseases due to membrane hyperexcitability, including epilepsy, arrhythmia and deafness. As a result, the discovery of small compounds that activate voltage-gated ion channels is an important strategy for clinical intervention in such disorders. Because ligand binding can induce a conformational change leading to subthreshold channel opening, there is considerable interest in understanding the molecular basis of these 'gain-of-function' molecules. Although small-molecule activators of cation channels are rare, several novel compounds that activate Kv7 voltage-gated channels have been identified. Recent advances in defining the activator-binding sites and in understanding their mechanism of action have begun to provide insight into the activation of voltage-gated channels by synthetic compounds.

Crowding, generally defined as the deleterious influence of nearby contours on visual discrimination, is ubiquitous in spatial vision. Crowding impairs the ability to recognize objects in clutter. It has been extensively studied over the last 80 years or so, and much of the renewed interest is the hope that studying crowding may lead to a better understanding of the processes involved in object recognition. Crowding also has important clinical implications for patients with macular degeneration, amblyopia and dyslexia. There is no shortage of theories for crowding-from low-level receptive field models to high-level attention. The current picture is that crowding represents an essential bottleneck for object perception, impairing object perception in peripheral, amblyopic and possibly developing vision. Crowding is neither masking nor surround suppression. We can localize crowding to the cortex, perhaps as early as V1; however, there is a growing consensus for a two-stage model of crowding in which the first stage involves the detection of simple features (perhaps in V1), and a second stage is required for the integration or interpretation of the features as an object beyond V1. There is evidence for top-down effects in crowding, but the role of attention in this process remains unclear. The strong effect of learning in shrinking the spatial extent of crowding places strong constraints on possible models for crowding and for object recognition. The goal of this review is to try to provide a broad, balanced and succinct review that organizes and summarizes the diverse and scattered studies of crowding, and also helps to explain it to the non-specialist. A full understanding of crowding may allow us to understand this bottleneck to object recognition and the rules that govern the integration of features into objects.
Integrating information is essential to measure the physical 2D motion of a surface from both ambiguous local 1D motion of its elongated edges and non-ambiguous 2D motion of its features such as corners or texture elements. The dynamics of this motion integration shows a complex time course as read from tracking eye movements: first, local 1D motion signals are extracted and pooled to initiate ocular responses, then 2D motion signals are integrated to adjust the tracking direction until it matches the surface motion direction. The nature of these 1D and 2D motion computations are still unclear. One hypothesis is that their different dynamics may be explained from different contrast sensitivities. To test this, we measured contrast-response functions of early, 1D-driven and late, 2D-driven components of ocular following responses to different motion stimuli: gratings, plaids and barberpoles. We found that contrast dynamics of 1D-driven responses are nearly identical across the different stimuli. On the contrary, late 2D-driven components with either plaids or barberpoles have similar latencies but different contrast dynamics. Temporal dynamics of both 1D- and 2D-driven responses demonstrates that the different contrast gains are set very early during the response time course. Running a Bayesian model of motion integration, we show that a large family of contrast-response functions can be predicted from the probability distributions of 1D and 2D motion signals for each stimulus and by the shape of the prior distribution. However, the pure delay (i.e. largely independent upon contrast) observed between 1D- and 2D-motion supports the fact that 1D and 2D probability distributions are computed independently. This two-pathway Bayesian model supports the idea that 1D and 2D mechanisms represent edges and features motion in parallel.
We examined how expectation influences perception of complex objects. Participants discriminated between normal and distorted images of famous faces or places. Word cues (mostly valid) indicated either the general category or the exact identity of the upcoming image pair. Whereas category cues did not affect performance, valid exemplar expectation led to performance benefits. Furthermore, discrimination was slower after exemplar cues from the incorrect category than after invalid exemplar cues from the correct category, indicating costs of invalid category expectation. Thus, expectation of a specific exemplar facilitates perception of that object, but hinders perception of an object from a different category.
Usher syndrome is a deafness-blindness disorder. The blindness occurs from a progressive retinal degeneration that begins after deafness and after the retina has developed. Three clinical subtypes of Usher syndrome have been identified, with mutations in any one of six different genes giving rise to type 1, in any one of three different genes to type 2, and in one identified gene causing Usher type 3. Mutant mice for most of the genes have been studied; while they have clear inner ear defects, retinal phenotypes are relatively mild and have been difficult to characterize. The retinal functions of the Usher proteins are still largely unknown. Protein binding studies have suggested many interactions among the proteins, and a model of interaction among all the proteins in the photoreceptor synapse has been proposed. However this model is not supported by localization data from some laboratories, or the indication of any synaptic phenotype in mutant mice. An earlier suggestion, based on patient pathologies, of Usher protein function in the photoreceptor cilium continues to gain support from immunolocalization and mutant mouse studies, which are consistent with Usher protein interaction in the photoreceptor ciliary/periciliary region. So far, the most characterized Usher protein is myosin VIIa. It is present in the apical RPE and photoreceptor ciliary/periciliary region, where it is required for organelle transport and clearance of opsin from the connecting cilium, respectively. Usher syndrome is amenable to gene replacement therapy, but also has some specific challenges. Progress in this treatment approach has been achieved by correction of mutant phenotypes in Myo7a-null mouse retinas, following lentiviral delivery of MYO7A.
To characterize rod and cone distribution and composition in two diurnal mouse-like rodents, retinas from adult Arvicanthis ansorgei and Lemniscomys barbarus were processed for immunohistochemistry using multiple rod- and cone-specific antibodies. Antibodies tested included rhodopsin, cone opsins, pan-arrestin and cone arrestin, recoverin, and cGMP dependent ion channel. In both species, retinas were composed of approximately 33% cones, and most antibodies gave similar staining patterns. Data show these two diurnal rodents possess large numbers of cones, organised in a strict anatomical array. This suggests that diurnal rodents in general possess elevated cone numbers and could constitute valuable models for investigating cone pathophysiology.

The central nervous system (CNS) is involved in a variety of disease conditions. Some seeming peripheral diseases, like chronic pain and disorders in major organs, indeed have clear pathological basis in the CNS. On the other hand, some clinically-beneficial peripheral stimulation, such as acupuncture and massage, exerts significant influence on central neurons. This review attempts to summary recent findings in neuroscience about how pathological insults long-term plastic changes within neural circuits, leading to maladaptive behaviors. This neuroplasticity-based theory not only conceptualizes a cellular mechanism for a plethora of neuropathophysiology but also provides clinical strategies for treating neural diseases. Drug addiction is a chronic brain disease, defined as compulsive drug-seeking, drug-craving, and drug-taking behaviors. Extensive experimental evidence suggests that following exposure to drugs of abuse, neurons within the mesolimbic dopamine system undergo a series of plastic changes that may lead to compulsive emotional and motivational states. It is believed that the first step to unlock the secret of drug addiction is to identify, evaluate, and conceptualize drug-induced neural plasticity. Synaptic plasticity is one form of neuroplasticity that has been best characterized. Using addiction-related synaptic plasticity as a working model, this review attempts to depict the general concept and experimental approach in studying the pathophysiological neural basis of acupuncture.
Most vertebrates have two nasal epithelia: the olfactory epithelium (OE) and the vomeronasal epithelium (VNE). The apical surfaces of OE and VNE are covered with cilia and microvilli, respectively. In rodents, signal transduction pathways involve G alpha olf and G alpha i2/G alpha o in OE and VNE, respectively. Reeve's turtles (Geoclemys reevesii) live in a semiaquatic environment. The aim of this study was to investigate the localization of G proteins and the morphological characteristics of OE and VNE in Reeve's turtle. In-situ hybridization analysis revealed that both G alpha olf and G alpha o are expressed in olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) and vomeronasal receptor neurons (VRNs). Immunocytochemistry of G alpha olf/s and G alpha o revealed that these two G proteins were located at the apical surface, cell bodies, and axon bundles in ORNs and VRNs. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that ORNs had both cilia and microvilli on the apical surface of the same neuron, whereas VRNs had only microvilli. Moreover G alpha olf/s was located on only the cilia of OE, whereas G alpha o was not located on cilia but on microvilli. Both G alpha olf/s and G alpha o were located on microvilli of VNE. These results imply that, in Reeve's turtle, both G alpha olf/s and G alpha o function as signal transduction molecules for chemoreception in ORNs and VRNs.

In two experiments, healthy participants ages 60 years and older provided peak-interval time production data for two target intervals (6 and 17s) over 2 days (baseline and retest sessions). In Experiment 1, three groups of participants were provided with two types of feedback during the baseline session that assisted either decision criteria setting or memory updating. During the retest session, run after a 24-h delay, each group received either one of the two types of feedback, or no feedback at all. Experiment 2 varied three additional groups' feedback during the baseline session only. Results indicated that the duration-dependent timing errors previously associated with aging did not occur during the retest session with the decision-criteria feedback regimen, or during the baseline session even in the complete absence of feedback. Thus, testing following the delay and without decision-criteria feedback are the necessary and sufficient conditions for the expression the timing errors in aging. The efficacy of memory updating feedback could not be established. The discussion contrasts these results with the conditions that produce abnormal timing in Parkinson's disease patients in a similar procedure.
We used psychophysical reverse correlation to determine how directional signals are integrated across a time window of 300 ms. Directional tuning was time independent within the resolution of our measurements, as demonstrated by the fact that the perceptual filter was almost perfectly separable in its temporal and directional dimensions. The amplitude of the filter peaked very early (30-60 ms) and then quickly decreased to almost zero, after which it increased slightly again. We successfully modeled this bimodal behavior using a simple circuit where each directional filter normalizes its own output, with the normalizing signal delayed by approximately 100 ms.

Languages consistently distinguish the path and the manner of a moving event in different constituents, even if the specific constituents themselves vary across languages. Children also learn to categorize moving events according to their path and manner at different ages. Motivated by these linguistic and developmental observations, we employed fMRI to test the hypothesis that perception of and attention to path and manner of motion is segregated neurally. Moreover, we hypothesize that such segregation respects the &quot;dorsal-where and ventral-what&quot; organizational principle of vision. Consistent with this proposal, we found that attention to the path of a moving event was associated with greater activity within bilateral inferior/superior parietal lobules and the frontal eye-field, while attention to manner was associated with greater activity within bilateral postero-lateral inferior/middle temporal regions. Our data provide evidence that motion perception, traditionally considered as a dorsal &quot;where&quot; visual attribute, further segregates into dorsal path and ventral manner attributes. This neural segregation of the components of motion, which are linguistically tagged, points to a perceptual counterpart of the functional organization of concepts and language.
Working memory--including simple maintenance of information as well as manipulation of maintained information--has been long associated with lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC). More recently, evidence has pointed to an important role for posterior parietal cortex (PPC) in supporting working-memory processes as well. While explanations have emerged as to the nature of parietal involvement in working-memory maintenance, the apparent involvement of this region in working-memory manipulation has not been fully accounted for. We have hypothesized that parietal cortex, through its representation of spatial information, in conjunction with dorsolateral PFC, supports organization of information (manipulation) and the maintenance of information in an organized state. Through computational modeling, we have demonstrated how this might be achieved. Presently, we consider a pair of fMRI experiments that were designed to test our hypothesis. Both experiments involved simple working-memory delay tasks with contrasts between maintenance of information in organized and unorganized states, as well as contrasts between high and low working-memory load conditions. Two different kinds of organization, associative (grouping) and relational, were employed in the two studies. Across both studies, superior parietal cortex (BA 7) demonstrated a significant increase in activity associated with maintenance of information in an organized state, over and above any increases associated with increased working-memory load. During the delay period, dorsolateral PFC (BA 9) exhibited similar increases for both organization and load; however, this region was particularly engaged by organization demand during the initial cue period. Functional connectivity analysis indicates interaction between dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and superior parietal cortex, especially when organization is required.
High-density event-related potentials (ERPs) were used to understand the effect of aging on the neural correlates of the picture superiority effect. Pictures and words were systematically varied at study and test while ERPs were recorded at retrieval. Here, the results of the word-word and picture-picture study-test conditions are presented. Behavioral results showed that older adults demonstrated the picture superiority effect to a greater extent than younger adults. The ERP data helped to explain these findings. The early frontal effect, parietal effect, and late frontal effect were all indistinguishable between older and younger adults for pictures. In contrast, for words, the early frontal and parietal effects were significantly diminished for the older adults compared to the younger adults. These two old/new effects have been linked to familiarity and recollection, respectively, and the authors speculate that these processes are impaired for word-based memory in the course of healthy aging. The findings of this study suggest that pictures allow older adults to compensate for their impaired memorial processes, and may allow these memorial components to function more effectively in older adults.
Semantic abilities deteriorate early in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and their residual language is characterised by strong lexical effects such as the age of acquisition of words and their typicality. The anatomical bases of this early semantic degradation have not been fully explored. To clarify which neural structures, when atrophic, alter lexical-semantic function in patients with very mild AD, this study correlated the lexical attributes of words produced in a semantic fluency task with grey matter density values from 3D MRI scans of mild AD patients. The voxel-based analyses showed a significant correlation between the lexical attributes characterising residual linguistic production in early AD patients and the integrity of regions of the medial temporal lobes, especially in areas of the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortex. This correlation was present in both hemispheres. There were no correlations within these structures with scores on neuropsychological tests not involving semantic or episodic memory. The results have implications for the role of medial temporal structures in episodic and semantic retrieval and argue against a unitary function of these structures in respect of episodic and semantic memory processes. This evidence suggests that specialised regions within the hippocampal complex engage in processes of encoding and retrieval for both semantic and episodic memories.
This study examined age differences in error processing and reinforcement learning. We were interested in whether the electrophysiological correlates of error processing, the error-related negativity (ERN) and the feedback-related negativity (FRN), reflect learning-related changes in younger and older adults. To do so, we applied a probabilistic learning task in which we manipulated the validity of feedback. The results of our study showed that learning-related changes were much more pronounced (a) in a response-locked positivity for correct trials compared to the ERN and (b) in a feedback-locked positivity for positive feedback compared to the FRN. These findings provide an important extension to recent theoretical accounts [Holroyd, C. B., &amp; Coles, M. G. H. (2002). The neural basis of human error processing: Reinforcement learning, dopamine, and the error-related negativity. Psychological Review, 109, 679-709; Nieuwenhuis, S., Ridderinkhof, K. R., Talsma, D., Coles, M. G. H., Holroyd, C. B., Kok, A., et al. (2002). A computational account of altered error processing in older age: Dopamine and the error-related negativity. Cognitive, Affective and Behavioral Neuroscience, 2, 19-36] since they suggest that positive learning signals on correct trials contribute to the reward-related variance in the response- and feedback-locked ERPs. This effect has been overlooked in previous studies that have focused on the role of errors and negative feedback for learning. Importantly, we did not find evidence for an age-related reduction of the ERN, when controlling for performance differences between age groups, which questions the view that older adults are generally impaired in error processing. Finally, we observed a substantial reduction of the FRN in the elderly, which indicates that older adults are less affected by negative feedback and rely more on positive feedback during learning. This finding points to an age-related asymmetry in the processing of feedback valence.
Working memory (WM) evoked by linguistic cues for allocentric spatial and egocentric spatial aspects of a visual scene was investigated by correlating fMRI BOLD signal (or &quot;activation&quot;) with performance on a spatial-relations task. Subjects indicated the relative positions of a person or object (referenced by the personal pronouns &quot;he/she/it&quot;) in a previously shown image relative to either themselves (egocentric reference frame) or shifted to a reference frame anchored in another person or object in the image (allocentric reference frame), e.g. &quot;Was he in front of you/her?&quot; Good performers had both shorter response time and more correct responses than poor performers in both tasks. These behavioural variables were entered into a principal component analysis. The first component reflected generalised performance level. We found that the frontal eye fields (FEF), bilaterally, had a higher BOLD response during recall involving allocentric compared to egocentric spatial reference frames, and that this difference was larger in good performers than in poor performers as measured by the first behavioural principal component. The frontal eye fields may be used when subjects move their internal gaze during shifting reference frames in representational space. Analysis of actual eye movements in three subjects revealed no difference between egocentric and allocentric recall tasks where visual stimuli were also absent. Thus, the FEF machinery for directing eye movements may also be involved in changing reference frames within WM.
Traumatic brain injury is accompanied by glial cell activation around the site of the injury. In this study, we investigated the role of toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) in glial cell activation using a stab-wound injury (SWI) model with TLR2 knock-out mice. Penetration of a normal mouse brain with a 26-G needle using a stereotaxic instrument resulted in an 18- and 4-fold upregulation of GFAP and CD11b mRNA, respectively, along the needle track in the injury area. However, in the TLR2 knock-out mice, the induced expression of these genes was reduced by 70% and 40%, respectively. Likewise, there was a reduction in the area of activated glial cells detected by immunohistochemistry and the glial cells had a less-activated morphology in the TLR2 knock-out mice. In addition, the expression of the heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) gene, a glia-expressing wound-responsive gene, was reduced after SWI in TLR2 knock-out mice. Taken together, these data argue that TLR2 contributes to the glial cell activation and HO-1 gene expression associated with traumatic brain injury.
To better understand the role of progestins in the C1 area of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), immunocytochemical localization of progestin receptors (PRs) was combined with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in single sections of RVLM from proestrus rat brains prepared for light and electron microscopy. By light microscopy, PR-immunoreactivity (-ir) was detected in a few nuclei that were interspersed between TH-labeled perikarya and dendrites. Electron microscopy revealed that PR-ir was in several extranuclear locations. The majority of PR-labeling was in non-TH immunoreactive axons (51+/-9%) near the plasma membrane. Additional dual labeling studies revealed that PR-immunoreactive axons could give rise to terminals containing the GABAergic marker GAD65. PR-ir also was found in non-neuronal processes (29+/-9%), some resembling astrocytes. Occasionally, PR-ir was in non-TH-labeled terminals (10+/-3%) affiliated with clusters of small synaptic vesicles, or in patches contained in the cytoplasm of dendrites (10+/-1%). These findings suggest that progestins can primarily modulate neurons in the C1 area of the RVLM by presynaptic mechanisms involving GABAergic transmission. Moreover, they suggest that PR activation may contribute to progestin's effects on arterial blood pressure during pregnancy as well as to sex differences in central cardiovascular regulation.
The presence of phenylalanine (F) at the 6' position of transmembrane domain 2 (TM2) in the alpha4 subunit of alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptors enhances desensitization. As the GABA A receptor affords the ability to study the influence of as few as one and as many as five Fs at this position, we have used it to investigate potential subunit- and stoichiometry-dependent effects of the TM2 6'F mutation on desensitization. Whereas the presence of one F at this position decreased extent of desensitization, desensitization was increased in all configurations that included two or more Fs at the TM2 6' position; desensitization was particularly rapid with 3 or 4 F residues present. Our results demonstrate the ability of F residues at the TM2 6' position to modulate desensitization is likely conserved in the cys-loop family of ligand-gated ion channels. Moreover, our findings demonstrate both stoichiometric- and subunit-dependent effects of the ability of this mutation to regulate desensitization in GABA A receptors.

The transitive inference (TI) task assesses the ability to generalize learned knowledge to new contexts, and is thought to depend on the hippocampus (Dusek &amp; Eichenbaum, 1997). Animals or humans learn in separate trials to choose stimulus A over B, B over C, C over D and D over E, via reinforcement feedback. Transitive responding based on the hierarchical structure A &gt; B &gt; C &gt; D &gt; E is then tested with the novel BD pair. We and others have argued that successful BD performance by animals - and even humans in some implicit studies - can be explained by simple reinforcement learning processes which do not depend critically on the hippocampus, but rather on the striatal dopamine system. We recently showed that the benzodiazepene midazolam, which is thought to disrupt hippocampal function, profoundly impaired human memory recall performance but actually enhanced implicit TI performance (Frank, O'Reilly &amp; Curran, 2006). We posited that midazolam biased participants to recruit striatum during learning due to dysfunctional hippocampal processing, and that this change actually supported generalization of reinforcement values. Greene (2007) questions the validity of our pharmacological assumptions and argues that our conclusions are unfounded. Here we stand by our original hypothesis, which remains the most parsimonious account of the data, and is grounded by multiple lines of evidence.
Myelin-derived Nogo-A protein limits axonal growth after CNS injury. One domain binds to the Nogo-66 receptor to inhibit axonal outgrowth, whereas a second domain, Amino-Nogo, inhibits axonal outgrowth and cell adhesion through unknown mechanisms. Here, we show that Amino-Nogo inhibition depends strictly on the composition of the extracellular matrix, suggesting that Amino-Nogo inhibits the function of certain integrins. Amino-Nogo inhibition can be partially overcome by antibodies that activate integrin beta1 or by the addition of Mn2+, an integrin activator. Furthermore, Amino-Nogo reduces focal adhesion kinase activation by fibronectin. Analysis of various cell lines reveals that alpha(v)beta3, alpha5, and alpha4 integrins are sensitive to Amino-Nogo, but alpha6 integrin is not. Both alpha(v) and alpha5 integrins have widespread expression in adult brain and are found in axonal growth cones. Thus, inhibition of integrin signaling by Amino-Nogo contributes to the failure of CNS axon regeneration.
Evidence from psychopharmacological research has revealed that dopamine receptor agents have opposite effects on cognitive function depending on baseline levels of working memory capacity. These contrasting effects have been interpreted to reflect differential baseline levels of dopamine. Here we demonstrate for the first time that working memory capacity as measured by listening span predicts dopamine synthesis capacity in the striatum, indicating that subjects with low working memory capacity have low DA synthesis capacity in the striatum, whereas subjects with high working memory capacity have high DA synthesis capacity in the striatum.
Na+/Ca+ exchanger 3 (NCX3), one of the three isoforms of the NCX family, is highly expressed in the brain and is involved in the maintenance of intracellular Na+ and Ca2+ homeostasis. Interestingly, whereas the function of NCX3 under physiological conditions has been determined, its role under anoxia is still unknown. To assess NCX3 role in cerebral ischemia, we exposed ncx3-/- mice to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by reperfusion. In addition, to evaluate the effect of ncx3 ablation on neuronal survival, organotypic hippocampal cultures and primary cortical neurons from ncx3-/- mice were subjected to oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) plus reoxygenation. Here we report that ncx3 gene suppression leads to a worsening of brain damage after focal ischemia and to a massive neuronal death in all the hippocampal fields of organotypic cultures as well as in cortical neurons from ncx3-/- mice exposed to OGD plus reoxygenation. In addition, in ncx3-/- cortical neurons exposed to hypoxia, NCX currents, recorded in the reverse mode of operation, were significantly lower than those detected in ncx3+/+. From these results, NCX3 protein emerges as a new molecular target that may have a potential therapeutic value in modulating cerebral ischemia.
The relationship between spiking activities in motor cortex and movement kinematics has been well studied in neurologically intact nonhuman primates. We examined the relationship between spiking activities in primary motor cortex (M1) and intended movement kinematics (position and velocity) using 96-microelectrode arrays chronically implanted in two humans with tetraplegia. Study participants were asked to perform two different tasks: imagined pursuit tracking of a cursor moving on a computer screen and a &quot;neural cursor center-out&quot; task in which cursor position was controlled by the participant's neural activity. In the pursuit tracking task, the majority of neurons were significantly tuned: 90% were tuned to velocity and 86% were tuned to position in one participant; 95% and 84%, respectively, in the other. Additionally, velocity and position of the tracked cursor could be decoded from the ensemble of neurons. In the neural cursor center-out task, tuning to direction of the intended target was well captured by a log-linear cosine function. Neural spiking soon after target appearance could be used to classify the intended target with an accuracy of 95% in one participant, and 80% in the other. It was also possible to extract information about the direction of the difference vector between the target position and the instantaneous neural cursor position. Our results indicate that correlations between spiking activity and intended movement velocity and position are present in human M1 after the loss of descending motor pathways, and that M1 spiking activities share many kinematic tuning features whether movement is imagined by humans with tetraplegia, or is performed as shown previously in able-bodied nonhuman primates.
Unlike mammals, teleost fish can regenerate an injured retina, restoring lost visual function. Little is known of the molecular events that underlie retina regeneration. We previously found that in zebrafish, retinal injury stimulates Mller glia to generate multipotent alpha1-tubulin (alpha1T) and pax6-expressing progenitors for retinal repair. Here, we report the identification of a critical E-box in the alpha1T promoter that mediates transactivation by achaete-scute complex-like 1a (ascl1a) during retina regeneration. More importantly, we show that ascl1a is essential for retina regeneration. Within 4 h after retinal injury, ascl1a is induced in Mller glia. Knockdown of ascl1a blocks the induction of alpha1T and pax6 as well as Mller glial proliferation, consequently preventing the generation of retinal progenitors and their differentiated progeny. These data suggest ascl1a is required to convert quiescent Mller glia into actively dividing retinal progenitors, and that ascl1a is a key regulator in initiating retina regeneration.
We investigated the influence of the bifunctional guidance molecule netrin-1 on axonal growth in the injured adult spinal cord. In the adult, netrin-1 is expressed on mature oligodendrocytes, cells of the central canal, and the meninges. Netrin-1 protein in white matter is selectively enriched adjacent to paranodal loops of myelin in nodes of Ranvier. The repulsion-mediating netrin-1 uncoordinated-5 (UNC5) receptors are expressed by neurons of the corticospinal and rubrospinal projections, and by intrinsic neurons of the spinal cord, both before and after spinal cord injury. Neutralization of netrin-1 in myelin prepared from adult rat spinal cord using UNC5 receptor bodies increases neurite outgrowth from UNC5-expressing spinal motor neurons in vitro. Furthermore, axon regeneration is inhibited in a netrin-1-enriched zone, devoid of other myelin-associated inhibitors, within spinal cord lesion sites in vivo. We conclude that netrin-1 is a novel oligodendrocyte-associated inhibitor that can contribute to axonal growth failure after adult spinal cord injury.
Interneurons are born in subcortical germinative zones and tangentially migrate in multiple streams above and below the developing cortex, and then, at the appropriate developmental stage, migrate radially into the cortex. The factors that control the formation of and the timing of exit from the streams remain obscure; moreover, the rationale for this complicated developmental plan is unclear. We show that a chemokine, Cxcl12, is an attractant for interneurons during the stage of stream formation and tangential migration. Furthermore, the timing of exit from the migratory streams accompanies loss of responsiveness to Cxcl12 as an attractant. Mice with mutations in Cxcr4 have disorganized migratory streams and deletion of Cxcr4 after the streams have formed precipitates premature entry into the cortical plate. In addition, constitutive deletion of Cxcr4 specifically in interneurons alters the regional distribution of interneurons within the cortex and leads to interneuron laminar positioning defects in the postnatal cortex. To examine the role of interneuron distribution on the development of cortical circuitry, we generated mice with focal defects in interneuron distribution and studied the density of postnatal inhibitory innervation in areas with too many and too few interneurons. Interestingly, alterations in IPSC frequency and amplitude in areas with excess interneurons tend toward normalization of inhibitory tone, but in areas with reduced interneuron density this system fails. Thus, the processes controlling interneuron sorting, migration, regional distribution, and laminar positioning can have significant consequences for the development of cortical circuitry and may have important implications for a range of neurodevelopmental disorders.
Although progress has been made identifying the neural areas underlying the primary reinforcing effects of ethanol, few studies have examined the neural areas mediating ethanol-induced conditioned effects. Previous work using the conditioned place preference (CPP) procedure implicates the ventral tegmental area (VTA) (Bechtholt and Cunningham, 2005), but the downstream neural areas modulating the conditioned rewarding effects of ethanol have not been identified. Although the nucleus accumbens (Acb) and the amygdala (Amy), which both receive dopamine innervation from the VTA, have been implicated in the primary reinforcing effects of ethanol, the roles these areas play in ethanol-conditioned behaviors are unknown. In the present set of experiments, we use the CPP procedure along with selective electrolytic lesions to examine the neural areas underlying the acquisition and expression of ethanol conditioned behavior. In the acquisition experiment, male DBA/2J mice received bilateral lesions of the Acb or Amy before CPP training. In the expression experiments, mice received bilateral lesions of the Acb, Acb shell, Acb core, and Amy, or unilateral lesions of the Amy after training but before testing. Lesions of the Acb and Amy before training disrupted acquisition and expression of ethanol CPP. However, when given after training, only lesions of the Amy disrupted expression, whereas lesions of the Acb core facilitated loss of responding, of ethanol CPP. For the first time, these results demonstrate the role of the Acb and Amy in the acquisition and expression of ethanol-induced conditioned reward.
A method is described for confining an animal within an experimenter-defined area without the use of physical boundaries. The area of exploration is constrained by the presence of an aversive noise, triggered whenever the animal steps across a computer-controlled boundary. The radius of the invisible boundary is constantly reset so that the boundary becomes &quot;fuzzy&quot; and the animal cannot use it as a spatial localizing cue. The effectiveness of this technique is demonstrated both with behavioural data confirming reliable confinement, and also recordings of hippocampal place cells made from rats exploring the arena. The place cell data reveal that indeed, the cells did not appear to be controlled by the fuzzy boundary, in contrast with the strong control normally exerted by fixed boundaries. This technique is thus promising for studies of spatial behaviour in which the strong influence of walls needs to be removed in order to allow the study of more subtle processes such as landmark use and path integration.
Understanding the mechanisms that govern neuronal responses to oxidative and metabolic stress is essential for therapeutic intervention. In vitro modeling is an important approach for these studies, as the metabolic environment influences neuronal responses. Surprisingly, most neuronal culture methods employ conditions that are non-physiological, especially with regards to glucose concentrations, which often exceed 20mM. This concentration is a significant departure from physiological glucose levels, and even several-fold greater than that seen during severe hyperglycemia. The goal of this study was to establish a physiological neuronal culture system that will facilitate the study of neuronal energy metabolism and responses to metabolic stress. We demonstrate that the metabolic environment during preparation, plating, and maintenance of cultures affects neuronal viability and the response of neuronal pathways to changes in energy balance.
Experimental protocols used for chronic infusion of neuroactive agents within regions of the brain often utilize a mini-osmotic pump system. Agents are commonly delivered via a stainless steel cannula with a diameter of 0.30 mm or greater. Systems utilizing a cannula of this caliber may impose trauma to the area of interest resulting in architectural damage, thereby compromising structural integrity and normal functioning. As neuroscience inquiry becomes more sophisticated, investigation of brain structures and circuitry requires improved levels of accuracy and higher resolution. We have developed a method for the preparation and implantation of a chronic infusion system within the brain utilizing a borosilicate microcannula with a tip diameter of 50 microm. This technique reduces damage to the local environment and diminishes reactive gliosis at the site of infusion. The configuration of the microinfusion system is also able to conform to the surface of the animal's skull, precluding the need for large cranial pedestals, and thus facilitating closure of the scalp incision and reducing the risk of infection. We demonstrate reliable sustained delivery of a dye having a representative molecular weight using an in vitro model and in vivo studies in rats.
Neprilysin, a zinc-metalloendopeptidase, has important roles in the physiology and pathology of many diseases such as hypertension, cancer and Alzheimer's disease. We have developed an immunocapture assay to measure the specific enzyme activity of neprilysin in brain tissue homogenates and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The assay uses a neprilysin-specific antibody, previously used in a commercially available ELISA kit, to isolate and immobilise NEP from brain homogenates and CSF, prior to the addition of a fluorogenic peptide substrate (Mca-RPPGFSAFK(Dnp)). This fluorogenic substrate is ordinarily cleaved by multiple enzymes. We have shown that without the immunocapture phase, even under reaction conditions reported to be specific for neprilysin - i.e. in the presence of thiorphan, at pH above 7 - the fluorogenic peptide substrate does not allow neprilysin activity in brain homogenates and CSF to be discriminated from that of other closely related enzymes. The specificity of the immunocapture enzyme activity assay was confirmed by &gt;80% inhibition of substrate cleavage in brain homogenates and CSF in the presence of thiorphan. The assay allows high-throughput analysis and, critically, also ensures a high level of enzyme specificity even when assaying crude tissue homogenates or CSF.
Here we present the first database developed for storing, retrieving and cross-referencing neuroscience information about the connectivity of the avian brain. The Avian Brain Circuitry Database (ABCD) contains entries about the new and old terminology of the areas and their hierarchy, data on connections between brain regions, as well as a functional keyword system linked to brain regions and connections. Data were collected from the primary literature and textbooks, and an online submission system was developed to facilitate further data collection directly from researchers. The database aims to help spread the results of avian connectivity studies, the recently revised nomenclature and also to provide data for brain network research. ABCD is freely available at http://www.behav.org/abcd.
Flying insects exhibit stunning behavioral repertoires that are largely mediated by the visual control of flight. For this reason, presenting a controlled visual environment to tethered insects has been and continues to be a powerful tool for studying the sensory control of complex behaviors. To create an easily controlled, scalable, and customizable visual stimulus, we have designed a modular system, based on panels composed of an 8 x 8 array of individual LEDs, that may be connected together to 'tile' an experimental environment with controllable displays. The panels have been designed to be extremely bright, with the added flexibility of individual-pixel brightness control, allowing experimentation over a broad range of behaviorally relevant conditions. Patterns to be displayed may be designed using custom software, downloaded to a controller board, and displayed on the individually addressed panels via a rapid communication interface. The panels are controlled by a microprocessor-based display controller which, for most experiments, will not require a computer in the loop, greatly reducing the experimental infrastructure. This technology allows an experimenter to build and program a visual arena with a customized geometry in a matter of hours. To demonstrate the utility of this system, we present results from experiments with tethered Drosophila melanogaster: (1) in a cylindrical arena composed of 44 panels, used to test the contrast dependence of object orientation behavior, and (2) above a 30-panel floor display, used to examine the effects of ground motion on orientation during flight.
We here report survival in patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) in a large, prospectively studied group of patients with MSA. Eighty-five of 100 patients were known to have died. Three patients were rediagnosed as having PD. Twenty-four patients came to autopsy, which showed MSA in 22 and idiopathic Parkinson's disease in 2. The median survival time was 8.6 and 7.3 years for men and women, respectively (hazard ratio for women was 1.49, 95% CI 0.97-2.31, P = 0.07). Except for rediagnosis as PD, no predictive factors for better survival could be identified. These data confirm the relatively poor prognosis of MSA of less than 9 years on average.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of globus pallidus internus (GPi) has emerged as an effective treatment for primary generalized dystonia. However, the physiological mechanisms of improvement are not fully understood. Cortical activity in response to pallidal stimulation was recorded in 6 patients with primary generalized dystonia &gt;6 months after bilateral GPi DBS. Scalp electroencephalogram was recorded using 60 surface electrodes during 10 Hz bipolar pallidal DBS at each electrode contact pair. Anatomical position of the electrode contacts in relation to the GPi, medial medullary lamina and globus pallidus externus (GPe) was determined from the postoperative stereotactic MRI. In all six patients an evoked potential (EP) was observed with average onset latency of 10.9 ms +/- 0.77, peak latency 26.6 ms +/- 1.6, distributed mainly over the ipsilateral hemisphere, maximal centrally. The mean amplitude of this potential was larger with stimulation in posteroventral GPi than in GPe (3.36 microV vs. 0.50 microV, P &lt; 0.0001). The EP was absent in one patient-side, ipsilateral to a previous thalamotomy. Low frequency GPi stimulation produces an EP distributed centrally over the ipsilateral hemisphere. The latency and distribution of the EP are consistent with stimulation of pallidothalamic neurons projecting to the sensorimotor cortex. Because the EP is larger and more consistently present with stimulation of posteroventral GPi than GPe, it may provide a physiological tool to identify contacts within the optimal surgical target.
Primary torsion dystonia (PTD) has been conceptualized as a disorder of the basal ganglia. However, recent data suggest a widespread pathology involving motor control pathways. In this report, we explored whether PTD is associated with abnormal anatomical connectivity within motor control pathways. We used diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-MRI) to assess the microstructure of white matter. We found that fractional anisotropy, a measure of axonal integrity and coherence, was significantly reduced in PTD patients in the pontine brainstem in the vicinity of the left superior cerebellar peduncle and bilaterally in the white matter of the sensorimotor region. Our data thus support the possibility of a disturbance in cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathways as a cause of the clinical manifestations of PTD.
Protein transduction domains (PTDs) are versatile peptide sequences that facilitate cell delivery of several cargo molecules including proteins. PTDs usually consist of short stretches of basic amino acids that can cross the plasma membrane and gain entry into cells. Traditionally, to assess PTD mediated protein delivery, PTD-fusion proteins have been used as purified proteins. To overcome the requirement for a protein purification step, we used a secretory signal peptide to allow PTD-CRE fusion proteins to be exported from transfected mammalian cells. PTD induced protein transduction into cells was assessed by a CRE-mediated recombination event that resulted in beta-galactosidase expression. Several PTDs were tested including the prototypic TAT, different TAT variants, Antp, MTS and polyarginine. A negative correlation was observed between the cationic charge on the PTD and the extent of secretion. Poor secretion was found when the PTD charge was greater than +5. One TAT-CRE protein variant had a 14-fold enhancement above CRE alone when added to cells in the presence of chloroquine. This PTD domain also enhanced gene expression after plasmid delivery. These data illustrate that some secreted PTD proteins may be useful reagents to improve protein delivery in mammalian systems and a novel approach to enhancing the response to DNA transfections.
Adenosine is an important neuromodulator and neuroprotective molecule, which is produced in the brain as a function of neuronal activity, coupling energy expenditure to energy supply. Under conditions of increased need and reduced availability of energy, including hypoxia and prolonged wakefulness, there is an increase in adenosine turnover and adenosine receptor stimulation. The aim of the present study was to examine how repetitive adenosine receptor stimulation affects receptor function and adenosinergic signaling in the brain. Adult male Wistar rats received daily intraperitoneal injections of the adenosine A1 receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA; 0.25 mg/kg; once per day) and effects on adenosine signaling were established with receptor and G-protein autoradiography. Injections of CPA for 5 consecutive days caused a significant decrease in adenosine A1 receptor numbers in the hippocampus and somatosensory cortex. In contrast, while the amount of adenosine A1 receptor-activated G-proteins was not affected in most regions, a significant increase was found in the somatosensory cortex. On the level of physiological output, CPA-induced hypothermia was significantly attenuated, suggesting a functional desensitization of the A1 receptor system. Taken together, the present findings suggest that repetitive stimulation of the A1 receptors can affect elements of the adenosinergic signaling cascade in the rat brain in a region-specific manner.
We have investigated the neurochemical mechanisms of memory reconsolidation and, in particular, the functional requirement for intracellular mechanisms initiated by beta-adrenergic signaling. We show that propranolol, given in conjunction with a memory reactivation session, can specifically disrupt the conditioned reinforcing properties of a previously appetitively reinforced conditioned stimulus (CS), whether the stimulus had been associated with self-administered cocaine or with sucrose. These data show that memories for both drug and nondrug CS-US associations are dependent on beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated signaling for their reconsolidation, with implications for the potential development of a novel treatment for drug addiction and some forms of obesity.
A prior experience of behavioral control over a stressor interferes with subsequent Pavlovian fear conditioning, and this effect is dependent on the activation of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFCv) at the time of the initial experience with control. It is unknown whether mPFCv activity is necessary during fear learning and/or testing for this interference to occur. One week following controllable stress, the infralimbic cortex (IL) was temporarily inactivated either before fear learning or later testing. Inactivation of the IL before the test for conditioned fear, but not before conditioning, blocked the fear reducing effects of prior controllable stress. This suggests that the experience with control interferes with the expression of fear behavior and not the learning of the association, and that the mPFCv is needed to regulate conditioned fear behavior.

Polyglutamine diseases are inherited neurodegenerative disorders caused by expansion of CAG repeats encoding a glutamine tract in the disease-causing proteins. There are nine disorders, each having distinct features but also clinical and pathological similarities. In particular, spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 and 7 (SCA1 and SCA7) patients manifest cerebellar ataxia with degeneration of Purkinje cells. To determine whether the disorders share molecular pathogenic events, we studied two mouse models of SCA1 and SCA7 that express the glutamine-expanded protein from the respective endogenous loci. We found common transcriptional changes, with down-regulation of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (Igfbp5) representing one of the most robust changes. Igfbp5 down-regulation occurred in granule neurons through a non-cell-autonomous mechanism and was concomitant with activation of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) pathway and the type I IGF receptor on Purkinje cells. These data define one common pathogenic response in SCA1 and SCA7 and reveal the importance of intercellular mechanisms in their pathogenesis.
Alterations in cerebrovascular regulation related to vascular oxidative stress have been implicated in the mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but their role in the amyloid deposition and cognitive impairment associated with AD remains unclear. We used mice overexpressing the Swedish mutation of the amyloid precursor protein (Tg2576) as a model of AD to examine the role of reactive oxygen species produced by NADPH oxidase in the cerebrovascular alterations, amyloid deposition, and behavioral deficits observed in these mice. We found that 12- to 15-month-old Tg2576 mice lacking the catalytic subunit Nox2 of NADPH oxidase do not develop oxidative stress, cerebrovascular dysfunction, or behavioral deficits. These improvements occurred without reductions in brain amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) levels or amyloid plaques. The findings unveil a previously unrecognized role of Nox2-derived radicals in the behavioral deficits of Tg2576 mice and provide a link between the neurovascular dysfunction and cognitive decline associated with amyloid pathology.
Heat-shock proteins (HSPs) are abundant, inducible proteins best known for their ability to maintain the conformation of proteins and to refold damaged proteins. Some HSPs, especially HSP90, can be antiapoptotic and the targets of anticancer drugs. Inositol hexakisphosphate kinase-2 (IP6K2), one of a family of enzymes generating the inositol pyrophosphate IP7 [diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (5-PP-IP5)], mediates apoptosis. Increased IP6K2 activity sensitizes cancer cells to stressors, whereas its depletion blocks cell death. We now show that HSP90 physiologically binds IP6K2 and inhibits its catalytic activity. Drugs and selective mutations that abolish HSP90-IP6K2 binding elicit activation of IP6K2, leading to cell death. Thus, the prosurvival actions of HSP90 reflect the inhibition of IP6K2, suggesting that selectively blocking this interaction could provide effective and safer modes of chemotherapy.
We have previously shown that the extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK/ MAPK) is transiently activated in anatomically restricted regions of the lateral amygdala (LA) following Pavlovian fear conditioning and that blockade of ERK/MAPK activation in the LA impairs both fear memory consolidation and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the amygdala, in vitro. The present experiments evaluated the role of the ERK/MAPK signaling cascade in LTP at thalamo-LA input synapses, in vivo. We first show that ERK/MAPK is transiently activated/phosphorylated in the LA at 5 min, but not 15 or 60 min, after high-frequency, but not low-frequency, stimulation of the auditory thalamus. ERK activation induced by LTP-inducing stimulation was anatomically restricted to the same regions of the LA previously shown to exhibit ERK regulation following fear conditioning. We next show that intra-LA infusion of U0126, an inhibitor of ERK/MAPK activation, impairs LTP at thalamo-LA input synapses. Collectively, results demonstrate that ERK/MAPK activation is necessary for synaptic plasticity in anatomically defined regions of the LA, in vivo.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) mediate certain forms of synaptic plasticity and learning. We used a touchscreen system to assess NR2A subunit knockout mice (KO) for (1) pairwise visual discrimination and reversal learning and (2) acquisition and extinction of an instrumental response requiring no pairwise discrimination. NR2A KO mice exhibited significantly retarded discrimination learning. Performance on reversal was impaired in NR2A KO mice during the learning phase of the task; with no evidence of heightened perseverative responses. Acquisition and extinction of an instrumental behavior requiring no pairwise discrimination was normal in NR2A KO mice. The present findings demonstrate a significant and selective deficit in discrimination learning following loss of NR2A.
Preexposure to the conditioning context can influence the expression of context-conditioned fear. We used behavioral and early growth response gene (egr-1) assays in rats to study the effects of massed and distributed context preexposure on context-conditioned fear. The results demonstrated that massed context preexposure impaired acquisition of contextual fear, an effect here referred to as delayed shock deficit. Spaced context preexposure produced similar inhibitory effects. Significantly, the introduction of a brief change of context prior to conditioning completely reversed the deficit induced by massed, but not by distributed, context preexposure. This reversibility was inversely related to the duration of the context shift. The acquisition of context-conditioned fear was associated with enhanced Egr-1 expression in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). No such increase was evident in animals undergoing distributed context preexposure or in those experiencing massed preexposure without change of context. Remarkably, a brief change of context prior to conditioning not only facilitated learning following massed preexposure but also elicited a significant elevation of Egr-1 protein levels in the BLA. The findings shown demonstrated that the inhibitory effects of massed and distributed context preexposure on conditioning could be dissociable both behaviorally and physiologically. We suggest that the delayed shock deficit associated with massed preexposure derives from perceptual fade-out or inattention and its reversal by a brief change of context from attentional recovery.
A well-defined sleep deprivation (SD) syndrome has been observed in studies with rats under conditions of severe sleep loss on the Disk-Over-Water (DOW) apparatus. Observation of the sleep deprivation syndrome across taxa would assist in the elucidation of the function of sleep. In the present study, the effects of total sleep deprivation were assessed in pigeons, a biologically relevant choice given that birds are the only non-mammalian taxon known to exhibit unequivocal rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep and non-REM (NREM) sleep. Pigeons were deprived of sleep for 24-29 days on the DOW by rotating the disk and requiring them to walk whenever sleep was initiated. Control (C) birds were also housed on the DOW and required to walk only when the deprived (D) birds were required to walk due to sleep initiation. NREM and REM sleep amounts were reduced from baseline during the deprivation for both D and C birds, although D birds obtained less NREM sleep than controls. Across the deprivation, D birds had their total sleep reduced by 54% of baseline (scored in 4 s epochs), whereas previous studies in rats on the DOW reported total sleep reduction of as much as 91% (scored in 30 s epochs). Pigeons proved to be more resistant to sleep deprivation by the DOW method and were much more difficult to deprive over the course of the experiment. Overall, the pigeons showed recovery sleep patterns similar to those seen in rats; i.e., rebound sleep during recovery was disproportionately composed of REM sleep. They did not, however, show the obvious external physical signs of the SD syndrome nor the large metabolic and thermoregulatory changes associated with the syndrome. The DOW method was thus effective in producing sleep loss in the pigeon, but was not as effective as it is in rats. The absence of the full SD syndrome is discussed in the context of limitations of the DOW apparatus and the possibility of species-specific adaptations that birds may possess to withstand or adapt to conditions of limited sleep opportunity.
Animals living in temporally dynamic environments experience variation in resource availability, climate and threat of infection over the course of the year. Thus, to survive and reproduce successfully, these organisms must allocate resources among competing physiological systems in such a way as to maximize fitness in changing environments. Here, we review evidence supporting the hypothesis that physiological trade-offs, particularly those between the reproductive and immune systems, mediate part of the seasonal changes detected in the immune defences of many vertebrates. Abundant recent work has detected significant energetic and nutritional costs of immune defence. Sometimes these physiological costs are sufficiently large to affect fitness (e.g. reproductive output, growth or survival), indicating that selection for appropriate allocation strategies probably occurred in the past. Because hormones often orchestrate allocations among physiological systems, the endocrine mediators of seasonal changes in immune activity are discussed. Many hormones, including melatonin, glucocorticoids and androgens have extensive and consistent effects on the immune system, and they change in systematic fashions over the year. Finally, a modified framework within which to conduct future studies in ecological immunology is proposed, viz. a heightened appreciation of the complex but intelligible nature of the vertebrate immune system. Although other factors besides trade-offs undoubtedly influence seasonal variation in immune defence in animals, a growing literature supports a role for physiological trade-offs and the fitness consequences they sometimes produce.
Deficiency of the meso-diencephalic dopamine (mdDA) neuron specific transcription factor Pitx3 in aphakia (ak) mice results in the loss of the substantia nigra compacta (SNc). Concomitantly, reduced spontaneous locomotor behavior, symptoms reminiscent to those in Parkinson's disease, has been reported. However, the ak mouse line originates from the 1960s and has been compared to C57BL/6J inbred controls. Therefore, to define Pitx3 gene function in baseline and novelty-induced locomotor behavior and mdDA neuronal activity, we analyzed Pitx3-deficiency in a controlled genetic and epigenetic background. The analysis implicated that, in contrast to the controversial and previously reported hypo-activity in ak mice, Pitx3-/- mice showed normal dark phase motor activity levels. Our data also revealed that ak and Pitx3-/- mice both display a similar neuro-anatomical and physiological phenotype, and, interestingly, showed increased spontaneous home cage activity levels during their habitual sleep phase. Further behavioral analysis revealed that both ak and Pitx3-/- mice have reduced transitions but increased consolidation of specific locomotor behaviors, such as rearing and horizontal movement. Thus, Pitx3 is not involved in the expression of nighttime motor activity levels, but is critical for selective mdDA neuronal activity and associated with increased consolidation of movement.
Neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies on episodic memory retrieval have primarily focused on volitional memory tasks. However, some conscious memories arise involuntarily, i.e. without a strategic retrieval attempt, yet little is known about the neural network underlying involuntary episodic memory. The aim of this study was to determine whether voluntary and involuntary recall are mediated by separate cortical networks. We used positron emission tomography (PET) to measure changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 12 healthy subjects during voluntary and involuntary cued recall of pictures and a control condition with no episodic memory requirements. Involuntary recall was elicited by using an incidental memory task. Compared to the control condition, voluntary and involuntary recall were both associated with significant regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) increases in posterior cingulate gyrus (PCG; BA 23), left precuneus (BA 7), and right parahippocampal gyrus (BA 35/36). In addition, rCBF in right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC; BA 8/9) and left precuneus (BA 7) was significantly larger during voluntary compared to involuntary recall, while rCBF was enhanced in left dorsolateral PFC (BA 9) during involuntary recall. The findings corroborate an association of the right PFC with a strategic component of episodic memory retrieval. Moreover, they show for the first time that it is possible to activate the medial temporal lobe, the PCG, and the precuneus, regions normally associated with retrieval success, without this strategic element. The relatively higher activity in precuneus during voluntary compared to involuntary recall suggests that activity in this region co-varies not only with retrieval success but also with retrieval intentionality.
Systemically administered human recombinant erythropoietin (EPO) may have the potential to reduce the cognitive and behavioural symptoms of a mechanical brain injury. In a series of studies we address this possibility. We have previously found that EPO given to fimbria-fornix transected rats at the moment of injury is able substantially to improve the posttraumatic acquisition of allocentric place learning tasks administered in a water maze as well as in an 8-arm radial maze. It is, however, essential to evaluate this clinically important ability of EPO within other cognitive domains, as well. Consequently, we presently studied the effects of similarly administered EPO in fimbria-fornix transected and control operated rats, respectively--evaluating the posttraumatic behavioural/cognitive abilities in a spatial delayed alternation task performed in a T-maze. Administration of EPO to the hippocampally injured rats was associated with a substantial reduction of the lesion-associated behavioural impairment--while such an impairment was clearly seen in the saline injected fimbria-fornix transected group. In contrast, EPO had no detectable effect on the task acquisition of non-lesioned animals. The results of the present study confirm our previous demonstrations that EPO is able to reduce or eliminate the behavioural/cognitive consequences of mechanical injury to the hippocampus--and emphasize that this ability is present across a broader spectrum of cognitive domains.
The acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are proton-gated, voltage-insensitive cation channels expressed throughout the nervous system. ASIC1a plays a role in learning, pain, and fear-related behaviors. In addition, activation of ASIC1a during prolonged acidosis following cerebral ischemia induces neuronal death. ASICs undergo steady-state desensitization, a characteristic that limits ASIC1a activity and may play a prominent role in the prevention of ASIC1a-evoked neuronal death. In this study, we found exogenous and endogenous arginine-phenylalanine-amide (RF-amide)-related peptides decreased the pH sensitivity of ASIC1a steady-state desensitization. During conditions that normally induced steady-state desensitization, these peptides profoundly enhanced ASIC1a activity. We also determined that human ASIC1a required more acidic pH to undergo steady-state desensitization compared with mouse ASIC1a. Surprisingly, steady-state desensitization of human ASIC1a was also affected by a greater number of peptides compared with mouse ASIC1a. Mutation of five amino acids in a region of the extracellular domain changed the characteristics of human ASIC1a to those of mouse ASIC1a, suggesting that this region plays a pivotal role in neuropeptide and pH sensitivity of steady-state desensitization. Overall, these experiments lend vital insight into steady-state desensitization of ASIC1a and expand our understanding of the structural determinants of RF-amide-related peptide modulation. Furthermore, our finding that endogenous peptides shift steady-state desensitization suggests that RF-amides could impact the role of ASIC1a in both pain and neuronal damage following stroke and ischemia.
Inflammatory changes, characterized by an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokine production and up-regulation of the corresponding signaling pathways, have been described in the brains of aged rats and rats treated with the potent immune modulatory molecule lipopolysaccharide (LPS). These changes have been coupled with a deficit in long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampus. The evidence suggests that anti-inflammatory agents, which attenuate the LPS-induced and age-associated increase in hippocampal interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) concentration, lead to restoration of LTP. Here we report that atorvastatin, a member of the family of agents that act as inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase, exerts powerful anti-inflammatory effects in brain and that these effects are mediated by IL-4 and independent of its cholesterol-lowering actions. Treatment of rats with atorvastatin increased IL-4 concentration in hippocampal tissue prepared from LPS-treated and aged rats and abrogated the age-related and LPS-induced increases in pro-inflammatory cytokines, interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) and IL-1beta, and the accompanying deficit in LTP. The effect of atorvastatin on the LPS-induced increases in IFNgamma and IL-1beta was absent in tissue prepared from IL-4(-/-) mice. The increase in IL-1beta in LPS-treated and aged rats is associated with increased microglial activation, assessed by analysis of major histocompatibility complex II expression, and the evidence suggests that IFNgamma may trigger this activation. We propose that the primary effect of atorvastatin is to increase IL-4, which antagonizes the effects of IFNgamma, the associated increase in microglial activation, and the subsequent cascade of events.




The acquisition of new memories for places and events requires synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, and plasticity depends on temporal coordination among neurons. Spatial activity in the hippocampus is relatively disorganized during the initial exploration of a novel environment, however, and it is unclear how neural activity during the initial stages of learning drives synaptic plasticity. Here we show that pairs of CA1 cells that represent overlapping novel locations are initially more coactive and more precisely coordinated than are cells representing overlapping familiar locations. This increased coordination occurs specifically during brief, high-frequency events (HFEs) in the local field potential that are similar to ripples and is not associated with better coordination of place-specific neural activity outside of HFEs. As novel locations become more familiar, correlations between cell pairs decrease. Thus, hippocampal neural activity during learning has a unique structure that is well suited to induce synaptic plasticity and to allow for rapid storage of new memories.
Place-specific firing in the hippocampus is determined by path integration-based spatial representations in the grid-cell network of the medial entorhinal cortex. Output from this network is conveyed directly to CA1 of the hippocampus by projections from principal neurons in layer III, but also indirectly by axons from layer II to the dentate gyrus and CA3. The direct pathway is sufficient for spatial firing in CA1, but it is not known whether similar firing can also be supported by the input from CA3. To test this possibility, we made selective lesions in layer III of medial entorhinal cortex by local infusion of the neurotoxin gamma-acetylenic GABA. Firing fields in CA1 became larger and more dispersed after cell loss in layer III, whereas CA3 cells, which receive layer II input, still had sharp firing fields. Thus, the direct projection is necessary for precise spatial firing in the CA1 place cell population.
The molecular mechanisms controlling the development of distinct subtypes of neocortical projection neurons, and CNS neuronal diversity more broadly, are only now emerging. We report that the transcription factor SOX5 controls the sequential generation of distinct corticofugal neuron subtypes by preventing premature emergence of normally later-born corticofugal neurons. SOX5 loss-of-function causes striking overlap of the identities of the three principal sequentially born corticofugal neuron subtypes: subplate neurons, corticothalamic neurons, and subcerebral projection neurons. In Sox5(-/-) cortex, subplate neurons aberrantly develop molecular hallmarks and connectivity of subcerebral projection neurons; corticothalamic neurons are imprecisely differentiated, while differentiation of subcerebral projection neurons is accelerated. Gain-of-function analysis reinforces the critical role of SOX5 in controlling the sequential generation of corticofugal neurons--SOX5 overexpression at late stages of corticogenesis causes re-emergence of neurons with corticofugal features. These data indicate that SOX5 controls the timing of critical fate decisions during corticofugal neuron production and thus subtype-specific differentiation and neocortical neuron diversity.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a highly specialized brain endothelial structure of the fully differentiated neurovascular system. In concert with pericytes, astrocytes, and microglia, the BBB separates components of the circulating blood from neurons. Moreover, the BBB maintains the chemical composition of the neuronal &quot;milieu,&quot; which is required for proper functioning of neuronal circuits, synaptic transmission, synaptic remodeling, angiogenesis, and neurogenesis in the adult brain. BBB breakdown, due to disruption of the tight junctions, altered transport of molecules between blood and brain and brain and blood, aberrant angiogenesis, vessel regression, brain hypoperfusion, and inflammatory responses, may initiate and/or contribute to a &quot;vicious circle&quot; of the disease process, resulting in progressive synaptic and neuronal dysfunction and loss in disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, and others. These findings support developments of new therapeutic approaches for chronic neurodegenerative disorders directed at the BBB and other nonneuronal cells of the neurovascular unit.
The anatomy of the entorhinal-hippocampal circuit suggests how spatial information may flow into and out of the CA1 region. In this issue of Neuron, two groups use in vivo physiology to make predictions about the circuit mechanisms involved in the encoding and maintenance of spatial memory. Brun et al. show that lesions of the cells providing direct input from the mEC to CA1 lead to a decrease in spatial tuning, while Cheng and Frank report that the exploration of novel space leads to a transient increase in the temporally correlated firing of pairs of CA1 cells outside of their place fields specifically during ripple-like high-frequency events in the local field potential.
The dichotic listening test is non-invasive behavioural technique to study brain lateralization and it has been shown, that its results can be systematically modulated by varying stimulation properties (bottom-up effects) or attentional instructions (top-down effects) of the testing procedure. The goal of the present study was to further investigate the bottom-up modulation, by examining the effect of differences in the right or left ear stimulus intensity on the ear advantage. For this purpose, interaural intensity difference were gradually varied in steps of 3 dB from -21 dB in favour of the left ear to +21 dB in favour of the right ear, also including a no difference baseline condition. Thirty-three right-handed adult participants with normal hearing acuity were tested. The dichotic listening paradigm was based on consonant-vowel stimuli pairs. Only pairs with the same voicing (voice or non-voiced) of the consonant sound were used. The results showed: (a) a significant right ear advantage (REA) for interaural intensity differences from 21 to -3 dB, (b) no ear advantage (NEA) for the -6 dB difference, and (c) a significant left ear advantage (LEA) for differences form -9 to -21 dB. It is concluded that the right ear advantage in dichotic listening to CV syllables withstands an interaural intensity difference of -9 dB before yielding to a significant left ear advantage. This finding could have implications for theories of auditory laterality and hemispheric asymmetry for phonological processing.
False memories arise when people 'remember' experiences that have never occurred. Using the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) paradigm, researchers have demonstrated that participants tend to falsely recognize non-studied words (lures) that are associated to previously studied words. Several questions, however, remain regarding the neurocognitive basis of false memory formation. Various encoding manipulations have been shown to affect the behavioral and electrophysiological correlates of false memories, but little is known about whether false memory formation and its neurophysiological correlates are influenced by different test contexts. We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) during the DRM paradigm, wherein the test included lures that were either preceded by semantically related words or not. Results indicated more false recognitions for lures preceded by related words than for lures that were not preceded by related words at test. Furthermore, the former elicited more positive parietal potentials at 300-600 ms relative to the latter. These findings suggest that test context critically affects behavioral and neurophysiological responses for false memory, providing further insight into the neurocognitive basis of human memory.
Neuroimaging and lesion studies suggest that a network of different brain areas are involved in mental calculation processes. Indeed, little is known about the comparability of brain activation across studies because of the variety of different design parameters. The experiment reported in the present study examined response times and fMRI-BOLD activity patterns in normal volunteers for calculation tasks entailing addition, subtraction, multiplication and division tasks of different complexities from auditory stimulation. FMRI data showed activation patterns in bilateral superior frontal, adjacent to medial frontal regions, and in right precuneus as revealed by conjunction analysis. All other regional activations appeared to be operation-specific and distributed in predominantly right hemispheric frontal, parietal and central regions. It is concluded that both operation and task presentation modalities can have significant influence on the mobilization of regional neuronal networks required for mental calculation processes. Therefore, it is suggested that results from different studies should only be compared directly when analogous presentation modalities and operators were used in the applied experimental designs.
Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, the main psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, activates specific cannabinoid (CB) receptors to exert complex actions on modulatory neurotransmitters involved in attention and cognition. Previous research has demonstrated that systemic administration of the synthetic cannabinoid agonist, WIN 55,212-2, increases norepinephrine efflux in the frontal cortex. The distribution of CB1 receptors on noradrenergic fibers in the frontal cortex suggests this may be one potential site for the regulation of norepinephrine release. In the present study, we first examined the ability of a CB1 antagonist, applied locally in the frontal cortex of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats, to block the actions of systemic WIN 55,212-2. Pretreatment with SR 141716A (300 microM) significantly attenuated the excitatory effects of WIN 55,212-2 (15 mg/kg, i.p.). Next, the impact of direct perfusion of WIN 55,212-2 into the frontal cortex on extracellular norepinephrine efflux was measured. Direct application of WIN 55,212-2 (100 microM) into the frontal cortex elicited a significant increase in extracellular norepinephrine efflux suggesting that activation of cortical cannabinoid receptors contributes to alterations in norepinephrine levels in this brain region. Finally, local administration of SR 141716A followed by local administration of WIN 55,212-2 revealed a paradoxical inhibition of norepinephrine efflux.
Exercise reduces ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) injury in the rat stroke model. We investigated whether pre-ischemic exercise ameliorates blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction in stroke by reducing matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 expression and strengthening basal lamina. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a 30 min exercise program on a treadmill 5 days a week for 3 weeks. Stroke was induced by a 2-h middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion using an intraluminal filament in the exercised and non-exercised groups. Brain infarction was measured and neurological deficits were scored. BBB dysfunction was determined by examining brain edema and Evans Blue extravasation. Expression of collagen IV, the major component of basal lamina essential for maintenance of the endothelial permeability barrier, was quantitatively detected by Western blot and immunocytochemistry. Ex vivo techniques were used to compare collagen IV-labeled vessels in response to ischemic insult. Temporal relationship of expression of MMP-9 and its endogenous inhibitor, the tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1), was determined by real-time PCR for mRNA and Western blot for protein during reperfusion. Brain edema and Evans Blue leakage were both significantly (P&lt;0.01) reduced after stroke in the exercised group, in association with reduced brain infarct volume and neurological deficits. Western blot analysis indicated that exercise enhanced collagen IV expression and reduced the collagen loss after stroke. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated that collagen IV-labeled vessels were significantly (P&lt;0.01) increased in exercised rats. In the ex vivo study, after exercised brains were incubated with ischemic brain tissue, a significantly (P&lt;0.01) higher level of collagen IV-labeled vessels was observed as compared with non-exercised brains following the same treatment. The ex vivo study also revealed a key role of MMP-9 in exercise-strengthened collagen IV expression against I/R injury. TIMP-1 protein levels were significantly (P&lt;0.01) increased by exercise. Our results indicate that pre-ischemic exercise reduces brain injury by improving BBB function and enhancing basal lamina integrity in stroke. This study suggests that the neuroprotective effect of physical exercise is associated with an imbalance of MMP-9 and TIMP-1 expression.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is a long-lasting increase in synaptic efficacy which is considered a cellular correlate of learning and memory. It has been shown that both, stimuli with emotional/motivational content and the electrical stimulation the basolateral amygdala, can modulate hippocampal LTP. The nucleus accumbens is part of the ventral striatum and is composed of two main regions: core and shell. Core and shell share a similar cellular composition, but differ in their connectivity with other brain areas. Considering that the nucleus accumbens is related to motivation and that it receives a strong projection from the basolateral amygdala, we have studied the effect of stimulating accumbens shell or core on medial perforant path-granule cells' LTP in anesthetized male Wistar rats. We found that electrical stimulation of the shell enhances the magnitude of LTP while the stimulation of the core completely prevents LTP induction. The stimulation of the accumbens shell or core alone produced no apparent, direct field potential in dentate gyrus. Additionally, the co-stimulation of the shell or core with the medial perforant path does not modify the input-output curves obtained using stimulation of the perforant path only. These results demonstrate that electrical stimulation of the accumbens shell or core has a bidirectional effect on LTP induction at the dentate gyrus.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), a ubiquitous pro-inflammatory cytokine, is an important mediator in the immune-neuroendocrine system that affects the CNS. The present study demonstrates that treatment with TNF-alpha activates microglia to increase TNF-alpha production in primary cultures of glial cells isolated from wild-type (WT) mice and mice deficient in the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOSKO). However, mitochondrial dysfunction in WT neurons occurs at lower concentrations of TNF-alpha when neurons are directly treated with TNF-alpha or co-cultured with TNF-alpha-treated microglia than iNOSKO neurons similarly treated. Immunofluorescent staining of primary neurons co-cultured with TNF-alpha-treated microglia reveals that the antioxidant enzyme in mitochondria, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), is co-localized with nitrotyrosine in WT but not in iNOSKO primary neuronal cells. Importantly, the percentage of surviving neurons is significantly reduced in WT neurons compared with iNOSKO neurons under identical treatment conditions. Together, the results suggest that TNF-alpha activates microglia to produce high levels of TNF-alpha and that production of nitric oxide (NO) in neurons is an important factor affecting MnSOD nitration and subsequent mitochondrial dysfunction.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 Tat is a multifunctional protein involved in viral replication, inflammation and apoptosis. Tat activates phospholipase C-beta (PLC-beta), presumably via a pertussis toxin (PTX) sensitive G(i) protein, which is critical for neuronal apoptosis. In this study, we show that Tat-mediated intracellular Ca(2+) release in rat pheochromocytoma (PC-12) cells and rat primary cortical neuronal cultures was abrogated by pretreatment with either pertussis toxin and/or its B-oligomer subunit (PTX-B), devoid of ADP ribosyltransferase activity. PTX-B pretreatment also inhibited intracellular Ca(2+) release by bradykinin and 2,4,6-trimethyl-N-(m-3-trifluoromethylphenyl) benzenesulfonamide (m-3M3FBS), a director activator of phospholipase C. Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) by phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PdBu) mimicked the PTX-B-mediated inhibition of m-3M3FBS-stimulated intracellular Ca(2+) increase, while inhibition of PKC by bisindolylmaleimide I hydrochloride (BIM) reversed the inhibitory action of PTX-B. Functionally, PTX-B reduced Tat-induced Bax and caspase-3 proteins and reduced cell apoptosis. We conclude that PTX inhibition of Tat-mediated intracellular Ca(2+) release is independent of ADP ribosylation of the G(i) protein via the A protomer, but mediated by the B-oligomer. Furthermore, PTX-B suppresses HIV-1 Tat-mediated apoptosis by reducing its activation of PLC-beta through a PKC activation pathway.
Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) has been reported to induce catalepsy-like immobilization, but the mechanism underlying this effect remains unclear. In the present study, in order to fully understand the neural circuits involved, we determined the brain sites involved in the immobilization effect in rats. THC dose-dependently induced catalepsy-like immobilization. THC-induced catalepsy-like immobilization is mechanistically different from that induced by haloperidol (HPD), because unlike HPD-induced catalepsy, animals with THC-induced catalepsy became normal again following sound and air-puff stimuli. THC-induced catalepsy was reversed by SR141716, a selective cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist. Moreover, THC-induced catalepsy was abolished by lesions in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and central amygdala (ACE) regions. On the other hand, HPD-induced catalepsy was suppressed by lesions in the caudate putamen (CP), substantia nigra (SN), globus pallidus (GP), ACE and lateral hypothalamus (LH) regions. Bilateral microinjection of THC into the NAc region induced catalepsy-like immobilization. This THC-induced catalepsy was inhibited by serotonergic drugs such as 5-hydroxy-L-tryptophan (5-HTP), a 5-HT precursor, and 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (5-MeODMT), a 5-HT receptor agonist, as well as by anti-glutamatergic drugs such as MK-801 and amantadine, an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. THC significantly decreased 5-HT and glutamate release in the NAc, as shown by in vivo microdialysis. SR141716 reversed and MK-801 inhibited this decrease in 5-HT and glutamate release. These findings suggest that the THC-induced catalepsy is mechanistically different from HPD-induced catalepsy and that the catalepsy-like immobilization induced by THC is mediated by decreased 5-HT neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens due to the action of glutamate-containing neurons.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and methamphetamine (METH) are amphetamine analogues with similar persistent neurochemical effects in the mouse which some have described as neurotoxicity. We attempted to identify dose regimens of MDMA and METH with similar effects on behavioral and physiological variables in the mouse, then quantified the effects of these dose regimens on neurochemistry and microglial markers. Four discrete injections of saline, MDMA (10, 20, or 30 mg/kg), or METH (5 or 10 mg/kg) were administered to mice at 2 h intervals. Body weight was quantified immediately before each injection, and 2 h after the last injection, while core temperature and locomotor activity were continuously monitored via radiotelemetry. Mice were killed 72 h after the final injection and brains were rapidly dissected on ice. Dopamine content in various brain regions was quantified via high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), and microglial activation was assessed by saturation binding of the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) ligand 1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinoline carboxamide ([(3)H]PK11195). Specific dose regimens of MDMA and METH induced similar reductions in body weight, depletions of dopamine and its metabolites, and similar hyperthermic and locomotor stimulant effects, but only METH activated microglia in striatum. These results suggest that repeated high doses of MDMA and METH that produce hyperthermia, locomotor stereotypy, weight loss and neurochemical depletion are not consistently accompanied by microglial activation. The finding that METH, but not MDMA, induces microglial effects in the striatum consistent with neurotoxicity might imply different mechanisms of toxic action for these two psychostimulants.
Acid-sensing ion channel 3 (ASIC3) is the most sensitive acid sensor in sensory neurons that innervate into skin, muscle, heart, and visceral tissues. ASIC3 is involved in ischemia sensing, nociception, mechanosensation, and hearing, but how ASIC3-expressing neurons differ in their firing properties is still unknown. We hypothesized that ASIC3-expressing neurons have specialized firing properties, which, coupled with the heterogeneity of acid-sensing properties, accounts for various physiological roles. Here, we successfully identified ASIC3-expressing lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons whose transient proton-gated currents were blocked by salicylic acid (SA). The salicylic acid-sensitive (SAS) neurons did not exist in DRG neurons of mice lacking ASIC3. SAS neurons expressed distinct electrophysiological properties as compared with other DRG neurons. Especially, SAS neurons fired action potentials (APs) with large overshoot and long afterhyperpolarization duration, which suggests that they belong to nociceptors. SAS neurons also exhibited multiple nociceptor markers such as capsaicin response (38%), action potential (AP) with inflection (35%), or tetrodotoxin resistance (31%). Only in SAS neurons but not other DRG neurons was afterhyperpolarization duration correlated with resting membrane potential and AP duration. Our studies reveal a unique feature of ASIC3-expressing DRG neurons and a basis for their heterogeneous functions.
Neuronal activity regulated pentraxin (Narp) is a secreted, synaptic protein that has been implicated in modulating synaptic transmission. However, it is unclear how Narp secretion is regulated. Since we noted prominent Narp immunostaining in vasopressin neurons of the hypothalamus and in the posterior pituitary, we assessed whether it, like vasopressin, is released into the systemic circulation in an activity-dependent fashion. Consistent with this hypothesis, electron microscopic studies of the posterior pituitary demonstrated that Narp is located in secretory vesicles containing vasopressin. Using affinity chromatography, we detected Narp in plasma and found that these levels are markedly decreased by hypophysectomy. In addition, we confirmed that injection of a viral Narp construct into the hypothalamus restores plasma Narp levels in Narp knockout mice. In checking for activity-dependent secretion of Narp from the posterior pituitary, we found that several stimuli known to trigger vasopressin release, i.e. hypovolemia, dehydration and endotoxin, elevate plasma Narp levels. Taken together, these findings provide compelling evidence that Narp is secreted from vasopressin neurons in an activity-dependent fashion.
Plethodontid salamanders display intricate courtship behaviors. Proteinaceous courtship pheromones were recently discovered in the submandibular (mental) gland of the male Plethodon shermani, the red-legged salamander. Behavioral studies showed that these male pheromones are delivered by direct contact to the female snout and modulate her receptivity during courtship. Previous reports demonstrated that experimental application of courtship pheromones activates vomeronasal sensory neurons in P. shermani. The present study investigated the CNS response to courtship pheromones in that species using immunocytochemical detection of the immediate-early gene product c-Fos. The results show that application of a male gland extract to females activated Fos-like immunolabeling in the extended vomeronasal amygdala of the accessory olfactory system, as well as in the preoptic area and ventromedial hypothalamus; regions of the brain known to mediate reproductive responses in vertebrates. The gland extract additionally activated Fos-like labeling in the raphe median, possibly indicating a serotonergic activation. Application of individual purified courtship pheromone proteins resulted in increases in Fos-like labeling in some of the regions activated by the complete submandibular gland extract, but the pattern of labeling was not as clear as that of the complete extract. Unlike other known vertebrate reproductive pheromones, courtship pheromones in P. shermani were effective only at a high concentration. This could result from the particular mode of pheromone transfer in that species, which involves sustained direct contact between male and female. It is concluded that salamander courtship pheromones exert their influence on behavior through the vomeronasal pathway and its direct projections to the preoptic and hypothalamic regions.
P2X(7) receptor has been recently localized in mice cerebellar granule neuron fibers. Here, the expression of this subunit has been detected in wild type mice midbrain, by quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction, immunocytochemistry and Western blot assays. The functionality of this P2X(7) subunit has been confirmed using microfluorimetric experiments in isolated synaptic terminals from mice midbrain. 2'-3'-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)-ATP (BzATP) was 30-fold more potent than ATP and EC(50) values were 20 microM and 630 microM respectively. Brilliant Blue G (BBG) and 1-[N,O-bis(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-N-methyl-L-tyrosyl]-4-phenylpiperazine (KN-62) produced an inhibition in the responses induced by BzATP, with IC(50) values of 0.027 nM and 2.23 nM, respectively. In addition, P2X(7) inhibitors as ZnSO(4), BBG and suramin abolished partially or totally the responses induced by the physiological agonist ATP. According to immunochemical and PCR assays the presence of a &quot;P2X(7)-like&quot; protein in synaptosomes from validated P2X(7) knockout (KO) model have been detected. In KO animals, BzATP was sixfold more potent than ATP and the EC(50) values were 87 microM and 590 microM respectively. BBG and KN-62 also produced an inhibition in the responses induced by BzATP, with IC(50) value of 0.61 nM and 118 nM respectively, both of them higher than in wild type mice. Moreover, the calcium mobilization ability of native P2X(7) receptors was higher in control compared with KO mice. These biochemical and pharmacological experiments are consistent with the presence of a functional P2X(7) receptor in wild type mice midbrain, and the existence of a less efficient &quot;P2X(7)-like&quot; receptor in the KO model.
The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway modulates growth, proliferation and cell survival in diverse tissue types and plays specialized roles in the nervous system including influences on neuronal polarity, dendritic branching and synaptic plasticity. The tumor-suppressor phosphatase with tensin homology (PTEN) is the central negative regulator of the PI3K pathway. Germline PTEN mutations result in cancer predisposition, macrocephaly and benign hamartomas in many tissues, including Lhermitte-Duclos disease, a cerebellar growth disorder. Neurological abnormalities including autism, seizures and ataxia have been observed in association with inherited PTEN mutation with variable penetrance. It remains unclear how loss of PTEN activity contributes to neurological dysfunction. To explore the effects of Pten deficiency on neuronal structure and function, we analyzed several ultra-structural features of Pten-deficient neurons in Pten conditional knockout mice. Using Golgi stain to visualize full neuronal morphology, we observed that increased size of nuclei and somata in Pten-deficient neurons was accompanied by enlarged caliber of neuronal projections and increased dendritic spine density. Electron microscopic evaluation revealed enlarged abnormal synaptic structures in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. Severe myelination defects included thickening and unraveling of the myelin sheath surrounding hypertrophic axons in the corpus callosum. Defects in myelination of axons of normal caliber were observed in the cerebellum, suggesting intrinsic abnormalities in Pten-deficient oligodendrocytes. We did not observe these abnormalities in wild-type or conditional Pten heterozygous mice. Moreover, conditional deletion of Pten drastically weakened synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity at excitatory synapses between CA3 and CA1 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus. These data suggest that Pten is involved in mechanisms that control development of neuronal and synaptic structures and subsequently synaptic function.
Chronic treatment with the mood stabilizer lithium is required to generate its mood stabilizing effect in the treatment of bipolar disorder. Our recent studies have shown that chronic lithium treatment increases mRNA and protein levels of the cytosolic glutathione s-transferase (GST) M1 isoenzyme. Cytosolic GST encompasses a family of detoxification enzymes that include four main classes: alpha (A), mu (M), pi (P) and theta (T). The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of lithium on GST isoenzymes that are expressed in brain, and determine the role of GST in the neuroprotective effects of lithium against oxidative stress. We found in primary cultured rat cerebral cortical cells that chronic lithium treatment not only increased GST M1 mRNA levels, but also increased GST M3, M5 and A4 mRNA levels. Chronic lithium treatment increased GST enzyme activity when 1-chloro-2, 4-dinitrobenzene and 4-hydroxynonenal were used as substrates. In addition, we found that chronic lithium treatment inhibited reactive oxygen metabolite H(2)O(2)-induced cell death and DNA fragmentation in primary cultured rat cerebral cortical cells, while GST inhibitor ethacrynic acid reduced the neuroprotective effect of lithium against H(2)O(2)-induced cell death and DNA fragmentation. Since GST conjugates glutathione, the major antioxidant in brain, with a variety of oxidized products to form nontoxic products, and plays an important role in cellular protection against oxidative stress, our findings suggest that lithium selectively targets GST isoenzymes in order to produce neuroprotective effects against oxidative stress.
Slack (Slo 2.2), a member of the Slo potassium channel family, is activated by both voltage and cytosolic factors, such as Na(+) ([Na(+)](i)) and Cl(-) ([Cl(-)](i)). Since the Slo family is known to play a role in hypoxia, and since hypoxia/ischemia is associated with an increase in H(+) and CO(2) intracellularly, we hypothesized that the Slack channel may be affected by changes in intracellular concentrations of CO(2) and H(+). To examine this, we expressed the Slack channel in Xenopus oocytes and the Slo 2.2 protein was allowed to be inserted into the plasma membrane. Inside-out patch recordings were performed to examine the response of Slack to different CO(2) concentrations (0.038%, 5%, 12%) and to different pH levels (6.3, 6.8, 7.3, 7.8, 8.3). In the presence of low [Na(+)](i) (5 mM), the Slack channel open probability decreased when exposed to decreased pH or increased CO(2) in a dose-dependent fashion (from 0.28+/-0.03, n=3, at pH 7.3 to 0.006+/-0.005, n=3, P=0.0004, at pH 6.8; and from 0.65+/-0.17, n=3, at 0.038% CO(2) to 0.22+/-0.07, n=3, P=0.04 at 12% CO(2)). In the presence of high [Na(+)](i) (45 mM), Slack open probability increased (from 0.03+/-0.01 at 5 mM [Na(+)](i), n=3, to 0.11+/-0.01, n=3, P=0.01) even in the presence of decreased pH (6.3). Since Slack activity increases significantly when exposed to increased [Na(+)](i), even in presence of increased H(+), we propose that Slack may play an important role in pathological conditions during which there is an increase in the intracellular concentrations of both acid and Na(+), such as in ischemia/hypoxia.
Anatomical and neurochemical studies indicated that the globus pallidus receives serotonergic innervation from raphe nuclei but the membrane effects of 5-HT on globus pallidus neurons are not entirely clear. We address this question by applying whole-cell patch-clamp recordings on globus pallidus neurons in immature rat brain slices. Under current-clamp recording, 5-HT depolarized globus pallidus neurons and increased their firing rate, an action blocked by both 5-HT(4) and 5-HT(7) receptor antagonists and attributable to an increase in cation conductance(s). Further experiments indicated that 5-HT enhanced the hyperpolarization-activated inward conductance which is blocked by 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist. To determine if 5-HT exerts any presynaptic effects on GABAergic and glutamatergic inputs, the actions of 5-HT on synaptic currents were studied. At 10 microM, 5-HT increased the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) but had no effect on both the frequency and amplitude of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). However, 5-HT at a higher concentration (50 microM) decreased the frequency but not the amplitude of the mIPSCs, indicating an inhibition of GABA release from the presynaptic terminals. This effect was sensitive to 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist. In addition to the presynaptic effects on GABAergic neurotransmission, 5-HT at 50 microM had no consistent effects on glutamatergic neurotransmission, significantly increased the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) in 4 of 11 neurons and decreased the frequency of mEPSCs in 3 of 11 neurons. In conclusion, we found that 5-HT could modulate the excitability of globus pallidus neurons by both pre- and post-synaptic mechanisms. In view of the extensive innervation by globus pallidus neurons on other basal ganglia nuclei, this action of 5-HT originated from the raphe may have a profound effect on the operation of the entire basal ganglia network.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are highly expressed in the CNS, mediate the slow component of excitatory transmission and play key roles in synaptic plasticity and excitotoxicity. These ligand-gated ion channels are heteromultimers composed of NR1 and NR2 subunits activated by glycine and glutamate. In this study, patch-clamp recordings were used to study the temperature sensitivity of recombinant NR1/NR2B receptors expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. Rate constants were assessed by fitting a six-state kinetic scheme to time courses of transient macroscopic currents induced by glutamate at 21.9-46.5 degrees C. Arrhenius transformation of the rate constants characterizing NMDA receptor channel activity indicates that the most sensitive were the rate constants of desensitization (temperature coefficient Q(10)=10.3), resensitization (Q(10)=4.6) and unbinding (Q(10)=3.6). Other rate constants and the amplitude of single-channel currents were less temperature sensitive. Deactivation of responses mediated by NR1/NR2B receptors after a brief application of glutamate was best fit by a double exponential function (tau(fast): Q(10)=3.7; tau(slow): Q(10)=2.7). From these data, we conclude that desensitization/resensitization of the NMDA receptor and glutamate unbinding are especially temperature sensitive and imply that at physiological temperatures the channel kinetics play an important role in determining amplitude and time course of NMDA receptor-mediated postsynaptic currents and these receptors mediated synaptic plasticity.
In the mammalian spinal cord, the ventrolateral funiculus (VLF) has been identified as critical to postural control and locomotor function, in part due to the reticulospinal pathways it contains. The primary purpose of this descriptive study was to investigate the distribution of neurons in the medulla labeled retrogradely from the VLF and the intermediate gray matter of specific lumbar and cervical spinal cord segments in the adult rat. We made discrete injections of Fluoro-Ruby (FR) into the intermediate gray matter at the cervical (C) 5/6, 7/8 or lumbar (L) 2 segmental levels followed by a single injection of Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the right VLF at T9. Double-labeled medullary neurons were found primarily in the gigantocellular group of nuclei (Gi), distributed both ipsilaterally and contralaterally following cervical or lumbar FR injections. In addition, a substantial population of neurons contained within the vestibular group of nuclei was double labeled both ipsilaterally and contralaterally. We also identified a substantial population of Gi-related neurons located ipsilateral to the VLF injections that were double labeled following left unilateral FR injections at C5/6, C7/8 or L2. These results describe a substantial population of ipsilateral and commissural medullary neurons that project to both cervical and thoracolumbar segments. Two different populations of commissural neurons are described, one with axons that cross the midline rostral to T9, and one with axons that cross the midline caudal to T9. These observations provide strong additional evidence for a pattern of reticulo- and vestibulospinal projections that include substantial numbers of commissural neurons and project to multiple cervical and thoracolumbar levels.
Research indicates that pain negatively impacts attention; however, the extent of this impact and the mechanisms of the effect of pain on normal attentional processing remain unclear. This study 1) examined the impact of acute inflammatory pain on attentional processing, 2) examined the impact of morphine on attentional processing, and 3) determined if an analgesic dose of morphine would return attentional processing to normal levels. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained on the 5 choice serial reaction time task (5CSRTT), a test commonly used to assess the attentional mechanisms of rodents. Animals were injected with saline or 1, 3, or 6 mg/kg of morphine. Twenty minutes later, animals received a formalin (or saline) injection into one hind paw to induce an inflammatory condition and were then immediately tested in the 5CSRTT. The results show that the formalin injection significantly impaired performance, as measured by an increase in the number of trials in which the animal failed to attend to the task. Likewise, a high dose of morphine (6 mg/kg) produced similar decrements in task performance. Of primary importance is that 3 mg/kg of morphine produced analgesia with only mild sedation, and performance in the 5CSRTT was improved with this dose. This is the first study to use an animal model of acute pain to demonstrate the negative impact of pain on attention, and provides a novel approach to examine the neural correlates that underlie the disruptive impact of pain on attention.
Using a standardized rat model of contusive spinal cord injury (SCI; [Gorio A, Gokmen N, Erbayraktar S, Yilmaz O, Madaschi L, Cichetti C, Di Giulio AM, Vardar E, Cerami A, Brines M (2002) Recombinant human erythropoietin counteracts secondary injury and markedly enhances neurological recovery from experimental spinal cord trauma. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99:9450-9455]), we previously showed that the administration of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) improves both tissue sparing and locomotory outcome. In the present study, to better understand rhEPO-mediated effects on chronic astrocyte response to SCI in rat, we have used immunocytochemical methods combined with confocal and electron microscopy to investigate, 1 month after injury, the effects of a single rhEPO administration on the expression of a) aquaporin 4 (AQP4), the main astrocytic water channel implicated in edema development and resolution, and two molecules (dystrophin and syntrophin) involved in its membrane anchoring; b) glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin as markers of astrogliosis; c) chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans of the extracellular matrix which are upregulated after SCI and can inhibit axonal regeneration and influence neuronal and glial properties. Our results show that rhEPO administration after SCI modifies astrocytic response to injury by increasing AQP4 immunoreactivity in the spinal cord, but not in the brain, without apparent modifications of dystrophin and syntrophin distribution. Attenuation of astrogliosis, demonstrated by the semiquantitative analysis of GFAP labeling, was associated with a reduction of phosphacan/RPTP zeta/beta, whereas the levels of lecticans remained unchanged. Finally, the relative volume of a microvessel fraction was significantly increased, indicating a pro-angiogenetic or a vasodilatory effect of rhEPO. These changes were consistently associated with remarkable reduction of lesion size and with improvement in tissue preservation and locomotor recovery, confirming previous observations and underscoring the potentiality of rhEPO for the therapeutic management of SCI.
Bovine lactoferrin (bLF) is a member of the transferrin protein family that is abundant in bovine milk. Recent studies have shown that bLF plays roles in the regulation of cell growth. However, the biological function of bLF in the peripheral nervous system is still unclear. In this study, the immortalized rat Schwann cells (RSC96) were exposed to bLF at concentrations ranging from 10 to 800 microg/ml for 48 h and compared with control group. The bromodeoxyuridine BrdU cell viability assay was used to examine the effect of bLF on cell viability of RSC96 Schwann cells. Cell-counting test was used to assay the growth rate of RSC96 cells after exposure to bLF, and immunoblot analysis was used to test the signaling pathway controlled by bLF in the RSC96 cells. It was found that the viability of the RSC96 cells was increased by more than 25% when treated with 50 microg/ml bLF and the cell number of RSC96 cells was increased by more than threefold when treated with 800 microg/ml bLF. Our results showed that bLF could significantly improve viability and number of RSC96 Schwann cells. Also, bLF could significantly increase the phosphorylation state of extracellular-signal regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) that could be specifically inhibited by PD98059. Furthermore, bLF could not only protect RSC96 cells from tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) -induced growth arrest but could also restore proliferation rate in TNF-alpha-treated RSC96 cells. In conclusion, bLF plays a crucial role in the proliferation of RSC96 Schwann cells and the protection of RSC96 Schwann cells from TNF-alpha-induced growth arrest via ERK1/2 protein.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with enhanced synchronization of neuronal network activity in the beta (15-30 Hz) frequency band across several nuclei of the basal ganglia (BG). Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) appears to reduce this pathological oscillation, thereby alleviating PD symptoms. However, direct stimulation of primary motor cortex (M1) has recently been shown to be effective in reducing symptoms in PD, suggesting a role for cortex in patterning pathological rhythms. Here, we examine the properties of M1 network oscillations in coronal slices taken from rat brain. Oscillations in the high beta frequency range (layer 5, 27.8+/-1.1 Hz, n=6) were elicited by co-application of the glutamate receptor agonist kainic acid (400 nM) and muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol (50 microM). Dual extracellular recordings, local application of tetrodotoxin and recordings in M1 micro-sections indicate that the activity originates within deep layers V/VI. Beta oscillations were unaffected by specific AMPA receptor blockade, abolished by the GABA type A receptor (GABA(A)R) antagonist picrotoxin and the gap-junction blocker carbenoxolone, and modulated by pentobarbital and zolpidem indicating dependence on networks of GABAergic interneurons and electrical coupling. High frequency stimulation (HFS) at 125 Hz in superficial layers, designed to mimic transdural/transcranial stimulation, generated gamma oscillations in layers II and V (incidence 95%, 69.2+/-7.3 Hz, n=17) with very fast oscillatory components (VFO; 100-250 Hz). Stimulation at 4 Hz, however, preferentially promoted theta activity (incidence 62.5%, 5.1+/-0.6 Hz, n=15) that effected strong amplitude modulation of ongoing beta activity. Stimulation at 20 Hz evoked mixed theta and gamma responses. These data suggest that within M1, evoked theta, gamma and fast oscillations may coexist with and in some cases modulate pharmacologically induced beta oscillations.
By comparing behavioral performance and cortical theta activity (4-8 Hz) on a trial by trial basis we examined how the different behavioral stages of tone-induced avoidance learning in the shuttle-box may be distinguishable by theta power as a potential correlate of changing strategies of information processing. Electrocorticograms with pronounced theta content were recorded across the cortical surface of gerbils during avoidance learning and analyzed in each trial in conjunction with reaction times and unconditioned and conditioned responses. The focus of theta analysis in this paradigm with a 5-s delay between tone and foot-shock onsets was on the 14-s periods after hurdle crossing where feedback information from a trial is available. The strongest theta activity occurred in stage 1 of initial tone conditioning which was sharply reduced to a minimum during stage 2 of optimization of unconditioned escape responses from the foot shock. A few initial successful avoidance responses gave rise to a reversal of the decline of theta activity that later reached a second maximum. A systematic increase of theta activity during this stage 3 of avoidance conditioning was found for the occasional trials with unconditioned responses and not for the increasing number of conditioned responses suggesting that error processing is a major correlate of this new increase of theta power. After the second maximum the theta power slowly declined together with a further improvement of behavioral performance indicating that stage 4 of retrieval of the consolidated avoidance response was reached. The results suggest that behind a previously reported general trend of decreasing theta power with increasing performance in this paradigm there is a hidden microstructure of theta activity across trials which separates stages of avoidance conditioning and is partially mirrored by known changes of prefrontal dopamine release.
In addition to its maladaptive effects on psychiatric function, psychosocial deprivation impairs recovery from physical illness. Previously, we found that psychosocial deprivation, modeled by isolation rearing, depressed immediate early gene (IEG) expression in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and increased locomotion in the open field test [Levine JB, Youngs RM, et al. (2007) Isolation rearing and hyperlocomotion are associated with reduced immediate early gene expression levels in the medial prefrontal cortex. Neuroscience 145(1):42-55]. In the present study, we examined whether similar changes in behavior and gene expression are associated with the maladaptive effects of psychosocial deprivation on physical injury healing. After weaning, anesthetized rats were subjected to a 20% total body surface area third degree burn injury and were subsequently either group or isolation reared. After 4 weeks of either isolation or group rearing (a period that encompasses post-wearing and early adolescence), rats were killed, and their healing and gene expression in the mPFC were assessed. Locomotion in the open field test was examined at 3 weeks post-burn injury. We found that: 1) gross wound healing was significantly impaired in isolation-reared rats compared with group-reared rats, 2) locomotion was increased and IEG expression was suppressed for isolation-reared rats during burn injury healing, 3) the decreased activity in the open field and increased IEG expression was greater for burn injury healing group-reared rats than for uninjured group-reared rats, 4) the degree of hyperactivity and IEG suppression was relatively similar between isolation-reared rats during burn injury compared with uninjured isolation-reared rats. Thus, in the mPFC, behavioral hyperactivity to novelty (the open field test) along with IEG suppression may constitute a detectable biomarker of isolation rearing during traumatic physical injury. Implications of the findings for understanding, assessing, and treating the maladaptive effects of psychosocial deprivation on physical healing during childhood are discussed.
NCBE (SLC4A10) is a member of the SLC4 family of bicarbonate transporters, several of which play important roles in intracellular-pH regulation and transepithelial HCO(3)(-) transport. Here we characterize a new antibody that was generated in rabbit against a fusion protein consisting of maltose-binding protein and the first 135 amino acids (aa) of the N-terminus of human NCBE. Western blotting--both of purified peptides representing the initial approximately 120 aa of the transporters and of full-length transporters expressed in Xenopus oocytes--demonstrated that the antibody is specific for NCBE versus the two most closely related proteins, NDCBE (SLC4A8) and NBCn1 (SLC4A7). Western blotting of tissue in four regions of adult mouse brain indicates that NCBE is expressed most abundantly in cerebral cortex (CX), cerebellum (CB) and hippocampus (HC), and less so in subcortex (SCX). NCBE protein was present in CX, CB, and HC microdissected to avoid choroid plexus. Immunocytochemistry shows that NCBE is present at the basolateral membrane of embryonic day 18 (E18) fetal and adult choroid plexus. NCBE protein is present by Western blot and immunocytochemistry in cultured and freshly dissociated HC neurons but not astrocytes. By Western blot, nearly all NCBE in mouse and rat brain is highly N-glycosylated (approximately 150 kDa). PNGase F reduces the molecular weight (MW) of natural NCBE in mouse brain or human NCBE expressed in oocytes to approximately the predicted MW of the unglycosylated protein. In oocytes, mutating any one of the three consensus N-glycosylation sites reduces glycosylation of the other two, and the triple mutant exhibits negligible functional expression.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive degenerative disease affecting upper and lower motor neurons. Symptom onset may occur in the muscles of the limbs (spinal onset) or those of the head and neck (bulbar onset). Bulbar involvement is particularly important in ALS as it is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The purpose of this study was to characterize bulbar motor deficits in the B6SJL-Tg(SOD1-G93A)1Gur/J (SOD1-G93A) mouse model of familial ALS. We measured orolingual motor function by placing thirsty mice in a customized operant chamber that allows for measurement of tongue force and lick rhythm as animals lick water from an isometric disc. Testing spanned the pre-symptomatic, symptomatic, and end-stage segments of the disease. Rotarod performance, fore- and hindlimb grip strength, and locomotor activity were also monitored regularly during this period. We found that spinal involvement was apparent first, with both fore- and hindlimb grip strength being affected in SOD1-G93A mice from the onset of testing (64 days of age). Rotarod performance was affected by 71 days of age. Locomotor activity was not affected, even near end-stage. Bulbar involvement appeared much later, with tongue motility being affected by 100 days of age. Tongue force was affected by 115 days of age. To our knowledge, these findings are the first to describe the onset of bulbar versus spinal motor signs and characterize orolingual motor deficits in this preclinical model of ALS.
Reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking has been utilized in the study of the neural substrates of relapse to drugs of abuse, particularly cocaine. However, limited studies have examined the circuitry that drives the reinstatement of heroin-seeking behavior in the presence of conditioned cues, or by heroin itself. In order to test the hypothesis that the circuitry underlying reinstatement in heroin-experienced animals would show overlapping, yet distinct differences from cocaine-experienced animals, we used transient inhibition of several cortical, striatal, and limbic brain regions during reinstatement of heroin-seeking produced by heroin-paired cues, or by a single priming dose of heroin. Rats lever pressed for i.v. heroin discretely paired with a conditioned stimulus (CS) during daily 3-h sessions for a period of 2 weeks, followed by daily extinction of lever responding. Subsequent reinstatement of heroin-seeking was measured as lever responding in the absence of heroin reinforcement. The first set of reinstatement tests involved response-contingent CS presentations following bilateral intracranial infusion of either a combination of GABA receptor agonists (baclofen-muscimol, B/M) or vehicle (saline) into one of 13 different brain regions. The second set of reinstatement tests involved a single heroin injection (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.) following either B/M or vehicle infusions. Our results showed that vehicle-infused animals reinstated to both CS presentations and a priming injection of heroin, while B/M inactivation of several areas known to be important for the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking also attenuated heroin-seeking in response to CS presentations and/or a priming dose of heroin. However, as predicted, inactivation of areas previously shown to not affect cocaine-seeking significantly attenuated heroin-seeking, supporting the hypothesis that the circuitry underlying the reinstatement of heroin-seeking is more diffusely distributed than that for cocaine.
Antagonists at presynaptic muscarinic autoreceptors increase endogenous acetylcholine (ACh) release and enhance cognition but little is known regarding their actions on plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. Here the mechanisms of the persistent enhancement of hippocampal excitatory transmission induced by the M2/M4 muscarinic ACh receptor antagonist methoctramine were investigated in vivo. The persistent facilitatory effect of i.c.v. methoctramine in the CA1 region of urethane-anesthetized rats was mimicked by gallamine, an M2 receptor antagonist, supporting a role for this receptor subtype. Neither the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists D-(-)-2-amino phosphonopentanoic acid (d-AP5) and memantine, nor the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1a antagonist (S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid (LY367385) significantly affected the methoctramine-induced persistent synaptic enhancement, indicating a lack of requirement for these glutamate receptors. The selective kinase inhibitors Rp-adenosine-3', 5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate (Rp-cAMPS) and the myrostylated pseudosubstrate peptide, Myr-Ser-Ile-Tyr-Arg-Arg-Gly-Ala-Arg-Arg-Trp-Arg-Lys-Leu-OH (ZIP), were used to investigate the roles of protein kinase A (PKA) and the atypical protein kinase C, protein kinase Mzeta (PKM zeta), respectively. Remarkably, pretreatment with either agent prevented the induction of the persistent synaptic enhancement by methoctramine and post-methoctramine treatment with Rp-cAMPS transiently reversed the enhancement. These findings are strong evidence that antagonism of M2 muscarinic ACh receptors in vivo induces an NMDA receptor-independent persistent synaptic enhancement that requires activation of both PKA and PKM zeta.
NMDA receptors bidirectionally modulate extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) through the coupling of synaptic NMDA receptors to an ERK activation pathway that is opposed by a dominant ERK shutoff pathway thought to be coupled to extrasynaptic NMDA receptors. In the present study, synaptic NMDA receptor activation of ERK in rat cortical cultures was partially inhibited by the highly selective NR2B antagonist Ro25-6981 (Ro) and the less selective NR2A antagonist NVP-AAM077 (NVP). When Ro and NVP were added together, inhibition appeared additive and equal to that observed with the NMDA open-channel blocker MK-801. Consistent with a selective coupling of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors to the dominant ERK shutoff pathway, pre-block of synaptic NMDA receptors with MK-801 did not alter the inhibitory effect of bath-applied NMDA on ERK activity. Lastly, in contrast to a complete block of synaptic NMDA receptor activation of ERK by extrasynaptic NMDA receptors, activation of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors had no effect upon ERK activation by brain-derived neurotrophic factor. These results suggest that the synaptic NMDA receptor ERK activation pathway is coupled to both NR2A and NR2B containing receptors, and that the extrasynaptic NMDA receptor ERK inhibitory pathway is not a non-selective global ERK shutoff.
The extracellular matrix is known to be involved in neuronal communication and the regulation of plastic changes, and also considered to protect neurons and synapses against damage. The goal of this study was to investigate how major extracellular matrix components (aggrecan, link protein, hyaluronan) constitute the pathways of the nigral system in the human basal ganglia circuit affected by neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease. Here we show that aggrecan- and link protein-related components form clear regional distribution patterns, whereas hyaluronan is widely distributed in gray and white matter. Two predominant phenotypes of the aggrecan-based matrix can be discriminated: (1) perineuronal nets (PNs) and (2) axonal coats (ACs) encapsulating preterminal fibers and synaptic boutons. Clearly contoured PNs are associated with GABAergic projection neurons in the external and internal division of the globus pallidus, the lateral and reticular part of the substantia nigra, as well as subpopulations of striatal and thalamic inhibitory interneurons. Dopaminergic nigral neurons are devoid of PNs but are contacted to a different extent by matrix-coated boutons forming subnucleus-specific patterns. A very dense network of ACs is characteristic especially of the posterior lateral cell groups of the compact substantia nigra (nigrosome 1). In the subthalamic nucleus and the lateral thalamic nuclei numerous AC-associated axons were attached to principal neurons devoid of PNs. We conclude from the region-specific patterns that the aggrecan-based extracellular matrix is adapted to the fast processing of sensorimotor activities which are the therapeutic target of surgery and deep brain stimulation in the treatment of advanced stages of Parkinson's disease.
Ca(2+)-dependent neurotransmitter release was originally thought to occur only following activation of presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channels after a presynaptic action potential. Recent evidence suggests that not only opening of voltage-gated but also ligand-gated ion channels, such as neurotransmitter receptors, can trigger exocytosis, as well as Ca(2+) release from intracellular Ca(2+) stores. It was shown that activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on presynaptic interneurons led to increases in GABA release from these neurons onto postsynaptic Purkinje cells in rat cerebellum in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX), suggesting a presynaptic location for the underlying NMDA receptors. However, the mechanism for the NMDA-induced increase in GABA release remained unclear. The present study addresses the question whether Ca(2+) influx through presynaptic NMDA receptors alone is sufficient to trigger presynaptic GABA release at this synapse or whether activation of presynaptic NMDA receptors leads to opening of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, thereby increasing exocytosis. The results suggest that the NMDA-induced increase in presynaptic GABA release neither requires activation of presynaptic voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels nor Ca(2+) release from presynaptic Ca(2+) stores. It is concluded that Ca(2+) influx through the NMDA receptor alone is sufficient to drive presynaptic GABA release at the rat interneuron-Purkinje cell synapse.
A great deal of effort has been devoted to elucidating the psychopharmacology underlying addiction and relapse. Long-term neuroadaptations in glutamate transmission seem to be of great relevance for relapse to stimulant abuse. In this study, we investigated amphetamine-induced conditioned place preference during adolescence and the reinstatement of the conditioned behavior following a priming injection of the drug 1 day (adolescence), 30 days (early adulthood) and 60 days (adulthood) after the extinction test. The nucleus accumbens was dissected immediately after the reinstatement test to examine alterations in GluR1 and NR1 subunits of glutamatergic receptors. Our results showed that a priming injection of amphetamine was able to reinstate the CPP 1 and 30 days after extinction. However, it failed to reinstate the conditioned response after 60 days. GluR1 levels were decreased on days 1 and 30 but not on day 60 while NR1 levels were unaltered in the reinstatement test. Using a relapse model we found that reinstatement of amphetamine-induced conditioning place preference during adolescence is long lasting and persists through early adulthood. Decreased levels of GluR1 in the nucleus accumbens might be related to the reinstatement of amphetamine-induced conditioning place preference.
mu-Opioid agonists frequently activate output neurons in the brain via disinhibition, that is, by inhibiting &quot;secondary cells,&quot; which results in disinhibition of &quot;primary cells,&quot; considered to be output neurons. Secondary cells are generally presumed to be inhibitory interneurons that serve only to regulate the activity of the output neurons. However, studies of the opioid-sensitive neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla, a region with a well-documented role in nociceptive modulation, indicate that the opioid-inhibited neurons in this region (termed &quot;on-cells&quot; when recorded in vivo) have a distinct functional role that parallels and opposes the output of the subset of RVM neurons that are activated following opioid administration, the &quot;off-cells.&quot; The aim of the present study was to analyze the relative timing of on- and off-cell reflex-related firing in the rostral ventromedial medulla to help determine whether on-cells are likely to function as inhibitory interneurons in this region. On- and off-cells display complementary firing patterns during noxious-evoked withdrawal: off-cells stop firing and on-cells show a burst of activity. If on-cells are inhibitory interneurons mediating the off-cell pause, the on-cells would be expected to begin their reflex-related discharge before the off-cells cease firing. To examine this we recorded activity of on- and off-cell pairs during heat-evoked paw or tail withdrawal in lightly anesthetized rats. For each cell pair, we measured the onsets of the off-cell pause and the on-cell burst. Contrary to what would be expected if on-cells were inhibitory interneurons, off-cells typically ceased firing before on-cells began reflex-related firing, with a mean 481 (+/-69) ms lag between the final off-cell spike and the first on-cell spike. This suggests that on-cells do not mediate the off-cell pause, and points instead to presynaptic mechanisms in opioid-mediated disinhibition of medullary output neurons. These data also support an independent role for on-cells in pain modulation.
The present study investigated the effects of bilateral adrenalectomy (ADX) on the synthesis of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF, FGF-2) mRNA and on the expression of its FGF receptor subtype-2 (FGFR2) mRNA after a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesion of nigrostriatal dopamine system. In previous papers we have demonstrated that corticosterone increases FGF-2 immunoreactivity mainly in the astrocytes of the substantia nigra [Chadi, G., Rosen, L., Cintra, A., Tinner, B., Zoli, M., Pettersson, R.F., Fuxe, K., 1993b. Corticosterone increases FGF-2 (bFGF) immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra of the rat. Neuroreport 4, 783-786.] and that 6-OHDA injected in the ventral midbrain upregulates FGF-2 synthesis in reactive astrocytes in the ascending dopamine pathways [Chadi, G., Cao, Y., Pettersson, R.F., Fuxe, K., 1994. Temporal and spatial increase of astroglial basic fibroblast growth factor synthesis after 6-hydroxydopamine-induced degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. Neuroscience 61, 891-910.]. Rats were adrenalectomized and received a 6-OHDA stereotaxical injection in the ventral midbrain 2 days later. Seven days after the dopamine lesion, Western blot analysis showed a decreased level of tyrosine hydroxylase in the lesioned side of the midbrain, an event that was not altered by ADX or corticosterone replacement. Moreover, the degeneration of nigral dopamine neurons, which was confirmed by the disappearance of acidic FGF (FGF-1) mRNA and the decrement of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA labeled nigral neurons, was not altered by ADX. The FGF-2 protein (23 kDa isoform but not 21 kDa fraction) levels increased in the lesioned side of the ventral midbrain. This elevation was counteracted by ADX, an effect that was fully reversed by corticosterone replacement. In situ hybridization revealed that ADX counteracted the elevated FGF-2 mRNA levels in putative glial cells of the ipsilateral pars compacta of the substantia nigra and in the ventral tegmental area. The ADX also counteracted the increased density and intensity of the astroglial FGF-2 immunoreactive profiles within the lesioned pars compacta of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area as determined by stereology. The stereotaxical mechanical needle insertion triggered the expression of FGFR2 mRNA in putative glial cells, spreading to the entire ipsilateral ventral midbrain from the region of needle track, an occurrence that was partially reversed by ADX. In conclusion, bilateral ADX counteracted the increased astroglial FGF-2 synthesis in the dopamine regions of the ventral midbrain following a 6-OHDA-induced local lesion and interfered with FGF receptor regulation around injury. These findings give further evidence that adrenocortical hormones may regulate the astroglial FGF-2-mediated trophic mechanisms and wound repair events in the lesioned central nervous system.
Recovery after peripheral nerve transection is seldom complete, the outcome depending both on lesion and repair conditions, and on the type and neurochemical properties of axons. The interposition between the stumps of a perforated, or regenerative electrode (RE) is a promising avenue in the use of chronic nerve bioimplants, but represents an additional challenge to regeneration. We applied stereological methods to ultrathin and immunostained semithin sections to examine quantitatively the axon types that make up the sciatic nerve in control adult rats, and their changes 2 months after an RE implant. The number of myelinated axons (MAx) increased proximal to RE, but fell to 10% a few millimeters distal. This decrease affected more severely motor fibers, characterized by immunoreactivity to cholinacetyltransferase (ChAT+), than sensory (ChAT-) fibers. Regenerating MAx and myelin sheaths also changed notably in thickness. Unmyelinated axons (UAx) showed a moderate reduction in number distal to the implant. This reduction affected more tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons (mostly vaso- and pilomotor fibers), than axons expressing ChAT and/or vasoactive intestinal peptide (mostly sudomotor fibers). Taken together with previous findings [Negredo, P., Castro, J., Lago, N., Navarro, X., Avendao, C., 2004. Differential growth of axons from sensory and motor neurons through a regenerative electrode: a stereological, retrograde tracer, and functional study in the rat. Neuroscience 128, 605-615.], this study shows that regeneration through the RE is much less successful for MAx than UAx, that motor axons regenerate more poorly than sensory axons, and that some subclasses of sympathetic fibers regenerate better than others. The study also proves the value of the combined methodological approach presented here to assess the fiber composition of a nerve under normal, pathological or experimental conditions.
We studied whether task-relevant numerical information and task-irrelevant physical size information interact during perceptual and/or response processing in the number/size congruency paradigm (NSCP). Participants decided which of two simultaneously presented numbers was larger numerically. The physical size of numbers delivered neutral, congruent, or incongruent information with numerical magnitude. Both stimulus- and response-locked event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were analyzed. The lateralized readiness potential (LRP) was used for indexing motor preparation. Similar early facilitation and interference effects appeared in the amplitude of ERPs between 150 and 250 ms after stimulus presentation, focused over parieto-occipital electrode-sites. We conclude that these effects reflected a similar process in both facilitation and interference, related to a general increase of processing load and/or conflict detection. Further, we have replicated our former findings demonstrating late facilitation and interference effects between 300 and 430 ms. These effects may be related to the conflict monitoring and response-selection activity of the anterior cingulate cortex, or may be related to higher level contextual analysis. Our findings suggest that facilitation and interference effects appear at multiple levels of stimulus and response processing. We have also demonstrated ERP amplitude effects as a function of numerical difference between the to-be-compared numbers both in stimulus- and response-locked ERPs.
The posterodorsal aspect of the medial amygdala (MePD) is sexually dimorphic in regional volume, rostrocaudal extent, and neuronal soma size in rats. These dimorphisms are maintained by circulating gonadal hormones, as castration of adult male rats reduces MePD measures, while testosterone treatment of females increases them. We now report that the MePD is also sexually dimorphic in volume, rostrocaudal extent, and somal area in BALB/c mice. Four weeks after castration of adult male mice, MePD regional volume and soma size are reduced, but rostrocaudal extent is not, compared to sham-castrated males. Treatment of adult ovariectomized females with an aromatized metabolite of testosterone, estradiol, for 8 weeks increased MePD volume and soma size, but not rostrocaudal extent. To probe the possible role of afferents in the steroid-induced plasticity of the MePD, we examined the effect of removing the olfactory bulbs in gonadally intact males and in estrogen-treated females. Bulbectomy had no effect on MePD morphology with one exception: among gonadally intact males, neuronal soma size was slightly smaller in the right MePD of bulbectomized males compared to males with intact bulbs. These results indicate that the sexual dimorphism and hormone responsiveness of the MePD that has been extensively studied in rats is also present in mice, which offers genetic tools for future research. We detected little or no evidence that olfactory bulb afferents play a role in maintaining MePD morphology in adult mice.
Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) are implicated in various neuropathological conditions. However, physiological roles for JNKs in neurons remain largely unknown, despite the high expression level of JNKs in brain. Here, using bioinformatic and biochemical approaches, we identify the AMPA receptor GluR2L and GluR4 subunits as novel physiological JNK substrates in vitro, in heterologous cells and in neurons. Consistent with this finding, GluR2L and GluR4 associate with specific JNK signaling components in the brain. Moreover, the modulation of the novel JNK sites in GluR2L and GluR4 is dynamic and bi-directional, such that phosphorylation and de-phosphorylation are triggered within minutes following decreases and increases in neuronal activity, respectively. Using live-imaging techniques to address the functional consequence of these activity-dependent changes we demonstrate that the novel JNK site in GluR2L controls reinsertion of internalized GluR2L back to the cell surface following NMDA treatment, without affecting basal GluR2L trafficking. Taken together, our results demonstrate that JNK directly regulates AMPA-R trafficking following changes in neuronal activity in a rapid and bi-directional manner.
Oxidative base lesions, such as 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG), accumulate in nuclear and mitochondrial DNAs under oxidative stress, resulting in cell death. However, it is not known which form of DNA is involved, whether nuclear or mitochondrial, nor is it known how the death order is executed. We established cells which selectively accumulate 8-oxoG in either type of DNA by expression of a nuclear or mitochondrial form of human 8-oxoG DNA glycosylase in OGG1-null mouse cells. The accumulation of 8-oxoG in nuclear DNA caused poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP)-dependent nuclear translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor, whereas that in mitochondrial DNA caused mitochondrial dysfunction and Ca2+ release, thereby activating calpain. Both cell deaths were triggered by single-strand breaks (SSBs) that had accumulated in the respective DNAs, and were suppressed by knockdown of adenine DNA glycosylase encoded by MutY homolog, thus indicating that excision of adenine opposite 8-oxoG lead to the accumulation of SSBs in each type of DNA. SSBs in nuclear DNA activated PARP, whereas those in mitochondrial DNA caused their depletion, thereby initiating the two distinct pathways of cell death.
The orbitofrontal cortex plays an important role in the ability of animals to adjust their behavior in response to behavioral outcomes. Multiple studies have demonstrated that responses of orbitofrontal neurons during operant sessions reflect the outcome of particular behaviors. These studies have focused on rapid neural responses to short-duration events such as instrumental behavior and reward-associated discrete cues. We hypothesize that longer-lasting changes in firing are also important for information processing in the orbitofrontal cortex. In the present study, we recorded the activity of 115 single orbitofrontal neurons during a multiphase operant task in which the relationship between a lever-press response and a sucrose reward was varied between the different phases. Approximately one-half of the orbitofrontal neurons exhibited a change in background firing during the operant phases. These changes were observable across multiple behavioral and stimulus events and thus reflected a general shift in background firing. The majority of changes were selective for one or the other of the operant phases. Selective changes contributed to unique patterns of phasic firing time locked to cues and operant behavior in the two operant phases. These findings are consistent with the interpretation that changes in background firing of orbitofrontal neurons reflect operant session characteristics associated with behavioral outcome, and indicate further that changes in background firing contribute to the outcome selectivity of phasic firing patterns. More generally, we propose that the background firing rates of orbitofrontal neurons reflect contextual information, and facilitate context-appropriate event-related information processing and behavioral responses.
Age-related differences in the anatomical structure of the brains from 51 healthy male subjects (age: 18-51 years) were analyzed by deformation field morphometry in a cross-sectional study. The magnetic resonance images of the brains were nonlinearly registered onto the image of a reference brain: the registration algorithm simulated an elastic deformation of each brain (source brain) so that the voxelwise intensity differences with the reference brain were minimized. A three-dimensional deformation field was calculated for each source brain that encoded the anatomical differences between the source brain and the reference brain. Maps of voxelwise volume differences between each subject's brain and the reference brain were analyzed. They showed age-related differences in anatomically defined regions of interest. Major volume decreases were found in the white matter and nuclei of the cerebellum, as well as in the ventral thalamic nuclei and the somatosensory and motor cortices, including the underlying white matter. These findings suggest that aging between the second and sixth decade predominantly affects subcortical nuclei and cortical areas of the sensorimotor system, forming the cortico-rubro-cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathway. Additionally, a pronounced age-related decline in volume was observed in the rostral anterior cingulate, orbitofrontal, and lateral prefrontal cortices. Almost no differences were observed in the occipital and temporal lobes. The ventricles showed a pronounced widening. Remarkably, these volume differences occur at a relatively early period of the human life span. It may be speculated that these structural differences accompany or precede differences in sensorimotor functions and behavior.
During the developmental formation of neuronal circuits, redundant synapses are eliminated and persisting synapses strengthened. In the immature cerebellum, climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapses undergo a pronounced synaptic rewiring, from a multiple innervation around birth to a mono-innervation in adults. An early stage of this process consists in the differentiation of initially equally strong synapses into one &quot;large&quot; and several &quot;small&quot; synaptic inputs. By performing whole-cell recordings in Purkinje cells of rat cerebellar slices, we found that the coincident activation of a Purkinje cell and one of its afferent climbing fibers induces homosynaptic long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP). This LTP requires postsynaptic Ca2+ signaling and involves an increase in the single channel conductance of the postsynaptic AMPA receptors. Interestingly, LTP occurs exclusively at large synaptic inputs. It is not observed at small inputs that are eventually eliminated. Thus, we identified a new form of LTP that is expressed uniquely and just for a restricted period of early development in the large climbing fiber inputs. Our results suggest that this LTP mediates the activity-dependent maturation of the &quot;winner&quot; climbing fiber.
Abnormal accumulation of soluble oligomers of amyloid beta (Abeta) is believed to cause malfunctioning of neurons in Alzheimer's disease. It has been shown that Abeta oligomers impair synaptic plasticity, thereby altering the ability of the neuron to store information. We examined the underlying cellular mechanism of Abeta oligomer-induced synaptic modifications by using a recently described stable oligomeric Abeta preparation called &quot;Abeta(1-42) globulomer.&quot; Synthetically prepared Abeta(1-42) globulomer has been shown to localize to neurons and impairs long-term potentiation (Barghorn et al., 2005). Here, we demonstrate that Abeta(1-42) globulomer does not affect intrinsic neuronal properties, as assessed by measuring input resistance and discharge characteristics, excluding an unspecific alteration of membrane properties. We provide evidence that Abeta(1-42) globulomer, at concentrations as low as 8 nM, specifically suppresses spontaneous synaptic activity resulting from a reduction of vesicular release at terminals of both GABAergic and glutamatergic synapses. EPSCs and IPSCs were primarily unaffected. A detailed search for the precise molecular target of Abeta(1-42) globulomer revealed a specific inhibition of presynaptic P/Q calcium currents, whereas other voltage-activated calcium currents remained unaltered. Because intact P/Q calcium currents are needed for synaptic plasticity, the disruption of such currents by Abeta(1-42) globulomer may cause deficits in cellular mechanisms of information storage in brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. The inhibitory effect of Abeta(1-42) globulomer on synaptic vesicle release could be reversed by roscovitine, a specific enhancer of P/Q currents. Selective enhancement of the P/Q calcium current may provide a promising strategy in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Several genome-wide transcriptomics efforts have shown that a large percentage of the mammalian genome is transcribed into RNAs, however, only a small percentage (1-2%) of these RNAs is translated into proteins. Currently there is an intense interest in characterizing the function of the different classes of noncoding RNAs and their relevance to human disease. Using genomic approaches we discovered FMR4, a primate-specific noncoding RNA transcript (2.4 kb) that resides upstream and likely shares a bidirectional promoter with FMR1. FMR4 is a product of RNA polymerase II and has a similar half-life to FMR1. The CGG expansion in the 5' UTR of FMR1 appears to affect transcription in both directions as we found FMR4, similar to FMR1, to be silenced in fragile X patients and up-regulated in premutation carriers. Knockdown of FMR4 by several siRNAs did not affect FMR1 expression, nor vice versa, suggesting that FMR4 is not a direct regulatory transcript for FMR1. However, FMR4 markedly affected human cell proliferation in vitro; siRNAs knockdown of FMR4 resulted in alterations in the cell cycle and increased apoptosis, while the overexpression of FMR4 caused an increase in cell proliferation. Collectively, our results demonstrate an antiapoptotic function of FMR4 and provide evidence that a well-studied genomic locus can show unexpected functional complexity. It cannot be excluded that altered FMR4 expression might contribute to aspects of the clinical presentation of fragile X syndrome and/or related disorders.
2,3-Benzodiazepine derivatives are drug candidates synthesized for potential treatment of various neurodegenerative diseases involving the excessive activity of AMPA receptors. Here we describe a rapid kinetic investigation of the mechanism of inhibition of the GluR2Qflip AMPA receptor channel opening by two 2,3-benzodiazepine derivatives that are structurally similar (BDZ-2 and BDZ-3). Using a laser-pulse photolysis technique with a time resolution of approximately 60 mus, we measured the effects of these inhibitors on both the channel opening rate and the whole-cell current amplitude. We found that both compounds preferably inhibit the open-channel state, although BDZ-2 is a more potent inhibitor in that it inhibits the open-channel state approximately 5-fold stronger than BDZ-3 does. Both compounds bind to the same noncompetitive site. Binding of an inhibitor to the receptor involves the formation of a loose, partially conducting channel intermediate, which rapidly isomerizes to a tighter complex. The isomerization reaction is identified as the main step at which the receptor distinguishes the structural difference between the two compounds. These results suggest that addition of a bulky group at the N-3 position on the diazepine ring, as in BDZ-3, does not alter the mechanism of action, or the site of binding, but does lower the inhibitory potency, possibly due to an unfavorable interaction of a bulky group at the N-3 position with the receptor site. The new mechanistic revelation about the structure-reactivity relationship is useful in designing conformation-specific, more potent noncompetitive inhibitors for the GluR2 AMPA receptor.

The aim of this review is to refine the definition and classification of hydrocephalus as a preview to developing an international consensus on the nomenclature of this complex condition. This proposed definition and classification is based on my own work in this area and is intended to promote a debate on the concepts presented.A literature review of contemporary definitions and classifications of hydrocephalus, and of the historic context in which these concepts developed, is presented. Based on new technology and understanding of hydrocephalus, the rationale for nomenclature is also discussed.Currently, there is no recognized definition of hydrocephalus. The failure to agree on a working definition impedes progress in understanding the pathophysiology and treatment of hydrocephalus. There are many proposed classifications, each with its own starting point in terms of the definition of the condition. This author recommends that the following definition be used as a starting point to develop a consensus statement defining hydrocephalus: &quot;Hydrocephalus is an active distension of the ventricular system of the brain resulting from inadequate passage of cerebrospinal fluid from its point of production within the cerebral ventricles to its point of absorption into the systemic circulation.&quot; Such a definition can be used to develop a rational classification consistent with observations from contemporary neuroimaging and can lead to testable hypotheses. It is concluded that hydrocephalus is a complicated neurologic disorder with many causes and methods of treatment. Clinicians and basic scientists must agree on a working definition of the condition to be able to interpret results from different investigators. Reaching a consensus on a working definition and functional classification should be a high priority for researchers in this field.

The maintenance of a high density of postsynaptic receptors is essential for proper synaptic function. At the neuromuscular junction, acetylcholine receptor (AChR) aggregation is induced by nerve-clustering factors and mediated by scaffolding proteins. Although the mechanisms underlying AChR clustering have been extensively studied, the role that the receptors themselves play in the clustering process and how they are organized with scaffolding proteins is not well understood. Here, we report that the exposure of AChRs labeled with Alexa 594 conjugates to relatively low-powered laser light caused an effect similar to chromaphore-assisted light inactivation (CALI) , which resulted in the unexpected dissipation of the illuminated AChRs from clusters on cultured myotubes. This technique enabled us to demonstrate that AChR removal from illuminated regions induced the removal of scaffolding proteins and prevented the accumulation of new AChRs and associated scaffolding proteins. Further, the dissipation of clustered AChRs and scaffold was spatially restricted to the illuminated region and had no effect on neighboring nonilluminated AChRs. These results provide direct evidence that AChRs are essential for the local maintenance and accumulation of intracellular scaffolding proteins and suggest that the scaffold is organized into distinct modular units at AChR clusters.



Impoverished rearing conditions deregulate metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) function and expression within the prefrontal cortex, which contributes to poor performance in positively reinforced spatial working memory tasks. This study extended earlier data by demonstrating that impoverished rearing conditions impair spatial working memory even under conditions of negative reinforcement, indicating a generalized deficit in working memory processing. This protracted behavioral effect was associated with reduced total prefrontal cortex levels of the active, dimerized form of mGluR 5, but there was no change in mGluR 1 or mGluR 2/3 dimer expression in any brain region examined. Thus, impoverished rearing conditions produce protracted deficits in spatial working memory, in association with reduced prefrontal mGluR 5 function that may be relevant to the etiology of several neuropsychiatric disorders.
The present fMRI study aimed to identify neurofunctional predictors of auditory word learning. Twenty-four native Chinese speakers were trained to learn a logographic artificial language (LAL) for 2 weeks and their behavioral performance was recorded. Participants were also scanned before and after the training while performing a passive listening task. Results showed that, compared to 'poor' learners (those whose performance was below average during the training), 'good' (i.e. above-average) learners showed more activation in the left MTG/STS and less activation in the right IFG during the pretraining scan. These results confirmed the hypothesis that preexisting individual differences in neural activities can predict the efficiency in learning words in a new language.
The study aimed to identify brain functional indicators of working memory systems development between 6 and 18 years. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 251 normally developing children to stimuli requiring the updating of working memory. Cluster analysis of event-related potential componentry divided the sample into three clusters (mean ages 9, 12 and 16 years), with ascending cluster membership independently associated with improved task performance. The clusters correspond to periods of grey matter loss and white matter increase observed in developing children, supporting the view that the clusters delineate three key qualitative stages in advancing cognitive capability during the maturation of higher brain systems function. This outcome identifies a biomarker with the potential for assessing abnormalities in the rate of brain development.
ErbB4 has emerged as a leading susceptibility gene for schizophrenia but the function of the ErbB4 receptor in the adult brain is unknown. Here, we show in the adult hippocampus that long-term potentiation (LTP) of transmission at Schaffer collateral CA1 synapses was markedly enhanced in mutant mice lacking ErbB4. Concordantly, LTP was enhanced by acutely blocking ErbB4 in wild-type animals, indicating that ErbB4 activity constitutively suppresses LTP. Moreover, increasing ErbB4 signaling further suppressed LTP. By contrast, altering ErbB4 activity did not affect basal synaptic transmission or short-term facilitation. Our findings suggest that cognitive deficits in schizophrenia may be a consequence of hyperfunction of ErbB4 signaling leading to suppressed glutamatergic synaptic plasticity, thus opening new approaches for the treatment of this disorder.
Lumbar puncture (LP) is an attractive route to deliver drugs to the nervous system because it is a safe bedside procedure. Its use for gene therapy has been complicated by poor vector performance and failure to target neurons. Here we report highly effective gene transfer to the primary sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) with self-complementary recombinant adeno-associated virus serotype 8 (sc-rAAV8) modeling an LP. Transgene expression was selective for these neurons outlining their cell bodies in the DRGs and their axons projecting into the spinal cord. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated transduction of cells positive for the nociceptive neuron marker vanilloid receptor subtype 1, the small peptidergic neuron markers substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, and the nonpeptidergic neuron marker griffonia simplicifolia isolectin B4. We tested the efficacy of the approach in a rat model of chronic neuropathic pain. A single administration of sc-rAAV8 expressing the analgesic gene prepro-beta-endorphin (ppbetaEP) led to significant (P &lt; 0.0001) reversal of mechanical allodynia for &gt;/=3 months. The antiallodynic effect could be reversed by the mu-opioid antagonist naloxone 4 months after gene transfer (P &lt; 0.001). Testing of an alternative nonopioid analgesic gene, IL-10, alone or in combination with ppbetaEP was equally effective (P &lt; 0.0001). All aspects of the procedure, such as the use of an atraumatic injection technique, isotonic diluent, a low-infusion pressure, and a small injection volume, are consistent with clinical practice of intrathecal drug use. Therefore, gene transfer by LP may be suitable for developing gene therapy-based treatments for chronic pain.
The increase in blood flow evoked by synaptic activity is essential for normal brain function and underlies functional brain imaging signals. Nitric oxide, a vasodilator released by NMDA receptor activation, is critical for the flow increase, but the factors linking NMDA receptor activity to nitric oxide-dependent hyperemia are poorly understood. Here, we show that tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), a serine protease implicated in NMDA receptor signaling, is required for the flow increase evoked by somatosensory stimulation. tPA acts by facilitating neuronal nitric oxide release, but this effect does not involve enhancement of NMDA currents or the associated intracellular Ca(2+) rise. Rather, the evidence suggests that tPA controls NMDA-dependent nitric oxide synthesis by influencing the phosphorylation state of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. These findings unveil a previously unrecognized role of tPA in vital homeostatic mechanisms coupling NMDA receptor signaling with nitric oxide synthesis and local cerebral perfusion.
A briefly presented target shape can be made invisible by the subsequent presentation of a mask that replaces the target. While varying the target-mask interval in order to investigate perception near the consciousness threshold, we discovered a novel visual illusion. At some intervals, the target is clearly visible, but its location is misperceived. By manipulating the mask's size and target's position, we demonstrate that the perceived target location is always displaced to the boundary of a virtual surface defined by the mask contours. Thus, mutual exclusion of surfaces appears as a cause of masking.
Over the past three years Molecular Pain has grown steadily and clearly demonstrated its ability to publish novel scientific discoveries in the field of pain research in a timely fashion, hence having a strong and positive impact on pain and neuroscience research. Molecular Pain is now officially tracked by the ISI Web of Science, which allows for the calculation of its impact factor. From this calculation, we have found that Molecular Pain is now ranked at the top among pain journals in the world.
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4 out of the 10 leading causes of disability in the US and other developed countries are mental disorders. Major depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) are among the most common mental disorders that currently plague numerous countries and have varying incidence rates from 26 percent in America to 4 percent in China. Though some of this difference may be attributable to the manner in which individual healthcare providers diagnose mental disorders, this noticeable distribution can be also explained by studies which show that a lack of certain dietary nutrients contribute to the development of mental disorders. Notably, essential vitamins, minerals, and omega-3 fatty acids are often deficient in the general population in America and other developed countries; and are exceptionally deficient in patients suffering from mental disorders. Studies have shown that daily supplements of vital nutrients often effectively reduce patients' symptoms. Supplements that contain amino acids also reduce symptoms, because they are converted to neurotransmitters that alleviate depression and other mental disorders. Based on emerging scientific evidence, this form of nutritional supplement treatment may be appropriate for controlling major depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and anxiety disorders, eating disorders, attention deficit disorder/attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADD/ADHD), addiction, and autism. The aim of this manuscript is to emphasize which dietary supplements can aid the treatment of the four most common mental disorders currently affecting America and other developed countries: major depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Most antidepressants and other prescription drugs cause severe side effects, which usually discourage patients from taking their medications. Such noncompliant patients who have mental disorders are at a higher risk for committing suicide or being institutionalized. One way for psychiatrists to overcome this noncompliance is to educate themselves about alternative or complementary nutritional treatments. Although in the cases of certain nutrients, further research needs to be done to determine the best recommended doses of most nutritional supplements, psychiatrists can recommend doses of dietary supplements based on previous and current efficacious studies and then adjust the doses based on the results obtained.
The investigation of mouse flank tumours by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is limited by the achievable spatial resolution, which is generally limited by the critical problem of signal-to-noise ratio. Sensitivity was improved by using an optimized solenoid RF micro-coil, built into the animal cradle. This simple design did not require extensive RF engineering expertise to construct, yet allowed high-resolution 3D isotropic imaging at 60 x 60 x 60 microm(3) for a flank tumour in vivo, revealing the heterogeneous internal structure of the tumour. It also allowed dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) experiments and angiography (MRA) to be performed at 100 x 100 x 100 microm(3) resolution. The DCE experiments provided an excellent example of the diffusive spreading of contrast agent into less vascularized tumour tissue. This work is the first step in using high-resolution 3D isotropic MR to study transport in mouse flank tumours.

Leptin plays a pivotal role in the regulation of energy homeostasis and metabolism, primarily by acting on neurons in the hypothalamus that control food intake. However, leptin receptors are more widely expressed in the brain suggesting additional, as yet unknown, functions of leptin. Here we show that both embryonic and adult hippocampal neurons express leptin receptors coupled to activation of STAT3 and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-Akt signaling pathways. Leptin protects hippocampal neurons against cell death induced by neurotrophic factor withdrawal and excitotoxic and oxidative insults. The neuroprotective effect of leptin is antagonized by the JAK2-STAT3 inhibitor AG-490, STAT3 decoy DNA, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt inhibitors but not by an inhibitor of MAPK. Leptin induces the production of manganese superoxide dismutase and the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-xL, and stabilizes mitochondrial membrane potential and lessens mitochondrial oxidative stress. Leptin receptor-deficient mice (db/db mice) are more vulnerable to seizure-induced hippocampal damage, and intraventricular administration of leptin protects neurons against seizures. By enhancing mitochondrial resistance to apoptosis and excitotoxicity, our findings suggest that leptin signaling serves a neurotrophic function in the developing and adult hippocampus.


The present study reveals changes in eye movement patterns as newly learned faces become more familiar. Observers received multiple exposures to newly learned faces over four consecutive days. Recall tasks were performed on all 4 days, and a recognition task was performed on the fourth day. Eye movement behavior was compared across facial exposure and task type. Overall, the eyes were viewed for longer and more often than any other facial region, regardless of face familiarity. As a face became more familiar, observers made fewer fixations during recall and recognition. With increased exposure, observers sampled more from the eyes and sampled less from the nose, mouth, forehead, chin, and cheek regions. Interestingly, this change in scanning behavior was only observed for recall tasks, but not for recognition.

Studies suggest that cytokines have a role in the biology of depression. In this study, we evaluated depression and cytokine levels in patients with and without chronic hepatitis C (HCV) to better assess how chronic infection alters cytokines levels and may contribute to depressive symptomotology. Twenty-three adults with (n=16) and without (n=7) HCV were recruited through the Portland VA Medical Center. Research participants were excluded for current substance abuse, psychotic disorder, liver cirrhosis, or interferon (IFN) therapy. Participants completed the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) and a blood draw to evaluate plasma cytokine levels [i.e., interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-10 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha]. t-Tests were performed to compare cytokine levels in patients with or without HCV. HCV patients showed higher TNF-alpha values compared to patients without HCV (group means=7.94 vs. 3.41pg/mL, respectively, p=0.047). There were no significant differences between the groups for the other cytokines assessed. In patients with HCV, TNF-alpha and IL-1beta levels (but not IL-10) were correlated with BDI-II scores [r=0.594, p=0.020 and r=0.489, p=0.055 (trend), respectively]. Taken together, these results show an association between severity of depressive symptoms and expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in patients with HCV. Future studies should investigate how inflammatory mediators play a role in the expression of specific depressive symptoms in patients with chronic infection. Patients with HCV represent an interesting model to examine this relationship.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) modulates GABA release from hippocampal nerve terminals and enhances hippocampal synaptic transmission through a pathway dependent on GABAergic transmission. Since VIP modulation of hippocampal synaptic transmission is dependent on the tonic actions of adenosine we investigated if endogenous adenosine could influence VIP enhancement of GABA release from isolated hippocampal nerve endings, and which adenosine receptors could be mediating this influence. When extracellular endogenous adenosine was removed using adenosine deaminase (ADA, 1U/ml), the enhancement (57.2+/-3.7%) caused by VIP on GABA release was prevented. Blockade of adenosine A(1) receptors with 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 10nM) or of A(2A) receptors with ZM241385 (50nM) abolished the effect of VIP. In the presence of ADA, selective A(2A) receptor-activation with CGS21680 (10nM) readmitted most of the enhancement caused by VIP on GABA release (50.7+/-5.3%). Also in the presence of ADA, A(1) receptor activation with N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, 50nM) partially readmitted that effect of VIP (32.6+/-3.8%). In conclusion, the enhancement of GABA release caused by VIP in hippocampal nerve terminals is dependent on the tonic actions of adenosine on both A(1) and A(2A) receptors, and this action of adenosine is essential to VIP modulation of GABA release.

Activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (arc) is an immediate early gene (IEG) whose mRNA is targeted to dendrites of activated synapses. The present study investigated the expression of three IEGs, arc and two transcription factors (NGFI-B and Nurr 1), in regions of the brain of rats that were subjected to a single afterdischarge-inducing electrical stimulation of the left amygdala and in the amygdala-kindled rats that developed consecutive generalized seizures. One hour after a single stimulus was administered to non-kindled rats, mRNA levels of arc and Nurr1 increased significantly in the ipsilateral piriform cortex and medial amygdaloid nucleus. mRNA levels of NGFI-B increased significantly in the left piriform cortex, basolateral amygdaloid nucleus and medial amygdaloid nucleus. In the amygdala-kindled rats, mRNAs of the three IEGs increased significantly in bilateral brain regions including the piriform cortex and dentate gyrus at 0.5-1 h after the last generalized kindled seizure, and returned near to basal levels by 6 h after. Photographic emulsion autoradiograms showed that the arc mRNA signals induced by the last generalized kindled seizures were associated with the cell bodies of the dentate granule cell layer and extended beyond the granule cell layer into the molecular layer, which contains the dendrites of granule cells. These results support that arc serves as an effector IEG whose mRNA is associated with synaptic reorganization in kindling.
The low, middle, and high molecular mass neurofilament subunit proteins (NF-L, NF-M, and NF-H) co-polymerize to form neurofilaments (NFs). During development, NF subunit expression is highly regulated, and in neurodegenerative disease, aberrant regulation of this expression can lead to the formation of harmful aggregates. NF expression in both development and disease is under significant post-transcriptional control, but the specific ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) involved are only poorly understood. Previously, mass spectrometry on affinity purified proteins from rat brain identified three K-homology (KH) domain RNPs - hnRNP K, hnRNP E1, hnRNP E2 - as being capable of binding NF-M RNA. In the current study, to determine whether these RNPs associate with NF mRNAs endogenously, we performed a co-immunoprecipitation assay on homogenates of postnatal and developing rat cerebral cortex. We found that all three NF mRNAs indeed associated endogenously with these RNPs and that the degree of this association changed during postnatal development, a period when NF expression is under significant post-transcriptional control. The degree of these associations changed independently of the abundance of either the RNPs or the NF messages, indicating that the RNA-protein interactions themselves are directly regulated. This study is consistent with a model whereby these RNPs and NF mRNAs are components of a dynamic post-transcriptional regulatory module that influences the cytoskeletal compositions of neurons.
Attending to the first target in rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) interferes with processing of the second target so that the participants fail to recognize the second target if the targets are separated by a stimulus onset asynchrony of 200-500 ms. This phenomenon is attentional blink (AB). Repetition blindness (RB) is an additional difficulty to recognize the second occurrence of the same stimulus in RSVP. A controversial issue in studies of both deficits is the processing level at which they occur. To compare the timing and mechanisms of AB and RB directly during the same RSVP stream, we recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) in response to repeated and unrepeated targets. Comparable to earlier ERP studies on visual awareness, the results showed for both types of targets a negative amplitude difference between ERPs to consciously recognized and unrecognized targets during 250-350 ms from stimulus onset, suggesting that both AB and RB are associated with deficits of conscious perception, occurring at earlier stages than access to working memory. However, the perceptual deficit in RB is more severe, which may be related to higher overall negativity in response to repeated targets observed 150-300 ms after stimulus onset, suggesting stronger cortical baseline activation and higher perceptual threshold for repeated targets as compared with unrepeated ones.
Kalirin, a multifunctional Rho GDP/GTP exchange factor, plays a vital role in cytoskeletal organization, affecting process initiation and outgrowth in neurons. Through alternative splicing, the Kalirin gene generates multiple functionally distinct proteins. Kalirin-7 (Kal7) is the most prevalent isoform in the adult rat hippocampus; it terminates with a postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95)/Discs large/zona occludens-1 (PDZ) binding motif, is localized to the postsynaptic density, interacts with PSD-95, and causes the formation of dendritic spines when overexpressed in pyramidal neurons. Levels of Kal7 are low in the dendrites of hippocampal aspiny interneurons. In these interneurons, Kal7 is localized to the postsynaptic side of excitatory synapses onto dendritic shafts, overlapping clusters of PSD-95 and NMDA receptor subunit NR1. Selectively decreasing levels of Kal7 decreases the density of PSD-95-positive, bassoon-positive clusters along the dendritic shaft of hippocampal interneurons. Overexpression of Kal7 increases dendritic branching, inducing formation of spine-like structures along the dendrites and on the soma of normally aspiny hippocampal interneurons. Essentially all of the spine-like structures formed in response to Kal7 are apposed to vesicular glutamate transporter 1-positive, bassoon-positive presynaptic endings; GAD-positive, vesicular GABA transporter-positive inhibitory endings are unaffected. Almost every Kal7-positive dendritic cluster contains PSD-95 along with NMDA (NR1) and AMPA (GluR1 and GluR2) receptor subunits. Kal7-induced formation of spine-like structures requires its PDZ binding motif, and interruption of interactions between the PDZ binding motif and its interactors decreases Kal7-induced formation of spine-like structures. Kal7 thus joins Shank3 and GluR2 as molecules with a level of expression at excitatory synapses that titrates the number of dendritic spines.
The mammalian neocortex is characterized as a six-layered laminar structure, in which distinct types of pyramidal neurons are distributed coordinately during embryogenesis. In contrast, no other vertebrate class possesses a brain region that is strictly analogous to the neocortical structure. Although it is widely accepted that the pallium, a dorsal forebrain region, is specified in all vertebrate species, little is known of the differential mechanisms underlying laminated or non-laminated structures in the pallium. Here we show that differences in patterns of neuronal specification and migration provide the pallial architectonic diversity. We compared the neurogenesis in mammalian and avian pallium, focusing on subtype-specific gene expression, and found that the avian pallium generates distinct types of neurons in a spatially restricted manner. Furthermore, expression of Reelin gene is hardly detected in the developing avian pallium, and an experimental increase in Reelin-positive cells in the avian pallium modified radial fiber organization, which resulted in dramatic changes in the morphology of migrating neurons. Our results demonstrate that distinct mechanisms govern the patterns of neuronal specification in mammalian and avian pallial development, and that Reelin-dependent neuronal migration plays a critical role in mammalian type corticogenesis. These lines of evidence shed light on the developmental programs underlying the evolution of the mammalian specific laminated cortex.

The EB1+TIP protein family and its binding partners track growing plus ends of microtubules in cells and are thought to regulate their dynamics. Here we determined the effects of EB1 and the N-terminal CAP-Gly domain (p150n) of one of its major binding partners, p150Glued, both separately and together, on the dynamic instability parameters at plus ends of purified steady-state microtubules. With EB1 alone, the shortening rate, the extent of shortening, and the catastrophe frequency were suppressed in the absence of significant effects on the growth rate or rescue frequency. The effects of EB1 on dynamics were significantly different when p150n was added together with EB1. The rate and extent of shortening and the catastrophe frequency were suppressed 3-4 times more strongly than with EB1 alone. In addition, the EB1-p150n complex increased the rescue frequency and the mean length the microtubules grew, parameters that were not significantly affected by EB1 alone. Similarly, deletion of EB1's C-terminal tail, which is a crucial binding region for p150n, significantly increased the ability of EB1 to suppress shortening dynamics. EB1 by itself bound along the length of the microtubules with 1 mol of EB1 dimer bound per approximately 12 mol of tubulin dimer. Approximately twice the amount of EB1 was recruited to the microtubules in the presence of p150n. Our results indicate that inactivation of EB1's flexible C-terminal tail significantly changes EB1's ability to modulate microtubule dynamics. They further suggest that p150Glued may activate and thereby facilitate the recruitment of EB1 to the tips of microtubules to regulate their dynamics.



In addition to the directly mutagenic effects of energy deposition in DNA, ionizing radiation is associated with a variety of untargeted and delayed effects that result in ongoing bone marrow damage. Delayed effects are genotype dependent with CBA/Ca mice, but not C57BL/6 mice, susceptible to the induction of damage and also radiation-induced acute myeloid leukemia. Because macrophages are a potential source of ongoing damaging signals, we have determined their gene expression profiles and we show that bone marrow-derived macrophages show widely different intrinsic expression patterns. The profiles classify macrophages derived from CBA/Ca mice as M1-like (pro-inflammatory) and those from C57BL/6 mice as M2-like (anti-inflammatory); measurements of NOS2 and arginase activity in normal bone marrow macrophages confirm these findings. After irradiation in vivo, but not in vitro, C57BL/6 macrophages show a reduction in NOS2 and an increase in arginase activities, indicating a further M2 response, whereas CBA/Ca macrophages retain an M1 phenotype. Activation of specific signal transducer and activator of transcription signaling pathways in irradiated hemopoietic tissues supports these observations. The data indicate that macrophage activation is not a direct effect of radiation but a tissue response, secondary to the initial radiation exposure, and have important implications for understanding genotype-dependent responses and the mechanisms of the hemotoxic and leukemogenic consequences of radiation exposure.
Neural crest-derived pigment cell development has been used extensively to study cell fate specification, migration, proliferation, survival and differentiation. Many of the genes and regulatory mechanisms required for pigment cell development are conserved across vertebrates. The zebrafish mutant colgate (col)/histone deacetylase1 (hdac1) has reduced numbers, delayed differentiation and decreased migration of neural crest-derived melanophores and their precursors. In hdac1(col) mutants normal numbers of premigratory neural crest cells are induced. Later, while there is only a slight reduction in the number of neural crest cells in hdac1(col) mutants, there is a severe reduction in the number of mitfa-positive melanoblasts suggesting that hdac1 is required for melanoblast specification. Concomitantly, there is a significant increase in and prolonged expression of foxd3 in neural crest cells in hdac1(col) mutants. We found that partially reducing Foxd3 expression in hdac1(col) mutants rescues mitfa expression and the melanophore defects in hdac1(col) mutants. Furthermore, we demonstrate the ability of Foxd3 to physically interact at the mitfa promoter. Because mitfa is required for melanoblast specification and development, our results suggest that hdac1 is normally required to suppress neural crest foxd3 expression thus de-repressing mitfa resulting in melanogenesis by a subset of neural crest-derived cells.
Notch is required for many aspects of cell fate specification and morphogenesis during development, including neurogenesis and axon guidance. We here provide genetic and biochemical evidence that Notch directs axon growth and guidance in Drosophila via a &quot;non-canonical&quot;, i.e. non-Su(H)-mediated, signaling pathway, characterized by association with the adaptor protein, Disabled, and Trio, an accessory factor of the Abl tyrosine kinase. We find that forms of Notch lacking the binding sites for its canonical effector, Su(H), are nearly inactive for the cell fate function of the receptor, but largely or fully active in axon patterning. Conversely, deletion from Notch of the binding site for Disabled impairs its action in axon patterning without disturbing cell fate control. Finally, we show by co-immunoprecipitation that Notch protein is physically associated in vivo with both Disabled and Trio. Together, these data provide evidence for an alternate Notch signaling pathway that mediates a postmitotic, morphogenetic function of the receptor.
The primary goals of this study were to evaluate diurnal patterns of and sex differences in the levels of cortisol, 11-ketotestosterone, testosterone, and 17beta-estradiol in the sex-changing bluebanded goby Lythrypnus dalli. Steroid hormones were collected from water samples and analyzed by enzyme immunoassay. During the breeding season, hormones were sampled from both males and females at seven time points between 0600 and 2000 h. When comparing each time point separately, there were significant overall time effects for cortisol and 17beta-estradiol. Cortisol concentrations were lowest at the 0800-1000 h sampling point and showed a qualitative peak in late morning (1000-1200 h). Concentrations of 17beta-estradiol were elevated at the last sampling point (1800-2000 h). Broader temporal trends were revealed for testosterone and 11-ketotestosterone concentrations, both of which were elevated in the morning. There were no sex differences in overall hormone concentrations or temporal profiles for cortisol, 11-ketotestosterone, or testosterone. Males and females showed similar diurnal patterns of 17beta-estradiol but females had significantly higher water-borne 17beta-estradiol levels than males. The results show the presence of diurnal changes in steroid hormone levels in male and female bluebanded gobies. The lack of sex differences in androgens suggests that males of this species, and perhaps other bi-directional sex-changing species in which males do not exhibit prominent secondary sexual characteristics, do not require persistent elevations in 11-ketotestosterone or testosterone to maintain the male phenotype. Although the role of 17beta-estradiol in maintaining sex differences in sexually plastic species is unclear, our results suggest that, of the hormones measured, 17beta-estradiol has the greatest potential for future studies interested in this question.
Neural networks are balanced by inhibitory and excitatory neuronal activity. The formation of these networks is initially generated through neuronal subtype specification controlled by transcription factors. The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor Ptf1a is essential for the generation of GABAergic inhibitory neurons in the dorsal spinal cord, cerebellum, and retina. The transcription factor Rbpj is a transducer of the Notch signaling pathway that functions to maintain neural progenitor cells. Here we demonstrate Ptf1a and Rbpj interact in a complex that is required in vivo for specification of the GABAergic neurons, a function that cannot be substituted by the classical form of the bHLH heterodimer with E-protein or Notch signaling through Rbpj. We show that a mutant form of Ptf1a without the ability to bind Rbpj, while retaining its ability to interact with E-protein, is incapable of inducing GABAergic (Pax2)- and suppressing glutamatergic (Tlx3)-expressing cells in the chick and mouse neural tube. Moreover, we use an Rbpj conditional mutation to demonstrate that Rbpj function is essential for GABAergic specification, and that this function is independent of the Notch signaling pathway. Together, these findings demonstrate the requirement for a Ptf1a-Rbpj complex in controlling the balanced formation of inhibitory and excitatory neurons in the developing spinal cord, and point to a novel Notch-independent function for Rbpj in nervous system development.
The focus of most neurodegenerative disease studies has been on neuronal death in particular subpopulations of the central nervous system. The associated response of glial populations has been ascribed the term &quot;reactive astrocytosis.&quot; This has been defined as the proliferation of astrocytes accompanied by cellular hypertrophy and changes in gene expression following injury to the central nervous system. Yet the significance of that response to disease course is debated. In both human ALS and in the SOD1G93A mouse model of ALS, reactive astrocytosis is a hallmark of the disease--particularly at endstage. The brain also harbors immature progenitors which have the capacity for differentiation into both glial and neuronal lineages. We examined whether glial progenitors in the adult spinal cord of SOD1G93A mice become activated and contribute the astroglial response observed in this model. We found that the glial progenitor proteoglycan NG2 is increased in parallel with GFAP during the symptomatic phase of the disease and that there is a differential in vitro response of SOD1G93A glial progenitors to inflammatory cytokines when compared to wildtype mouse glial progenitors. This response was accompanied by the proliferation of glial progenitors but not mature GFAP+ astrocytes, through the translocation of the transcription factor Olig2 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm-resulting in astrocyte differentiation. These data suggest that adult glial progenitors from SOD1G93A mice differentially respond to inflammatory cytokines and contribute to the observed reactive astrocytosis observed in SOD1G93A mouse lumbar spinal cord.
Gap junction proteins, connexins, provide intercellular channels that allow ions and small signaling molecules to be transmitted to adjacent coupled cells. Besides this function, it is becoming apparent that connexins also exert channel-independent effects, which are likely mediated by processes involving protein-protein interactions. Although a number of connexin interacting proteins have been identified, only little is known about the functional consequences of such interactions. We have previously shown that deletion of the astrocytic gap junction protein, connexin43 (Cx43) causes a right-ward shift in the dose-response curve to P2Y1R agonists and decreased P2Y1R expression levels. To evaluate whether these changes were due to reduced gap junctional communication or to protein-protein interactions, Cx43-null astrocytes were transfected with full-length Cx43 and Cx43 domains, and P2Y1R function and expression levels evaluated. Results indicate that restoration of P2Y1R function is independent of gap junctional communication and that the Cx43 carboxyl terminus spanning the SH3 binding domain (260-280) participates in the rescue of P2Y1R pharmacological behavior (shifting to the left the P2Y1R dose-response curve) without affecting its expression levels. These results suggest that the Cx43 carboxyl-terminus domain provides a binding site for an intracellular molecule, most likely a member of the c-Src tyrosine kinase family, which affects P2Y1R-induced calcium mobilization. It is here proposed that a nonchannel function of Cx43 is to serve as a decoy for such kinases. Such modulation of P2Y1R is expected to influence several neural cell functions, especially under inflammation and neurodegenerative disorders where expression levels of Cx43 are decreased.
Motor neuron diseases (MNDs) are progressive neurodegenerative disorders characterized by selective death of motor neurons leading to spasticity, muscle wasting and paralysis. Human VAMP-associated protein B (hVAPB) is the causative gene of a clinically diverse group of MNDs including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), atypical ALS and late-onset spinal muscular atrophy. The pathogenic mutation is inherited in a dominant manner. Drosophila VAMP-associated protein of 33 kDa A (DVAP-33A) is the structural homologue of hVAPB and regulates synaptic remodeling by affecting the size and number of boutons at neuromuscular junctions. Associated with these structural alterations are compensatory changes in the physiology and ultrastructure of synapses, which maintain evoked responses within normal boundaries. DVAP-33A and hVAPB are functionally interchangeable and transgenic expression of mutant DVAP-33A in neurons recapitulates major hallmarks of the human diseases including locomotion defects, neuronal death and aggregate formation. Aggregate accumulation is accompanied by a depletion of the endogenous protein from its normal localization. These findings pinpoint to a possible role of hVAPB in synaptic homeostasis and emphasize the relevance of our fly model in elucidating the patho-physiology underlying motor neuron degeneration in humans.
Macrophages serve as a major reservoir for HIV-1 because a large number of macrophages in the brain and lung are infected with HIV-1 during late stage disease. Recent evidence suggests that those HIV-1-infected macrophages play a key role in contributing to tissue damage in AIDS pathogenesis. Macrophages undergo apoptosis upon HIV-1 infection; however, the mechanisms of this process are not well-defined. Previously, we demonstrated that HIV-1 infection inhibits Akt-1, a critical protein for cell survival of macrophages. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of transcription factor FOXO3a in the regulation of HIV-1-mediated apoptosis in macrophages. HIV-1 infection significantly decreased phosphorylation of FOXO3a and promoted FOXO3a translocation to the nucleus in human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM). Overexpression of a constitutively active FOXO3a increased DNA fragmentation with decreased cell viability in MDM, whereas a dominant-negative mutant of FOXO3a or small interfering RNA for FOXO3a to knockdown the function of FOXO3a in HIV-1-infected MDM decreased DNA fragmentation and protected macrophages from death in HIV-1-infected MDM. Overexpression of constitutively active Akt-1 increased FOXO3a phosphorylation, suggesting that FOXO3a phosphorylation in human MDM is dependent on Akt-1. We therefore conclude that FOXO3a plays an important role in HIV-1-induced cell death of human macrophage. Understanding the PI3K/Akt-1/FOXO3a pathway and its associated death mechanism in macrophages during HIV-1 infection would lead to identification of potential therapeutic avenues for the treatment of HIV-1 infection.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with end-organ complications in the peripheral and central nervous system. It is unknown if these complications share a common aetiology, and if they co-occur in the same patient. The aim of the present study was to relate different measures of peripheral neuropathy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) to cognition and brain MRI. A standardized neurological examination and questionnaire, neuropsychological examination and brain MRI were performed in 122 patients with DM2 and 56 matched controls. Measures of peripheral neuropathy were vibration threshold, a sensory examination sum score and the Toronto Clinical Neuropathy Scoring System. Neuropsychological test scores were expressed in standardized z-values across five predetermined cognitive domains. White matter lesions and cortical and subcortical atrophy were rated on MRI. Overall 38% of the patients with DM2 and 12% of the controls were classified as having any neuropathy (p&lt;0.001). Patients with DM2 had a lower performance on the neuropsychological tests, more white matter lesions (p&lt;0.01) and more atrophy (p&lt;0.01) than controls. Within the DM2 group none of the measures of peripheral neuropathy was related to MRI abnormalities or cognitive dysfunction (linear regression analyses, adjusted for age, education, sex). We conclude that peripheral neuropathy in patients with DM2 is not related to cognitive dysfunction and brain abnormalities. This indicates that central and peripheral neurological complications of DM2 might have different etiologies.


Electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals have been shown to contain reliable information about the direction of arm movements and can be used for on-line cursor control. These findings indicate that the ECoG is a potential basis for a brain-machine interface (BMI) for application in paralyzed patients. However, previous approaches to ECoG-BMIs were either based on classification of different movement patterns or on a voluntary modulation of spectral features. For a continuous multi-dimensional BMI control, the prediction of complete movement trajectories, as it has already been shown for spike data and local field potentials (LFPs), would be a desirable addition for the ECoG, too. Here, we examined ECoG signals from six subjects with subdurally implanted ECoG-electrodes during continuous two-dimensional arm movements between random target positions. Our results show that continuous trajectories of 2D hand position can be approximately predicted from the ECoG recorded from hand/arm motor cortex. This indicates that ECoG signals, related to body movements, can directly be transferred to equivalent controls of an external effector for continuous BMI control.
Visual objects can be described by their color and by their color contrast. For example, a red disk in front of a white background appears &quot;red with high color contrast,&quot; whereas a red disk in front of a slightly less-saturated red background will appear &quot;red with low color contrast.&quot; This paper examines the visual response to color contrast in a cone-based color space. The stimulus consists of two disks whose chromaticity and/or luminance modulate in time along a line in a DKL color space; the chromaticity and luminance levels of the two disks are always identical. One disk is surrounded by a static ring whose color is at one end of the color line, and the other disk is surrounded by a static ring whose color is at the opposite end of the color line. The disks appear to modulate in antiphase (following the contrast information), yet they can also appear to be approximately the same color (following the chromatic/luminance information). The observers' task was to adjust the color angle of modulating disks until the antiphase appearance was eliminated-creating a contrast null. Observers set contrast nulls at a color angle approximately 90 deg away from the line connecting the colors of the surround rings; this result occurred in both chromoluminant and equiluminant color planes, although two observers showed a flattening near equiluminance in the chromoluminance planes. To account for the data, I present a model that contains one pathway for color and another pathway for color contrast. I show that (1) the model correctly predicts orthogonal directions in color space for the contrast nulling task; (2) the response of the contrast pathway appears to be faster than the response of the color pathway; (3) the response of the contrast pathway may mediate detection thresholds under some conditions (a finding that can account for some of the effects of surround luminance on temporal sensitivity); (4) the asynchronous modulation can be seen even when the stimulus is blurred; and (5) the asynchrony does not require a disk-ring configuration.
The image information guiding visual behavior is acquired and maintained in an interplay of gaze shifts and visual short-term memory (VSTM). If storage capacity of VSTM is exhausted, gaze shifts can be used to regain information not currently represented in memory. By varying the separation between relevant image regions, S. Inamdar and M. Pomplun (2003) demonstrated a trade-off between VSTM storage and gaze shifts, which were performed as pure eye movements, that is, without a head movement component. Here we extend this paradigm to larger gaze shifts involving both eye and head movements. We use a comparative visual search paradigm with two relevant image regions and region separation as independent variable. Image regions were defined by two cupboards displaying colored geometrical objects in roughly equal arrangements. Subjects were asked to find differences in the arrangement of the objects in the two cupboards. Cupboard separation was varied between 30 degrees and 120 degrees . Images were presented with two projectors on a 150 degrees x 70 degrees curved screen. Head and eye movements were simultaneously recorded with an ART head tracker and an ASL mobile eye tracker, respectively. In the large separation conditions, the number of gaze shifts between the two cupboards was reduced, while fixation duration increased. Furthermore, the head movement proportions negatively correlated with the number of gaze shifts and positively correlated with fixation duration. We conclude that the visual system uses increased VSTM involvement to avoid gaze movements and in particular movements of the head. Scan path analysis revealed two subject-specific strategies (encode left, compare right, and vice versa), which were consistently used in all separation conditions.
Metabolic and neuro-receptor abnormalities within the extrafocal limbic circuits are established in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, very little is known about how these circuits process external stimuli. We tested whether odor activation can help delineate limbic functional disintegration in MTLE, and measured cerebral blood flow with PET during birhinal smelling of familiar and unfamiliar odors, using smelling of odorless air as the baseline condition. Patients with MTLE (13 left-sided, 10 right-sided) and 21 controls were investigated. In addition to odor activation, the analysis included functional connectivity, using right and left piriform cortex as seed regions. Healthy controls activated the amygdala, piriform, anterior insular, and cingulate cortices on both sides. Smelling of familiar odors engaged, in addition, the right parahippocampus, and the left Brodmann Area (BA) 44, 45, 47. Patients failed to activate the amygdala, piriform and the anterior insular cortex in the epileptogenic hemisphere. Furthermore, those with left MTLE did not activate the left BA 44, 45 and 47 with familiar odors, which they perceived as less familiar than controls. Congruent with the activation data each seed region was in patients functionally disconnected with the contralateral amygdala+piriform+insular cortex. The functional disintegration in patients exceeded the reduced activation, and included the contralateral temporal neocortex, and in subjects with right MTLE also the right orbitofrontal cortex. Imaging of odor perception may be used to delineate functional disintegration of the limbic networks in MTLE. It shows an altered response in several regions, which may underlie some interictal behavioral problems associated with this condition.

We studied the neural activation associated with anticipations of emotional pictures using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) by directly comparing certain with uncertain anticipation conditions. While being scanned with fMRI, healthy participants (n=18) were cued to anticipate and then perceive emotional stimuli having predictable (i.e., certain) emotional valences (i.e., positive and negative), given a preceding cue, as well as cued stimuli of uncertain valence (positive or negative). During anticipation of pictures with certain negative valence, activities of supracallosal anterior cingulate cortex, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, insula, and amygdala were enhanced relative activity levels that for the uncertain emotional anticipation condition. This result suggests that these brain regions are involved in anticipation of negative images, and that their activity levels may be enhanced by the certainty of anticipation. Furthermore, the supracallosal anterior cingulate cortex showed functional connectivity with the insula, prefrontal cortex, and occipital cortex during the certain negative anticipation. These findings are consistent with an interpretation that top-down modulation, arising from anterior brain regions, is engaged in certain negative anticipation within the occipital cortex. It is thought that the limbic system involving the amygdala, ACC, and insula, engaged emotional processes, and that the input system involving the visual cortex entered an idling state.
The role of sub-cortical structures such as the striatum in language remains a controversial issue. Based on linguistic claims that language processing implies both recovery of lexical information and application of combinatorial rules it has been shown that striatal damaged patients have difficulties applying conjugation rules while lexical recovery of irregular forms is broadly spared (e.g., Ullman, M. T., Corkin, S., Coppola, M., Hickok, G., Growdon, J. H., Koroshetz, W. J., et al. (1997). A neural dissociation within language: Evidence that the mental dictionary is part of declarative memory, and that grammatical rules are processed by the procedural system. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 9(2), 266-276). Here we bolstered the striatum-rule hypothesis by investigating lexical abilities and rule application at the phrasal level. Both processing aspects were assessed in a model of striatal dysfunction, namely Huntington's disease (HD). Using a semantic priming task we compared idiomatic prime sentences involving lexical access to whole phrases (e.g., &quot;Paul has kicked the bucket&quot;) with idiom-derived sentences that contained passivation changes involving syntactic movement rules (e.g., &quot;Paul was kicked by the bucket&quot;), word changes (e.g., &quot;Paul has crushed the bucket&quot;) or either. Target words that were either idiom-related (e.g., &quot;death&quot;) reflecting lexical access to idiom meanings, word-related (e.g., &quot;bail&quot;) reflecting lexical access to single words, or unrelated (e.g., &quot;table&quot;). HD patients displayed selective abnormalities with passivated sentences whereas priming was normal with idioms and sentences containing only word changes. We argue that the role of the striatum in sentence processing specifically pertains to the application of syntactic movement rules whereas it is not involved in canonical rules required for active structures or in lexical processing aspects. Our findings support the striatum-rule hypothesis but suggest that it should be refined by tracking the particular kind of language rules depending on striatal computations.
In humans, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can be used to induce, depending on polarity, increases or decreases of cortical excitability by polarization of the underlying brain tissue. Cognitive enhancement as a result of tDCS has been reported. The purpose of this study was to test whether weak tDCS (current density, 57 microA/cm(2)) can be used to modify language processing. Fifteen healthy subjects performed a visual picture naming task before, during and after tDCS applied over the posterior perisylvian region (PPR), i.e. an area which includes Wernicke's area [BA 22]. Four different sessions were carried out: (1) anodal and (2) cathodal stimulation of left PPR and, for control, (3) anodal stimulation of the homologous region of the right hemisphere and (4) sham stimulation. We found that subjects responded significantly faster following anodal tDCS to the left PPR (p&lt;0.01). No decreases in performance were detected. Our finding of a transient improvement in a language task following the application of tDCS together with previous studies which investigated the modulation of picture naming latency by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and repetitive TMS (rTMS) suggest that tDCS applied to the left PPR (including Wernicke's area [BA 22]) can be used to enhance language processing in healthy subjects. Whether this safe, low cost, and easy to use brain stimulation technique can be used to ameliorate deficits of picture naming in aphasic patients needs further investigations.
Despite the widespread distribution of inhibitory synapses throughout the central nervous system, plasticity of inhibitory synapses related to associative learning has never been reported. In the cerebellum, the neural correlate of fear memory is provided by a long-term potentiation (LTP) of the excitatory synapse between the parallel fibers (PFs) and the Purkinje cell (PC). In this article, we provide evidence that inhibitory synapses in the cerebellar cortex also are affected by fear conditioning. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of spontaneous and miniature GABAergic events onto the PC show that the frequency but not the amplitude of these events is significantly greater up to 24 h after the conditioning. Adequate levels of excitation and inhibition are required to maintain the temporal fidelity of a neuronal network. Such fidelity can be evaluated by determining the time window for multiple input coincidence detection. We found that, after fear learning, PCs are able to integrate excitatory inputs with greater probability within short delays, but the width of the whole window is unchanged. Therefore, excitatory LTP provides a more effective detection, and inhibitory potentiation serves to maintain the time resolution of the system.
Striatal enkephalin and dynorphin opioid systems mediate reward and negative affect, respectively, relevant to addiction disorders. We examined polymorphisms of proenkephalin (PENK) and prodynorphin (PDYN) genes in relation to heroin abuse and gene expression in the human striatum and the relevance of genetic dopaminergic tone, critical for drug reward and striatal function. Heroin abuse was significantly associated with PENK polymorphic 3' UTR dinucleotide (CA) repeats; 79% of subjects homozygous for the 79-bp allele were heroin abusers. Such individuals tended to express higher PENK mRNA than the 81-bp homozygotes, but PENK levels within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell were most strongly correlated to catecholamine-O-methyltransferase (COMT) genotype. Control Met/Met individuals expressed lower PENK mRNA than Val carriers, a pattern reversed in heroin users. Up-regulation of NAc PENK in Met/Met heroin abusers was accompanied by impaired tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression in mesolimbic dopamine neurons. In contrast to PENK, no association was detected between PDYN genotype (68-bp repeat element containing one to four copies of AP-1 binding sites in the promoter region) and heroin abuse, although there was a clear functional association with striatal PDYN mRNA expression: an increased number of inducible repeats (three and four) correlated with higher PDYN levels than adult or fetal subjects with noninducible (one and two) alleles. Moreover, PDYN expression was not related to COMT genotype. Altogether, the data suggest that dysfunction of the opioid reward system is significantly linked to opiate abuse vulnerability and that heroin use alters the apparent influence of heritable dopamine tone on mesolimbic PENK and TH function.
In recent years, it has become clear that, in addition to conventional anterograde transmission, signaling in neural circuits can occur in a retrograde manner. This suggests the additional possibility that postsynaptic release of neurotransmitter might be able to act in an autocrine fashion. Here, we show that brief depolarization of a cerebellar Purkinje cell triggers a slow inward current. This depolarization-induced slow current (DISC) is attenuated by antagonists of mGluR1 or TRP channels. DISC is eliminated by a mixture of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channel blockers and is mimicked by a brief climbing fiber burst. DISC is attenuated by an inhibitor of vesicular glutamate transporters or of vesicular fusion. These data suggest that Ca2+-dependent postsynaptic fusion of glutamate-loaded vesicles evokes a slow inward current produced by activation of postsynaptic mGluR1, thereby constituting a useful form of feedback regulation.
This study examined whether people with paranoid or nonparanoid schizophrenia would show emotion-recognition deficits, both facial and prosodic. Furthermore, this study examined the neuropsychological predictors of emotion-recognition ability in people with schizophrenia. Participants comprised 86 people, of whom: 43 were people diagnosed with schizophrenia and 43 were controls. The 43 clinical participants were placed in either the paranoid group (n=19) or the nonparanoid group (n=24). Each participant was administered the Facial Emotion Recognition task and the Prosodic Recognition task, together with other neuropsychological measures of attention and visual perception. People suffering from nonparanoid schizophrenia were found to have deficits in both facial and prosodic emotion recognition, after correction for the differences in the intelligence and depression scores between the two groups. Furthermore, spatial perception was observed to be the best predictor of facial emotion identification in individuals with nonparanoid schizophrenia, whereas attentional processing control predicted both prosodic emotion identification and discrimination in nonparanoid schizophrenia patients. Our findings suggest that patients with schizophrenia in remission may still suffer from impairment of certain aspects of emotion recognition.

The ability of the sigma(1) receptor to interact with a huge range of drug structural classes coupled with its wide distribution in the body has contributed to it being implicated as a possible therapeutic target for a broad array of disorders ranging from substance abuse to depression to Alzheimer's disease. Surprisingly, the reported affinity values for some sigma(1) receptor ligands vary more than 50-fold. The potential of the sigma(1) receptor as a pharmacotherapeutic target prompted us to develop an unambiguous assay system for measuring the affinity of ligands to the cloned human sigma(1) receptor. In the course of characterizing this system and determining the true affinity values for almost three dozen compounds, it was discovered that some dopamine D(4) receptor selective compounds bind sigma(1) receptors with high affinity. A systematic analysis of haloperidol-like compounds revealed a clear structure-affinity relationship amongst clinically relevant butyrophenones. The antidepressant fluvoxamine, the drug of abuse methamphetamine, and the neurosteroid progesterone were amongst the many ligands whose interactions with the sigma(1) receptor were confirmed with our screening assay.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a neurohormone that mediates stress, anxiety, and affects serotonergic activity. Studies have shown that CRF has dose-dependent opposing effects on serotonergic activity. This effect has been hypothesized to be differentially mediated by CRF(1) and CRF(2) receptors in the dorsal raph nucleus. We directly tested this hypothesis by using in vivo microdialysis to determine the effects of CRF and CRF receptor antagonists in the dorsal raph nucleus on serotonin (5-HT) release in the nucleus accumbens, a brain region implicated in the neuropathology of stress-related psychiatric disorders. Male urethane-anesthetized rats were implanted with a microdialysis probe into the nucleus accumbens, and CRF (0, 100 or 500 ng) was infused into the dorsal raph. Infusion of CRF into the dorsal raph nucleus had dose-dependent opposite effects, with 100 ng of CRF significantly decreasing 5-HT levels in the nucleus accumbens and 500 ng CRF significantly increasing accumbal 5-HT levels. In subsequent experiments, the raph was pre-treated with the CRF(1) receptor antagonist antalarmin (0.25 microg) or the CRF(2) receptor antagonist antisauvagine-30 (ASV-30; 2 microg) prior to CRF infusion. Antagonism of CRF(1) receptors in the dorsal raph nucleus abolished the decrease in accumbal 5-HT levels elicited by 100 ng CRF, and CRF(2) receptor antagonism in the raph blocked the increase in accumbal 5-HT levels elicited by 500 ng CRF. These results suggest that the opposing effects of dorsal raph CRF on 5-HT release in the nucleus accumbens are dependent on differential activation of CRF(1) and CRF(2) receptors in the dorsal raph nucleus.
Drosophila neuroblasts are similar to mammalian neural stem cells in their ability to self-renew and to produce many different types of neurons and glial cells. In the past two decades, great advances have been made in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying embryonic neuroblast formation, the establishment of cell polarity and the temporal regulation of cell fate. It is now a challenge to connect, at the molecular level, the different cell biological events underlying the transition from neural stem cell maintenance to differentiation. Progress has also been made in understanding the later stages of development, when neuroblasts become mitotically inactive, or quiescent, and are then reactivated postembryonically to generate the neurons that make up the adult nervous system. The ability to manipulate the steps leading from quiescence to proliferation and from proliferation to differentiation will have a major impact on the treatment of neurological injury and neurodegenerative disease.
Stem cells, although difficult to define, hold great promise as tools for understanding development and as therapeutic agents. However, as with any new field, uncritical enthusiasm can outstrip reality. In this review, we have listed nine common myths that we believe affect our approach to evaluating stem cells for therapy. We suggest that careful consideration needs to be given to each of these issues when evaluating a particular cell for its use in therapy. Data need to be collected and reported for failed as well as successful experiments and a rigorous scientific approach taken to evaluate the undeniable promise of stem cell biology.
Muscle contraction is normally mediated by the release of neurotransmitters from motor neurons. Here we demonstrate that protons can act as a direct transmitter from intestinal cells to stimulate muscle contraction. During the C. elegans defecation motor program the posterior body muscles contract even in the absence of neuronal inputs or vesicular neurotransmission. In this study, we demonstrate that the space between the intestine and the muscle is acidified just prior to muscle contraction and that the release of caged protons is sufficient to induce muscle contraction. PBO-4 is a putative Na+/H+ ion exchanger expressed on the basolateral membrane of the intestine, juxtaposed to the posterior body muscles. In pbo-4 mutants the extracellular space is not acidified and the muscles fail to contract. The pbo-5 and pbo-6 genes encode subunits of a &quot;cys-loop&quot; proton-gated cation channel required for muscles to respond to acidification. In heterologous expression assays the PBO receptor is half-maximally activated at a pH of 6.8. The identification of the mechanisms for release and reception of proton signals establishes a highly unusual mechanism for intercellular communication.
Proper distribution of mitochondria within axons and at synapses is critical for neuronal function. While one-third of axonal mitochondria are mobile, a large proportion remains in a stationary phase. However, the mechanisms controlling mitochondrial docking within axons remain elusive. Here, we report a role for axon-targeted syntaphilin (SNPH) in mitochondrial docking through its interaction with microtubules. Axonal mitochondria that contain exogenously or endogenously expressed SNPH lose mobility. Deletion of the mouse snph gene results in a substantially higher proportion of axonal mitochondria in the mobile state and reduces the density of mitochondria in axons. The snph mutant neurons exhibit enhanced short-term facilitation during prolonged stimulation, probably by affecting calcium signaling at presynaptic boutons. This phenotype is fully rescued by reintroducing the snph gene into the mutant neurons. These findings demonstrate a molecular mechanism for controlling mitochondrial docking in axons that has a physiological impact on synaptic function.
As individuals who abuse methamphetamine (MA) often exhibit socially maladaptive behaviors such as violence and aggression, it is possible that they respond abnormally to social cues. To investigate this issue, we exposed 12 MA-dependent participants (abstinent 5-16 days) and 12 healthy comparison participants to fearful and angry faces while they performed an affect matching task during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Although the groups did not differ in task performance, the healthy participants showed more task-related activity than the MA-dependent participants in a set of cortical regions consisting of the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC), temporoparietal junction (TPJ), anterior and posterior temporal cortex, and fusiform gyrus in the right hemisphere, and the cuneus in the left hemisphere. In contrast, the MA-dependent participants showed more task-related activity than the healthy participants in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC). As expected, the task elicited activation of the amygdala in both groups; however, contrary to expectation, we found no difference between groups in this activation. Dorsal ACC hyperactivity, along with high self-ratings of hostility and interpersonal sensitivity in the MA-dependent group, suggest a hyper-sensitivity to socially threatening cues in the MA-dependent participants, while lower VLPFC activation could point to a deficit in integrating socio-emotional information and/or regulating this limbic hyperactivity. Additional activation differences in neural circuitry related to social cognition (TPJ, anterior, and posterior temporal cortex) suggest further socio-emotional deficits. Together, the results point to cortical abnormalities that could underlie the socially inappropriate behaviors often shown by individuals who abuse MA.

To induce morphine dependence, different programs have been used and a wide range of behaviors evaluated. A quantitative method based on mice withdrawal jumping behavior has been suggested and later described by Marshall and Grahame-Smith. The purpose of this work was to evaluate different aspects of this method using variations in doses and duration of the protocol. All experiments were done in three parallel methods according to the Marshall protocol: (i) except the dose of morphine (n=20) where we divided all morphine doses by two in first 3 days, (ii) 2-day (M100%-2D, n=14) and (iii) 1-day morphine application (M100%-1D; n=13). The results showed that only 50% doses of morphine that are used according to Marshall method is sufficient to induce morphine dependence whereas they are not able to induce tolerance. On the other hand, M100%-2D protocol could induce morphine tolerance but not dependence whereas M100%-1D group could induce neither morphine tolerance nor dependence in mice. Therefore, these simple modifications in dose and period of morphine application in Marshall method resulted in distinct protocols for induction of morphine tolerance and dependence along with saving of drug and time.
The multiple choice procedure has been used to evaluate preference for psychoactive drugs, relative to money amounts (price), in human subjects. The present re-analysis shows that MCP data are compatible with behavioral economic analysis of drug choices. Demand curves were constructed from studies with intravenous fentanyl, intramuscular hydromorphone and oral methadone in opioid-dependent individuals; oral d-amphetamine, oral MDMA alone and during fluoxetine treatment, and smoked marijuana alone or following naltrexone pretreatment in recreational drug users. For each participant and dose, the MCP crossover point was converted into unit price (UP) by dividing the money value ($) by the drug dose (mg/70kg). At the crossover value, the dose ceases to function as a reinforcer, so &quot;0&quot; was entered for this and higher UPs to reflect lack of drug choice. At lower UPs, the dose functions as a reinforcer and &quot;1&quot; was entered to reflect drug choice. Data for UP vs. average percent choice were plotted in log-log space to generate demand functions. Rank of order of opioid inelasticity (slope of non-linear regression) was: fentanyl&gt;hydromorphone (continuing heroin users)&gt;methadone&gt;hydromorphone (heroin abstainers). Rank order of psychostimulant inelasticity was d-amphetamine&gt;MDMA&gt;MDMA+fluoxetine. Smoked marijuana was more inelastic with high-dose naltrexone. These findings show this method translates individuals' drug preferences into estimates of population demand, which has the potential to yield insights into pharmacotherapy efficacy, abuse liability assessment, and individual differences in susceptibility to drug abuse.
Prestin is a transmembrane motor protein localized at the outer hair cells (OHCs) of the mammalian inner ear. Voltage-dependent conformational changes in prestin generate changes in the length of OHCs. A loss of prestin function is reported to induce severe auditory deficiencies, suggesting prestin-dependent changes of OHC length may be at least a part of cochlear amplification. Here we expressed the recombinant FLAG-fused prestin proteins in Sf9 cells and purified to particles of a uniform size in EM. The square-shaped top view of purified prestin, the binding of multiple anti-FLAG antibodies to each prestin particle, the native-PAGE analysis, and the much larger molecular weight obtained from size exclusion chromatography than the estimation for the monomer all support that prestin is a tetramer (Zheng, J., Du, G. G., Anderson, C. T., Keller, J. P., Orem, A., Dallos, P., and Cheatham, M. (2006) J. Biol. Chem. 281, 19916-19924). From negatively stained prestin particles, the three-dimensional structure was reconstructed at 2 nm resolution assuming 4-fold symmetry. Prestin is shown to be a bullet-shaped particle with a large cytoplasmic domain. The surface representation demonstrates indentations on the molecule, and the slice images indicate the inner cavities of sparse densities. The dimensions, 77 x 77 x 115 A, are consistent with the previously reported sizes of motor proteins on the surface of OHCs.
Experiments in many fields of science and engineering yield data in the form of time series. The Fourier and wavelet transform-based nonparametric methods are used widely to study the spectral characteristics of these time series data. Here, we extend the framework of nonparametric spectral methods to include the estimation of Granger causality spectra for assessing directional influences. We illustrate the utility of the proposed methods using synthetic data from network models consisting of interacting dynamical systems.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its role in cognition has been relatively little studied. APP knockout (KO) animals have been described previously and show deficits in grip strength, reduced locomotor activity and impaired learning and memory in a conditioned avoidance test and the Morris water-maze. In order to further investigate the in vivo function of APP and its proteolytic derivatives, we tested APP KO mice and age-matched wild type controls at two different ages, 3 and 8 months, in a range of behavioural tests measuring neuromuscular, locomotor and cognitive functions. These tests included the acquisition of a passive avoidance response as a measure of long-term memory of an aversive experience, and spontaneous alternation in a Y-maze, regarded as a measure of spatial short-term memory. The absence of APP expression in APP KO mice was confirmed at the protein level using hippocampal tissue in Western blotting. APP KO mice displayed deficits in forelimb grip strength and locomotor activity in agreement with previous studies. In the Y-maze test used for spontaneous alternation behaviour, APP KO animals did not exhibit reduced alternation rates. On the other hand, in the passive avoidance test, APP KO mice showed an age-related deficit in retention of memory for an aversive experience. The results suggest that APP and/or its proteolytic derivatives may play a role in long-term memory in adult brain and/or may be required during the development and maintenance of neuronal networks involved in this type of memory.
Recent neurophysiological studies have begun to uncover the neuronal correlates of eye hand coordination. This study was designed to test whether the frontal eye field (FEF) saccadic activity is modulated by hand position. Single neurons were recorded in two macaque monkeys performing visually guided saccades while holding their hand at given locations on a touchscreen. To determine the relative contributions of hand vision and its proprioception, monkeys executed the task with or without vision of the hand. We found that saccadic activity of more than half of the neuronal sample (54%; n=130) was dependent on hand position relative to the saccade end point. Both visual and proprioceptive signals contributed to this modulation. These data demonstrate that the oculomotor function of the FEF takes into account hand position in space.
The zebrafish has been an excellent model organism of developmental biology and genetics. Studying its behavior will add to the already strong knowledge of its biology and will strengthen the use of this species in behavior genetics and neuroscience. Anxiety is one of the most problematic human psychiatric conditions. Arguably, it arises as a result of abnormally exaggerated natural fear responses. The zebrafish may be an appropriate model to investigate the biology of fear and anxiety. Fear responses are expressed by animals when exposed to predators, and these responses can be learned or innate. Here we investigated whether zebrafish respond differentially to a natural predator or other fish species upon their first exposure to these fish. Nave zebrafish were shown four species of fish chosen based on predatory status (predatory or harmless) and geographical origin (allopatric or sympatric). Our results suggest that nave zebrafish respond differentially to the stimulus fish. Particularly interesting is the antipredatory response elicited by the zebrafish's sympatric predator, the Indian Leaf Fish, and the fact that this latter species exhibited almost no predatory attacks. The findings obtained open a new avenue of research into what zebrafish perceive as &quot;dangerous&quot; or fear inducing. They will also allow us to develop fear and anxiety related behavioral test methods with which the contribution of genes to, or the effects of novel anxiolytic substances on these behaviors may be analyzed.
It is well known that early life events induce long-lasting psychophysiological and psychobiological influences in later life. In rodent studies, environmental enrichment after weaning prevents the adulthood behavioral and emotional disturbances in response to early adversities. We compared the behavioral effect of neonatal isolation (NI) with the effect of NI accompanied by tactile stimulation (NTS) to determine whether NTS could reverse or prevent the effects of NI on the adulthood behavioral and emotional responses to environmental stimuli. In addition, we also examined the sex difference of the NTS effect. Measurements of body weights, an open-field locomotor test, an elevated plus maze test, a hot-plate test, and a contextual fear-conditioning test were performed on postnatal day 60. As compared with rats subjected to NI, rats subjected to NTS showed significantly higher activity and exploration in the open-field locomotor test, lower anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus maze test, and significantly prolonged latencies in the hot-plate test, and this effect was equal among males and females. In the contextual fear-conditioning test, whereas NTS significantly reduced the enhanced freezing time due to NI in females, no significant difference in the freezing time between NI and NTS was found in males. These findings indicate that adequate tactile stimulation in early life plays an important role in the prevention of disturbances in the behavioral and emotional responses to environmental stimuli in adulthood induced by early adverse experiences.
There is a strong clinical relationship between stress and stress-related disorders and the incidence of alcohol abuse and alcoholism, and this relationship appears to be partly genetic in origin. There are marked strain differences in ethanol (EtOH)-related behaviors and reactivity to stress, but little investigation of the interaction between the two. The present study assessed the effects of chronic exposure to swim stress on EtOH-related behavior in three common inbred strains of mice, C57BL/6J, DBA/2J and BALB/cByJ. After establishing baseline (10%) EtOH self-administration in a two-bottle free choice test, mice were exposed to daily swim stress for 14 consecutive days and EtOH consumption was measured as a percent of baseline both during stress and for 10 days afterwards. A separate experiment examined the effects of 14 days of swim stress on sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic effects of an acute injection of 4g/kg EtOH. Results showed that stress produced a significant decrease in EtOH consumption, relative to pre-stress baseline, in DBA/2J and BALB/cByJ, but not C57BL/6J mice. By contrast, stress increased sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic effects of EtOH in all three strains. These findings demonstrate that chronic swim stress produces reductions in EtOH self-administration in a strain-dependent manner, and that these effects may be restricted to strains with a pre-existing aversion to EtOH. Present data also demonstrates a dissociation between effects of this stressor on EtOH self-administration and sensitivity to EtOH's sedative/hypnotic effects. In conclusion, strain differences, that are likely in large part genetic in nature, modify the effects of this stressor on EtOH's effects in a behavior-specific manner.
Previous research has shown that the ability to orient with the use of directional cues from the geomagnetic field is lateralized in three avian species: orientation is possible when the birds are restricted to use of their right eye, but not when they have to use their left eye. This has been interpreted as possible lateralization of the perception mechanisms for magnetic cues in favour of the right eye. Recent discovery of magnetic compass orientation in domestic chicks, a species in which lateralization has been well studied, has made available a model system in which to explore these lateralized processes more fully. Hence we tested chicks monocularly in the same test conditions as used previously to demonstrate the chick's use of a magnetic compass. In a magnetic field with North shifted by 90 degrees , chicks using their right eye oriented according to magnetic cues, whereas chicks using the left eye did not, but continued to prefer the original direction. Analysis of the times taken to respond indicated longer latencies in the chicks using their left eye, suggesting a possible conflict between cues. The different behaviour of the chicks using their left eye might not be a matter of a right eye-left hemisphere specialization for detecting magnetic directions, but of hemispheric specialization for attending to specific types of cues.
When a discrete cue (a &quot;sign&quot;) is presented repeatedly in anticipation of a food reward the cue can become imbued with incentive salience, leading some animals to approach and engage it, a phenomenon known as &quot;sign-tracking&quot; (the animals are sign-trackers; STs). In contrast, other animals do not approach the cue, but upon cue presentation go to the location where food will be delivered (the goal). These animals are known as goal-trackers (GTs). It has been hypothesized that individuals who attribute excessive incentive salience to reward-related cues may be especially vulnerable to develop compulsive behavioral disorders, including addiction. We were interested, therefore, in whether individual differences in the propensity to sign-track are associated with differences in responsivity to cocaine. Using an autoshaping procedure in which lever (conditioned stimulus) presentation was immediately followed by the response-independent delivery of a food pellet (unconditioned stimulus), rats were first characterized as STs or GTs and subsequently studied for the acute psychomotor response to cocaine and the propensity for cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization. We found that GTs were more sensitive than STs to the acute locomotor activating effects of cocaine, but STs showed a greater propensity for psychomotor sensitization upon repeated treatment. These data suggest that individual differences in the tendency to attribute incentive salience to a discrete reward-related cue, and to approach and engage it, are associated with susceptibility to a form of cocaine-induced plasticity that may contribute to the development of addiction.
The effects of chronic footshock (CFS) on behavioral responses of CD1 mice to acute footshock and restraint were studied in tests commonly used to assess antidepressant treatments. Adult male mice were subjected to 20 min of footshock daily for 14-16 days, and then tested in the tail suspension test (TST) and the forced swim test (FST). CFS treatment did not alter immobility in the TST when mice were tested before the footshock on that day. However, when the TST was performed after the footshock, immobility decreased in both control and CFS mice. In the FST, chronic footshock significantly increased the time spent floating when mice were tested before footshock on that day. However, when the FST was performed immediately after the footshock, floating decreased in the CFS mice, but not in previously unshocked mice. Restraint, shortly before the FST, decreased floating in both CFS and unshocked mice. Thus, CFS induced depression-like activity in the FST, but not in the TST, whereas acute footshock or restraint immediately before testing induced antidepressant-like effects in both the TST and the FST. In unshocked mice, intracerebroventricular corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) consistently decreased immobility in the TST and the FST, with significant effects at the 100ng dose. The same dose of CRF depressed activity in the open field, so that these changes in immobility are unlikely to reflect a change in overall activity. CRF thus mimicked the effects of the acute stressors in the TST and the FST. Responses to icv CRF were attenuated by chronic footshock suggesting that CFS desensitizes the brain to CRF. CFS treatment did not alter basal concentrations of ACTH and corticosterone in blood plasma. Acute footshock increased the plasma concentrations of the hormones but in CFS mice these responses were attenuated, significantly for plasma ACTH. Acute footshock activated brain dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin metabolism, and increased tryptophan concentrations in the brain. In CFS mice, these responses were attenuated, significantly for hypothalamic NE.
Cognitive flexibility (i.e. the ability to adapt goal-directed behaviour in response to changed environmental demands) has repeatedly been shown to depend on the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Recent data from primate studies moreover show that depletion of prefrontal 5-HT impairs reversal learning of visual stimuli [Clarke HF, Walker SC, Crofts HS, Dalley JW, Robbins TW, Roberts AC. Prefrontal serotonin depletion affects reversal learning but not attentional set shifting. J Neurosci 2005;25:532-8; Clarke HF, Walker SC, Dalley JW, Robbins TW, Roberts AC. Cognitive inflexibility after prefrontal serotonin depletion is behaviorally and neurochemically specific. Cereb Cortex 2007;17:18-27]. It is not clear however if 5-HT serves a general role in reversal learning or if it is involved only in specific reversal problems. A first aim of these experiments was to study the role of 5-HT in serial reversal learning of a spatial discrimination. Literature has, moreover, repeatedly shown that the PFC is involved in the initial acquisition of a reversal problem but hardly when the task is well practiced. A second aim concerns the role of 5-HT in early versus late reversal learning. With the current experiment, we aim to clarify whether 5-HT is differentially involved in early versus late reversal learning. To this end, we tested rats on a serial two-lever reversal task and induced a temporary reduction of 5-HT availability in these rats by restricting dietary intake of the 5-HT precursor tryptophan at an early and a late reversal. Our results indicate that acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) did not affect either early or late reversal learning, nor extinction and suggest that spatial reversal learning, in contrast to visual reversal learning, might not be dependent on 5-HT. The data furthermore provide insight in the behavioural strategies employed in serial reversal learning and suggests the formation of a learning-set.
The representation of words in sentences can involve the activation and integration of perceptual information. For example, readers who are asked to view pictures of objects relating to a word in a sentence are influenced by perceptual information in the sentence context-readers are faster to respond to a picture of a whole apple after reading, &quot;There is an apple in the bag,&quot; than after reading, &quot;There is an apple in the salad.&quot; The purpose of this study was to examine how the two cerebral hemispheres use perceptual information about words as a function of sentence context. Patients who had damage to the left or right hemisphere and age-matched control participants read sentences that described, but did not entail, the shape or state of an object. They then made recognition judgments to pictures that either matched or mismatched the perceptual form implied by the sentence. Responses and latencies were examined for a match effect -- faster and more accurate responses to pictures in the match than mismatch condition -- controlling for comprehension ability and lesion size. When comprehension ability and lesion size are properly controlled, left-hemisphere-damaged patients and control participants exhibited the expected match effect, whereas right-hemisphere-damaged participants showed no effect of match condition. These results are consistent with research implicating the right hemisphere in the representation of contextually relevant perceptual information.
Peptide YY (PYY), a member of the NPY superfamily of peptides, is predominantly synthesized by the colon and is thought to act on both the gut and brain to modulate energy homeostasis. Although neurons expressing PYY mRNA have also been reported in the brainstem, little is known about their physiological role and study of their projections has been problematic due to crossreactivity of PYY antibodies with NPY. In the present study we examined the localization of central PYY cell bodies in the mouse, rat, and monkey. In addition, efferent projections and afferent inputs of central PYY neurons were examined in rodents. Central PYY projections were examined by immunohistochemistry in the NPY knockout mouse, or with an NPY-preabsorbed PYY antibody in the rat to avoid any crossreactivity with NPY. In all species investigated PYY-immunoreactive (ir) cell bodies were localized exclusively to the gigantocellular reticular nucleus (Gi) of the rostral medulla. The highest density of PYY fibers was present within the solitary tract nucleus, specifically within the dorsal and lateral aspects. PYY fibers were also concentrated within the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and the hypoglossal nucleus. In addition, both orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone fibers made numerous close appositions with PYY cell bodies in the Gi. Collectively, the projection pattern and association with orexigenic neuropeptides suggest that brainstem PYY neurons may play a role in energy homeostasis through a coordinated effect on visceral, motor, and sympathetic output targets.
Olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) expressing a specific odorant receptor (OR) gene send axonal projections to specific glomeruli, creating a stereotypic olfactory sensory map. Odorant receptor sequence, G-protein cAMP signaling, and axon guidance molecules have been shown to direct axons of OSNs toward central targets in the olfactory bulb (OB). Although the OR sequence may act as one determinant, our objective was to elucidate the extent by which voltage-dependent activity of postsynaptic projection neurons in the OB centrally influences peripheral development and target destination of OSNs. We bred OR-tagged transgenic mice to homozygosity with mice that had a gene-targeted deletion of the Shaker potassium ion channel (Kv1.3) to elucidate how activity modulates synaptic connections that formulate the sensory map. Here we report that the Kv1.3 ion channel, which is predominantly expressed in mitral cells and whose gene-targeted deletion causes a &quot;super-smeller&quot; phenotype, alters synaptic refinement of axonal projections from OSNs expressing P2, M72, and MOR28 ORs. Absence of Kv1.3 voltage-gated activity caused the formation of small, heterogeneous, and supernumerary glomeruli that failed to undergo neural pruning over development. These changes were accompanied by a significant decrease in the number of P2-, M72-, and MOR28-expressing OSNs, which contained an overexpression of OR protein and G-protein G(olf) in the cilia of the olfactory epithelium. These findings suggest that voltage-gated activity of projection neurons is essential to refine primary olfactory projections and that it regulates proper expression of the transduction machinery at the periphery.
The entorhinal cortex of the rat (EC) contains a dense fiber plexus that expresses the calcium-binding protein calretinin (CR). Some CR fibers contain vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGluT2, associated with glutamatergic neurotransmission). CR-VGluT2 coexpressing fibers may have an extrinsic origin, for instance, the midline thalamic nucleus reuniens. Alternatively, they may belong to cortical interneurons. We studied the first possibility with anterograde and retrograde neuroanatomical tracing methods combined with CR and VGluT2 immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning. The alternative possibility was studied with in situ hybridization fluorescence histochemistry for VGluT2 mRNA combined with CR immunofluorescence. In the anterograde tracing experiments, we observed many labeled reuniens fibers in EC expressing CR. Some of these labeled fibers contained immunoreactivity for VGluT2 and CR. In the complementary retrograde tracing experiments, we found retrogradely labeled cell bodies in nucleus reuniens of the thalamus that coexpressed CR. We also examined the colocalization of VGluT2 and CR in the entorhinal cortex by using in situ hybridization and CR immunofluorescence. In these experiments, we observed CR-immunopositive cortical neurons that coexpressed VGluT2. For the same sections, with CR as the principal marker and parvalbumin as a control marker, we found that parvalbumin neurons were negative for VGluT2 mRNA. Thus, CR-VGluT2-expressing axon terminals in EC belong to two sources: projection fibers from the thalamus and axon collaterals of local interneurons. VGluT2 expression is linked to the synaptic transmission of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, so these thalamic CR-VGluT2 projection neurons and entorhinal CR-VGluT2 interneurons should be regarded as excitatory.


In addition to the classical, center/surround receptive field of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), there is an extraclassical, nonlinear surround that can strongly suppress LGN responses. This form of suppression likely plays an important role in adjusting the gain of LGN responses to visual stimuli. We performed experiments in alert and anesthetized macaque monkies to quantify extraclassical suppression in the LGN and determine the roles of feedforward and feedback pathways in the generation of LGN suppression. Results show that suppression is significantly stronger among magnocellular neurons than parvocellular neurons and that suppression arises too quickly for involvement from cortical feedback. Furthermore, the amount of suppression supplied by the retina is not significantly different from that in the LGN. These results indicate that extraclassical suppression in the macaque LGN relies on feedforward mechanisms and suggest that suppression in the cortex likely includes a component established in the retina.
The physiological conditions under which adenosine A2A receptors modulate synaptic transmission are presently unclear. We show that A2A receptors are localized postsynaptically at synapses between mossy fibers and CA3 pyramidal cells and are essential for a form of long-term potentiation (LTP) of NMDA-EPSCs induced by short bursts of mossy fiber stimulation. This LTP spares AMPA-EPSCs and is likely induced and expressed postsynaptically. It depends on a postsynaptic Ca2+ rise, on G protein activation, and on Src kinase. In addition to A2A receptors, LTP of NMDA-EPSCs requires the activation of NMDA and mGluR5 receptors as potential sources of Ca2+ increase. LTP of NMDA-EPSCs displays a lower threshold for induction as compared with the conventional presynaptic mossy fiber LTP; however, the two forms of LTP can combine with stronger induction protocols. Thus, postsynaptic A2A receptors may potentially affect information processing in CA3 neuronal networks and memory performance.
The mossy fiber to CA3 pyramidal cell synapse (mf-CA3) provides a major source of excitation to the hippocampus. Thus far, these glutamatergic synapses are well recognized for showing a presynaptic, NMDA receptor-independent form of LTP that is expressed as a long-lasting increase of transmitter release. Here, we show that in addition to this &quot;classical&quot; LTP, mf-CA3 synapses can undergo a form of LTP characterized by a selective enhancement of NMDA receptor-mediated transmission. This potentiation requires coactivation of NMDA and mGlu5 receptors and a postsynaptic calcium rise. Unlike classical LTP, expression of this mossy fiber LTP is due to a PKC-dependent recruitment of NMDA receptors specifically to the mf-CA3 synapse via a SNARE-dependent process. Having two mechanistically different forms of LTP may allow mf-CA3 synapses to respond with more flexibility to the changing demands of the hippocampal network.
Although much traditional sensory research has studied each sensory modality in isolation, there has been a recent explosion of interest in causal interplay between different senses. Various techniques have now identified numerous multisensory convergence zones in the brain. Some convergence may arise surprisingly close to low-level sensory-specific cortex, and some direct connections may exist even between primary sensory cortices. A variety of multisensory phenomena have now been reported in which sensory-specific brain responses and perceptual judgments concerning one sense can be affected by relations with other senses. We survey recent progress in this multisensory field, foregrounding human studies against the background of invasive animal work and highlighting possible underlying mechanisms. These include rapid feedforward integration, possible thalamic influences, and/or feedback from multisensory regions to sensory-specific brain areas. Multisensory interplay is more prevalent than classic modular approaches assumed, and new methods are now available to determine the underlying circuits.
A previous study has revealed sex-dependent neurofunctional predictors of visual word learning [C. Chen, G. Xue, Q. Dong, Z. Jin, T. Li, F. Xue, L. Zhao, Y. Guo, Sex determines the neurofunctional predictors of visual word learning, Neuropsychologia 45 (2007) 741-747]. The present study aimed to extend that study to investigate sex-dependent neurofunctional predictors of long-term maintenance. Twenty-three Chinese college students trained in the previous study were followed up twice: immediately (T1) and 6 months after the training (T2). At both T1 and T2, subjects were tested with the simultaneously presented same-different judgment task. Compared with the T1 performance, subjects (both males and females) showed a small but significant amount of forgetting (i.e., longer reaction times) at T2. Consistent with our hypothesis, males' performance at both T1 and T2 was predicted by the pre-training left-lateralized fusiform activation, whereas females' performance was predicted by symmetrical bilateral fusiform activation.
The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) system has previously been found to be altered in post-mortem brains of individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD). The present study tested whether the FGF system is altered following acute social defeat. Rats were exposed to four consecutive days of either a social defeat paradigm or novel cages. Animals were sacrificed after the last social defeat session and gene expression was assessed in the hippocampus by mRNA in situ hybridization. Molecular components of the FGF system were significantly downregulated following social defeat. Specifically, FGF2 and FGFR1 mRNA expression was decreased in various subfields of the hippocampus. Decreased tone of the FGF system following an acute social stressor is congruent with human post-mortem results of FGF system downregulation in depression. These findings suggest that modulating the FGF system may have therapeutic value in the treatment of MDD.

Little is known about molecular changes occurring within retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) before their death in glaucoma. Taking advantage of the fact that gamma-synuclein (Sncg) mRNA is expressed specifically and highly in adult mouse RGCs, we show in the DBA/2J mouse model of glaucoma that there is not only a loss of cells expressing this gene, but also a downregulation of gene expression of Sncg and many other genes within large numbers of RGCs. This downregulation of gene expression within RGCs occurs together with reductions in FluoroGold (FG) retrograde transport. Surprisingly, there are also large numbers of Sncg-expressing cells without any FG labeling, and among these many that have a marker previously associated with disconnected RGCs, accumulation of phosphorylated neurofilaments in their somas. These same diseased retinas also have large numbers of RGCs that maintain the intraocular portion while losing the optic nerve portion of their axons, and these disconnected axons terminate within the optic nerve head. Our data support the view that RGC degeneration in glaucoma has two separable stages: the first involves atrophy of RGCs, whereas the second involves an insult to axons, which causes the degeneration of axon portions distal to the optic nerve head but does not cause the immediate degeneration of intraretinal portions of axons or the immediate death of RGCs.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) induce a form of long-term synaptic depression (mGluR-LTD) in area CA1 of the hippocampus that requires rapid protein synthesis. Although much is known about the mechanisms underlying mGluR-LTD, it is unclear how mGluRs couple to the effectors necessary for translation initiation. A clue comes from work in the mouse model of Fragile X syndrome [Fmr1 knock-out (KO) mice], where group 1 mGluR stimulation of protein synthesis is absent and mGluRs are less associated with the postsynaptic scaffolding protein Homer (Giuffrida et al., 2005). Here, we examined the role of Homer interactions in mGluR-LTD and mGluR signaling to protein synthesis machinery in wild-type and Fmr1 KO animals. A peptide that mimics the C-terminal tail of mGluR5 (mGluR5ct), shown previously to disrupt Homer interactions with mGluRs, blocks mGluR-LTD and mGluR-signaling to protein synthesis initiation in wild-type animals. Disruption of mGluR-Homer interactions selectively blocks mGluR activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), but not ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase), pathway and translation of a 5' terminal oligopyrimidine tract containing mRNA, Elongation factor 1alpha. In Fmr1 KO mice, mGluR-LTD is insensitive to disruption of Homer interactions and mGluR activation of PI3K-mTOR is lost. Our results find specific roles for Homer in mGluR signaling and plasticity and suggest that reduced mGluR-Homer interactions in Fmr1 KO mice lead to a deficit in mGluR stimulation of translation initiation.
During parturition and lactation, neurosecretory oxytocin (OT) neurons in the hypothalamus achieve pulsatile hormone secretion by coordinated bursts of firing that occur throughout the neuronal population. This activity is partly controlled by somatodendritic release of OT, which facilitates the onset and recurrence of synchronized bursting. To further investigate the cellular mechanisms underlying the control exerted by OT on the activity of its own neurons, we studied the effects of the peptide on membrane potential and synaptic activity in OT neurons in hypothalamic organotypic slice cultures. Bath application of low concentrations of OT (&lt;100 nM) facilitated GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory transmission through a presynaptic mechanism without affecting membrane potential and excitatory glutamatergic synaptic activity. The facilitatory action of OT on GABAergic transmission was dose-dependent, starting at 25 nM and disappearing at concentrations &gt;100 nM. As shown previously, higher concentrations of OT (&gt;500 nM) had the opposite effect, inhibiting GABA(A) receptors via a postsynaptic mechanism. Surprisingly, OT-mediated facilitation of GABAergic transmission promoted action potential firing in 40% of the neurons. Each action potential occurred at the end of the repolarizing phase of an inhibitory potential. Pharmacological dissection revealed that this firing involved the activation of low-threshold activated calcium channels. Detailed statistical analysis showed that OT-mediated firing upregulated bursting activity in OT neurons. It is thus likely to optimize OT secretion and, as a consequence, facilitate delivery and milk ejection in mammals.
Status epilepticus (SE) is a progressive and often lethal human disorder characterized by continuous or rapidly repeating seizures. Of major significance in the pathology of SE are deficits in the functional expression of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs), the major sites of fast synaptic inhibition in the brain. We demonstrate that SE selectively decreases the phosphorylation of GABA(A)Rs on serine residues 408/9 (S408/9) in the beta3 subunit by intimately associated protein kinase C isoforms. Dephosphorylation of S408/9 unmasks a basic patch-binding motif for the clathrin adaptor AP2, enhancing the endocytosis of selected GABA(A)R subtypes from the plasma membrane during SE. In agreement with this, enhancing S408/9 phosphorylation or selectively blocking the binding of the beta3 subunit to AP2 increased GABA(A)R cell surface expression levels and restored the efficacy of synaptic inhibition in SE. Thus, enhancing phosphorylation of GABA(A)Rs or selectively blocking their interaction with AP2 may provide novel therapeutic strategies to ameliorate SE.
New evidence suggests that the human visual system incorporates a high-level, functionally specialised system for monitoring animals. Such a mechanism may have evolved to direct attention differentially to ancestrally important categories of objects, regardless of their current relevance.
The early embryonic lethality of mutant mice bearing germ-line deletions of both presenilin genes precluded the study of their functions in neural development. We therefore employed the Cre-loxP technology to generate presenilin conditional double knockout (PS cDKO) mice, in which expression of both presenilins is inactivated in neural progenitor cells (NPC) or neural stem cells and their derivative neurons and glia beginning at embryonic day 11 (E11). In PS cDKO mice, dividing NPCs labeled by BrdU are decreased in number beginning at E13.5. By E15.5, fewer than 20% of NPCs remain in PS cDKO mice. The depletion of NPCs is accompanied by severe morphological defects and hemorrhages in the PS cDKO embryonic brain. Interkinetic nuclear migration of NPCs is also disrupted in PS cDKO embryos, as evidenced by displacement of S-phase and M-phase nuclei in the ventricular zone of the telencephalon. Furthermore, the depletion of neural progenitor cells in PS cDKO embryos is due to NPCs exiting cell cycle and differentiating into neurons rather than reentering cell cycle between E13.5 and E14.5 following PS inactivation in most NPCs. The length of cell cycle, however, is unchanged in PS cDKO embryos. Expression of Notch target genes, Hes1 and Hes5, is significantly decreased in PS cDKO brains, whereas Dll1 expression is up-regulated, indicating that Notch signaling is effectively blocked by PS inactivation. These findings demonstrate that presenilins are essential for neural progenitor cells to re-enter cell cycle and thus ensure proper expansion of neural progenitor pool during embryonic neural development.

Previous studies show that insectivorous bats prepare their auditory system to analyze expected returning echoes within a time window to extract target features after pulse emission. These studies suggest that the bat's auditory system must be highly sensitive to signal parameters within this time window. In the current study, we show that most neurons in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus discharge maximally to a best duration and they have better echo frequency selectivity when the duration of both echo and pulse matches the best duration. This finding complements previous studies that show listeners can better detect a sound when its duration or frequency is expected than unexpected.
Levodopa (L-DOPA) is the 'gold standard' to treat Parkinson's disease. Unfortunately, dyskinesias detract from its efficacy. Current dyskinesia treatments, including amantadine and dextromethorphan, are thought to work via N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonism, but this hypothesis has not been tested. The NMDA antagonists MK-801 and HA-966 failed to suppress expression of dyskinesias in the 6-hydroxydopamine rat. Dyskinesias, however, were suppressed by the NMDA and sigma (sigma)-1 receptor ligand dextromethorphan and by the sigma-1 antagonist BMY-14802. Antidyskinetic effects of dextromethorphan may be mediated via mechanisms other than NMDA, including the sigma-1 receptor and other binding sites common to dextromethorphan and BMY-14802.
The pedunculopontine nucleus has recently been introduced as a new therapeutic target for deep brain stimulation in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease, particularly those with severe gait and postural impairment. Stimulation at this site is typically delivered at low frequencies in contrast to the high frequency stimulation required for therapeutic benefit in the subthalamic nucleus. Therefore, we looked for and demonstrated evidence of low frequency synchronization of activity in the pedunculopontine nucleus of a patient with Parkinson's disease that increased after treatment with dopamine and which might be mimicked by local deep brain stimulation at low frequency.
The properties and neural substrates of the adaptive mechanisms that maintain over time the accuracy of voluntary, internally triggered saccades are still poorly understood. Here, we used transfer tests to evaluate the spatial properties of adaptation of scanning voluntary saccades. We found that an adaptive reduction of the size of a horizontal rightward 7 degrees saccade transferred to other saccades of a wide range of amplitudes and directions. This transfer decreased as tested saccades increasingly differed in amplitude or direction from the trained saccade, being null for vertical and leftward saccades. Voluntary saccade adaptation thus presents bounded, but large adaptation fields, suggesting that at least part of the underlying neural substrate encodes saccades as vectors.
The development of noninvasive methods capable of affording ever higher resolution images is an ongoing major objective of scientific investigation for the benefit of both clinical medicine and neuroscience. Since its development in the early 1970s, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has remained a technology of choice for medical imaging development because of the wide range of potential clinical applications. Although conventional systems with field strengths of 1.0-1.5 T rapidly popularized MRI in general clinical practice in the 1980s, research investigations have focused on imaging yielding much higher anatomical resolution using high (3.0-4.0 T) and ultra high-field (7.0-9.0 T) systems. The substantial clinical experience with high and ultra high-field systems has made evident that there is a definite limit to which higher spatial resolution in and of itself will improve information for clinical judgment, rather, it is essential to develop the entire study as a whole, which would allow for the selection of an optimal combination of all the study elements, especially the appropriate contrast mechanism. This process is analogous to the development of suitable stains for a given pathologic process in histological techniques. In MRI, the natural physico-chemical MR contrast properties of tissues can be taken advantage of to achieve this goal, thereby obviating the need for administering contrast material to individuals.
Synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) is a SNARE protein that regulates neurotransmission by the formation of a complex with syntaxin 1 and synaptobrevin/VAMP2. SNAP-25 also reduces neuronal calcium responses to stimuli, but neither the functional relevance nor the molecular mechanisms of this modulation have been clarified. In this study, we demonstrate that hippocampal slices from Snap25(+/-) mice display a significantly larger facilitation and that higher calcium peaks are reached after depolarization by Snap25(-/-) and Snap25(+/-) cultured neurons compared with wild type. We also show that SNAP-25b modulates calcium dynamics by inhibiting voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) and that PKC phosphorylation of SNAP-25 at ser187 is essential for this process, as indicated by the use of phosphomimetic (S187E) or nonphosphorylated (S187A) mutants. Neuronal activity is the trigger that induces the transient phosphorylation of SNAP-25 at ser187. Indeed, enhancement of network activity increases the levels of phosphorylated SNAP-25, whereas network inhibition reduces the extent of protein phosphorylation. A transient peak of SNAP-25 phosphorylation also is detectable in rat hippocampus in vivo after i.p. injection with kainate to induce seizures. These findings demonstrate that differences in the expression levels of SNAP-25 impact on calcium dynamics and neuronal plasticity, and that SNAP-25 phosphorylation, by promoting inhibition of VGCCs, may mediate a negative feedback modulation of neuronal activity during intense activation.
Levels of thirst and ad libitum drinking decrease with advancing age, making older people vulnerable to dehydration. This study investigated age-related changes in brain responses to thirst and drinking in healthy men. Thirst was induced with hypertonic infusions (3.1 ml/kg 0.51M NaCl) in young (Y) and older (O) subjects. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with positron emission tomography (PET). Thirst activations were identified by correlating rCBF with thirst ratings. Average rCBF was measured from regions of interest (ROI) corresponding to activation clusters in each group. The effects of drinking were examined by correlating volume of water drunk with changes in ROI rCBF from maximum thirst to postdrinking. There were increases in blood osmolality (Y, 2.8 +/- 1.8%; O, 2.2 +/- 1.4%) and thirst ratings (Y, 3.1 +/- 2.1; O, 3.7 +/- 2.8) from baseline to the end of the hypertonic infusion. Older subjects drank less water (1.9 +/- 1.6 ml/kg) than younger subjects (3.9 +/- 1.9 ml/kg). Thirst-related activation was evident in S1/M1, prefrontal cortex, anterior midcingulate cortex (aMCC), premotor cortex, and superior temporal gyrus in both groups. Postdrinking changes of rCBF in the aMCC correlated with drinking volumes in both groups. There was a greater reduction in aMCC rCBF relative to water drunk in the older group. Aging is associated with changes in satiation that militate against adequate hydration in response to hyperosmolarity, although it is unclear whether these alterations are due to changes in primary afferent inflow or higher cortical functioning.
The purpose of the present study is to examine the familiality of electroencephalographic (EEG) measures among affected sibling pairs with Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). EEG was recorded during baseline (eyes open and eyes closed) and cognitive activation conditions on a sample of 58 children with ADHD (27 multiplex families), ages 6-18. EEG power in three frequency bands: theta (4-7 Hz), alpha (8-12 Hz) and beta (12-20 Hz) was tested for sibling correlation, familial co-segregation and association with behavioral task performance on a sustained attention task. Sibling correlation for EEG measures was moderate during baseline conditions and significantly higher for the cognitive activation condition. Familial clustering of frontal and parietal alpha power was evident, but only during the cognitive activation condition. Theta and alpha power correlated significantly with CPT response variability and omission errors, respectively. Cognitive task performance did not exhibit familial clustering in our sample. EEG measures (i.e., alpha power) recorded during cognitive activation is a strongly familial trait in ADHD and may be a putative endophenotype for ADHD.
The objective of this article is to decompose the level of functioning phenotype in autism to see if it can be conceptualized as two simpler, but still familial, dimensional phenotypes of language and non-verbal IQ. We assembled 80 sibpairs with either autism, Asperger syndrome or atypical autism. To see whether the familial correlation on language scores was accounted for by the familial correlation on non-verbal IQ, residual language scores were calculated for each member of the sibpair based on a multiple regression equation using their IQ score as an explanatory or independent variable and controlling for the age and gender of the affected individual. These residual scores were then used to calculate intraclass correlations between affected sibs. This process was repeated using IQ as the dependent variable and language as a covariate. Within affected individuals there was a strong relation between non-verbal IQ (as measured by the Leiter performance scale) and language (as measured by the Vineland Communication Scale). In addition, there was familial correlation between sibs on both measures. Evidence of familial aggregation on both non-verbal IQ and language remained even after partialling out the effect of the covariates by regression analysis and by generalized estimating equation. These findings suggest that non-verbal IQ and language in PDD may arise from independent genetic mechanisms. The implications of this finding for linkage analysis and for identifying genetically informative phenotypes are discussed.
Retinoblastoma-deficient mice show massive neuronal damage and deficits in both CNS and PNS tissue. Previous work in the field has shown that death is regulated through distinct processes where CNS tissue undergoes death regulated by the tumor suppressor p53 and the apoptosome component, APAF1. Death in the PNS, however, is independent of p53 and reliant on the death protease, caspase 3. In the present study, we more carefully delineated the common and distinct mechanisms of death regulation by examining the stress-activated kinases, JNK2 and 3, the conserved Bcl-2 member Bax, and the relationship among these elements including p53. By use of genetic modeling, we show that death in various regions of the CNS and DRGs of the PNS is reliant on Bax. In the CNS, Bax acts downstream of p53. The relevance of the JNKs is more complex, however. Surprisingly, JNK3 deficiency by itself does not inhibit c-Jun phosphorylation and instead, aggravates death in both CNS and PNS tissue. However, JNK2/3 double deficiency blocks death due to Rb loss in both the PNS and CNS. Importantly, the relationships between JNKs, p53, and Bax exhibit regional differences. In the medulla region of the hindbrain in the CNS, JNK2/3 deficiency blocks p53 activation. Moreover, Bax deficiency does not affect c-Jun phosphorylation. This indicates that a JNK-p53-Bax pathway is central in the hindbrain. However, in the diencephalon regions of the forebrain (thalamus), Bax deficiency blocks c-Jun activation, indicating that a Bax-JNK pathway of death is more relevant. In the DRGs of the PNS, a third pathway is present. In this case, a JNK-Bax pathway, independent of p53, regulates damage. Accordingly, our results show that a death regulator Bax is common to death in both PNS and CNS tissue. However, it is regulated by or itself regulates different effectors including the JNKs and p53 depending upon the specific region of the nervous system.
Canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) receptors are Ca(2+)-permeable cation channels that have a variety of physiological functions and may be involved in neuronal development and plasticity. We investigated the expression profile of TRPC channels in adult rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after nerve injury and examined the role of TRPC4 in neurite outgrowth in cultured DRG neurons. Sciatic nerve transection and microinjection of dibutyryl cAMP were employed to induce axonal regeneration in vivo. TRPC4 mRNA was significantly increased whereas TRPC1, TRPC3, TRPC6, and TRPC7 remained unaltered after nerve injury or dibutyryl-cAMP microinjection. The increases in TRPC4 transcript and protein were transient with maximal levels reached at 2 or 7 days, respectively. In addition, TRPC4 transcript in ND7/23 and NDC cells, hybrid cell lines derived from neonatal DRG and neuroblastoma, was substantially increased on differentiation, characterized by neurite outgrowth. In adult DRG, TRPC4 immunoreactivity was found in small and large neurons, and nerve injury increased the number of TRPC4-immunoreactive cells, particularly in large neurons. TRPC4 immunoreactivity was present in growth cones at various stages of DRG neurite outgrowth in vitro. Suppression of TRPC4 by a specific small interfering RNA or antisense significantly reduced the length of neurites in cultured DRG neurons. Expression of short hairpin RNA significantly down-regulated TRPC4 protein level and shortened neurite lengths in differentiated ND7/23 cells. The reduction in neurite lengths in ND7/23 cells was rescued by overexpression of human TRPC4. Our results suggest that TRPC4 contributes to axonal regeneration after nerve injury.



Histone modifications contribute to the epigenetic regulation of gene expression, a process now recognized to be important for the consolidation of long-term memory. Valproic acid (VPA), used for many years as an anticonvulsant and a mood stabilizer, has effects on learning and memory and enhances the extinction of conditioned fear through its function as a histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDAC). Here we report that VPA enhances long-term memory for both acquisition and extinction of cued-fear. Interestingly, VPA enhances extinction, but also enhances renewal of the original conditioned fear when tested in a within-subjects design. This effect appears to be related to a reconsolidation-like process since a single CS reminder in the presence of VPA can enhance long-term memory for the original fear in the context in which fear conditioning takes place. We also show that by modifying the intertrial interval during extinction training, VPA can strengthen reconsolidation of the original fear memory or enhance long-term memory for extinction such that it becomes independent of context. These findings have important implications for the use of HDAC inhibitors as adjuncts to behavior therapy in the treatment of phobia and related anxiety disorders.
