The primary function of the superior colliculus (SC) is to orient the visual system toward behaviorally relevant stimuli defined by features such as color. However, a longstanding view has held that visual activity in the SC arises exclusively from achromatic pathways. Recently, we reported evidence that the primate SC is highly sensitive to signals originating from chromatic pathways, but these signals are delayed relative to luminance signals (White et al., 2009). Here, we describe a functional consequence of this difference in visual arrival time on the processes leading to target selection and saccade initiation. Two rhesus monkeys performed a simple color-singleton selection task in which stimuli carried a chromatic component only (target and distractors were isoluminant with the background, but differed in chromaticity) or a combined chromatic-achromatic component (36% luminance contrast added equally to all stimuli). Although visual responses were delayed in the chromatic-only relative to the combined chromatic-achromatic condition, SC neurons discriminated the target from distractors at approximately the same time provided stimulus chromaticity was held constant. However, saccades were triggered sooner, and with more errors, with the chromatic-achromatic condition, suggesting that luminance signals associated with these stimuli increased the probability of triggering a saccade before the target color was adequately discriminated. These results suggest that separate mechanisms may independently influence the saccadic command in the SC, one linked to the arrival time of pertinent visual signals, and another linked to the output of the visual selection process.

We report a case of a 17-year-old female who presented with a CNS primitive neuroectodermal tumour 12years after cranial radiotherapy for relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. In this article, we discuss the association of these rare tumours with previous craniospinal irradiation and review the pertinent literature.
Aging is known to be the most prominent risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the underlying mechanism linking brain aging with AD pathogenesis remains unknown. The expression of human amyloid beta 42 peptide (A), but not A in Drosophila brain induces an early onset and progressive autophagy-lysosomal neuropathology. Here we show that the natural process of brain aging also accompanies a chronic and late-onset deterioration of neuronal autophagy-lysosomal system. This process is characterized by accumulation of dysfunctional autophagy-lysosomal vesicles, a compromise of these vesicles leading to damage of intracellular membranes and organelles, necrotic-like intraneuronal destruction and neurodegeneration. In addition, conditional activation of neuronal autophagy in young animals is protective while late activation is deleterious for survival. Intriguingly, conditional A expression limited to young animals exacerbates the aging process to a greater extent than A expression in old animals. These data suggest that the neuronal autophagy-lysosomal system may shift from a functional and protective state to a pathological and deleterious state either during brain aging or via A neurotoxicity. A chronic deterioration of the neuronal autophagy-lysosomal system is likely to be a key event in transitioning from normal brain aging to pathological aging leading to Alzheimer's neurodegeneration.




AbstractAim:To investigate the role of glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in central sensitization following peripheral inflammation in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) of the mediobasal hypothalamus.Methods:Mediobasal hypothalamic slices were prepared from rats undergoing peripheral inflammation, which was induced by a unilateral injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into hind paw. Neuronal activation levels in the ARC were monitored by recording extracellular unit discharges. The NMDA receptor NR1 subunit (NR1) was measured using Western blot analysis.Results:Enhanced NR1 phosphorylation was observed in the ARC of CFA-inflamed rats. Compared with the control rats, the firing rate of spontaneous discharges in ARC neurons of inflamed rats was significantly higher, and it was significantly reduced both by an NMDA receptor antagonist (MK-801, 300 mol/L) and by a non-NMDA receptor antagonist (CNQX, 30 mol/L). Application of exogenous glutamate (200 mol/L) or NMDA (25 mol/L) resulted in increased neuronal discharges for ARC neurons, which was enhanced to a greater extent in inflamed rats than in control rats.Conclusion:Glutamate receptor activation in the hypothalamic ARC plays a crucial role in central sensitization associated with peripheral inflammation.


The characterization of iron handling in neurons is still lacking, with contradictory and incomplete results. In particular, the relevance of non-transferrin-bound iron (NTBI), under physiologic conditions, during aging and in neurodegenerative disorders, is undetermined. This study investigates the mechanisms underlying NTBI entry into primary hippocampal neurons and evaluates the consequence of iron elevation on neuronal viability. Fluorescence-based single cell analysis revealed that an increase in extracellular free Fe(2+) (the main component of NTBI pool) is sufficient to promote Fe(2+) entry and that activation of either N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) or voltage operated calcium channels (VOCCs) significantly potentiates this pathway, independently of changes in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+) ](i) ). The enhancement of Fe(2+) influx was accompanied by a corresponding elevation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and higher susceptibility of neurons to death. Interestingly, iron vulnerability increased in aged cultures. Scavenging of mitochondrial ROS was the most powerful protective treatment against iron overload, being able to preserve the mitochondrial membrane potential and to safeguard the morphologic integrity of these organelles. Overall, we demonstrate for the first time that Fe(2+) and Ca(2+) compete for common routes (i.e. NMDARs and different types of VOCCs) to enter primary neurons. These iron entry pathways are not controlled by the intracellular iron level and can be harmful for neurons during aging and in conditions of elevated NTBI levels. Finally, our data draw the attention to mitochondria as a potential target for the treatment of the neurodegenerative processes induced by iron dysmetabolism.
Positive social contact is an important factor in healthy aging, but our understanding of how social interactions influence senescence is incomplete. As life expectancy continues to increase because of reduced death rates among elderly, the beneficial role of social relationships is emerging as a cross-cutting theme in research on aging and healthspan. There is a need to improve knowledge on how behavior shapes, and is shaped by, the social environment, as well as needs to identify and study biological mechanisms that can translate differences in the social aspects of behavioral efforts, relationships, and stress reactivity (the general physiological and behavioral response-pattern to harmful, dangerous or unpleasant situations) into variation in aging. Honey bees (Apis mellifera) provide a genetic model in sociobiology, behavioral neuroscience, and gerontology that is uniquely sensitive to social exchange. Different behavioral contact between these social insects can shorten or extend lifespan more than 10-fold, and some aspects of their senescence are reversed by social cues that trigger aged individuals to express youthful repertoires of behavior. Here, I summarize how variation in social interactions contributes to this plasticity of aging and explain how beneficial and detrimental roles of social relationships can be traced from environmental and biological effects on honey bee physiology and behavior, to the expression of recovery-related plasticity, stress reactivity, and survival during old age. This system provides intriguing opportunities for research on aging.
The double epidemic of substance abuse and HIV infection is a multifaceted problem To investigate mechanistic clues to the effects of substance abuse on infected individuals we preformed quantitative proteomic profiling of plasma in a methamphetamine treated nonhuman primate model for AIDS. A nontargeted quantitative approach identified extracellular superoxide dismutase to be significantly upregulated by SIV and methamphetamine treatment, and targeted studies revealed an increase in expression in the antioxidant glutathione S-transferase, thus pointing to a compensatory response to increased oxidative stress in methamphetamine-treated animals.

Alcohol abuse and dependence are considered public health problems, with an etiological onset often occurring during late childhood and adolescence, and understanding age-related differences in ethanol sensitivity is important. Low to moderate ethanol doses (0.5 and 2.0 g/kg, intragastrically [i.g.]) induce single-trial, appetitive second-order place conditioning (SOC) in adolescent, but not adult, rats. Recent studies have demonstrated that adolescents may be less sensitive than adults to the aversive properties of ethanol, reflected by conditioned taste aversion. The present study assessed the aversive motivational effects of high-dose ethanol (3.0 and 3.25 g/kg, i.g., for adolescents and adults, respectively) using SOC. Experiment 1 revealed similar blood and brain ethanol levels in adolescent and adult rats given 3.0 and 3.25 g/kg ethanol, respectively. In Experiment 2, animals received ethanol or vehicle paired with intraoral pulses of sucrose (conditioned stimulus 1 [CS1]). After one, two, or three conditioning trials, the rats were presented with the CS1 while in a distinctive chamber (CS2). When tested for CS2 preference, ethanol-treated animals exhibited reduced preference for the CS2 compared with controls. This result, indicative of ethanol-mediated aversive place conditioning, was similar for adolescents and adults; for females and males; and after one, two, or three training trials. In conjunction with previous results, the present study showed that, in adolescent rats subjected to SOC, ethanol's hedonic effects vary from appetitive to aversive as the ethanol dose increases. Adolescent and adult animals appear to perceive the postingestive effects of high-dose ethanol as similarly aversive when assessed by SOC.
Drinking to intoxication or binge drinking is a hallmark characteristic of alcohol abuse. Although hard to model in rodents, the scheduled high alcohol consumption (SHAC) procedure generates high, stable ethanol intake and blood ethanol concentrations in mice to levels consistent with definitions of binge drinking. The purpose of the present studies was to determine the effects of pharmacological manipulation of the opioidergic, glutamatergic, and -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic systems on binge drinking with the SHAC procedure. Parallel manipulations were conducted in mice trained in operant self-administration of either sucrose or ethanol. For the SHAC procedure, genetically heterogeneous Withdrawal Seizure Control mice were given varying periods of fluid access, with a 30-min ethanol session every third day (total of seven). Mice were pretreated intraperitoneally with naltrexone (0, 0.6, or 1.25 mg/kg), baclofen (0, 2.5, or 5.0 mg/kg), or 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP; 0, 3.0, or 10.0 mg/kg) before each ethanol session. For the operant self-administration procedure, separate groups of C57BL/6 mice were trained to complete a single response requirement (16 presses on the active lever) to gain 30 min of access to an ethanol or a sucrose solution. Mice received pretreatments of the same doses of naltrexone, MPEP, or baclofen before the self-administration sessions, with saline injections on intervening days. Naltrexone produced a dose-dependent decrease in binge drinking, and the highest dose also significantly decreased operant self-administration of ethanol and sucrose. Both doses of baclofen significantly decreased binge alcohol consumption, but the higher dose also tended to decrease water intake. The highest dose of baclofen also significantly decreased operant self-administration of sucrose. MPEP (10 mg/kg) significantly decreased binge alcohol consumption and sucrose self-administration. These results indicate that manipulation of the opioidergic, glutamatergic, and GABAergic systems significantly decreased binge drinking.


During hibernation in the 13-lined ground squirrel, Ictidomys tridecemlineatus, the cerebral cortex is electrically silent, yet the brainstem continues to regulate cardiorespiratory function. Previous work showed that neurons in slices through the medullary ventral respiratory column (VRC) but not the cortex are insensitive to high doses of pentobarbital during hibernation, leading to the hypothesis that GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)R) in the VRC undergo a seasonal modification in subunit composition. To test whether alteration of GABA(A)R subunits are responsible for hibernation-associated pentobarbital insensitivity, we examined an array of subunits using RT-PCR and Western blots and identified changes in - and -subunits in the medulla but not the cortex. Using immunohistochemistry, we confirmed that during hibernation, the expression of -subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs nearly doubles in the VRC. We also identified a population of -subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs adjacent to the VRC that were differentially expressed during hibernation. As -subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs are particularly sensitive to ethanol (EtOH), multichannel electrodes were inserted in slices of medulla and cortex from hibernating squirrels and EtOH was applied. EtOH, which normally inhibits neuronal activity, excited VRC but not cortical neurons during hibernation. This excitation was prevented by bicuculline pretreatment, indicating the involvement of GABA(A)Rs. We propose that neuronal activity in the VRC during hibernation is unaffected by pentobarbital due to upregulation of -subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs on VRC neurons. Synaptic input from adjacent inhibitory interneurons that express -subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs is responsible for the excitatory effects of EtOH on VRC neurons during hibernation.
Central noradrenergic (NA) signaling is broadly implicated in behavioral and physiological processes related to attention, arousal, motivation, learning and memory, and homeostasis. This review focuses on the A2 cell group of NA neurons, located within the hindbrain dorsal vagal complex (DVC). The intra-DVC location of A2 neurons supports their role in vagal sensory-motor reflex arcs and visceral motor outflow. A2 neurons also are reciprocally connected with multiple brain stem, hypothalamic, and limbic forebrain regions. The extra-DVC connections of A2 neurons provide a route through which emotional and cognitive events can modulate visceral motor outflow and also a route through which interoceptive feedback from the body can impact hypothalamic functions as well as emotional and cognitive processing. This review considers some of the hallmark anatomical and chemical features of A2 neurons, followed by presentation of evidence supporting a role for A2 neurons in modulating food intake, affective behavior, behavioral and physiological stress responses, emotional learning, and drug dependence. Increased knowledge about the organization and function of the A2 cell group and the neural circuits in which A2 neurons participate should contribute to a better understanding of how the brain orchestrates adaptive responses to the various threats and opportunities of life and should further reveal the central underpinnings of stress-related physiological and emotional dysregulation.

Maternal smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of respiratory disease in offspring, but surprisingly little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) expressed in bronchial epithelial cells (BECs) mediate the effects of nicotine on lung development and function. Recently, BECs were also shown to express a GABAergic paracrine loop that was implicated in mucus overproduction in asthma. We therefore investigated the interactions between cholinergic and GABAergic signaling in rhesus macaque BECs, and found that nicotine upregulated GABA signaling in BECs through the sequential activation of BEC nAChR and GABA receptors. The incubation of primary cultures of rhesus BECs increased concentrations of GAD, GABA(A) receptors, and mucin mRNA. The nicotine-induced increase in glutamatic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and GABA(A) receptor mRNA resulted in increased GABA-induced currents and increased expression of mucin. The ability of nicotine to increase mucin expression was blocked by nicotinic and GABA(A) antagonists. These results implicate GABA signaling as a middleman in nicotine's effects on mucus overproduction. Similar effects of nicotine on GABA signaling and the expression of mucin were seen in vivo after chronic exposure of rhesus monkeys to nicotine. These data provide a new mechanism linking smoking with the increased mucin seen in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, and suggest a new paradigm of communication between non-neuronal transmitter systems in BECs. The existence of neural-like transmitter interactions in BECs suggests that some drugs active in the central nervous system may possess previously unexpected utility in respiratory diseases.
Excessive consumption of highly palatable food has been linked to the development of eating disorders and obesity, and can be modeled in non-food-deprived rats by offering them a limited (2-h daily) access to an optional dietary fat. Since the glutamatergic system has recently emerged as a viable target for binge-eating medication development, we compared the effects of subchronic treatment with glutamatergic receptor antagonists to the effects of a reference appetite-suppressing agent sibutramine on highly palatable food (lard) and normal chow intake. In three separate experiments, the consumption of a standard laboratory chow and lard were measured during 12 days of medication treatment and for 6 days afterwards. Generalized estimating equations analysis demonstrated that sibutramine (7.5 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly decreased lard consumption, with a concurrent increase in chow consumption. Sibutramine effects disappeared after treatment discontinuation. The NMDA receptor antagonist memantine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly decreased lard consumption and increased chow consumption, comparable to effects of sibutramine; however, memantine's effects persisted after treatment discontinuation. The effects of the mGluR5 antagonist MTEP (7.5 mg/kg, i.p.) on food consumption were in the same direction as seen with memantine, but the observed differences were not significant. In an additional control experiment, sibutramine and memantine reduced unlimited (24 h) chow intake during the treatment phase. Present results provide evidence that glutamatergic neurotransmission might be involved in the regulation of excessive consumption of highly palatable foods, and suggest that NMDA receptor may be an attractive target for developing obesity and disordered eating pharmacotherapies.
Metabolic biotinylation of intracellular and secreted proteins as well as surface receptors in mammalian cells provides a versatile way to monitor gene expression; to purify and target viral vectors; to monitor cell and tumor distribution in real time in vivo; to label cells for isolation; and to tag proteins for purification, localization, and trafficking. Here, we show that metabolic biotinylation of proteins fused to the bacterial biotin acceptor peptides (BAP) varies among different mammalian cell types and can be enhanced by over 10-fold upon overexpression of the bacterial biotin ligase directed to the same cellular compartment as the fusion protein. We also show that in vivo imaging of metabolically biotinylated cell surface receptors using streptavidin conjugates is significantly enhanced upon coexpression of bacterial biotin ligase in the secretory pathway. These findings have practical applications in designing more efficient targeting and imaging strategies.





Drooling beyond the age of 4 years is neurodevelopmentally abnormal. Chronic &quot;sialorrhoea&quot; is seen in children with abnormal oral sensation and/or motor control and more infrequently when there is excessive production of saliva. Salivary production from the paired glands is under autonomic parasympathetic control. Management of the problem relies on multidisciplinary teams with a focus on assessment and when appropriate conservative interventions, oral motor training, dental appliances, medical and surgical treatment programs. Medically, the focus is on modifying the neuroglandular control of saliva with the use of anticholinergic agents. The article covers these areas of background, assessment and management in detail.





We have developed a method to measure the amounts of cell surface-expressed membrane proteins with bioluminescence. Dinoflagellate luciferase was expressed on the surface of a mammalian cell as a chimeric fusion protein with a membrane protein of interest. Using a membrane-impermeable substrate to quantify the membrane-displayed luciferase, the expression of the membrane protein on the cell surface was determined. By inclusion of a quenching step for the luminescent activity of luciferase on the cell surface, we were able to monitor the membrane protein expression kinetics by measuring the luminescence recovery from the cell surface after quenching. The reported methods provide a convenient way to monitor the kinetics of expression and transport of membrane proteins to the cell surface. It is applicable to the high-throughput analysis of drugs or drug candidates concerning their effects on membrane protein expression.
In alphabetic writing systems, saccade amplitude (a close correlate of reading speed) is independent of font size, presumably because an increase in the angular size of letters is compensated for by a decrease of visual acuity with eccentricity. We propose that this invariance may (also) be due to the presence of spaces between words, guiding the eyes across a large range of font sizes. Here, we test whether saccade amplitude is also invariant against manipulations of font size during reading Chinese, a character-based writing system without spaces as explicit word boundaries for saccade-target selection. In contrast to word-spaced alphabetic writing systems, saccade amplitude decreased significantly with increased font size, leading to an increase in the number of fixations at the beginning of words and in the number of refixations. These results are consistent with a model which assumes that word beginning (rather than word center) is the default saccade target if the length of the parafoveal word is not available.
The link between perception and action allows us to interact fluently with the world. Objects which 'afford' an action elicit a visuomotor response, facilitating compatible responses. In addition, positioning objects to interact with one another appears to facilitate grouping, indicated by patients with extinction being better able to identify interacting objects (e.g. a corkscrew going towards the top of a wine bottle) than the same objects when positioned incorrectly for action (Riddoch, Humphreys, Edwards, Baker, &amp; Willson, Nature Neuroscience, 6, 82-89, 2003). Here, we investigate the effect of action relations on the perception of normal participants. We found improved identification of briefly-presented objects when in correct versus incorrect co-locations for action. For the object that would be 'active' in the interaction (the corkscrew), this improvement was enhanced when it was oriented for use by the viewer's dominant hand. In contrast, the position-related benefit for the 'passive' object was stronger when the objects formed an action-related pair (corkscrew and bottle) compared with an unrelated pair (corkscrew and candle), and it was reduced when spatial cues disrupted grouping between the objects. We propose that these results indicate two separate effects of action relations on normal perception: a visuomotor response to objects which strongly afford an action; and a grouping effect between objects which form action-related pairs.
Maljkovic and Nakayama (Memory &amp; Cognition, 22(6), 655-678, 1994) demonstrated that response times decrease in a pop-out search task when target-defining features repeat from one trial to the next. This priming of pop-out (PoP) effect has been explained by some researchers as reflecting low-level modulations in attentional control settings Lee, Mozer, and Vecera (Attention, Perception, &amp; Psychophysics, 71(5), 1059-1071, 2009). The present experiments tested whether a shift in higher order task requirements from trial n - 1 to trial n alters PoP effects. The results of Experiments 1 and 2 demonstrated that a switch in task significantly modulated PoP effects when shape was the relevant pop-out dimension. Experiment 3 failed to show significant modulation of PoP as a function of task switch when the pop-out dimension was color, but the findings of Experiment 4 did show modulation of PoP for color when the relative salience of target and distractors was high. Together, the results strongly support the view that PoP effects can be sensitive to a switch in task, a result consistent with the view that PoP effects are modulated by trial-to-trial episodic integration processes.
Speed-accuracy trade-offs strongly influence the rate of reward that can be earned in many decision-making tasks. Previous reports suggest that human participants often adopt suboptimal speed-accuracy trade-offs in single session, two-alternative forced-choice tasks. We investigated whether humans acquired optimal speed-accuracy trade-offs when extensively trained with multiple signal qualities. When performance was characterized in terms of decision time and accuracy, our participants eventually performed nearly optimally in the case of higher signal qualities. Rather than adopting decision criteria that were individually optimal for each signal quality, participants adopted a single threshold that was nearly optimal for most signal qualities. However, setting a single threshold for different coherence conditions resulted in only negligible decrements in the maximum possible reward rate. Finally, we tested two hypotheses regarding the possible sources of suboptimal performance: (1) favoring accuracy over reward rate and (2) misestimating the reward rate due to timing uncertainty. Our findings provide support for both hypotheses, but also for the hypothesis that participants can learn to approach optimality. We find specifically that an accuracy bias dominates early performance, but diminishes greatly with practice. The residual discrepancy between optimal and observed performance can be explained by an adaptive response to uncertainty in time estimation.
Behavioral therapies are currently the most effective interventions for treating the diagnostic symptoms of autism. We employed a mouse model of autism to evaluate components of behavioral interventions that improve sociability in mice. BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) is an inbred mouse strain that exhibits prominent behavioral phenotypes with face validity to all three diagnostic symptom categories of autism, including robust and well-replicated deficits in social approach and reciprocal social interactions. To investigate the role of peer interactions in the development of sociability, BTBR juvenile mice were reared in the same home cage with juvenile mice of a highly social inbred strain, C57BL/6J (B6). Subject mice were tested as young adults for sociability and repetitive behaviors. B6 controls reared with B6 showed their strain-typical high sociability. BTBR controls reared with BTBR showed their strain-typical lack of sociability. In contrast, BTBR reared with B6 as juveniles showed significant sociability as young adults. A 20-day intervention was as effective as a 40-day intervention for improving social approach behavior. High levels of repetitive self-grooming in BTBR were not rescued by peer-rearing with B6, indicating specificity of the intervention to the social domain. These results from a robust mouse model of autism support the interpretation that social enrichment with juvenile peers is a beneficial intervention for improving adult outcome in the social domain. This novel paradigm may prove useful for discovering factors that are essential for effective behavioral treatments, and biological mechanisms underlying effective behavioral interventions.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has long been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease (PD). Recent research has highlighted that two proteins encoded by genes linked to familial PD, PINK1 and parkin, play a role in the autophagic degradation of dysfunctional mitochondria (mitophagy). We have recently shown that mitochondrial dysfunction in PINK1-deficient human dopaminergic cells correlates with decreased autophagic flux and can be rescued by parkin expression. Further dissection of PINK1-parkin-dependent mitophagy indicates that the ubiquitination of mitofusins 1 and 2 is an early event. Here, we discuss how ubiquitination of the mitofusins might facilitate mitochondria degradation and the potential for activating mitophagy as a treatment for diseases affecting brain and muscle.
Demyelinating peripheral neuropathies associated with abnormal expression of peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) involve the formation of cytosolic protein aggregates within Schwann cells. Towards developing a therapy for these progressive neurodegenerative diseases, we assessed whether pharmacological activation of autophagy by rapamycin (RM) could prevent protein aggregation and enhance Schwann cell myelination. Indeed, we found that glial cells from neuropathic mice activate autophagy in response to RM and produce abundant myelin internodes. Lentivirus-mediated shRNA shutdown of Atg12 abrogates the improvements in myelin production, demonstrating that autophagy is critical for the observed benefits.
Neuronal plasticity induced by behavioral experience, as in memory formation, has been considered to involve transcriptional or translational changes in subsets of neurons involved in different forms of learning. Here, alteration in protein expression during cerebellar learning was investigated using rat eyeblink conditioning. After a single training session of delay conditioning, c-Fos was insignificantly increased when compared to nave or pseudoconditioned rats. In contrast, the number of Purkinje cells with positive expression of activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein was significantly increased in the cerebellar cortex. A significant increase in Stargazin expression was also identified in the whole cerebellum. These preliminary findings document possible molecular mechanisms underlying the establishment of memory in the mammalian cerebellum.
Prior undrugged exposure to the elevated plus-maze (EPM) alters future behavioral strategy as well as responsivity to conventional anxiolytic agents. This EPM retest phenomenon appears to be dependent upon learning the spatial configuration of the maze on initial exposure and, in particular, the location of the relatively safe enclosed arms. As posttraining administration of the glycineB receptor partial agonist, D-cycloserine (DCS), has been shown to enhance the consolidation of many forms of memory, we have examined the effects of this compound on the EPM retest effect in male mice. The results of Experiment 1 confirmed that 5 min undrugged exposure to the EPM completed abolishes the anxiolytic efficacy of chlordiazepoxide (CDP; 15 mg/kg) on 24 hr retest. In Experiment 2, posttraining administration of DCS (7.5 and 15 mg/kg), but not CDP (15 mg/kg) or DCS (30 mg/kg), significantly and selectively increased time spent in the enclosed arms (and reciprocally decreased open arm exploration) on 24 hr retest, a finding consistent with an enhancement of consolidation. Experiment 3 used a modified EPM retest protocol to assess the effects of posttraining DCS (15 mg/kg) on behavioral responses to CDP (15 mg/kg) challenge on 24 hr retest. Using a 1-min prior exposure regimen that did not compromise the anxiolytic efficacy of CDP in control mice, the results showed that posttraining administration of DCS abolished the anxiolytic response to CDP challenge. These data strongly suggest that the EPM retest effect involves glycineB/NMDA receptor-dependent neuroplasticity. Further studies will be required to identify the neural circuitry involved.
Rats reared in enriched environmental conditions (EC) show altered responding for visual novelty and psychostimulants compared with rats reared in isolated conditions (IC). This study investigated whether response rate was altered in EC and IC rats when a visual stimulus was or was not paired with sucrose delivery in food-deprived and free-fed rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were reared in EC, IC, or social conditions (SC) before training to lever press for liquid sucrose on a fixed ratio 5 schedule. Food-deprived EC rats responded significantly more than IC rats during acquisition and when cue lights were removed, these results were reversed in free-fed rats. In the absence of the cue light, IC food-deprived rats took more time to extinguish responding and showed greater reinstatement compared with EC rats. These results reveal differences between EC and IC rats in response to incentive value and learning abilities. During all phases, responding for SC rats was generally between EC and IC rats. These studies suggest that differences in the incentive value of the stimulus contribute to differential responding in EC, IC, and SC rats for sucrose paired with a cue-light reinforcer.
The abuse potential of methylphenidate, the most commonly used drug for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), has been shown in many studies. However, it is not yet known whether methylphenidate has reinforcing or rewarding effects in any animal model of ADHD. In this study, we investigated whether methylphenidate facilitates self-administration and induces conditioned place preference in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), the most validated animal model of ADHD. We also explored whether the behavioral responses of SHR differ from those of Wistar rats, the strain representing the 'normal' heterogeneous population. ADHD is highly prevalent among adolescents, such that behavioral assays should be conducted in adolescent SHR. In line with this, we carried out conditioned place preference tests in adolescent SHR and Wistar rats and observed strain and age-related differences in behavioral responses to the motivational effects of methylphenidate. Self-administration tests confirmed the reinforcing effect of methylphenidate in SHR, and showed that, in FR2 and FR3 schedules, SHR responded more to methylphenidate infusions than the Wistar rats. In conditioned place preference tests, both strains responded similarly to the rewarding effects of methylphenidate. However, it was found that adolescence also alters the euphorigenic effects of methylphenidate, most especially in SHR. The implications of these findings are discussed.
The central nervous system (CNS) is a relatively immune-privileged organ, wherein a well-instated barrier system (the blood-brain barrier) prevents the entry of blood cells into the brain with the exception of regular immune surveillance cells. Despite this tight security immune cells are successful in entering the CNS tissue where they result in states of neuroinflammation, tissue damage and cell death. Various components of the blood-brain barrier and infiltrating cells have been examined to better understand how blood cells are able to breach this secure barrier. Proteases, specifically matrix metalloproteinases (MMP), have been found to be the common culprits in most diseases involving neuroinflammation. MMPs secreted by infiltrating cells act specifically upon targets on various components of the blood-brain barrier, compromising this barrier and allowing cell infiltration into the CNS. Extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer (EMMPRIN) is an upstream inducer of several MMPs and is suggested to be the master regulator of MMP production in disease states such as cancer metastasis. EMMPRIN in the context of the CNS is still relatively understudied. In this review we will introduce EMMPRIN, discuss its ligands and roles in non-CNS conditions that can help implicate its involvement in CNS disorders, showcase its expression within the CNS in healthy and disease conditions, elucidate its ligands and receptors, and briefly discuss the emerging roles it plays in various diseases of the CNS involving inflammation.
We examined the influence of ultrashort pulses (USP) on sensory neurons. Single and high frequency bursts of 12ns E-fields were presented to rat skin nociceptors that expressed distinct combinations of voltage-sensitive proteins. A single E-field pulse produced action potentials in all nociceptor subtypes at a critical threshold (E(c) ) of 403V/cm. When configured into high frequency bursts, USP charge integrated to reduce the action potential threshold in a frequency and burst duration-dependent manner with E(c) as low as 16V/cm (4000Hz, 25ms burst). There was no evidence of electroporation at field intensities near the E(c) for nociceptor activation. USP bursts activated a late, persistent Ca(++) flux that was identified as a dantrolene-sensitive Ca(++) -induced Ca(++) release (CICR). Influx of Ca(++) into the cell was required for the CICR and resulted in a reduction of the single pulse E(c) by about 50%.
This Prospects presents the problems that must be solved by the vertebrate nervous system in the process of sensorimotor integration and motor control. The concepts of efference copy and inverse model are defined, and multiple biological mechanisms are described, including those that form the basis of integration, extrapolation, and comparison/cancellation operations. Open questions for future research include the biological basis of continuous and distributed versus modular control, and somatosensory-motor coordination.



As the underlying causes of several neuronal disorders and neurodegenerative diseases still remain, to some extent, unknown and no accurate diagnostic tests are available, the identification of prognostic and predictive neurophysiological biomarkers has attracted tremendous interest. The continuous advancement of neuroscience methods applied in EEG and magnetoencephalography has been successful in capturing brain processes and identifying persistent cognitive deficits. In this article, the most promising approaches of this rapidly evolving field, along with some indicative clinical applications in major neuropathophysiological disorders, are reviewed. Such strategies for biomarker identification will lead the way to future clinical applications even if, currently, EEG biomarkers are in a premature state.
A new approach to enzyme-responsive MRI agents based on the use of liposomes loaded with a high number of paramagnetic metal complexes (Gd-HPDO3A) is presented. It relies on the disruption of low relaxivity aggregates formed by liposomes and a macromolecular substrate that is selectively cleaved by the enzyme of interest. The interaction of anionic liposomes composed of POPC:CHOL:DPGS and the cationic protein protamine yields a poorly soluble supramolecular assembly endowed with a low relaxivity. The action of the serine protease trypsin causes the digestion of protamine and the consequent de-assembly of the supramolecular adduct. The process is accompanied by an overall relaxation enhancement of solvent water protons as consequence of the dissolution of the aggregated liposomes. The observed increase of relaxivity is linearly dependent on the enzyme concentration. An illustrative example of the possible use of the herein presented responsive agent has been reported. It consists of the entrapment of the supramolecular assembly in alginate microcapsules that have often been used as envelopes for in vivo applications of stem cells and pancreatic islets. The change in the observed longitudinal relaxation rate R(1) (leading to an hyperintense signal in the corresponding MR images) may act as a sensor of the protease activity in the biological environment in which the capsules is located.
Correlating gene expression with behavior at the single-cell level is difficult, largely because the small amount of available mRNA (&lt;1 pg) degrades before it can be reverse transcribed into a more stable cDNA copy. This study tested the capacity for a novel acoustic microstreaming method (&quot;micromixing&quot;), which stirs fluid at microliter scales, to improve cDNA yields from reverse transcription (RT) reactions comprising single-cell quantities of RNA. Micromixing significantly decreased the number of qPCR cycles to detect cDNA representing mRNA for hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl-transferase (Hprt) and nuclear receptor-related 1 (Nurr1) by ~9 and ~15 cycles, respectively. The improvement was equivalent to performing RT with 10- to 100-fold more cDNA in the absence of micromixing. Micromixing enabled reliable detection of the otherwise undetectable, low-abundance transcript, Nurr1. It was most effective when RNA concentrations were low (0.1-1 pg/L, a &quot;single-cell equivalent&quot;) but had lesser effects at higher RNA concentrations (~1 ng/L). This was supported by imaging experiments showing that micromixing improved mixing of a low concentration (20 pg/L) of fluorescence-labeled RNA but not a higher concentration (1 ng/L). We conclude that micromixing significantly increases RT yields obtainable from single-cell quantities of RNA.



The rapidly advancing field of stem cell research holds great promise for regenerative medicine. Regenerating brain tissue, while technically the most challenging application of stem cell biology, is also likely to reap the most reward for patients. Here, we review the current state of stem cell research in the field of human neuroscience and highlight aspects that will be of relevance to neurosurgeons.





Secondary insults can adversely influence outcome following severe traumatic brain injury. Monitoring of cerebral extracellular chemistry with microdialysis has the potential for early detection of metabolic derangements associated with such events. The objective of this study was to determine the relationship between the fundamental biochemical markers and neurological outcome in a large cohort of patients with traumatic brain injury. Prospectively collected observational neuromonitoring data from 223 patients were analysed. Monitoring modalities included digitally recorded intracranial pressure, cerebral perfusion pressure, cerebrovascular pressure reactivity index and microdialysis markers glucose, lactate, pyruvate, glutamate, glycerol and the lactate/pyruvate ratio. Outcome was assessed using the Glasgow Outcome Scale at 6 months post-injury. Patient-averaged values of parameters were used in statistical analysis, which included univariate non-parametric methods and multivariate logistic regression. Monitoring with microdialysis commenced on median (interquartile range) Day 1 (1-2) from injury and median (interquartile range) duration of monitoring was 4 (2-7) days. Averaged over the total monitoring period levels of glutamate (P = 0.048), lactate/pyruvate ratio (P = 0.044), intracranial pressure (P = 0.006) and cerebrovascular pressure reactivity index (P = 0.01) were significantly higher in patients who died. During the initial 72 h of monitoring, median glycerol levels were also higher in the mortality group (P = 0.014) and median lactate/pyruvate ratio (P = 0.026) and lactate (P = 0.033) levels were significantly lower in patients with favourable outcome. In a multivariate logistic regression model (P &lt; 0.0001), which employed data averaged over the whole monitoring period, significant independent positive predictors of mortality were glucose (P = 0.024), lactate/pyruvate ratio (P = 0.016), intracranial pressure (P = 0.029), cerebrovascular pressure reactivity index (P = 0.036) and age (P = 0.003), while pyruvate was a significant independent negative predictor of mortality (P = 0.004). The results of this study suggest that extracellular metabolic markers are independently associated with outcome following traumatic brain injury. Whether treatment-related improvement in biochemistry translates into better outcome remains to be established.
Gene expression profiling has been used previously with spinal cord homogenates and laser capture microdissected motor neurons to determine the mechanisms involved in neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. However, while cellular and animal model work has focused on superoxide dismutase 1-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the transcriptional profile of human mutant superoxide dismutase 1 motor neurons has remained undiscovered. The aim of this study was to apply gene expression profiling to laser captured motor neurons from human superoxide dismutase 1-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and neurologically normal control cases, in order to determine those pathways dysregulated in human superoxide dismutase 1-related neurodegeneration and to establish potential pathways suitable for therapeutic intervention. Identified targets were then validated in cultured cell models using lentiviral vectors to manipulate the expression of key genes. Microarray analysis identified 1170 differentially expressed genes in spinal cord motor neurons from superoxide dismutase 1-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, compared with controls. These genes encoded for proteins in multiple functional categories, including those involved in cell survival and cell death. Further analysis determined that multiple genes involved in the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase signalling cascade were differentially expressed in motor neurons that survived the disease process. Functional experiments in cultured cells and primary motor neurons demonstrate that manipulating this pathway by reducing the expression of a single upstream target, the negative phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase regulator phosphatase and tensin homology, promotes a marked pro-survival effect. Therefore, these data indicate that proteins in the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase pathway could represent a target for therapeutic manipulation in motor neuron degeneration.
Myelin protein zero mutations were found to produce Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease phenotypes with various degrees of myelin impairment and axonal loss, ranging from the mild 'demyelinating' adult form to severe and early onset forms. Protein zero deficient homozygous mice ( ) show a severe and progressive dysmyelinating neuropathy from birth with compromised myelin compaction, hypomyelination and distal axonal degeneration. A previous study using immunofluorescence showed that motor nerves deficient of myelin protein zero upregulate the Na(V)1.8 voltage gated sodium channel isoform, which is normally present only in restricted populations of sensory axons. The aim of this study was to investigate the function of motor axons in protein zero-deficient mice with particular emphasis on ectopic Na(V)1.8 voltage gated sodium channel. We combined 'threshold tracking' excitability studies with conventional nerve conduction studies, behavioural studies using rotor-rod measurements, and histological measures to assess membrane dysfunction and its progression in protein zero deficient homozygous mutants as compared with age-matched wild-type controls. The involvement of Na(V)1.8 was investigated by pharmacologic block using the subtype-selective Na(V)1.8 blocker A-803467 and chronically in Na(V)1.8 knock-outs. We found that in the context of dysmyelination, abnormal potassium ion currents and membrane depolarization, the ectopic Na(V)1.8 channels further impair the motor axon excitability in protein zero deficient homozygous mutants to an extent that precipitates conduction failure in severely affected axons. Our data suggest that a Na(V)1.8 channelopathy contributed to the poor motor function of protein zero deficient homozygous mutants, and that the conduction failure was associated with partially reversible reduction of the electrically evoked muscle response and of the clinical function as indicated by the partial recovery of function at rotor-rod measurements. As a consequence of these findings of partially reversible dysfunction, we propose that the Na(V)1.8 voltage gated sodium channel should be considered as a novel therapeutic target for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.
Both phenotype and treatment response vary in patients with Parkinson's disease. Anatomical and functional imaging studies suggest that individual symptoms may represent malfunction of different segregated networks running in parallel through the basal ganglia. In this study, we use a newly described, electrophysiological method to describe cortico-subthalamic networks in humans. We performed combined magnetoencephalographic and subthalamic local field potential recordings in thirteen patients with Parkinson's disease at rest. Two spatially and spectrally separated networks were identified. A temporoparietal-brainstem network was coherent with the subthalamic nucleus in the alpha (7-13Hz) band, whilst a predominantly frontal network was coherent in the beta (15-35Hz) band. Dopaminergic medication modulated the resting beta network, by increasing beta coherence between the subthalamic region and prefrontal cortex. Subthalamic activity was predominantly led by activity in the cortex in both frequency bands. The cortical topography and frequencies involved in the alpha and beta networks suggest that these networks may be involved in attentional and executive, particularly motor planning, processes, respectively.
The mechanisms underlying spinal shock have not been clearly defined. At present, clinical assessment remains the mainstay to describe progression through spinal shock following traumatic spinal cord injury. However, nerve excitability studies in combination with conventional nerve conduction and clinical assessments have the potential to investigate spinal shock at the level of the peripheral axon. Therefore, peripheral motor axon excitability was prospectively and systematically evaluated in more than 400 studies of 11 patients admitted to hospital after traumatic spinal cord injury, with cord lesions above T9 (nine cervical, two thoracic). Recordings commenced within 15 days of admission from the median nerve to abductor pollicis brevis in the upper limb and the common peroneal nerve to tibialis anterior in both lower limbs, and were continued until patient discharge from hospital. Excitability was assessed using threshold tracking techniques and recordings were compared with data from healthy controls. In addition, concurrent clinical measures of strength, serum electrolytes and nerve conduction were collected. High threshold stimulus-response relationships were apparent from the early phase of spinal shock that coincided with depolarization-like features that reached a peak on Day 16.9 ( 2.7 standard error) for the common peroneal nerve and Day 11.8 ( 2.0 standard error) for the median nerve. Overall, changes in the common peroneal nerve were of greater magnitude than for the median nerve. For both nerves, the most significant changes were in threshold electrotonus, which was 'fanned in', and during the recovery cycle superexcitability was reduced (P &lt; 0.001). However, refractoriness was increased only for the common peroneal nerve (P &lt; 0.05). Changes in the spinal injured cohort could not be explained on the basis of an isolated common peroneal nerve palsy. By the time patients with spinal injury were discharged from hospital between Days 68 and 215, excitability for upper and lower limbs had returned towards normative values, but not for all parameters. Electrolyte levels and results for nerve conduction studies remained within normal limits throughout the period of admission. Contrary to prevailing opinion, these data demonstrate that significant changes in peripheral motor axonal excitability occur early during spinal shock, with subsequent further deterioration in axonal function, before recovery ensues.
Both working and immediate memories were assessed every 4h by specific short-term memory tasks over sustained wakefulness in 12 patients with obstructive sleep apnea and hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) and 10 healthy controls. Results indicated that OSAHS patients exhibited lower working memory performances than controls on both backward digit span and complex Sternberg tasks. Speed and accuracy on Sternberg tasks were affected by memory load in both groups. However, immediate memory was not impaired in OSAHS patients. Diurnal and nocturnal SaO(2) were correlated with speed and accuracy high-speed memory scanning performance on Sternberg tasks in patients. These results suggest specific working memory deficits associated with OSAHS over sustained wakefulness with a possible deficiency in the central executive responsible for the higher information processing, in addition to a potentially insufficient storage capacity. Among OSAHS patients, working memory ability involved in high-speed memory scanning may be impaired by chronic hypoxemia.
We describe the early manifestation and sequential assessment of the central and peripheral nervous system in a Japanese girl with merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy. She showed severe hypotonia (''floppy infant&quot;) and suffered mild respiratory failure postnatally. Serum creatine kinase was elevated to 11,487 IU/L. The muscle biopsy showed dystrophic changes with negative expression of merosin (laminin 2), thereby confirming merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy. Her motor milestones were severely delayed, but she could sit without support at the age of 3 years. After 3 years, her motor ability deteriorated and by the age of 5 years, she could not sit and control her neck. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 2 months of age revealed patterns that were appropriate for her age. At 1 year of age, the T2 weighted images showed diffuse high signal intensities throughout the centrum semiovale, and periventricular and subcortical white matter of the frontal and occipital lobes, while the U fibers, the corpus callosum and the internal capsule were spared. At the age of 7 years, these white matter abnormalities decreased. MR spectroscopy (MRS) revealed normal values of N-acetylaspartate (NAA)/creatine (Cr) and choline (Cho)/Cr metabolite ratios as well as slightly increased myoinositol (mI)/Cr metabolite ratios. Neurophysiological motor nerve conduction velocity (MCV) and compound muscle action potential (CMAP) of the median nerve were in the normal range at the age of 2 months. After the child reached 1 year of age, the MCV and CMAP lagged behind those of healthy controlled children. The sensory nerve conduction velocity of the median nerve demonstrated a mild delay at the age of 15 months. It improved to normal range at the age of 6 years but decreased at 7 years of age. These sequential findings suggest not only that muscular degeneration and dysmyelination had occurred but also that various other factors, including demyelination and the vasogenic system, may influence the pathology of MDC1A.
The potential to exhibit synaptic plasticity itself is modulated by previous synaptic activity, which has been termed as metaplasticity. In this paper, we demonstrated that the activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor 2B (NR2B) subunit in NNDA receptors was required for hippocampal metaplasticity at Schaffer collateral-commissural fiber-CA1 synapses. Brief 5 Hz priming stimulation did not cause long-term synaptic plasticity; however, it could result in the inhibition of subsequently evoked long-term potentiation (LTP). Meanwhile, the application of selective antagonists for NR2B subunit of NMDA receptors after delivering priming stimulation could block the metaplasticity. In contrast, LTP induction was not affected by NR2B antagonists in slices without pre-treatment of priming stimulation. These results indicated that the activation of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors was required for metaplasticity.
Salvianolic acid B (SalB), a bioactive compound isolated from the Chinese medicinal herb Danshen, has been shown to exert various anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory activities in in vitro and in vivo studies. Here, we investigated the protective effects of SalB on traumatic brain injury (TBI) in mice. When administered within 2 h after TBI onset, SalB (25 mg/kg) reduced brain edema, lesion volume and motor functional deficits, and improved spatial learning and memory abilities. Moreover, SalB treatment inhibited the neutrophil infiltration and microglial activation at 48 h after TBI. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for brain tissue homogenates was performed at 24 h after TBI to evaluate the expression of inflammation-related cytokines. The results showed that SalB suppressed the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF- and IL-1, whereas enhanced the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 and TGF-1. All of these findings extended the protective role of SalB in the model of TBI and suggested that these protective effects might be associated with its anti-inflammatory activities. Thus SalB may have therapeutic potential for patients with TBI and perhaps other forms of acute brain injury.
A 55-year-old man was admitted to our hospital complaining of left hemiparesis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a smooth ring-like enhanced cystic tumor in the right parietal lobe. He underwent gross total resection of the tumor under neuronavigation and 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) fluorescence guiding method. Histopathological examination of the tumor showed small cells formed epithelioid solid nests with some focus of duct-like structure. On the basis of the MRI and operative and histological findings, this tumor was diagnosed as a metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma, although the primary cancer could not be detected by metastatic work-ups. Afterward, this tumor recurred repeatedly. Histopathological examination of specimen from the fourth surgery indicated that the tumor was a glioblastoma (GBM). In the review of the histology and immunohistochemistry of the first tumor, atypical fibrillary cells were seen between solid nests and positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein, therefore the tumor was retrospectively diagnosed as epithelioid GBM. We assessed whether the changes in histopathology were accompanied by changes in the methylation status of O6-methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter and the status of 5-ALA fluorescence. The methylation status of the MGMT promoter was found to have changed from methylated to unmethylated and 5-ALA fluorescence became positive along with the histological change.
Decomposition of multivariate time series data into independent source components forms an important part of preprocessing and analysis of time-resolved data in neuroscience. We briefly review the available tools for this purpose, such as Factor Analysis (FA) and Independent Component Analysis (ICA), then we show how linear state space modelling, a methodology from statistical time series analysis, can be employed for the same purpose. State space modelling, a generalization of classical ARMA modelling, is well suited for exploiting the dynamical information encoded in the temporal ordering of time series data, while this information remains inaccessible to FA and most ICA algorithms. As a result, much more detailed decompositions become possible, and both components with sharp power spectrum, such as alpha components, sinusoidal artifacts, or sleep spindles, and with broad power spectrum, such as FMRI scanner artifacts or epileptic spiking components, can be separated, even in the absence of prior information. In addition, three generalizations are discussed, the first relaxing the independence assumption, the second introducing non-stationarity of the covariance of the noise driving the dynamics, and the third allowing for non-Gaussianity of the data through a non-linear observation function. Three application examples are presented, one electrocardigram time series and two electroencephalogram (EEG) time series. The two EEG examples, both from epilepsy patients, demonstrate the separation and removal of various artifacts, including hum noise and FMRI scanner artifacts, and the identification of sleep spindles, epileptic foci, and spiking components. Decompositions obtained by two ICA algorithms are shown for comparison.
Emotion (i.e., spontaneous motivation and subsequent implementation of a behavior) and cognition (i.e., problem solving by information processing) are essential to how we, as humans, respond to changes in our environment. Recent studies in cognitive science suggest that emotion and cognition are subserved by different, although heavily integrated, neural systems. Understanding the time-varying relationship of emotion and cognition is a challenging goal with important implications for neuroscience. We formulate here the dynamical model of emotion-cognition interaction that is based on the following principles: (1)the temporal evolution of cognitive and emotion modes are captured by the incoming stimuli and competition within and among themselves (competition principle); (2)metastable states exist in the unified emotion-cognition phase space; and (3)the brain processes information with robust and reproducible transients through the sequence of metastable states. Such a model can take advantage of the often ignored temporal structure of the emotion-cognition interaction to provide a robust and generalizable method for understanding the relationship between brain activation and complex human behavior. The mathematical image of the robust and reproducible transient dynamics is a Stable Heteroclinic Sequence (SHS), and the Stable Heteroclinic Channels (SHCs). These have been hypothesized to be possible mechanisms that lead to the sequential transient behavior observed in networks. We investigate the modularity of SHCs, i.e., given a SHS and a SHC that is supported in one part of a network, we study conditions under which the SHC pertaining to the cognition will continue to function in the presence of interfering activity with other parts of the network, i.e., emotion.
Large scale brain networks are understood nowadays to underlie the emergence of cognitive functions, though the detailed mechanisms are hitherto unknown. The challenges in the study of large scale brain networks are amongst others their high dimensionality requiring significant computational efforts, the complex connectivity across brain areas and the associated transmission delays, as well as the stochastic nature of neuronal processes. To decrease the computational effort, neurons are clustered into neural masses, which then are approximated by reduced descriptions of population dynamics. Here, we implement a neural population mode approach (Assisi et al. in Phys. Rev. Lett. 94(1):018106, 2005; Stefanescu and Jirsa in PLoS Comput. Biol. 4(11):e1000219, 2008), which parsimoniously captures various types of population behavior. We numerically demonstrate that the reduced population mode system favorably captures the high-dimensional dynamics of neuron networks with an architecture involving homogeneous local connectivity and a large-scale, fiber-like connection with time delay.
Individual response to ionizing radiation is an important information required to apply an efficient radiotherapy treatment against tumour and to avoid any adverse effects in normal tissues. In 1981, Fertil and Malaise have demonstrated that the post-irradiation local tumor control determined in vivo is correlated with clonogenic cell survival assessed in vitro. Furthermore, these authors have reminded the relevance of the concept of intrinsic radiosensitivity that is specific to each individual organ (Fertil and Malaise, 1981) [1]. To date, since clonogenicity assays are too time-consuming and do not provide any other molecular information, a plethora of research groups have attempted to determine the molecular bases of intrinsic radiosensitivity in order to propose reliable and faster predictive assays. To this aim, several approaches have been developed. Notably, the recent revolution in genomic and proteomic technologies is providing a considerable number of data but their link with radiosensitivity still remains to be elucidated. On another hand, the systematic screening of some candidate genes potentially involved in the radiation response is highlighting the complexity of the molecular and cellular mechanisms of DNA damage sensoring and signalling and shows that an abnormal radiation response is not necessarily due to the impairment of one single protein. Finally, more modest approaches consisting in focusing some specific functions of DNA repair seem to provide more reliable clues to predict over-acute reactions caused by radiotherapy. In this review, we endeavoured to analyse the contributions of these major approaches to predict human radiosensitivity.

Successful chemotherapy accounts for both tumor-related factors and host immune response. Compelling evidence suggests that some chemotherapeutic agents can induce an immunogenic type of cell death stimulating tumor-specific immunity. Here, we show that cyclophosphamide (CTX) exerts two types of actions relevant for the induction of antitumor immunity in vivo: (i) effect on dendritic cell (DC) homeostasis, mediated by endogenous type I interferons (IFN-I), leading to the preferential expansion of CD8(+) DC, the main subset involved in the cross-presentation of cell-derived antigens; and (ii) induction of tumor cell death with clear-cut immunogenic features capable of stimulating tumor infiltration, engulfment of tumor apoptotic material, and CD8 T-cell cross-priming by CD8(+) DC. Notably, the antitumor effects of CTX were efficiently amplified by IFN-I, the former providing a source of antigen and a &quot;resetting&quot; of the DC compartment and the latter supplying optimal costimulation for T-cell cross-priming, resulting in the induction of a strong antitumor response and tumor rejection. These results disclose new perspectives for the development of targeted and more effective chemoimmunotherapy treatments of cancer patients.
Following the Fifth International Conference on non-classical HLA-G antigens (HLA-G), held in Paris in July 2009, we selected some topics which focus on emerging aspects in the setting of HLA-G functions. In particular, HLA-G molecules could play a role in: (1) various inflammatory disorders, such as multiple sclerosis, intracerebral hemorrhage, gastrointestinal, skin and rheumatic diseases, and asthma, where they may act as immunoregulatory factors; (2) the mechanisms to escape immune surveillance utilized by several viruses, such as human cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus type 1, rabies virus, hepatitis C virus, influenza virus type A and human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1); and (3) cytokine/chemokine network and stem cell transplantation, since they seem to modulate cell migration by the downregulation of chemokine receptor expression and mesenchymal stem cell activity blocking of effector cell functions and the generation of regulatory T cells. However, the immunomodulatory circuits mediated by HLA-G proteins still remain to be clarified.
Recently, we have demonstrated the expression of the polycomb group protein Ezh2 in embryonic and adult neural stem cells. Although Ezh2 remained highly expressed when neural stem cells differentiate into oligodendrocyte precursor cells, it is downregulated during the differentiation into neurons or astrocytes. This is in accordance with the differentiation repressive role Ezh2 is thought to play in the maintenance and self-renewal of stem cells. To establish the importance of downregulation of Ezh2 for becoming astrocytes, we have studied the effect of forced Ezh2 expression in postnatal mouse astrocytes. Upon forced expression of this polycomb group protein, cultured astrocytes retracted their cell extensions and became proliferating round/bipolar cells that occasionally formed small neurosphere-like clusters. Analysis of the expression profile of these Ezh2-expressing astrocytes reveal downregulation of typical astrocytic genes, like GFAP and S100, and upregulation of genes that are generally expressed in neural stem cells, like nestin, Sox2, musashi, and CD133. However, these neural stem cell-like cells lack a differentiation potential, indicating that overexpression of Ezh2 alone is insufficient for a complete dedifferentiation.

Research over the past decades has demonstrated that adult brain produces neural progenitor cells which proliferate and differentiate to newborn neurons that integrate into the existing circuit. However, detailed differentiation processes and underlying mechanisms of newly generated neurons are largely unknown due to the limitation of available methods for labeling and manipulating neural progenitor cells and newborn neurons. In this study, we designed a tightly controlled, noninvasive system based on Cre/loxP recombination to achieve long-term tracing and genetic manipulation of adult neurons in vivo. In this system, tamoxifen-inducible recombinase, CreER(T2), was driven by BAC-based promoter of doublecortin (DCX, a marker of newborn neurons). By crossing this Cre line with reporter mouse, we found that newborn neurons in the dentate gyrus (DG) could be selectively pulse-labeled by tamoxifen-induced expression of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). YFP-positive neurons were identified by coimmunostaining with cell type-specific markers and characterized by electrophysiological recording. Furthermore, analysis of the migration of these neurons showed that the majority of these labeled neurons migrated to the inner part of granule cell layer. Moreover, spine growth of inner molecular layer of newborn granule neurons takes a dynamic pattern of invert U-shape, in contrast to the wedge-shaped change in the outer molecular layer. Our transgenic tool provides an efficient way to selectively label and manipulate newborn neuron in adult mouse DG.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was originally recognized for its ability to promote survival of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, but it has since been demonstrated to be crucial for the survival and differentiation of many neuronal subpopulations, including motor neurons, sympathetic neurons, sensory neurons and enteric neurons. To identify possible effectors or regulators of GDNF signaling, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen using the intracellular domain of RET, the common signaling receptor of the GDNF family, as bait. Using this approach, we identified Rap1GAP, a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for Rap1, as a novel RET-binding protein. Endogenous Rap1GAP co-immunoprecipitated with RET in neural tissues, and RET and Rap1GAP were co-expressed in dopaminergic neurons of the mesencephalon. In addition, overexpression of Rap1GAP attenuated GDNF-induced neurite outgrowth, whereas suppressing the expression of endogenous Rap1GAP by RNAi enhanced neurite outgrowth. Furthermore, using co-immunoprecipitation analyses, we found that the interaction between RET and Rap1GAP was enhanced following GDNF treatment. Mutagenesis analysis revealed that Tyr981 in the intracellular domain of RET was crucial for the interaction with Rap1GAP. Moreover, we found that Rap1GAP negatively regulated GNDF-induced ERK activation and neurite outgrowth. Taken together, our results suggest the involvement of a novel interaction of RET with Rap1GAP in the regulation of GDNF-mediated neurite outgrowth.
The recent identification of G(z) expression in C2C12 myoblasts and its demonstrated interaction with the transcription factor Eya2 inferred an unanticipated role of G(z) in muscle development. In the present study, endogenous G(z) mRNA and protein expressions in C2C12 cells increased upon commencement of myogenesis and peaked at around 4-6days after induction but were undetectable in adult skeletal muscle. Surprisingly, stable expression of recombinant G(z) in C2C12 myoblasts strongly suppressed myotube formation upon serum deprivation, and the constitutively active mutant G(z)QL exerted more pronounced effects. Transcriptional activities of reporter genes responsive to early (MyoD, MEF2 and myogenin) and late (muscle creatine kinase and myosin heavy chain) myogenic markers were reduced by transiently expressed G(z)QL. Membrane attachment of G(z) was apparently required for the suppressive effects because a fatty acylation-deficient G(z) mutant could not inhibit myogenin expression. Introduction of siRNA against G(z) enhanced myogenin-driven luciferase activity and increased myosin heavy chain expression. Immunostaining of C2C12 cells over-expressing G(z) showed delayed nuclear expression of myogenin and severe myotube deformation. G(z) expression was accompanied by reduced levels of Rock2, RhoA and RhoGAP, enhanced expression of Rnd3, and a reduction of serum-responsive factor-driven reporter activity. These results support a novel role of G(z) in restraining myogenic differentiation through the disruption of Rho signaling.

The anatomical connectivity of the human cerebral cortex resembles a &quot;small-world&quot; architecture, which is characterized by the coexistence of structurally segregated and integrative connectivity patterns. However, organizational differences in networks among individuals remain largely unknown. Here, we utilize diffusion tensor imaging tractography and graph-theoretical approaches to investigate the effects of sex and brain size on the topological organization of human cortical anatomical network. Weighted cortical networks were constructed from 72 young healthy participants by measuring anatomical connection densities between 78 cortical regions. As expected, all participants showed a small-world topology (high local clustering and short paths between nodes), which suggests a highly efficient topological organization. Furthermore, we found that females had greater local efficiencies than males. Moreover, smaller brains showed higher local efficiency in females but not in males, suggesting an interaction between sex and brain size. Specifically, we show that several brain regions (e.g., the precuneus, precentral gyrus, and lingual gyrus) had significant associations between nodal centrality and sex or brain size. Our findings suggest that anatomical network organization in the human brain is associated with sex and brain size and provide insights into the understanding of the structural substrates that underlie individual differences in behavior and cognition.
During migraine attacks, alterations in sensation accompanying headache may manifest as allodynia and enhanced sensitivity to light, sound, and odors. Our objective was to identify physiological changes in cortical regions in migraine patients using painful heat and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and the structural basis for such changes using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). In 11 interictal patients, painful heat threshold + 1C was applied unilaterally to the forehead during fMRI scanning. Significantly greater activation was identified in the medial temporal lobe in patients relative to healthy subjects, specifically in the anterior temporal pole (TP). In patients, TP showed significantly increased functional connectivity in several brain regions relative to controls, suggesting that TP hyperexcitability may contribute to functional abnormalities in migraine. In 9 healthy subjects, DTI identified white matter connectivity between TP and pulvinar nucleus, which has been related to migraine. In 8 patients, fMRI activation in TP with painful heat was exacerbated during migraine, suggesting that repeated migraines may sensitize TP. This article investigates a nonclassical role of TP in migraineurs. Observed temporal lobe abnormalities may provide a basis for many of the perceptual changes in migraineurs and may serve as a potential interictal biomarker for drug efficacy.
Active sensing involves memory retrieval and updating as well as mechanisms that trigger corrections to the ongoing exploratory movement. The present study examined this process in a task where human subjects moved the index fingertip clockwise around the circumference of a virtual sphere created by a robotic device. The fingertip pressed into the sphere during the movement, and the subjects were to report slight differences in sphere size (or surface curvature), which occurred from trial to trial. During each 2- to 3-s trial, subjects gradually adjusted their speed and pressure according to the current surface curvature, achieving a consistent level of contact force in the last half of the exploration. The results demonstrate that subjects were gradually accumulating haptic information about curvature and, at the same time, gradually changing the motor commands for the movement. When subjects encountered an unexpected transition in curvature (from circular to flat), they reacted by abruptly decreasing contact force at a latency of about 50 ms. This short latency indicates that spinally mediated corrections are engaged during this task. The results support the hypothesis that during haptic exploration, the neural comparison between expected and actual somatosensory feedback takes places at multiple levels, including the spinal cord.
Although auditory verbal hallucinations are often thought to denote mental illness, the majority of voice hearers do not satisfy the criteria for a psychiatric disorder. Here, we report the first functional imaging study of such nonclinical hallucinations in 7 healthy voice hearers comparing them with auditory imagery. The human voice area in the superior temporal sulcus was activated during both hallucinations and imagery. Other brain areas supporting both hallucinations and imagery included fronto temporal language areas in the left hemisphere and their contralateral homologues and the supplementary motor area (SMA). Hallucinations are critically distinguished from imagery by lack of voluntary control. We expected this difference to be reflected in the relative timing of prefrontal and sensory areas. Activity of the SMA indeed preceded that of auditory areas during imagery, whereas during hallucinations, the 2 processes occurred instantaneously. Voluntary control was thus represented in the relative timing of prefrontal and sensory activation, whereas the sense of reality of the sensory experience may be a product of the voice area activation. Our results reveal mechanisms of the generation of sensory experience in the absence of external stimulation and suggest new approaches to the investigation of the neurobiology of psychopathology.
The postsynaptic adhesion protein neuroligin-2 (NL2) is selectively localized at inhibitory synapses. Here, we studied network activity in the dentate gyrus of NL2-deficient mice following perforant path (PP) stimulation in vivo. We found a strong increase in granule cell (GC) excitability. Furthermore, paired-pulse inhibition (PPI) of the population spike, a measure for -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic network inhibition, was severely impaired and associated with reduced GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R)-mediated miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents recorded from NL2-deficient GCs. In agreement with these functional data, the number of gephyrin and GABA(A)R clusters was significantly reduced in the absence of NL2, indicating a loss of synaptic GABA(A)Rs from the somata of GCs. Computer simulations of the dentate network showed that impairment of perisomatic inhibition is able to explain the electrophysiological changes observed in the dentate circuitry of NL2 knockout animals. Collectively, our data demonstrate for the first time that deletion of NL2 increases excitability of cortical neurons in the hippocampus of intact animals, most likely through impaired GABA(A)R clustering.
Most, if not all, cortical neurons possess a single primary cilium; however, little is known about the mechanisms that control neuronal ciliogenesis. The Citron kinase-deficient (Citron-K(fh/fh)) rat, a model in which failed cytokinesis during development produces cortical neurons containing multiple cellular organelles, provides a unique system in which to examine the relationship between centriole inheritance and neuronal ciliogenesis. In this study, we analyzed the cerebral cortex of these animals using immunohistochemistry, serial confocal, and electron microscopy to determine if the multinucleated neurons present in the cortex of these animals also possess multiple centrioles and cilia. We found that neurons containing multiple nuclei possessed multiple centrioles and cilia whose lengths varied across cortical regions. Despite the presence of multiple cilia, we found that perinatal expression of adenylyl cyclase III, a cilia-specific marker, and somatostatin receptor 3, a receptor enriched in cilia, were preserved in developing Citron-K(fh/fh) brain. Together, these results show that multinucleated neurons arising from defective cytokinesis can extend multiple cilia.
Although joint attention processes are known to play an important role in adaptive social behavior in typical development, we know little about these processes in clinical child populations. We compared early school age children with selective mutism (SM; n = 19) versus mixed anxiety (MA; n = 18) and community controls (CC; n = 26) on joint attention measures coded from direct observations with their parent during an unstructured free play task and two structured tasks. As predicted, the SM dyads established significantly fewer episodes of joint attention through parental initiation acts than the MA and CC dyads during the structured tasks. Findings suggest that children with SM may withdraw from their parents during stressful situations, thus missing out on opportunities for learning other coping skills. We discuss the implications of the present findings for understanding the maintenance and treatment of SM.
A new inventory assessing thought-action fusion (TAF) in children is presented. We explore the psychometric properties of this instrument and examine the associations between TAF, ritualistic and compulsive-like behavior (CLB) and anxiety. Three hundred thirteen children ages 7-14 (M = 10.16, SD = 1.92) representing six grades (grouped into three grade levels (grades 2-3, 4-5, and 6-7) completed the Thought-action Fusion Inventory for Children (TAFIC) and the Child Revised Manifest Anxiety Scale. One hundred thirty-five parents or guardians completed the Childhood Routines Inventory. Results revealed high internal consistency in the TAFIC (Cronbach's  = .92). TAF scores changed with age: Older children reported less TAF than younger children. Stepwise multiple regression analyses revealed that: (1) physiological anxiety predicted CLB in early childhood; (2) TAF predicted CLB in older children. Consistent with structural developmental theories, TAF changes throughout development, but plays a role in the normative regulation of affective states, as well as in the development of ritualistic compulsive like behavior in children.
This article presents the potential integration of psychotherapy and massage when considering the essence of their beneficial effects. The essence of this model of practice is multifaceted, combining principles from anatomy, physiology and neuroscience with psychotherapy to benefit patient care. It has been advocated that possessing multidisciplinary knowledge from these areas of science enhances psychotherapists' holistic care of their depressive patients. A narrative review of the literatures and a qualitative, conceptual synthesis has been performed to create a new theoretical-pragmatic construct. This article introduces the concept of massage practice as a part of psychotherapy practice and presents the potential integration of psychotherapeutic knowledge with clinical decision-making and the management of depressive symptoms. The authors emphasize the usefulness of multi- and interdisciplinary knowledge in the psychotherapeutic process and explain how this knowledge might be extrapolated and incorporated into theoretical and practical settings to benefit depressive patients. The justification for this concept is also presented. The principles set out in this article may be a useful source of information for psychotherapists concerned about their patients' holistic well-being in addition to the psychopathology for which they have sought treatment. Researchers and psychotherapists can obtain valuable and additional knowledge through cross-fertilization of ideas across the arguments presented here.
Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in young adults under 50 years of age is an uncommon occurrence associated with considerable morbidity and mortality. The differential diagnosis of ICH in this population differs from that of older individuals and includes vascular, toxic, inflammatory, oncologic, infectious and hematologic conditions. We present a case based observation of a spontaneous and recurrent ICH in a 25-year-old female secondary to undetected Factor XIII (FXIII) deficiency with no prior associated stigmata of hematologic disturbance admitted to a tertiary care neuroscience intensive care unit (NICU). Our patient was admitted after spontaneous development of left thalamic hemorrhage with ventricular extension. Initial management included external drain placement (EVD) and fresh frozen plasma administration. Diagnostic evaluation was unrevealing including CT angiography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with venography, conventional cerebral angiogram, and hematologic and rheumatologic screens. Our patient recovered but represented 6 months later with five foci of spontaneous ICH. She underwent vascular, infectious, oncologic, hematologic, and rheumatologic evaluations. She expired secondary to ICH expansion with uncal herniation. The results of our investigation revealed markedly diminished FXIII activity. The pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of this disease are reviewed. FXIII deficiency should be considered in a case of cryptogenic ICH presenting with multifocal, recurrent ICH and a normal coagulation profile. Early diagnosis and initiation of factor replacement therapy offer the best strategies to reduce the morbidities associated with this disease.





Depression frequently co-occurs with HIV infection and can result in self-reported overestimates of cognitive deficits. Conversely, genuine cognitive dysfunction can lead to an under-appreciation of cognitive deficits. The degree to which depression and cognition influence self-report of capacity for instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) requires further investigation. This study examined the effects of depression and cognitive deficits on self-appraisal of functional competence among 107 HIV-infected adults. As hypothesized, higher levels of depression were found among those who over-reported problems in medication management, driving, and cognition when compared to those who under-reported or provided accurate self-assessments. In contrast, genuine cognitive dysfunction was predictive of under-reporting of functional deficits. Together, these results suggest that over-reliance on self-reported functional status poses risk for error when diagnoses require documentation of both cognitive impairment and associated functional disability in everyday life.
The expression of memory worries and the self-reporting of daily forgetfulness easily spark discussion among sufferers and their family or friends about what is normal or abnormal forgetfulness. One way to investigate whether the reporting of forgetfulness might be excessive is to use a standardized memory questionnaire--for instance, the Multifactorial Memory Questionnaire (MMQ). The MMQ measures worries, daily forgetfulness, and memory strategy use. In this study we present a psychometric evaluation of the Dutch translation of the MMQ and provide normative data to determine the significance of individual differences in subtest scores. In addition, clinical examples are given of the use and interpretation of percentile norms and single-case statistics.

Microglia, the tissue macrophages of the brain, have under healthy conditions a resting phenotype that is characterized by a ramified morphology. With their fine processes microglia are continuously scanning their environment. Upon any homeostatic disturbance microglia rapidly change their phenotype and contribute to processes including inflammation, tissue remodeling, and neurogenesis. In this review, we will address functional phenotypes of microglia in diverse brain regions and phenotypes associated with neuroinflammation, neurogenesis, brain tumor homeostasis, and aging.
The nervous system is a unique network of different cell types and comprises a variety of proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates that have an important interplay with all major organs in the body. Homeostatic regulation of nervous tissue turnover must be carefully controlled, taking into account interactions of the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems. Clinical conditions affecting the nervous system range from mild cognitive perturbations such as headache, to life-threatening acute courses such as meningitis and glioblastoma, and to chronic neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis. One unifying feature in normal developmental or homeostatic functions and clinical dysfunctions within the nervous system is redox regulation, with an imbalance in oxidative/carbonyl stress versus antioxidants being characteristic of pathological conditions. In this review we consider the state of current knowledge regarding structural, genetic, proteomic, histopathological, clinical, and therapeutic perspectives of oxidative and carbonyl stress within the nervous system.
Neisseria meningitidis (N. meningitidis) causes sepsis, epidemic meningitis, and sometimes also meningoencephalitis. Despite early antibiotic treatment, mortality and morbidity remain significant. We present recent studies on meningococcal disease with focus on the pathophysiology caused by bacterial virulence factors and the host immune responses. The bacterial outer membrane lipopolysaccharide and non-lipopolysaccharide components are related to meningococcal adhesion and invasion, while the host immune reactions propagate inflammation and neurodegeneration. Hence, bacterium-host interactions are key determinants of the clinical course and risk of fatal outcome. Accordingly, successful treatment of severe meningococcal disease requires not only antibiotics but also adjuvants targeting the released endotoxins and the host immune/inflammatory responses. This review highlights the most recent data and current knowledge on molecular mechanisms of meningococcal disease and explains how host immune responses ultimately may aggravate neuropathology and the clinical prognosis. Within this context, particular importance is paid to the endotoxic components that provide potential drug targets for novel neuroprotective adjuvants, which are needed in order to improve the clinical management of meningoencephalitis and patient prognosis.
Cognitive and affective deficits are prominent clinical features of schizophrenia that impact functioning and are a challenge to effective treatment. The integration of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with cognitive and affective neuroscience paradigms enables examination of the brain systems underlying domain-specific behavioral deficits manifested in schizophrenia. There has been a marked increase in the number of studies that apply fMRI in neurobiological studies of schizophrenia. This article highlights phenotypic features of schizophrenia that emerge from these studies and provides a neuropsychiatric perspective. Such efforts have helped elucidate potential neural substrates of deficits in cognition and affect in schizophrenia by providing measures of activation to neurobehavioral probes and connectivity among brain regions. Studies have demonstrated abnormalities at early stages of sensory processing that may influence downstream abnormalities in more complex evaluative functioning. The methodology can help bridge integration with neuropharmacologic, genomic, and neurorehabilitation investigations.
We report the results of a single-case study carried out with a brain-damaged patient, G.C., whose conceptual knowledge of living things (animals and plants) was significantly more impaired than his knowledge of artifacts and his knowledge of actions, which were similarly impaired. We examined whether this pattern of conceptual impairment could be accounted for by the &quot;sensory/functional&quot; or the &quot;manipulability&quot; account for category-specific conceptual impairments advocated within the feature-based organization theory. To this end, we assessed, first, the patient's knowledge of sensory compared to functional and motor features and, second, his knowledge of nonmanipulable compared to manipulable items. The findings showed that the patient's disproportionate impairment for living things compared to both artifacts and actions was not associated with a disproportionate impairment of sensory compared to functional or motor knowledge or with a relative sparing of manipulable compared to nonmanipulable items. We then discuss how alternative theories of conceptual knowledge organization could account for G.C.'s pattern of category-specific deficit.
Dynamic changes in cytosolic and nuclear Ca(2+) concentration are reported to play a critical regulatory role in different aspects of skeletal muscle development and differentiation. Here we review our current knowledge of the spatial dynamics of Ca(2+) signals generated during muscle development in mouse, rat, and Xenopus myocytes in culture, in the exposed myotome of dissected Xenopus embryos, and in intact normally developing zebrafish. It is becoming clear that subcellular domains, either membrane-bound or otherwise, may have their own Ca(2+) signaling signatures. Thus, to understand the roles played by myogenic Ca(2+) signaling, we must consider: (1) the triggers and targets within these signaling domains; (2) interdomain signaling, and (3) how these Ca(2+) signals integrate with other signaling networks involved in myogenesis. Imaging techniques that are currently available to provide direct visualization of these Ca(2+) signals are also described.

The present investigation reports the case of patient AS, ambidextrous, who showed a selective problem with arithmetical procedures in addition, subtraction and multiplication, contrasting with complete sparing of division. AS displayed a specific and never described &quot;bug&quot; error, involving the selection of digits that have to be added, subtracted or multiplied. This bug consisted in inverting the order of the numbers that have to be selected to correctly solve the operation. In particular, AS selected the numbers beginning from the leftmost position. This bug spared division, since it is the only operation that requires starting from the leftmost digit(s). The present case would suggest that some aspects of arithmetical procedures are operation independent. Moreover, an account of the nature of the syntactic rule getting lost in AS's performance has been proposed.
Adaptive behavior requires the ability to react to potentially harmful stimuli, characterized by high negative inherent emotional salience (iES) (e.g., spiders, snakes), and to the unexpected non-occurrence of anticipated events. When presented simultaneously, threatening stimuli and unexpected absence of anticipated outcomes induce distinct electrocortical responses in different time periods. In this study, we used fMRI to test whether processing of the absence of anticipated outcomes (prediction errors) was anatomically dissociated from the processing of iES or whether iES simply modulated activity of areas processing the non-occurrence of anticipated outcomes. Participants saw two alternating pairs of faces and indicated for each pair which one would have a declared target stimulus on its nose. Depending on the condition, the target stimulus was either a spider (high iES stimulus) or a disk (low iES stimulus). The target stimulus switched to the other face after several consecutive correct responses, with the switch being indicated by the appearance of the alternative stimulus (disk when the spider was the declared target; spider when the disk was the declared target). We found that the spider induced stronger activation in visual areas than the disk. By contrast, the absence of anticipated outcomes specifically activated the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), irrespective of the iES of the outcome stimulus. The findings support a generic role of the OFC in outcome monitoring.
It is widely recognized that mental rotation is a cognitive process which engages a distributed cortical network including the frontal, premotor and parietal regions. Like other visual-spatial transformations it could require operations on both metric and categorical spatial representations. Previous reports have implicated respectively the right hemisphere being involved in the metric processing and the left hemisphere in the categorical processing. By using a modified version of the Bricolo etal.'s task (2000), we attempted to establish the cortical regions relevant for the categorical and metric aspects of mental rotation transformations. Two groups of patients were found to be impaired in our study, namely the left prefrontal and the right parietal. In particular, whereas the right parietal group made poor use of categorical information, the left prefrontal patients showed a broader mental rotation impairment with a significant number of metric errors. The results are discussed in terms of the model of Kosslyn etal. (1989) about the possible mental transformation impairments following brain lesions.
Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) signaling in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) has been highlighted by the efficacy of FTY720 (fingolimod), which upon phosphorylation can modulate S1P receptor activities. FTY720 has become the first oral treatment for relapsing MS that was approved by the FDA in September 2010. Phosphorylated FTY720 modulates four of the five known S1P receptors (S1P(1), S1P(3), S1P(4), and S1P(5)) at high affinity. Studies in human MS and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), have revealed that FTY720 exposure alters lymphocyte trafficking via sequestration of auto-aggressive lymphocytes within lymphoid organs, representing the current understanding of its mechanism of action. These effects primarily involve S1P(1), which is thought to attenuate inflammatory insults in the central nervous system (CNS). In addition, FTY720's actions may involve direct effects on S1P receptor-mediated signaling in CNS cells, based upon the known expression of S1P receptors in CNS cell types relevant to MS, access to the CNS through the blood-brain barrier (BBB), and in vitro studies. These data implicate lysophospholipid signaling--via S1P(1) and perhaps other lysophospholipid receptors--in therapeutic approaches to MS and potentially other diseases with immunological and/or neurological components.
Widespread neuroinflammation in the central nervous system (CNS) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, involving pro-inflammatory mediators such as complement components, might be responsible for AD associated behavioral symptoms such as anxiety. Vaccinia virus complement control protein (VCP) and curcumin (Cur) are the bioactive compounds of natural origin shown to inhibit the in-vitro complement activation. In order to develop complement regulatory compounds which could be delivered to the CNS by a non-invasive route, VCP, its truncated version (tVCP), and Cur were administered to Wistar rats intranasally. The distribution of these compounds in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was studied using an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), using VCP and tVCP as antigens and a modified fluorimetric method (Cur). VCP and tVCP were also detected in the olfactory lobes of the rat brain using immunohistochemical analysis. These compounds were then compared for their ability to attenuate the anxiety levels in APPswePS1E9 mice using an elevated plus maze (EPM) apparatus. VCP treatment significantly improved the exploratory behavior and reduced the anxiety behavior in APPswePS1E9 mice. tVCP however showed an opposite effect to VCP, whereas Cur showed no effect on the anxiety behavior of these mice. When these mice were subsequently tested for their cognitive performance in the Morris water maze (MWM), they showed tendencies to collide with the periphery of the walls of MWM. This unusual activity was termed &quot;kissperi&quot; behavior. This newly defined index of anxiety was comparable to the anxiety profile of the VCP and tVCP treated groups on EPM. VCP can thus be delivered to the CNS effectively via intranasal route of administration to attenuate anxiety associated with AD.
Atrial fibrillation is the most common cause of cardioembolic ischemic stroke and has a rising prevalence worldwide. Stroke prevention in this condition is poised to take a substantial leap forward with the evolution of new anticoagulant medications, with superior properties compared to vitamin K antagonists. New, safer and more effective chronic therapy is on the horizon. However, many issues surrounding the management of stroke prevention after an acute stroke and during the course of chronic anticoagulant therapy remain to be resolved.
Lipid storage myopathy (LSM) is pathologically characterized by prominent lipid accumulation in muscle fibers due to lipid dysmetabolism. Although extensive molecular studies have been performed, there are only four types of genetically diagnosable LSMs: primary carnitine deficiency (PCD), multiple acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency (MADD), neutral lipid storage disease with ichthyosis, and neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy. Making an accurate diagnosis, by specific laboratory tests including genetic analyses, is important for LSM as some of the patients are treatable: individuals with PCD show dramatic improvement with high-dose oral L-carnitine supplementation and increasing evidence indicates that MADD due to ETFDH mutations is riboflavin responsive.


Sex steroid hormones exert a profound influence on the sexual differentiation and function of the neural circuits that mediate dimorphic behaviors. Both estrogen and testosterone are essential for male typical behaviors in many species. Recent studies with genetically modified mice provide important new insights into the logic whereby these two hormones coordinate the display of sexually dimorphic behaviors: estrogen sets up the masculine repertoire of sexual and territorial behaviors and testosterone controls the extent of these male displays.
Richness of neural circuits and specificity of neuronal connectivity depend on the diversification of nerve cells into functionally and molecularly distinct subtypes. Although efficient methods for directed differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) into multiple principal neuronal classes have been established, only a few studies systematically examined the subtype diversity of in vitro derived nerve cells. Here we review evidence based on molecular and in vivo transplantation studies that ESC-derived spinal motor neurons and cortical layer V pyramidal neurons acquire subtype specific functional properties. We discuss similarities and differences in the role of cell-intrinsic transcriptional programs, extrinsic signals and cell-cell interactions during subtype diversification of the two classes of nerve cells. We conclude that the high degree of fidelity with which differentiating ESCs recapitulate normal embryonic development provides a unique opportunity to explore developmental processes underlying specification of mammalian neuronal diversity in a simplified and experimentally accessible system.
The coordination and timing of muscle activities during rhythmic movements, like walking and swimming, are generated by intrinsic spinal motor circuits. Such locomotor networks are operational early in development and are found in all vertebrates. This review outlines and compares recent advances that have revealed the developmental and functional organization of these fundamental spinal motor networks in limbed and non-limbed animals. The comparison will highlight common principles and divergence in the organization of the spinal locomotor network structure in these different species as well as point to unresolved issues regarding the assembly and functioning of these networks.
Dendritic spines are small actin-rich protrusions on the surface of dendrites whose morphological and molecular plasticity play key roles in learning and memory. Both the form and function of spines are critically dependent on the actin cytoskeleton. However, new research, using electron microscopy and live-cell super-resolution microscopy indicates that the actin cytoskeleton is more complex and dynamic than originally thought. Also, exciting recent studies from several labs indicate that microtubules, once thought to be restricted to the dendrite shaft, can make excursions into the most distal regions of dendritic spines. Moreover, microtubule invasions of spines appear to be associated with changes in synaptic activity. Thus, it is likely that dynamic interactions between microtubules and actin filaments within dendritic spines play important roles in dendritic spine plasticity.
The term neurodevelopmental disorder encompasses a wide range of diseases, including recognizably distinct syndromes known to be caused by very rare mutations in specific genes or chromosomal loci, and also much more common disorders such as schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders, and idiopathic epilepsy and mental retardation. After decades of frustration, the past couple of years have suddenly seen tremendous progress in unravelling the genetics of these common disorders. These findings have led to a paradigm shift in our conception of the genetic architecture of common neurodevelopmental disease, highlighting the importance of individual, rare mutations and overlapping genetic aetiology of various disorders. They have also converged on specific neurodevelopmental pathways, providing insights into pathogenic mechanisms.

5-Hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT(3)) receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that play important roles in depression, anxiety, substance abuse, emesis, inflammatory pain, spinal nociception, gastrointestinal function, and cardiovascular reflexes. Probably the most studied modulators of 5-HT(3) receptors are the high affinity competitive 'setron' antagonists typified by ondansetron. However, there exists a broad range of compounds that modulate the 5-HT(3) receptor, not through the orthosteric site but by binding to allosteric sites. Most notable are therapeutic compounds ascribed to certain targets but that allosterically modulate 5-HT(3) receptors at clinically relevant concentrations.
Chronic migraine typically evolves from episodic migraine over months to years in susceptible individuals. Headaches increase in frequency over time, becoming less intense but more disabling and less responsive to treatment. Results of electrophysiologic and functional imaging studies indicate that chronic migraine is associated with abnormalities in the brainstem that may be progressive. Additionally, chronic migraine is associated with a greater degree of impairment in cortical processing of sensory stimuli than is episodic migraine, perhaps due to a more pervasive or persistent cortical hyperexcitability. These findings fit with the model of migraine as a spectrum disorder, in which the clinical and pathophysiological features of migraine may progress over time. This progression is postulated to result from changes in nociceptive thresholds and ensuing central sensitization caused by recurrent migraine in susceptible individuals, for whom a variety of risk factors have been described. This may lead to changes in baseline neurologic function between episodes of headache, evident not only in electrophysiologic and functional imaging studies, but also as an increase in depression, anxiety, nonhead pain, fatigue, gastrointestinal disorders, and other somatic complaints that may occur after years of episodic migraine. From the current research and migraine models, a conceptualization of chronic migraine, in which relatively permanent and pervasive central changes that warrant novel and tolerable treatments have occurred, is emerging. This model also implies that prevention of chronic migraine is an important goal in the management of episodic migraine, particularly in individuals who exhibit risk factors for chronic transformation.
This article reviews the recent literature on attachment and attachment-related constructs in borderline personality disorder, with attention given to how recent findings in this area may inform understanding of the mechanisms underlying the etiology, maintenance, and treatment of the disorder. Most findings on this topic have stemmed from three major areas of research, each of which is reviewed in this article: 1) developmental psychopathology studies; 2) experimental psychopathology studies, particularly those using a neuroscience approach; and 3) treatment studies that have examined variables relevant to attachment. Overall, these findings suggest that attachment and related constructs may factor greatly into the underlying psychopathology of borderline personality disorder and may significantly impact the process and outcome of psychotherapy for the disorder. These findings are discussed as they relate to existing theories and ongoing debates in the field, and the implications for future research and clinical practice are highlighted.
The receptor Notch interacts with the Abl tyrosine kinase signaling pathway to control axon growth and guidance in Drosophila motor neurons. In part, this is mediated by binding to Trio, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for Rho GTPases. We show here that one of the two GEF domains of Trio, the Rac-specific GEF1, is essential for Trio-dependent motor axon guidance and for the genetic suppression of Notch function in motor axon patterning, but the Rho-specific GEF2 domain is not. Consistent with this, we show that Rac, and not Rho1 or Cdc42, interacts genetically with Notch in a manner indistinguishable from that of bona fide Abl signaling components. We infer, therefore, that Rac is a key component of Abl signaling in Drosophila motor axons, and specifically that it is the crucial Rho GTPase in &quot;noncanonical&quot; Notch/Abl signaling.

The hallmark of vertebrate definitive hematopoiesis is the establishment of the hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC) pool during embryogenesis. This process involves a defined ontogenic switching of HSPCs in successive hematopoietic compartments and is evolutionarily conserved from teleost fish to human. In zebrafish, HSPCs originate from the ventral wall of the dorsal aorta (VDA), from which they subsequently mobilize to an intermediate hematopoietic site known as the caudal hematopoietic tissue (CHT) and finally colonize the kidney for adult hematopoiesis. Despite substantial understanding of the ontogeny of HSPCs, the molecular basis governing migration, colonization and maintenance of HSPCs remains to be explored fully. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of two zebrafish mutants, rumba(hkz1) and samba(hkz2), that are defective in generating definitive hematopoiesis. We find that HSPC initiation in the VDA and subsequent homing to the CHT are not affected in these two mutants. However, the further development of HSPCs in the CHT is compromised in both mutants. Positional cloning reveals that Rumba is a novel nuclear C2H2 zinc-finger factor with unknown function and samba encodes an evolutionarily conserved protein that is homologous to human augmin complex subunit 3 (HAUS3). Furthermore, we show that these two factors independently regulate cell cycle progression of HSPCs and are cell autonomously required for HPSC development in the CHT. Our study identifies Rumba and Haus3 as two essential regulators of HSPC maintenance during zebrafish fetal hematopoiesis.
The establishment of cell type-specific dendritic arborization patterns is a key phase in the assembly of neuronal circuitry that facilitates the integration and processing of synaptic and sensory input. Although studies in Drosophila and vertebrate systems have identified a variety of factors that regulate dendrite branch formation, the molecular mechanisms that control this process remain poorly defined. Here, we introduce the use of the Caenorhabditis elegans PVD neurons, a pair of putative nociceptors that elaborate complex dendritic arbors, as a tractable model for conducting high-throughput RNAi screens aimed at identifying key regulators of dendritic branch formation. By carrying out two separate RNAi screens, a small-scale candidate-based screen and a large-scale screen of the ~3000 genes on chromosome IV, we retrieved 11 genes that either promote or suppress the formation of PVD-associated dendrites. We present a detailed functional characterization of one of the genes, bicd-1, which encodes a microtubule-associated protein previously shown to modulate the transport of mRNAs and organelles in a variety of organisms. Specifically, we describe a novel role for bicd-1 in regulating dendrite branch formation and show that bicd-1 is likely to be expressed, and primarily required, in PVD neurons to control dendritic branching. We also present evidence that bicd-1 operates in a conserved pathway with dhc-1 and unc-116, components of the dynein minus-end-directed and kinesin-1 plus-end-directed microtubule-based motor complexes, respectively, and interacts genetically with the repulsive guidance receptor unc-5.
In humans, haploinsufficiency of either SOX2 or PAX6 is associated with microphthalmia, anophthalmia or aniridia. In this study, through the genetic spatiotemporal specific ablation of SOX2 on both wild-type and Pax6-haploinsufficent backgrounds in the mouse, we have uncovered a transcriptionally distinct and developmentally transient stage of eye development. We show that genetic ablation of SOX2 in the optic cup results in complete loss of neural competence and eventual cell fate conversion to non-neurogenic ciliary epithelium. This cell fate conversion is associated with a striking increase in PAX6, and genetically ablating SOX2 on a Pax6-haploinsufficient background partially rescues the Sox2-mutant phenotype. Collectively, these results demonstrate that precise regulation of the ratio of SOX2 to PAX6 is necessary to ensure accurate progenitor cell specification, and place SOX2 as a decisive factor of neural competence in the retina.



Estimating the unbound fraction of drugs in brain has become essential for the evaluation and interpretation of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of new central nervous system drug candidates. Dialysis-based methods are considered to be accurate for estimating the fraction unbound in brain; however, these techniques are hampered by a low throughput. In this study, we present a novel, matrix-free, high-throughput method for estimating the unbound fraction, based on a sample pooling approach combining the TRANSIL brain absorption assay with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The base measurement of the TRANSIL approach is the affinity to brain membranes, and this method is used directly to predict the free fraction in brain. The method was evaluated by comparing the free fraction of drugs in brain [f(u,brain) (%)] obtained using the TRANSIL brain absorption assay and equilibrium dialysis methods for a test set of 65 drugs (27 marketed and 38 proprietary drugs). A good correlation (r(2) &gt; 0.93) of f(u,brain) (%) between the TRANSIL brain absorption assay and equilibrium dialysis was observed. Moreover, we compared the lipid composition of rat and porcine brain and analyzed the influence of the brain albumin content on brain tissue binding measurement. The comparison of the lipid composition indicated only minor differences between rat and porcine brain, and albumin appears to have a low impact on brain tissue binding measurements. The TRANSIL brain absorption assay with sample pooling methodology not only significantly reduces the biological matrix required but also increases the throughput, compared with the conventional dialysis methods.
The ability to learn highly depends on how knowledge is managed. Specifically, different techniques for note-taking utilize different cognitive processes and strategies. In this paper, we compared dyslexic and control participants when using linear and non-linear note-taking. All our participants were professionals working in the banking and financial sector. We examined comprehension, accuracy, mental imagery &amp; complexity, metacognition, and memory. We found that participants with dyslexia, when using a non-linear note-taking technique outperformed the control group using linear note-taking and matched the performance of the control group using non-linear note-taking. These findings emphasize how different knowledge management techniques can avoid some of the barriers to learners.


Using an auditory adaptation of the emotional and taboo Stroop tasks, the authors compared the effects of negative and taboo spoken words in mixed and blocked designs. Both types of words elicited carryover effects with mixed presentations and interference with blocked presentations, suggesting similar long-lasting attentional effects. Both were also relatively resilient to the long-lasting influence of the preceding emotional word. Hence, contrary to what has been assumed (Schmidt &amp; Saari, 2007), negative and taboo words do not seem to differ in terms of the temporal dynamics of the interdimensional shifting, at least in the auditory modality.
In spontaneously ovulating rodents, the preovulatory LH surge is initiated on the day of proestrus by a timed, stimulatory signal originating from the circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The present studies explored whether kisspeptin is part of the essential neural circuit linking the SCN to the GnRH system to stimulate ovulation in Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Kisspeptin neurons exhibit an estrogen-dependent, daily pattern of cellular activity consistent with a role in the circadian control of the LH surge. The SCN targets kisspeptin neurons via vasopressinergic (AVP), but not vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-ergic, projections. Because AVP administration can only stimulate the LH surge during a restricted time of day, we examined the possibility that the response to AVP is gated at the level of kisspeptin and/or GnRH neurons. Kisspeptin and GnRH activation were assessed after the administration of AVP during the morning (when AVP is incapable of initiating the LH surge) and the afternoon (when AVP injections stimulate the LH surge). Kisspeptin, but not GnRH, cellular activity was up-regulated after morning injections of AVP, suggesting that time-dependent sensitivity to SCN signaling is gated within GnRH but not kisspeptin neurons. In support of this possibility, we found that the GnRH system exhibits pronounced daily changes in sensitivity to kisspeptin stimulation, with maximal sensitivity in the afternoon. Together these studies reveal a novel mechanism of ovulatory control with interactions among the circadian system, kisspeptin signaling, and a GnRH gating mechanism of control.
Acquisition and maintenance of cell fate and potential are dependent on the complex interplay of extracellular signaling, gene regulatory networks and epigenetic states. During embryonic development, embryonic stem cells become progressively more restricted along specific lineages, ultimately giving rise to the diversity of cell types in the adult mammalian organism. Recent years have seen major advances in our understanding of the mechanisms that regulate the underlying transcriptional programmes during development. In particular, there has been a significant increase in our knowledge of how epigenetic marks on chromatin can regulate transcription by generating more or less permissive chromatin conformations. This article focuses on how a single transcription factor, repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor, can function as both a transcriptional and epigenetic regulator, controlling diverse aspects of development. We will discuss how the elucidation of repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor function in both normal and disease conditions has provided valuable insights into how the epigenome and transcriptional regulators might cooperatively orchestrate correct development.
By reducing neuronal excitability through selective binding to the (2) subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels, pregabalin effectively treats epilepsy, chronic pain, and anxiety disorders. To evaluate if pregabalin coadministration affects pharmacokinetics of other antiepileptic drugs, population pharmacokinetic analyses using NONMEM software were performed on data from three epilepsy trials involving seven antiepileptic drugs with pregabalin as add-on therapy. Results demonstrated that pregabalin did not alter the steady-state plasma concentrations of carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, tiagabine, topiramate, and valproate. Furthermore, the small percent change in the population estimate of antiepileptic drug plasma clearance values (-2% to +7%) suggests that pregabalin coadministration exerted no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of these antiepileptic drugs, with the possible exception of tiagabine (+34.9%). These findings are in agreement with those of previously published reports. A further clarification study is necessary for tiagabine. In conclusion, it appears that pregabalin can be coadministered with other antiepileptic drugs without concern for significantly altering their pharmacokinetic profiles.




Previous studies have reported that patients with phenytoin-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (PHT-induced SJS/TEN) were positive for HLA-B*1502. We genotyped two patients with PHT-induced SJS using both polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers and sequencing. The results revealed that one patient from Henan Province had HLA-B*1501/B*5401, and the other patient from Guangdong Province had HLA-B*1502/B*4601. When this information was combined with the results from Taiwan and Hong Kong, a significant difference was observed in the presence of HLA-B*1502 between PHT-SJS and PHT-tolerant populations (35% vs 8%, P=0.001, OR=6.08, 95% CI=2.183-16.946). Additional studies in large samples are required to confirm the association between HLA-B*1502 and PHT-induced SJS/TEN.
One of the most important components of presurgical evaluation of patients with epilepsy is structural imaging, predominantly using magnetic resonance imaging. This study is now part of the basic assessment of patients with epilepsy and is as important as the electroencephalogram. Epilepsy protocol magnetic resonance imaging studies must be part of the overall assessment of the patient. To understand the basis of the epileptic disorder, interpretation of these investigations relies on knowledge of the clinical details and features of the seizures, the functional abnormality in the brain as shown on the electroencephalogram, and structural assessment of the brain with a magnetic resonance imaging study optimized for epilepsy. This review considers the essential elements of this issue and gives a broad overview of what imaging options are available for the investigation of the patient with epilepsy from the perspective of the practicing epileptologist.

The purpose of this commentary is to discuss the recent proposals for revision of the diagnostic criteria made by the DSM-5 ADHD and Disruptive Behavior Disorders Committee. The major concerns with the current diagnostic criteria for ADHD and hence the main suggestions for change focused on the general structure and organization of subtypes, the number, content and distribution of criteria, the age of onset criteria, the ascertainment of cross-situationality and the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Suggestions for change in these areas have been made in order that these changes can be tested in field trials before being finalised. Whilst several of the proposed revisions are relatively uncontentious e.g., the elaborated symptoms criteria, the identification of ADHD as a disorder of both behavioural and cognitive functioning, the situational and developmental dependence of symptoms, the permission to diagnose ADHD in the presence of an autism spectrum disorder, clarification of the relationship between ADHD and irritable mood and the importance of getting information from teachers and other third parties. Several of the other proposed changed are more contentious and will require extensive field testing to assess their impact on validity, reliability and clinical usefulness. These include changes to the way in which individuals with inattention but no hyperactivity/impulsivity are classified, the addition of four new impulsivity symptoms, a reduction in the number of symptoms required to meet criteria for older adolescents and adults and the raising of the age of onset to 12 years of age.



Data acquired with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) are often interpreted in terms of the underlying neuronal activity, despite mounting evidence that these signals do not always correlate with electrophysiological recordings. Therefore, considering the increasing popularity of functional neuroimaging, it is clear that a more comprehensive theory is needed to reconcile these apparent disparities and more accurately explain the mechanisms through which various PET and fMRI signals arise. In the present article, we have turned our attention to astrocytes, which vastly outnumber neurons and are known to serve a number of functions throughout the central nervous system (CNS). For example, astrocytes are known to be critically involved in neurotransmitter uptake and recycling, and empirical data suggests that brain activation increases both oxidative and glycolytic astrocyte metabolism. Furthermore, a number of recent studies imply that astrocytes are likely to play a key role in regulating cerebral blood delivery. Therefore, we propose that, by mediating neurometabolic and neurovascular processes throughout the CNS, astrocytes could provide a common physiological basis for fMRI and PET signals. Such a theory has significant implications for the interpretation of functional neuroimaging signals, because astrocytic changes reflect subthreshold neuronal activity, simultaneous excitatory/inhibitory synaptic inputs, and other transient metabolic demands that may not elicit electrophysiological changes. It also suggests that fMRI and PET signals may have inherently less sensitivity to decreases in synaptic input (i.e. 'negative activity') and/or inhibitory (GABAergic) neurotransmission.
Vision of high temporal resolution depends on careful regulation of photoresponse kinetics, beginning with the lifetime of activated photopigment. The activity of rhodopsin is quenched by high-affinity binding of arrestin to photoexcited phosphorylated photopigment, which effectively terminates the visual transduction cascade. This regulation mechanism is well established for rod photoreceptors, yet its role for cone vision is still controversial. In this study we therefore analyzed arrestin function in the cone-dominated vision of larval zebrafish. For both rod (arrS) and cone (arr3) arrestin we isolated two paralogs, each expressed in the respective subset of photoreceptors. Labeling with paralog-specific antibodies revealed subfunctionalized expression of Arr3a in M- and L-cones, and Arr3b in S- and UV-cones. The inactivation of arr3a by morpholino knockdown technology resulted in a severe delay in photoresponse recovery which, under bright light conditions, was rate-limiting. Comparison to opsin phosphorylation-deficient animals confirmed the role of cone arrestin in late cone response recovery. Arr3a activity partially overlapped with the function of the cone-specific kinase Grk7a involved in initial response recovery. Behavioral measurements further revealed Arr3a deficiency to be sufficient to reduce temporal contrast sensitivity, providing evidence for the importance of arrestin in cone vision of high temporal resolution.
To advance our understanding of the biological basis of speech-in-noise perception, we investigated the effects of background noise on both subcortical- and cortical-evoked responses, and the relationships between them, in normal hearing young adults. The addition of background noise modulated subcortical and cortical response morphology. In noise, subcortical responses were later, smaller in amplitude and demonstrated decreased neural precision in encoding the speech sound. Cortical responses were also delayed by noise, yet the amplitudes of the major peaks (N1, P2) were affected differently, with N1 increasing and P2 decreasing. Relationships between neural measures and speech-in-noise ability were identified, with earlier subcortical responses, higher subcortical response fidelity and greater cortical N1 response magnitude all relating to better speech-in-noise perception. Furthermore, it was only with the addition of background noise that relationships between subcortical and cortical encoding of speech and the behavioral measures of speech in noise emerged. Results illustrate that human brainstem responses and N1 cortical response amplitude reflect coordinated processes with regards to the perception of speech in noise, thereby acting as a functional index of speech-in-noise perception.
A variety of tests of sensorimotor function are used to characterize outcome after experimental spinal cord injury (SCI). These tests typically do not provide information about chemical and metabolic processes in the injured CNS. Here, we used (1) H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to monitor long-term and short-term chemical changes in the CNS in vivo following SCI. The investigated areas were cortex, thalamus/striatum and the spinal cord distal to injury. In cortex, glutamate (Glu) decreased 1 day after SCI and slowly returned towards normal levels. The combined glutamine (Gln) and Glu signal was similarly decreased in cortex, but increased in the distal spinal cord, suggesting opposite changes of the Glu/Gln metabolites in cortex and distal spinal cord. In lumbar spinal cord, a marked increase of myo-inositol was found 3 days, 14 days and 4 months after SCI. Changes in metabolite concentrations in the spinal cord were also found for choline and N-acetylaspartate. No significant changes in metabolite concentrations were found in thalamus/striatum. Multivariate data analysis allowed separation between rats with SCI and controls for spectra acquired in cortex and spinal cord, but not in thalamus/striatum. Our findings suggest MRS could become a helpful tool to monitor spatial and temporal alterations of metabolic conditions in vivo in the brain and spinal cord after SCI. We provide evidence for dynamic temporal changes at both ends of the neuraxis, cortex cerebri and distal spinal cord, while deep brain areas appear less affected.
Human infants rapidly develop their auditory perceptual abilities and acquire culture-specific knowledge in speech and music in the second 6 months of life. In the adult brain, neural rhythm around 10 Hz in the temporal lobes is thought to reflect sound analysis and subsequent cognitive processes such as memory and attention. To study when and how such rhythm emerges in infancy, we examined electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings in infants 4 and 12 months of age during sound stimulation and silence. In the 4-month-olds, the amplitudes of narrowly tuned 4-Hz brain rhythm, recorded from bilateral temporal electrodes, were modulated by sound stimuli. In the 12-month-olds, the sound-induced modulation occurred at faster 6-Hz rhythm at temporofrontal locations. The brain rhythms in the older infants consisted of more complex components, as even evident in individual data. These findings suggest that auditory-specific rhythmic neural activity, which is already established before 6 months of age, involves more speed-efficient long-range neural networks by the age of 12 months when long-term memory for native phoneme representation and for musical rhythmic features is formed. We suggest that maturation of distinct rhythmic components occurs in parallel, and that sensory-specific functions bound to particular thalamo-cortical networks are transferred to newly developed higher-order networks step by step until adult hierarchical neural oscillatory mechanisms are achieved across the whole brain.
Bcl-2 homology domain 3 (BH3)-only proteins are pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members that play important roles in upstream cell death signalling during apoptosis. Proteasomal stress has been shown to contribute to the pathology of cerebral ischaemia and many neurodegenerative disorders. Here we explored the contribution of BH3-only proteins in mediating proteasome-inhibition-induced apoptosis in the murine brain in vivo. Stereotactic intrahippocampal microinjection of the selective proteasome inhibitor epoxomicin (2.5 nmol) induced a delayed apoptosis within only the CA1 hippocampal neurons and not neurons within the CA3 or dentate gyrus regions, a selective vulnerability similar to that seen during ischaemia. This injury developed over a time-course of 3 days and was characterized by positive terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labelling staining and nuclear condensation. Previous work from our laboratory has identified the BH3-only protein p53-upregulated mediator of apoptosis (Puma) as mediating proteasome-inhibition-induced apoptosis in cultured neural cells. Genetic deletion of puma reduced the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labelling-positive cells within the CA1 following epoxomicin microinjection but it did not provide a complete protection. Subsequent studies identified the BH3-only protein Bim as also being upregulated during proteasome inhibition in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures and after epoxomicin treatment in vivo. Interestingly, the genetic deletion of bim also afforded significant neuroprotection, although this protection was less pronounced. In summary, we demonstrate that the BH3-only proteins Puma and Bim mediate the delayed apoptosis of CA1 hippocampal neurons induced by proteasome inhibition in vivo, and that either BH3-only protein can only partly compensate for the deficiency of the other.
Neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve lesion is highly resistant to conventional pain treatments but may respond well to direct electrical peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS). In the 1980s, we treated a series of 11 peripheral neuropathic pain patients with PNS. A first outcome assessment, conducted after a 52-month follow-up, revealed that the majority of the patients were significantly improved. Here, we present the results of a second and more comprehensive follow-up, conducted after more than 20years of PNS usage. Of the six patients still using PNS, five participated in a multimodality assessment of the long-term efficacy of PNS. Home evaluations showed reduced pain ratings and improved quality-of-life during active periods of stimulation. Quantitative sensory testing confirmed the neuropathic character of the pain complaints. PNS had no significant overall effect on tactile detection, cool, warmth, cold pain and heat pain thresholds. Laser-evoked potentials showed an enlarged N2-P2 complex during active PNS. Positron Emission Tomography revealed that PNS decreased activation in the pain matrix at rest and during thermal stimulation. PNS led to increased blood flow not only in primary somatosensory cortex, but also in anterior cingulate and insular cortices, suggesting that besides activation of the dorsal column lemniscal system, other mechanisms may play a role in its analgesic effects. These data show that PNS can provide truly long-term pain relief in carefully selected patients and they provide some objective quantitative data in support of this. They encourage the planning of future prospective studies in a larger cohort of patients.
Electromyographic (EMG) activity from voluntarily contracting hand muscles undergoes transient suppression following nociceptive fingertip stimulation. This suppression is mediated by a spinal inhibitory reflex designated the cutaneous silent period (CSP). The CSP is abolished or altered in a variety of myelopathic conditions. However, before the CSP can gain acceptance as an aid in the diagnosis of myelopathy, the contribution of non-myelopathic conditions that can interrupt the afferent pathways responsible for the CSP needs to be considered. Accordingly, we examined the effect of radiculopathy on the CSP. Nociceptive stimulation was applied to thumb (C6 dermatome), middle (C7) and little (C8) fingers of 23 patients with cervical radiculopathy. Four or more CSP responses were recorded in abductor pollicis brevis muscle following digital stimulation. The patients had C6 (n = 10), C7 (n = 7), or C8 (n = 6) radiculopathy documented by EMG. A complete CSP was elicited in 21 of 23 patients with comparable latencies and durations irrespective of digit stimulated. We conclude that the CSP is preserved in radiculopathy, probably because afferent impulses are carried by smaller, slower conducting 'injury-resistant' A-delta fibers. These results provide important missing evidence that ensures specificity of CSP alterations in the diagnosis of cervical myelopathy. The finding that the CSP is spared in radiculopathy should open the door for investigators and clinicians to adopt this simple spinal inhibitory reflex as a physiologic aid in the diagnosis of spinal cord dysfunction.
It is now well established that both procedural skills and episodic memories consolidate across periods of offline retention, and most particularly across periods of sleep. Such consolidation has been demonstrated to be more marked for emotional than for neutral episodes, but the interaction between emotionality and the offline consolidation of procedural skills has yet to be investigated. Here, we address this issue by examining the impact of an emotional background context at encoding upon the subsequent consolidation of mirror tracing, a well-studied procedural skill. We also consider the importance of sleep for such consolidation by manipulating the retention interval (over a day, overnight, or over 24 h containing normal sleep). Our data show significantly greater offline improvements in the accuracy of mirror tracing when negative emotional content is present during the training phase when compared to when neutral or positive content is present. Furthermore, consolidation across a night of sleep is associated with faster and more accurate performance than consolidation across a day of wakefulness. These novel findings show that the emotional context in which a procedural skill is learned can impact upon subsequent offline consolidation.
Several lines of evidence exist, coming from neuropsychology, neuroimaging and behavioural investigations on healthy subjects, suggesting that an interaction might exist between the systems devoted to object identification and those devoted to online object-directed actions and that the way an object is acted upon (manipulability) might indeed influence object recognition. In this series of experiments on speeded word-to-picture-matching tasks, it is shown how the presentation of pairs of objects sharing similar manipulation causes greater interference with respect to objects sharing only visual similarity (experiment 1). Moreover, (experiment 2) it is shown how the repeated presentation of pairs of objects sharing a similar type of manipulation leads to a 'negative' serial position effect, with the number of errors increasing across presentations, a behaviour that is typically found in patients with access deficits to semantic representations. By contrast, the repeated presentation of pairs of objects sharing only visual similarity leads to an opposite 'positive' serial position effect, with errors decreasing across presentations. It is argued that a negative serial position effect is linked to interference occurring within the semantic system, and therefore that the way an object is manipulated is indeed a semantic feature, critical in defining manipulable object properties at a semantic level. To our knowledge, this constitutes the first direct evidence of manipulability being a semantic dimension. The results are discussed in the light of current models of semantic memory organization.
Spectral Domain Optical Coherence Tomography (SD-OCT) applied to the mouse retina has been limited due to inherent movement artifacts and lack of resolution. Recently, SD-OCT scans from a commercially available imaging system have yielded retinal thickness values comparable to histology. However, these measurements are based on single point analysis of images. Here we report that using the Spectralis HRA+OCT Spectral Domain OCT and Fluorescein Angiography system (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany), retinal thickness of linear expanses from SD-OCT data can be accurately assessed. This is possible by the development of a Spectralis-compatible ImageJ plug-in that imports 8-bit SLO and 32-bit OCT B-scan images, retaining scale and segmentation data and enabling analysis and 3D reconstruction. Moreover, mouse retinal layer thickness values obtained with this plug-in exhibit a high correlation to thickness measurements from histology of the same retinas. Thus, use of this ImageJ plug-in results in reliable quantification of long retinal expanses from in vivo SD-OCT images.

The brain is a major target of circulating insulin. Enhancing central nervous insulin action has been shown to improve memory functions in animals as well as in humans, benefitting in particular hippocampus-dependent (declarative) memory. As Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with reduced central nervous insulin signaling and attenuated permeation of blood-borne insulin across the blood-brain-barrier, the cognitive decline in AD patients may at least in part be derived from impaired brain insulin signaling. Thus, therapeutic strategies to overcome central nervous system insulin deficiency and resistance might be an attractive option in the treatment of cognitive impairments like AD. Insulin can be effectively delivered directly to the brain via the intranasal route that enables the hormone to bypass the blood-brain barrier and modulate central nervous functions. This review summarizes a series of studies demonstrating beneficial effects of intranasal insulin on memory functions both in healthy humans and in patients with cognitive impairments such as AD. These experiments in humans consistently indicate that enhancing brain insulin signaling by intranasal administration of the hormone improves hippocampus-dependent memory in the absence of adverse side effects. Considering that insulin also acts as a neuroprotective signal, up-regulating brain insulin levels by intranasal insulin administration appears to be a promising approach in the treatment and prevention of central nervous system insulin deficiency and resistance as found in AD.
Our hypothesis is that there is 'wear and tear' in the brain, which is the basis of the process of aging, but that stimulation of brain function may slow down brain aging and diminish the risk for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), possibly by activating repair mechanisms. Evidence supporting this hypothesis is presented in this review. During normal aging and in AD, cell loss is not as prominent a phenomenon as is often presumed. In fact, unaltered neuronal numbers have been reported in many brain areas in AD, e.g. in the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) where the number of large neurons decreases while that of small neurons increases. Decreased neuronal activity is an essential characteristic of AD, and a substantial decrease of cerebral glucose metabolism may even precede cognitive impairments. Some hypothalamic neurons remain intact and active during the process of aging, others become even hyperactive, which may lead to disorders. Arginine vasopressin (AVP) levels were found to be higher in the elderly than in young subjects. There is an age-related, sex-dependent activation of the AVP neurons in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), which may be the basis of analogous changes in the prevalence of hypertension and hyponatraemia in the elderly. No significant functional loss of magnocellular hypothalamic neurosecretory neurons were found in the SON or PVN in AD. The activity of the corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the hypothalamic PVN is the basis for the activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which is activated during aging in a sex-dependent way, and even more activated in AD. The activated HPA axis is a risk for depression. Environmental stimulation increases brain reserve. An increase in time spent on intellectual activities was associated with a significant decrease in probability to get AD, and occupation has even a stronger indication of diminished risk for dementia. A series of observations showed that a dysfunctional clock may underlie the disordered rhythms in AD. Additional bright light improved the rest-activity rhythms, while giving bright light and/or melatonin to AD patients ameliorated the progression of cognitive and noncognitive symptoms. This implies that neurons affected by AD can still be reactivated if the right stimuli are applied. Unknown diffusible factors from the neural stem cells improve the survival of aged and degenerating neurons in postmortem human brain slice cultures. Gene therapy with nerve growth factor aimed at the NBM showed metabolic activation of various brain regions. A microarray study of the prefrontal cortex in the course of AD revealed an increased expression of genes related to synaptic activity and changes in plasticity during the very early pre-symptomatic stages, which is proposed to represent a coping mechanism against increased soluble -amyloid levels. In brief, these examples of the 'use it or lose it' principle during the course of aging or AD now provide novel targets for the development of therapeutic strategies aiming at the prevention and treatment of AD.
The ability to sense and respond appropriately to increases in ambient and body temperatures is critical for the survival of all animals. Although evidence suggests that brain serotonergic systems play a role in thermoregulation, including thermoregulatory cooling, evidence for activation of brainstem serotonergic neurons in vivo, in unanesthetized animals, during heat exposure is lacking. In this experiment we tested the hypothesis that populations of serotonergic neurons in the midbrain and medullary raphe complex are activated following exposure to warm ambient temperature. Rats were exposed to an incubation chamber at either warm ambient temperature (37C) or room temperature (RT; 23C) for 105 min. Brains then were removed and processed for immunohistochemical detection of the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos (as a marker of neuronal activation) and tryptophan hydroxylase (as a marker of serotonergic neurons). Exposure to warm ambient temperature increased body temperature and c-Fos expression in topographically organized populations of serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Activation of the dorsal raphe nucleus serotonergic system was positively correlated with body temperature following exposure to the incubation chamber. In the medulla, exposure to warm ambient temperature, compared with exposure to RT, decreased c-Fos expression in serotonergic neurons in the raphe pallidus nucleus and in non-serotonergic cells in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Together, these results provide evidence for multiple but anatomically discrete thermosensitive serotonergic systems that may have implications for the regulation of body temperature, as well as, via projections to forebrain targets, cognitive and affective functions.
Cerebral malaria (CM) causes substantial mortality and neurological sequelae in survivors, and no neuroprotective regimens are currently available for this condition. Erythropoietin (EPO) reduces neuropathology and improves survival in murine CM. Using the Plasmodium berghei model of CM, we investigated if EPO's neuroprotective effects include activation of endogenous neural stem cells (NSC). By using immunohistochemical markers of different NSC maturation stages, we show that EPO increased the number of nestin(+) cells in the dentate gyrus and in the sub-ventricular zone of the lateral ventricles, relative to control-treatment. 75% of the EPO-treated CM mice displayed migration as nestin(+) NSC. The NSC showed differentiation towards a neural cell lineage as shown by PSA-NCAM binding and NSC maturation and lineage commitment was significantly affected by exogenous EPO and by CM in the sub ventricular zone. These results indicate a rapid, EPO-dependent activation of NSC during CM pathology.
INTRODUCTION: Microdialysis is an important in vivo sampling technique, useful in the assay of extracellular tissue fluid. The technique has both pre-clinical and clinical applications but is most widely used in neuroscience. The in vivo microdialysis technique allows measurement of neurotransmitters such as acetycholine (ACh), the biogenic amines including dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5-HT), amino acids such as glutamate (Glu) and gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), as well as the metabolites of the aforementioned neurotransmitters, and neuropeptides in neuronal extracellular fluid in discrete brain regions of laboratory animals such as rodents and non-human primates. AREAS COVERED: In this review we present a brief overview of the principles and procedures related to in vivo microdialysis and detail the use of this technique in the pre-clinical measurement of drugs designed to be used in the treatment of chemical addiction, neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and as well as psychiatric disorders such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and schizophrenia. This review offers insight into the tremendous utility and versatility of this technique in pursuing neuropharmacological investigations as well its significant potential in rational drug discovery. EXPERT OPINION: In vivo microdialysis is an extremely versatile technique, routinely used in the neuropharmacological investigation of drugs used for the treatment of neurological disorders. This technique has been a boon in the elucidation of the neurochemical profile and mechanism of action of several classes of drugs especially their effects on neurotransmitter systems. The exploitation and development of this technique for drug discovery in the near future will enable investigational new drug candidates to be rapidly moved into the clinical trial stages and to market thus providing new successful therapies for neurological diseases that are currently in demand.



Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are hallmarks of various neurological disorders, including multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer disease (AD), and Parkinson disease (PD). Mutations in PINK1, a mitochondrial kinase, have been linked to the occurrence of early onset parkinsonism. Currently, various studies support the notion of a neuroprotective role for PINK1, as it protects cells from stress-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Because information about the distribution pattern of PINK1 in neurological diseases other than PD is scarce, we here investigated PINK1 expression in well-characterized brain samples derived from MS and AD individuals using immunohistochemistry. In control gray matter PINK1 immunoreactivity was observed in neurons, particularly neurons in layers IV-VI. Astrocytes were the most prominent cell type decorated by anti-PINK1 antibody in the white matter. In addition, PINK1 staining was observed in the cerebrovasculature. In AD, PINK1 was found to colocalize with classic senile plaques and vascular amyloid depositions, as well as reactive astrocytes associated with the characteristic AD lesions. Interestingly, PINK1 was absent from neurofibrillary tangles. In active demyelinating MS lesions we observed a marked astrocytic PINK1 immunostaining, whereas astrocytes in chronic lesions were weakly stained. Taken together, we observed PINK1 immunostaining in both AD and MS lesions, predominantly in reactive astrocytes associated with these lesions, suggesting that the increase in astrocytic PINK1 protein might be an intrinsic protective mechanism to limit cellular injury.

The Onychophora, Priapulida and Tardigrada, along with the Arthropoda, Nematoda and several other small phyla, form the superphylum Ecdysozoa. Numerous peptidomic studies have been undertaken for both the arthropods and nematodes, resulting in the identification of many peptides from each group. In contrast, little is known about the peptides used as paracrines/hormones by species from the other ecdysozoan taxa. Here, transcriptome mining and bioinformatic peptide prediction were used to identify peptides in members of the Onychophora, Priapulida and Tardigrada, the only non-arthropod, non-nematode members of the Ecdysozoa for which there are publicly accessible expressed sequence tags (ESTs). The extant ESTs for each phylum were queried using 106 arthropod/nematode peptide precursors. Transcripts encoding calcitonin-like diuretic hormone and pigment-dispersing hormone (PDH) were identified for the onychophoran Peripatopsis sedgwicki, with transcripts encoding C-type allatostatin (C-AST) and FMRFamide-like peptide identified for the priapulid Priapulus caudatus. For the Tardigrada, transcripts encoding members of the A-type allatostatin, C-AST, insect kinin, orcokinin, PDH and tachykinin-related peptide families were identified, all but one from Hypsibius dujardini (the exception being a Milnesium tardigradum orcokinin-encoding transcript). The proteins deduced from these ESTs resulted in the prediction of 48 novel peptides, six onychophoran, eight priapulid and 34 tardigrade, which are the first described from these phyla.
Alcohol-induced increases in nucleus accumbens glutamate actively regulate alcohol consumption, and the alcohol responsiveness of corticoaccumbens glutamate systems relates to genetic variance in alcohol reward. Here, we extend earlier data for inbred mouse strain differences in accumbens glutamate by examining for differences in basal and alcohol-induced changes in the striatal expression of glutamate-related signaling molecules between inbred C57BL/6J and DBA2/J mice. Repeated alcohol treatment (8  2 g/kg) increased the expression of Group1 metabotropic glutamate receptors, the NR2a/b subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, Homer2a/b, as well as the activated forms of protein kinase C (PKC) epsilon and phosphoinositol-3-kinase within ventral, but not dorsal, striatum. Regardless of prior alcohol experience, C57BL/6J mice exhibited higher accumbens levels of mGluR1/5, Homer2a/b, NR2a and activated kinases vs. DBA2/J mice, whereas an alcohol-induced rise in dorsal striatum mGluR1/5 expression was observed only in C57BL/6J mice. We next employed virus-mediated gene transfer approaches to ascertain the functional relevance of the observed strain difference in accumbens Homer2 expression for B6/D2 differences in alcohol-induced glutamate sensitization, as well as alcohol preference/intake. Manipulating nucleus accumbens shell Homer2b expression actively regulated these measures in C57BL/6J mice, whereas DBA2/J mice were relatively insensitive to the neurochemical and behavioral effects of virus-mediated changes in Homer2 expression. These data support the over-arching hypothesis that augmented accumbens Homer2-mediated glutamate signaling may be an endophenotype related to genetic variance in alcohol consumption. If relevant to humans, such data pose polymorphisms affecting glutamate receptor/Homer2 signaling in the etiology of alcoholism.
Tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) is a neuropeptide localized to neural circuits subserving emotional processing. Recent work showed that mice with null mutation for the gene coding TIP39 (TIP39-KO mice) display increased susceptibility to environmental provocation. Based on this stressor-dependent phenotype, the neuroanatomical distribution of TIP39, and knowledge that novelty-induced arousal modulates memory functions via noradrenergic activation, we hypothesized that exposure to a novel environment differently affects memory performance of mice with or without TIP39 signaling, potentially by differences in sensitivity of the noradrenergic system. We tested TIP39-KO mice and mice with null mutation of its receptor, the parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2-R), in tasks of short-term declarative and social memory (object recognition and social recognition tests, respectively), and of working memory (Y-maze test) under conditions of novelty-induced arousal or acclimation to the test conditions. Mice lacking TIP39 signaling showed memory impairment selectively under conditions of novelty-induced arousal. Acute administration of a PTH2-R antagonist in wild-type mice had a similar effect. The restoration of memory functions in TIP39-KO mice after injection of a -adrenoreceptor-blocker, propranolol, suggested involvement of the noradrenergic system. Collectively, these results suggest that the TIP39/PTH2-R system modulates the effects of novelty exposure on memory performance, potentially by acting on noradrenergic signaling.
Sensitivity to the euphoric and locomotor-activating effects of drugs of abuse may contribute to risk for excessive use and addiction. Repeated administration of psychostimulants such as methamphetamine (MA) can result in neuroadaptive consequences that manifest behaviorally as a progressive escalation of locomotor activation, termed psychomotor sensitization. The present studies addressed the involvement of specific components of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system in locomotor activation and psychomotor sensitization induced by MA (1, 2 mg/kg) by utilizing pharmacological approaches, as well as a series of genetic knockout (KO) mice, each deficient for a single component of the CRF system: CRF-R1, CRF-R2, CRF, or the CRF-related peptide Urocortin 1 (Ucn1). CRF-R1 KO mice did not differ from wild-type mice in sensitization to MA, and pharmacological blockade of CRF-R1 with CP-154,526 (15, 30 mg/kg) in DBA/2J mice did not selectively attenuate either the acquisition or expression of MA-induced sensitization. Deletion of either of the endogenous ligands of CRF-R1 (CRF, Ucn1) either enhanced or had no effect on MA-induced sensitization, providing further evidence against a role for CRF-R1 signaling. Interestingly, deletion of CRF-R2 attenuated MA-induced locomotor activation, elucidating a novel contribution of the CRF system to MA sensitivity, and suggesting the participation of the endogenous urocortin peptides Ucn2 and Ucn3. Immunohistochemistry for Fos was used to visualize neural activation underlying CRF-R2-dependent sensitivity to MA, identifying the basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala as neural substrates involved in this response. Our results support further examination of CRF-R2 involvement in neural processes associated with MA addiction.
BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) is an inbred mouse strain that displays social deficits and repetitive behaviors analogous to the first and third diagnostic symptoms of autism. We previously reported an unusual pattern of ultrasonic vocalizations in BTBR pups that may represent a behavioral homolog to the second diagnostic symptom of autism, impaired communication. This study investigated the social and vocal repertoire in adult BTBR mice, to evaluate the role of ultrasonic vocalizations in multiple social situations at the adult stage of development. Three different social contexts were considered: male-female, male-male (resident-intruder) and female-female interactions. Behavioral responses and ultrasonic vocalizations were recorded for BTBR and for the highly social control strain C57BL/6J (B6). No episodes of overt fighting or mating were observed during the short durations of the three different experimental encounters. BTBR displayed lower levels of vocalizations and social investigation in all three social contexts as compared with B6. In addition, the correlation analyses between social investigation and ultrasonic vocalization emission rate showed that in B6 mice, the two variables were positively correlated in all the three different social settings, whereas in BTBR mice, the positive correlation was significant only in the male-female interactions. These findings strongly support the value of simultaneously recording two aspects of the mouse social repertoire: social motivation and bioacoustic communication. Moreover, our findings in adults are consistent with previous results in pups, showing an unusual vocal repertoire in BTBR as compared with B6.
Mental illness can include impaired abilities to express emotions or respond to the emotions of others. Speech provides a mechanism for expressing emotions, by both what words are spoken and by the melody or intonation of speech (prosody). Through the perception of variations in prosody, an individual can detect changes in another's emotional state. Prosodic features of mouse ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs), indicated by changes in frequency and amplitude, also convey information. Dams retrieve pups that emit separation calls, females approach males emitting solicitous calls, and mice can become fearful of a cue associated with the vocalizations of a distressed conspecific. Because acoustic features of mouse USVs respond to drugs and genetic manipulations that influence reward circuits, USV analysis can be employed to examine how genes influence social motivation, affect regulation, and communication. The purpose of this review is to discuss how genetic and developmental factors influence aspects of the mouse vocal repertoire and how mice respond to the vocalizations of their conspecifics. To generate falsifiable hypotheses about the emotional content of particular calls, this review addresses USV analysis within the framework of affective neuroscience (e.g. measures of motivated behavior such as conditioned place preference tests, brain activity and systemic physiology). Suggested future studies include employment of an expanded array of physiological and statistical approaches to identify the salient acoustic features of mouse vocalizations. We are particularly interested in rearing environments that incorporate sufficient spatial and temporal complexity to familiarize developing mice with a broader array of affective states.
Mouse models are increasingly contributing to our understanding of the neural genetics of sensory processing and memory. For example, strain differences have helped elucidate basic mechanisms of age-related hearing loss and auditory fear conditioning. Assessing sensory differences arising in acoustic communication contexts is also important for understanding natural audition. While this topic has not been well studied, it is currently being addressed through auditory neuroethological studies in the CBA/CaJ strain, where insights will help lay a foundation for future neural genetic studies. Here, we focus on the responses of adult females to ultrasonic vocalizations of males. We tested a group of female mice in a place-preference paradigm before and after auditory and olfactory experience with a male. A control group was housed with other female cagemates between trials. All females showed an initial preference for male calls that rapidly decayed over the course of a trial. However, only females that had been pair-housed with a male during the inter-trial interval displayed a reinstated interest in male vocalizations, suggesting possible group differences in the assessment of the calls' behavioral relevance. These findings provide a timeframe during which auditory processing of male ultrasounds might be expected to show a difference depending on behavioral relevance, and also suggest an importance of social interactions in maintaining call recognition.
Qualitative impairments in communication, such as delayed language and poor interactive communication skills, are fundamental to the diagnosis of autism. Investigations into social communication in adult BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) mice are needed to determine whether this inbred strain incorporates phenotypes relevant to the second diagnostic symptom of autism, communication deficits, along with its strong behavioral phenotypes relevant to the first and third diagnostic symptoms, impairments in social interactions and high levels of repetitive behavior. The aim of the present study was to simultaneously measure female urine-elicited scent marking and ultrasonic vocalizations in adult male BTBR mice, in comparison with a standard control strain with high sociability, C57BL/6J (B6), for the assessment of a potential communication deficit in BTBR. Adult male BTBR mice displayed lower scent marking and minimal ultrasonic vocalization responses to female urine obtained from both B6 and BTBR females. Lower scent marking and ultrasonic vocalizations in a social setting by BTBR, as compared with B6, are consistent with the well-replicated social deficits in this inbred mouse strain. Our findings support the interpretation that BTBR incorporate communication deficits, and suggest that scent marking and ultrasonic vocalizations offer promising measures of interest in social cues that may be widely applicable to investigations of mouse models of autism.
Discovery and characterization of gene promoters, enhancers and repressor binding elements is an important research area in neuroscience. Here, the suitability of embryonic stem cells and their neural derivatives as a model system for this research is investigated. Three neural transgenic constructs (from the Mnx1, Fabp7, and tuba1a genes) that have been validated in transgenic mice were inserted into embryonic stem cells as stable transgenes. These transgenic embryonic stem cells were differentiated into neural cultures and the pattern of transgene expression across a series of inducing conditions determined. The pattern of expression matched that predicted from transgenic mouse experiments for each of the three transgenes. The results show that embryonic stem cells and their neural derivatives comprise a promising model for investigating the mechanisms that control cell- and temporal-specific neural gene transcription.
It has been hypothesized that neuroinflammation triggered during brain development can alter brain functions later in life. We investigated the contribution of inflammation to the alteration of normal brain circuitries in the context of neuroexcitotoxicity following neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions in rats with ibotenic acid, an NMDA glutamate receptor agonist. Excitotoxic ibotenic acid lesions led to a significant and persistent astrogliosis and microglial activation, associated with the production of inflammatory mediators. This response was accompanied by a significant increase in metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR5) expression within two distinct neuroinflammatory cell types; astrocytes and microglia. The participation of inflammation to the neurotoxin-induced lesion was further supported by the prevention of hippocampal neuronal loss, glial mGluR5 expression and some of the behavioral perturbations associated to the excitotoxic lesion by concurrent anti-inflammatory treatment with minocycline. These results indicate that neuroinflammation significantly contributes to long-lasting excitotoxic effects of the neurotoxin and to some behavioral phenotypes associated with this model. Thus, the control of the inflammatory response may prevent the deleterious effects of excitotoxic processes that are triggered during brain development, limiting the risk to develop some of the behavioral manifestations related to these processes in adulthood.

Low-frequency temporal information present in speech is critical for normal perception, however the neural mechanism underlying the differentiation of slow rates in acoustic signals is not known. Data from the rat trigeminal system suggest that the paralemniscal pathway may be specifically tuned to code low-frequency temporal information. We tested whether this phenomenon occurs in the auditory system by measuring the representation of temporal rate in lemniscal and paralemniscal auditory thalamus and cortex in guinea pig. Similar to the trigeminal system, responses measured in auditory thalamus indicate that slow rates are differentially represented in a paralemniscal pathway. In cortex, both lemniscal and paralemniscal neurons indicated sensitivity to slow rates. We speculate that a paralemniscal pathway in the auditory system may be specifically tuned to code low-frequency temporal information present in acoustic signals. These data suggest that somatosensory and auditory modalities have parallel sub-cortical pathways that separately process slow rates and the spatial representation of the sensory periphery.
Cochlea removal results in the death of approximately 20-30% of neurons in the chick nucleus magnocellularis (NM). One early event in NM neuronal degradation is the disruption of their ribosomes. This can be visualized in the first few hours following cochlea removal using Y10B, an antibody that recognizes ribosomal RNA. Previous studies using a brain slice preparation suggest that maintenance of ribosomal integrity in NM neurons requires metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation. Isolating the brain slice in vitro, however, may eliminate other potential sources of trophic support and only allows for evaluation of the early changes that occur in NM neurons following deafferentation. Consequently, it is not known if mGluR activation is truly required for the maintenance of NM neurons in the intact system. The current experiments evaluated the importance of mGluRs in vivo. The effects of short-term receptor blockade were assessed through Y10B labeling and the effects of long-term blockade were assessed through stereological counting of NM neurons in Nissl-stained tissue. mGluR antagonists or vehicle were administered intracerebroventricularly following unilateral cochlea removal. Vehicle-treated subjects replicated the previously reported effects of cochlea removal, showing lighter Y10B labeling and fewer Nissl-stained NM neurons on the deafened side of the brain. Blockade of mGluRs prevented the rapid activity-dependent difference in Y10B labeling, and in some cases, had the reverse effect, yielding lighter labeling of NM neurons on the intact side of the brain. Similarly, mGluR blockade over longer survival periods resulted in a reduction in number of cells on both intact and deafferented sides of the brain, and in some cases, yielded a reverse effect of fewer neurons on the intact side versus deafened side. These data are consistent with in vitro findings and suggest that mGluR activation plays a vital role in the afferent maintenance of NM neurons.
Criteria for cochlear implantation keep expanding and people with substantial residual low-frequency hearing are considered candidates for implantation nowadays. Therefore, electro-acoustical stimulation in the same ear (EAS) is receiving increasing interest. We have investigated the effects of intracochlear electrical stimulation on acoustically evoked auditory-nerve activity, using a forward masking paradigm. The stimulation electrode was placed in the basal turn of the cochlea. Compound action potential (CAP) recordings were performed in guinea pigs with severe high-frequency hearing loss and in normal-hearing control animals. In normal-hearing animals, electrical stimulation generally suppressed CAPs, especially at high acoustic frequencies (8 and 16kHz) and low sound levels. At low frequencies (0.5 and 1kHz), suppression was observed only at high sound levels. In animals with a high-frequency hearing loss, suppression of CAPs at low frequencies was substantially less compared to control animals, even at high current levels and temporal overlap of acoustic and electric stimuli. Hence, effects of electrical stimulation substantially differed between normal-hearing animals and animals with a high-frequency hearing loss. These findings stress the need for a proper animal model when investigating EAS. We conclude that in case of high-frequency loss, the basal part of the cochlea can be stimulated electrically with little effect on responses to low-frequency acoustic stimuli.
Several studies have shown that treatment with various neurotrophins protects spiral ganglion cells (SGCs) from degeneration in hair-cell deprived cochleas. In most of these studies the neurotrophins are delivered by means of intracochlear delivery methods. Recently, other application methods that might be more suited in cochlear implant patients have been developed. We have examined if round window membrane application of gelfoam infiltrated with a neurotrophin resulted in SGC survival in deafened guinea pigs. Two weeks after deafening, gelfoam cubes infiltrated with 6g of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were deposited onto the round window membrane of the right cochleas. Electric pulses were delivered through an electrode positioned within the round window niche to electrically evoke auditory brainstem responses (eABRs). Two or four weeks after deposition of the gelfoam all cochleas were histologically examined. We found that local BDNF treatment enhances the survival of SGCs in the basal cochlear turn after two and four weeks. The treatment had no effect on SGC size or shape. In animals treated with BDNF, eABR amplitudes were smaller than in normal-hearing control animals and similar to those in deafened controls. We conclude that BDNF delivered by means of local gelfoam application provides a protective effect, which is limited compared to intracochlear delivery methods.
The chemokine CXCL10 and its receptor CXCR3 are implicated in various CNS pathologies since interference with CXCL10/CXCR3 signaling alters the onset and progression in various CNS disease models. However, the mechanism and cell-types involved in CXCL10/CXCR3 signaling under pathological conditions are far from understood. Here, we investigated the potential role for CXCL10/CXCR3 signaling in neuronal cell death and glia activation in response to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)-induced excitotoxicity in mouse organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs). Our findings demonstrate that astrocytes express CXCL10 in response to excitotoxicity. Experiments in OHSCs derived from CXCL10-deficient (CXCL10(-/-) ) and CXCR3-deficient (CXCR3(-/-) ) revealed that in the absence of CXCL10 or CXCR3, neuronal cell death in the CA1 and CA3 regions was diminished after NMDA-treatment when compared to wild type OHSCs. In contrast, neuronal cell death in the DG region was enhanced in both CXCL10(-/-) and CXCR3(-/-) OHSCs in response to a high (50 M) NMDA-concentration. Moreover, we show that in the absence of microglia the differential changes in neuronal vulnerability between CXCR3(-/-) and wild type OHSCs are fully abrogated and therefore a prominent role for microglia in this process is suggested. Taken together, our results identify a region-specific role for CXCL10/CXCR3 signaling in neuron-glia and glia-glia interactions under pathological conditions.
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by accumulation of free cholesterol in lysosomes, mainly due to a mutation in the NPC1 gene. The pathophysiological basis of the neural disorders in NPC, however, is not well understood. We found that the hippocampal field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) was enhanced in NPC1 mutant mice. A1-receptor antagonist or adenosine degrading enzyme enhanced the fEPSP in both types of mice, but had a much weaker effect in the mutant mice, suggesting less tonic inhibition of synaptic transmission by endogenous adenosine in the mutant. Further evidence showed impaired hippocampal long term potentiation (LTP) in mutant mice. Supplement of A1 agonist N6-Cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) partially rescued the impaired LTP in mutant mice. Moreover, adenosine release from hippocampal slices was significantly decreased in the mutant. The enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission and the decreased synaptic plasticity due to the decreased adenosine release in NPC brain may partially contribute to the neural disorders of NPC disease, such as seizures, neurodegeneration, and dementia.
Cholecystokinin (CCK)-expressing basket cells encompass a subclass of inhibitory GABAergic interneurons that regulate memory-forming oscillatory network activity of the hippocampal formation in accordance to the emotional and motivational state of the animal, conveyed onto these cells by respective extrahippocampal afferents. Various excitatory and inhibitory afferent and efferent synapses of the hippocampal CCK basket cells express serotoninergic, cholinergic, cannabinoid, and benzodiazepine sensitive receptors, all contributing to their functional plasticity. We explored whether CCK basket cells are modulated by neuropeptide Y (NPY), one of the major local neuropeptides that strongly inhibits hippocampal excitability and has significant effect on its memory function. Here, using GAD65-GFP transgenic mice for prospective identification of CCK basket cells and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we show for the first time that excitatory and inhibitory inputs onto CCK basket cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus are modulated by NPY through activation of NPY Y2 receptors. The frequency of spontaneous and miniature EPSCs, as well as the amplitudes of stimulation-evoked EPSCs were decreased. Similarly, the frequency of both spontaneous and miniature IPSCs, and the amplitudes of stimulation-evoked IPSCs were decreased after NPY application. Most of the effects of NPY could be attributed to a presynaptic site of action. Our data provide the first evidence that the excitatory and inhibitory inputs onto the CCK basket cells could be modulated by local levels of NPY, and may change the way these cells process extrahippocampal afferent information, influencing hippocampal function and its network excitability during normal and pathological oscillatory activities.
Trains of action potentials in CA1 pyramidal neurons are followed by a prolonged calcium-dependent postburst afterhyperpolarization (AHP) that serves to limit further firing to a sustained depolarizing input. A reduction in the AHP accompanies acquisition of several types of learning and increases in the AHP are correlated with age-related cognitive impairment. The AHP develops primarily as the result of activation of outward calcium-activated potassium currents; however, the precise source of calcium for activation of the AHP remains unclear. There is substantial experimental evidence suggesting that calcium influx via voltage-gated L-type calcium channels (L-VGCCs) contributes to the generation of the AHP. Two L-VGCC subtypes are predominately expressed in the hippocampus, Ca(V) 1.2 and Ca(V) 1.3; however, it is not known which L-VGCC subtype is involved in generation of the AHP. This ambiguity is due in large part to the fact that at present there are no subunit-specific agonists or antagonists. Therefore, using mice in which the gene encoding Ca(V) 1.2 or Ca(V) 1.3 was deleted, we sought to determine the impact of alterations in levels of these two L-VCGG subtypes on neuronal excitability. No differences in any AHP measure were seen between neurons from Ca(V) 1.2 knockout mice and controls. However, the total area of the AHP was significantly smaller in neurons from Ca(V) 1.3 knockout mice as compared with neurons from wild-type controls. A significant reduction in the amplitude of the AHP was also seen at the 1 s time point in neurons from Ca(V) 1.3 knockout mice as compared with those from controls. Reductions in both the area and 1 s amplitude suggest the involvement of calcium influx via Ca(V) 1.3 in the slow AHP (sAHP). Thus, the results of our study demonstrate that deletion of Ca(V) 1.3, but not Ca(V) 1.2, significantly impacts the generation of the sAHP.
Stroke is a major cause of morbidity and mortality but the brain and other relevant tissues are often examined only cursorily when stroke patients come to autopsy. The pathological findings and clinical implications vary according to the type of stroke and its location and cause. Large ischaemic strokes are usually associated with atherosclerosis of extracranial or major intracranial arteries but can be caused by dissection. Most small cerebral infarcts are caused by arteriosclerosis or, in the elderly, cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). However, vasculitides and coagulopathies can cause a range of different patterns of ischaemic (and, occasionally, haemorrhagic) stroke. Global brain ischaemia, caused by severe hypotension or raised intracranial pressure, produces damage that is accentuated in certain regions and neuronal populations and may be confused with hypoglycaemic injury. The main cause of subarachnoid haemorrhage is a ruptured berry aneurysm but CAA, arteriovenous malformations and infective aneurysms are occasionally responsible. These can also cause parenchymal brain haemorrhage, although this most often complicates hypertensive small vessel disease. Sometimes the haemorrhage arises from a neoplasm. Performing an adequate autopsy in stroke requires proper preparation, awareness of the likely pathological processes, familiarity with intracranial vascular anatomy, careful gross examination and dissection, and appropriate use of histology.
The association between testosterone and economic risk is not well-understood and is understudied. The present study aimed to further characterize what if any relationship testosterone has with risky economic decisions. To do so, 154 participants (78 men) completed the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) (Bechara et al., 1994) and also provided saliva samples, which were assayed for endogenous testosterone levels using radioimmunoassay. High-levels of endogenous testosterone were associated with choosing less frequently from advantageous IGT decks of cards, indicating greater risk taking. The data showed that the effects of testosterone on IGT performance were similar for men and women. High-testosterone women and high-testosterone men made riskier choices than their low-testosterone counterparts of the same sex, and this effect was pronounced in women. Thus, high levels of testosterone are associated with willingness to incur greater risk in both sexes.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder associated with motor, cognitive and psychiatric deficits. This study, using a multimodal imaging approach, aims to assess in vivo the functional and structural integrity of regions and regional networks linked with motor, cognitive and psychiatric function. Predicting disease onset in at risk individuals is problematic and thus we sought to investigate this by computing the 5-year probability of HD onset (p5 HD) and relating it to imaging parameters. Using MRI, (11)C-PK11195 and (11)C-raclopride PET, we have investigated volumes, levels of microglial activation and D2/D3 receptor binding in CAG repeat-matched groups of premanifest and symptomatic HD gene carriers. Findings were correlated with disease-burden and UHDRS scores. Atrophy was detected in sensorimotor striatum (SMST), substantia nigra, orbitofrontal and anterior prefrontal cortex in the premanifest HD. D2/D3 receptor binding was reduced and microglial activation increased in SMST and associative striatum (AST), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the amygdala and the hypothalamus. In symptomatic HD cases this extended to involve atrophy in globus pallidus, limbic striatum, the red nuclei, anterior cingulate cortex, and insula. D2/D3 receptor binding was additionally reduced in substantia nigra, globus pallidus, limbic striatum, anterior cingulate cortex and insula, and microglial activation increased in globus pallidus, limbic striatum and anterior prefrontal cortex. In premanifest HD, increased levels of microglial activation in the AST and in the regional network associated with cognitive function correlated with p5 HD onset. These data suggest that pathologically activated microglia in AST and other areas related to cognitive function, maybe better predictors of clinical onset and stresses the importance of early cognitive assessment in HD.
Training one hand on a motor task results in performance improvements in the other hand, also when stimuli are randomly presented (nonspecific transfer). Corpus callosum (CC) is the main structure involved in interhemispheric information transfer; CC pathology occurs in patients with multiple sclerosis (PwMS) and is related to altered performance of tasks requiring interhemispheric transfer of sensorimotor information. To investigate the role of CC in nonspecific transfer during a pure motor reaction-time task, we combined motor behavior with diffusion tensor imaging analysis in PwMS. Twenty-two PwMS and 10 controls, all right-handed, were asked to respond to random stimuli with appropriate finger opposition movements with the right (learning) and then the left (transfer) hand. PwMS were able to improve motor performance reducing response times with practice with a trend similar to controls and preserved the ability to transfer the acquired motor information from the learning to the transfer hand. A higher variability in the transfer process, indicated by a significantly larger standard deviation of mean nonspecific transfer, was found in the PwMS group with respect to the control group, suggesting the presence of subtle impairments in interhemispheric communication in some patients. Then, we correlated the amount of nonspecific transfer with mean fractional anisotropy (FA) values, indicative of microstructural damage, obtained in five CC subregions identified on PwMS's FA maps. A significant correlation was found only in the subregion including posterior midbody (Pearson's r = 0.74, P = 0.003), which thus seems to be essential for the interhemispheric transfer of information related to pure sensorimotor tasks.
Intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) employs electrical stimulation of the ventral grey matter to reactivate paralyzed skeletal muscle. This work evaluated the transformations in the quadriceps muscle that occurred following complete transection and chronic stimulation with ISMS or a standard nerve cuff (NCS). Stimulation was applied for 30 days, 4 h/day. Both methods induced significant increases in time-to-peak tension (ISMS 35%, NCS 25%) and half rise-time (ISMS 39%, NCS 25%) compared to intact controls (IC). Corresponding increases in type-IIA myosin heavy chain (MHC) and decreases in type-IID MHC were noted compared to IC. These results were unexpected because ISMS recruits motor units in a near-normal physiological order while NCS recruits motor units in a reversed order. Spinal cord transection and 30 days of stimulation did not alter either recruitment profile. The slope of the force recruitment curves obtained through ISMS following transection and 30 days of stimulation was similar to that obtained in intact animals, and 3.4-fold shallower than that obtained through NCS. The transformations observed in the current work are best explained by the near maximal level of motor unit recruitment, the total daily time of activity and the tonic nature of the stimulation paradigm.
Therapeutic dose of methylphenidate is known to cause adverse effects (psychosis or mania), albeit in a small number of cases. Signs and symptoms of adverse effects usually disappear on stopping the medicine. Data regarding the safety of methylphenidate in comorbid attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and mental retardation are nonexistent. We describe a case of an 11-year-old girl with ADHD and mental retardation treated with methylphenidate, who developed mania like symptoms requiring inpatient treatment. The index case required psychopharmacological intervention with sodium valproate and olanzapine as the symptoms did not subside even after 3 days. This case highlights the fact that one has to exercise caution while prescribing methylphenidate in patients with comorbid ADHD and mental retardation.
In adolescence, there is a complex interaction among physical, cognitive, and psychosocial developmental processes, culminating in greater risk-taking and novelty-seeking. Concurrently, adolescents face an increasingly demanding environment, which results in heightened vulnerability to injury. In this paper, we provide an overview of developmental considerations for adolescent injury interventions based on developmental science, including findings from behavioural neuroscience and psychology. We examine the role that typical developmental processes play in the way adolescents perceive and respond to risk and how this integrated body of developmental research adds to our understanding of how to do injury prevention with adolescents. We then highlight strategies to improve the translation of developmental research into adolescent injury prevention practice, calling on examples of existing interventions including graduated driver licensing.

Cardiomyopathy contributes to morbidity and mortality in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), a progressive muscle-wasting disorder. A major feature of the hearts of DMD patients and the mdx mouse model of the disease is cardiac fibrosis. Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) is involved in the fibrotic process in many organs. This study utilized the mdx mouse model to assess the role of CTGF and other extracellular matrix components during the development of fibrosis in the dystrophic heart. Left ventricular function of mdx and control mice at 6, 29 and 43 weeks was measured by echocardiography. Young (6 weeks old) mdx hearts had normal function and histology. At 29 weeks of age, mdx mice developed cardiac fibrosis and increased collagen expression. The onset of fibrosis was associated with increased CTGF transcript and protein expression. Increased intensity of CTGF immunostaining was localized to fibrotic areas in mdx hearts. The upregulation of CTGF was also concurrent with increased expression of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMP-1). These changes persisted in 43 week old mdx hearts and were combined with impaired cardiac function and increased gene expression of transforming growth factor (TGF)-1 and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2, MMP-9). In summary, an association was observed between cardiac fibrosis and increased CTGF expression in the mdx mouse heart. CTGF may be a key mediator of early and persistent fibrosis in dystrophic cardiomyopathy.
We introduce an approach to compensate for temporal distortions of repeated measurements in event-related potential research. The algorithm uses a combination of methods from nonlinear time-series analysis and is based on the construction of pairwise registration functions from cross-recurrence plots of the phase-space representations of ERP signals. The globally optimal multiple-alignment path is approximated by hierarchical cluster analysis, i.e. by iteratively combining pairs of trials according to similarity. By the inclusion of context information in form of externally acquired time markers (e.g. reaction time) into a regularization scheme, the extracted warping functions can be guided near paths that are implied by the experimental procedure. All parameters occurring in the algorithm can be optimized based on the properties of the data and there is a broad regime of parameter configurations where the algorithm produces good results. Simulations on artificial data and the analysis of ERPs from a psychophysical study demonstrate the robustness and applicability of the algorithm.
Dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is considered to be an important factor contributing to a decrease in cognitive performance of schizophrenia patients. The medial PFC (mPFC) is innervated by the hippocampus/subiculum, and the subiculum-mPFC pathway is known to be involved in various cognitive processes. Glutamate-containing subicular axons innervate cortical pyramidal neurons and interneurons where AMPA and NMDA receptors are implicated in synaptic transmission. In our experiments, properties of subiculum-mPFC interactions were studied using pathway stimulation and local field potential (LFP) recordings of the mPFC in urethane-anaesthetized rats. Changes in paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) and LFP oscillations, effects of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801, and the AMPAkine LY451395 were evaluated. Effects of disruption of the thalamo-cortical loop with local microinjection of lidocaine into the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD) were also studied. Our findings demonstrate that both systemic administration of MK-801 and local MD lidocaine microinjection produce similar changes in LFP oscillations and reduction in PPF. Specifically, it was observed that MK-801 (0.05 mg/kg i.v.) and intra-thalamic lidocaine changed regular, 2 Hz delta oscillation to a less regular 0.5-1.5 Hz delta rhythm. Concurrently, PPF in response to electrical stimulation of the subiculum was significantly attenuated. Administration of the AMPAkine LY451395 (0.01 mg/kg i.v.) reversed the MK-801- and lidocaine-induced changes, and was itself blocked by the AMPA receptor antagonist CP-465022. Analysis of our findings suggests a critical role of cortical interneurons in NMDA/AMPA receptor-mediated changes in thalamo-cortical oscillations and PPF, and contributes to our understanding of the NMDA hypofunction model of schizophrenia.
Clinical and laboratory studies suggest that the endocannabinoid system is involved in schizophrenia disorders. Recent evidence indicates that cannabinoid receptor (CB1) antagonists have a pharmacological profile similar to antipsychotic drugs. We investigated the behavioural and biochemical effects of the CB1 antagonist AM251 in a phencyclidine (PCP) animal paradigm modelling the cognitive deficit and some negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Chronic AM251 (0.5 mg/kg for 3 wk) improved the PCP-altered recognition memory, as indicated by a significant amelioration of the discrimination index compared to chronic PCP alone (2.58 mg/kg for 1 month). AM251 also reversed the PCP-induced increase in immobility in the forced swim test resembling avolition, a negative sign of schizophrenia. In order to analyse the mechanisms underlying these behaviours, we studied the effects of AM251 on the endocannabinoid system (in terms of CB1 receptor density and functional activity and endocannabinoid levels) and c-Fos protein expression. The antagonist counteracted the alterations in CB1 receptor function induced by PCP in selected cerebral regions involved in schizophrenia. In addition, in the prefrontal cortex, the key region in the integration of cognitive and negative functions, AM251 markedly raised anandamide levels and reversed the PCP-induced increase of 2-arachidonoylglycerol concentrations. Finally, chronic AM251 fully reversed the PCP-elicited expression of c-Fos protein in the prefrontal cortical region. These findings suggest an antipsychotic-like profile of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist which, by restoring the function of the endocannabinoid system, might directly or indirectly normalize some of the neurochemical maladaptations present in this schizophrenia-like animal model.

Both neural and behavioral responses to stimuli are influenced by the state of the brain immediately preceding their presentation, notably by pre-stimulus oscillatory activity. Using frequency analysis of high-density electroencephalogram coupled with source estimations, the present study investigated the role of pre-stimulus oscillatory activity in auditory spatial temporal order judgments (TOJ). Oscillations within the beta range (i.e. 18-23 Hz) were significantly stronger before accurate than inaccurate TOJ trials. Distributed source estimations identified bilateral posterior sylvian regions as the principal contributors to pre-stimulus beta oscillations. Activity within the left posterior sylvian region was significantly stronger before accurate than inaccurate TOJ trials. We discuss our results in terms of a modulation of sensory gating mechanisms mediated by beta activity.
To investigate the mechanisms underlying the other-race effect, in particular at what stage of face processing differences between same-race (SR) and other-race (OR) stimuli occur, electrophysiological and behavioral data were obtained on Caucasian participants viewing photographs of Caucasian, Asian, and African faces in upright and inverted orientations. During a race categorization task, reaction times were faster for African than Asian faces, and both of them faster than Caucasian ones, independent of their orientation. The face-sensitive N170 component was low in amplitude for Caucasian, intermediate for Asian, and maximal for African faces. The face inversion effect was observed for all ethnic groups on N170 amplitudes, but was more evident for Caucasian faces. According to the perceptual expertise hypothesis, our results indicate that SR faces involve more configural/holistic processing OR faces.
This paper discusses the implementation and evaluation of an interaction-focused intervention single case study for a couple where one partner has aphasia. Drawing on conversation analytic research, naturally occurring conversations of the couple at home pre- and post-intervention were collected and analysed. Analysis of the speaker with aphasia's topic initiating turns in the pre-intervention conversation showed that in each case a feature of the attempt was that the speaker had difficulty in getting the topic initiation accepted and established. Drawing on conversation analytic work on topic initiations in normal conversation, intervention focused on training the couple to co-produce these topic initiating turns of the speaker with aphasia in a collaborative and step-by-step manner. Post-intervention, there was evidence that the couple were now using this new method, albeit in a slightly different way to that worked on in the intervention sessions. Drawing on work into adaptation by speakers with aphasia and their conversation partners, these results are discussed in terms of a process of mutual adaptation by the couple.
This article explores how consideration of acquired speech and language disorders from the perspective of neuroscience permits new insights into the content and design of therapy for people with aphasia. Key proposals are that aspects of current therapies often neglect the sensory-motor components of speech and language processing, and the interconnectivity of sensory-perceptual and motor systems. Furthermore, current therapy regimes are often administered at too low an intensity to stimulate neural reorganization. Neuroscientific perspectives on learning are explored and in particular the issues of associationist learning, learned misuse, mirror neurone systems, and procedural and errorless learning. The value of use of computer programs in administering high intensity therapy is outlined and it is proposed that aphasia therapies can be enhanced if clinicians adopt an explicit neuroscientific rationale for intervention.
Cerebral small vessel disease is an important cause of vascular cognitive impairment and dementia. On brain imaging, discrete lacunar infarcts and/or more diffuse regions of white matter hyperintensities or leucoaraiosis are seen. Magnetic resonance imaging plays a crucial role in diagnosis, and advanced magnetic resonance imaging techniques are providing new information on disease mechanisms and offering potential as surrogate disease markers. Longitudinal studies have demonstrated detectable progression of lesion load over short time periods, and weak correlations with cognition. Stronger correlations with cognition have been found with diffusion tensor imaging, which is more sensitive to white matter tract structure, supporting a role for disconnection in the pathogenesis of cognitive impairment. Brain volume also consistently correlates with cognition in asymptomatic small vessel disease, sporadic small vessel disease, and Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy. Gradient echo magnetic resonance imaging identifies microbleeds in a significant proportion of patients with small vessel disease, although their role in clinical management remains to be determined. Surrogate markers to monitor disease progression and evaluate new therapies would have major clinical use. The greater sensitivity of diffusion tensor imaging parameters and brain volume to change, and the stronger correlation of these parameters with cognition, suggest that they may be more powerful surrogates. However, data from longitudinal and intervention studies are required to determine if this is indeed the case. In this systematic review, we describe the use of both conventional and advanced magnetic resonance imaging techniques in patient groups with the full spectrum of clinical small vessel disease, from normal populations with WMH to patients groups with lacunar stroke and dementia.
This paper represents the opinion of a group of researchers and clinicians with an established interest in poststroke care and is based on the recognised need for long-term care following stroke, especially in view of the global increase of disability due to stroke. Among the more frequent long-term complications following stroke are spasticity-related disabilities. Although spasticity alone occurs in up to 60% of stroke survivors, disabling spasticity affects only 4-10%. Spasticity further interferes with important functions of daily life when it occurs in association with pain, motor impairment, and overall declines of cognitive and neurological function. It is proposed that the aftermath of stroke be considered a chronic disease requiring a multifactorial and multilevel approach. There are, however, knowledge gaps related to the prediction and recognition of poststroke disability. Interventions to prevent or minimise such disabilities require further development and evaluation. Poststroke spasticity research should focus on reducing disability and be considered as part of a continuum of chronic care requirements and should be recognised as a part of a comprehensive poststroke disease management programme.








The heterogeneity of schizophrenia remains an obstacle for understanding its pathophysiology. Studies using a tone discrimination screening test to classify patients have found evidence for 2 subgroups having either a specific deficit in verbal working memory (WM) or deficits in both verbal and nonverbal memory. This study aimed to (a) replicate in larger samples differences between these subgroups in auditory verbal WM; (b) evaluate their performance on tests of explicit memory and sustained attention; (c) determine the relation of verbal WM deficits to auditory hallucinations and other symptoms; and (d) examine medication effects. The verbal WM and tone discrimination performance did not differ between medicated (n = 45) and unmedicated (n = 38) patients. Patients with schizophrenia who passed the tone screening test (discriminators; n = 60) were compared with those who did not (nondiscriminators; n = 23) and healthy controls (n = 47). The discriminator subgroup showed poorer verbal WM than did controls and a deficit in verbal but not visual memory on the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (Wechsler, 1987), whereas the nondiscriminator subgroup showed overall poorer performance on both verbal and nonverbal tests and a marked deficit in sustained attention. Verbal WM deficits in discriminators were correlated with auditory hallucinations but not with negative symptoms. The results are consistent with a verbal memory deficit in a subgroup of schizophrenia having intact auditory perception, which may stem from dysfunction of language-related cortical regions, and a more generalized cognitive deficit in a subgroup having auditory perceptual and attentional dysfunction.
Melodic contour identification was measured in cochlear implant (CI) and normal-hearing (NH) subjects for piano samples processed by four bandpass filters: low (310-620 Hz), middle (620-2480 Hz), high (2480-4960 Hz), and full (310-4960 Hz). NH performance was near-perfect for all filter ranges and much higher than CI performance. The best mean CI performance was with the middle frequency range; performance was much better for some CI subjects with the middle rather than the full filter. These results suggest that acoustic filtering may reduce potential mismatches between fundamental frequencies and harmonic components thereby improving CI users' melodic pitch perception.




This study documents the prevalence of Axis I diagnoses (ie, depression, anxiety, and others) and their effects on preoperative pain, disability, function, and quality of life assessments in an indigent population undergoing total joint arthroplasty. Consecutive indigent patients scheduled for total joint arthroplasty were categorized by psychosocial testing as either psychologically distressed (PD) or nonpsychologically distressed. Of the subjects, 38% were found to be psychologically distressed. The PD group had significantly lower measures on 7 of the 8 components of the Short Form-36, the Harris hip score, and Knee Society score (P &lt; .05). The PD group also scored significantly worse on both the Western Ontario MacMaster (P &lt; .001) and the Pain Disability Questionnaire (P &lt; .001). There is a high prevalence of psychopathology in the indigent population undergoing total joint arthroplasty, exhibiting poorer scores on pain, disability, function, and quality of life measures before surgery.

Distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) are traditionally evoked by two-tone stimuli. In this study, emission data from Mongolian gerbils are reported that were obtained with stimuli consisting of six to 10 tones. The stimuli were constructed by replacing one of the tones of a tone pair by a narrowband multitone complex. This produced rich spectra of the ear canal sound pressure in which many of the third-order DPOAEs originated from the interaction of triplets of stimulus components. A careful choice of the stimulus frequencies ensured that none of these DPOAE components coincided. Three groups of DPOAEs are reported, two of which are closely related to DPOAEs evoked by tone pairs. The third group has no two-tone equivalent and only arises when using a multitone stimulus. We analyzed the relation between multitone-evoked DPOAEs and DPOAEs evoked by tone pairs, and explored the new degrees of freedom offered by the multitone paradigm.
Skin temperature shows spontaneous ultradian fluctuations during everyday-life wakefulness. Previous work showed that mild manipulations of skin temperature affect human sleep and vigilance, presumably by influencing neuronal systems involved in both thermal sensing and arousal regulation. We therefore examined whether fluctuations in skin temperature are associated with those in vigilance level under conditions similar to everyday-life situations requiring sustained attention. Eight healthy participants (30.1  8.1 years, M  SD) participated in a 2-day protocol, during which vigilance and skin temperature were assessed 4 times per day in a silent, dimly lit, temperature-controlled room. Vigilance was assessed by measuring reaction speed and lapses on a novel sustained vigilance task specifically designed to increase lapse rate and range of reaction times. Skin temperature was sampled at 30-second intervals from 3 locations: distal, intermediate, and proximal temperatures were obtained from the middle finger (T(finger) ), the wrist (T(wrist)), and the infraclavicular area (T(chest)), respectively. Furthermore, 3 distal to proximal gradients were calculated. Mixed-effect regression analyses were used to evaluate the association of the fluctuations in temperatures and gradients and those in response speed and lapse probability. Especially the spontaneous fluctuations in proximal temperature were negatively associated with fluctuations in response speed and positively with lapse rate. If individual T(chest) temperature ranges were classified into 10 deciles, they accounted for 23% of the variance in response speed and 11% of the variance in lapse rate. The findings indicate coupling between the spontaneous fluctuations in skin temperature and vigilance during the day and are compatible with the hypothesis of overlap in brain networks involved in the regulation of temperature and vigilance. From an applied point of view, especially proximal skin temperature assessment may be of use in vigilance monitoring.
Circadian rhythms exist in most living organisms. The general molecular mechanisms that are used to generate 24-hour rhythms are conserved among organisms, although the details vary. These core clocks consist of multiple regulatory feedback loops, and must be coordinated and orchestrated appropriately for the fine-tuning of the 24-hour period. Many levels of regulation are important for the proper functioning of the circadian clock, including transcriptional, post-transcriptional and post-translational mechanisms. In recent years, new information about post-transcriptional regulation in the circadian system has been discovered. Such regulation has been shown to alter the phase and amplitude of rhythmic mRNA and protein expression in many organisms. Therefore, this Commentary will provide an overview of current knowledge of post-transcriptional regulation of the clock genes and clock-controlled genes in dinoflagellates, plants, fungi and animals. This article will also highlight how circadian gene expression is modulated by post-transcriptional mechanisms and how this is crucial for robust circadian rhythmicity.
Stroke is a leading cause of permanent disability and death. It is well accepted that the principal mammalian estrogen (E2), 17- estradiol, provides robust neuroprotection in a variety of brain injury models in animals of both sexes. E2 enhances neurogenesis after stroke in the subventricular zone; however, it is unknown if these cells survive long-term or enhance functional recovery. In this study, we examined stroke-induced neurogenesis in male, gonadally intact female, and ovariectomized female mice 2 and 6 weeks after stroke. Treatment with 17- estradiol increased 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-labeled cells at both time points in both the dentate gyrus and subventricular zone; the majority were colabeled with doublecortin at 2 weeks and with NeuN at 6 weeks. Stroke-induced neurogenesis was reduced in estrogen receptor knockout mice, as well as in mice lacking the gene for aromatase, which converts testosterone into E2. Improved behavioral deficits were seen in E2-treated mice, suggesting that E2-induced increases in poststroke neurogenesis contribute to poststroke recovery.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) and Fas receptor contribute to cell death and cognitive dysfunction after focal traumatic brain injury (TBI). We examined the role of TNF/Fas in postinjury functional outcome independent of cell death in a novel closed head injury (CHI) model produced with weight drop and free rotational head movement in the anterior-posterior plane. The CHI produced no cerebral edema or blood-brain barrier damage at 24 to 48hours, no detectable cell death, occasional axonal injury (24hours), and no brain atrophy or hippocampal cell loss (day 60). Microglia and astrocytes were activated (48 to 72hours). Tumor necrosis factor- mRNA, Fas mRNA, and TNF protein were increased in the brain at 3 to 6hours after injury (P&lt;0.001 versus sham injured). In wild-type (WT) mice, CHI produced hidden platform (P=0.009) and probe deficits (P=0.001) in the Morris water maze versus sham. Surprisingly, injured TNF/Fas knockout (KO) mice performed worse in hidden platform trials (P=0.036) but better in probe trials than did WT mice (P=0.0001). Administration of recombinant TNF to injured TNF/Fas KO mice reduced probe trial performance to that of WT. Thus, TNF/Fas influence cognitive deficits independent of cell death after CHI. Therapies targeting TNF/Fas together may be inappropriate for patients with concussive TBI.
In this study, we show a basis function method (BAFPIC) for voxelwise calculation of kinetic parameters (K(1), k(2), k(3), K(i)) and blood volume using an irreversible two-tissue compartment model. BAFPIC was applied to rat ischaemic stroke micro-positron emission tomography data acquired with the hypoxia tracer [(18)F]fluoromisonidazole because irreversible two-tissue compartmental modelling provided good fits to data from both hypoxic and normoxic tissues. Simulated data show that BAFPIC produces kinetic parameters with significantly lower variability and bias than nonlinear least squares (NLLS) modelling in hypoxic tissue. The advantage of BAFPIC over NLLS is less pronounced in normoxic tissue. K(i) determined from BAFPIC has lower variability than that from the Patlak-Gjedde graphical analysis (PGA) by up to 40% and lower bias, except for normoxic tissue at mid-high noise levels. Consistent with the simulation results, BAFPIC parametric maps of real data suffer less noise-induced variability than do NLLS and PGA. Delineation of hypoxia on BAFPIC k(3) maps is aided by low variability in normoxic tissue, which matches that in K(i) maps. BAFPIC produces K(i) values that correlate well with those from PGA (r(2)=0.93 to 0.97; slope 0.99 to 1.05, absolute intercept &lt;0.00002mL/g per min). BAFPIC is a computationally efficient method of determining parametric maps with low bias and variance.
7,8-Dihydro-8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) is a major DNA glycosylase involved in base-excision repair (BER) of oxidative DNA damage to nuclear and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We used OGG1-deficient (OGG1(-/-)) mice to examine the possible roles of OGG1 in the vulnerability of neurons to ischemic and oxidative stress. After exposure of cultured neurons to oxidative and metabolic stress levels of OGG1 in the nucleus were elevated and mitochondria exhibited fragmentation and increased levels of the mitochondrial fission protein dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) and reduced membrane potential. Cortical neurons isolated from OGG1(-/-) mice were more vulnerable to oxidative insults than were OGG1(+/+) neurons, and OGG1(-/-) mice developed larger cortical infarcts and behavioral deficits after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion compared with OGG1(+/+) mice. Accumulations of oxidative DNA base lesions (8-oxoG, FapyAde, and FapyGua) were elevated in response to ischemia in both the ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres, and to a greater extent in the contralateral cortex of OGG1(-/-) mice compared with OGG1(+/+) mice. Ischemia-induced elevation of 8-oxoG incision activity involved increased levels of a nuclear isoform OGG1, suggesting an adaptive response to oxidative nuclear DNA damage. Thus, OGG1 has a pivotal role in repairing oxidative damage to nuclear DNA under ischemic conditions, thereby reducing brain damage and improving functional outcome.
The role of neuroinflammation is increasingly being recognised in a diverse range of cerebral pathologies, including traumatic brain injury (TBI). We used cerebral microdialysis and paired arterial and jugular bulb plasma sampling to characterise the production of 42 cytokines after severe TBI in 12 patients over 5 days. We compared two microdialysis perfusates in six patients: central nervous system perfusion fluid and 3.5% human albumin solution (HAS); 3.5% HAS has a superior fluid recovery (95.8 versus 83.3%), a superior relative recovery in 18 of 42 cytokines (versus 8 of 42), and a qualitatively superior recovery profile. All 42 cytokines were recovered from the human brain. Sixteen cytokines showed a stereotyped temporal peak, at least twice the median value for that cytokine over the monitoring period; day 1: tumour necrosis factor, interleukin (IL)7, IL8, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)1, soluble CD40 ligand, GRO, IL1, platelet derived growth factor (PDGF)-AA, MIP1, RANTES; day 2: IL1 receptor antagonist (ra). IL6, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), chemokine CXC motif ligand 10 (IP10); days 4 to 5: IL12p70, IL10. Brain extracellular fluid concentrations were significantly higher than plasma concentrations for 19 cytokines: basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF2), G-CSF, IL1, IL1, IL1ra, IL3, IL6, IL8, IL10, IL12p40, IL12p70, IP10, monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)1, MCP3, MIP1, MIP1, PDGF-AA, transforming growth factor (TGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor. No clear arterio-jugular venous gradients were apparent. These data provide evidence for the cerebral production of these cytokines and show a stereotyped temporal pattern after TBI.
Despite the different origins of cerebrovascular activity induced by neurogenic and nonneurogenic conditions, a standard assumption in functional studies is that the consequence on the vascular system will be mechanically similar. Using a recently developed arterial spin labeling method, we examined arterial blood volume, arterial-microvascular transit time, and cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the gray matter and in areas with large arterial vessels under hypercapnia, visual stimulation, and a combination of the two. Spatial heterogeneity in arterial reactivity was observed between conditions. During hypercapnia, large arterial volume changes contributed to CBF increase and further downstream, there were reductions in the gray matter transit time. These changes were not significant during visual stimulation, and during the combined condition they were moderated. These findings suggest distinct vascular mechanisms for large and small arterial segments that may be condition specific. However, the power relationships between gray matter arterial blood volume and CBF in hypercapnia (=0.690.24) and visual stimulation (=0.680.20) were similar. Assuming consistent capillary and venous volume responses across these conditions, these results offer support for a consistent total CBV-flow relationship typically assumed in blood oxygen-level dependent calibration techniques.
-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesis from glutamate is catalyzed by glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) of which two isoforms, GAD65 and GAD67, have been identified. The GAD65 has repeatedly been shown to be important during intensified synaptic activity. To specifically elucidate the significance of GAD65 for maintenance of the highly compartmentalized intracellular and intercellular GABA homeostasis, GAD65 knockout and corresponding wild-type mice were injected with [1-(13)C]glucose and the astrocyte-specific substrate [1,2-(13)C]acetate. Synthesis of GABA from glutamine in the GABAergic synapses was further investigated in GAD65 knockout and wild-type mice using [1,2-(13)C]acetate and in some cases -vinylGABA (GVG, Vigabatrin), an inhibitor of GABA degradation. A detailed metabolic mapping was obtained by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopic analysis of tissue extracts of cerebral cortex and hippocampus. The GABA content in both brain regions was reduced by 20%. Moreover, it was revealed that GAD65 is crucial for maintenance of biosynthesis of synaptic GABA particularly by direct synthesis from astrocytic glutamine via glutamate. The GAD67 was found to be important for synthesis of GABA from glutamine both via direct synthesis and via a pathway involving mitochondrial metabolism. Furthermore, a severe neuronal hypometabolism, involving glycolysis and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity, was observed in cerebral cortex of GAD65 knockout mice.
The relationship between specific epilepsy syndromes and particular sleep symptoms has not been well delineated. The authors' aim was to test the hypothesis that children with rolandic epilepsy exhibit more frequent sleep problems and daytime sleepiness compared with children without epilepsy. They compared parent-reported sleep behaviors of 43 children with rolandic epilepsy aged 6 to 16 years recruited from 5 US pediatric neurology centers with a historical reference and sleep clinic sample using the Child Sleep Habits Questionnaire. The authors compared the differences in mean frequency of sleep problems and patterns. Total Children's Sleep Habits Questionnaire scores were significantly higher (P &lt; .001) in the rolandic epilepsy sample than reference. Parents of children with rolandic epilepsy reported a significantly shorter sleep duration (P &lt; .006), more frequent parasomnias (P &lt; .008), and increased daytime sleepiness (P &lt; .001). Thus, parents of children with rolandic epilepsy reported more problematic sleep and daytime impairment compared with a reference sample of children.


The aim of the study was to analyze lexical access strategies in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and their changes over time. We studied lexical access strategies during semantic and phonemic verbal fluency tests and also confrontation naming in a 2-year prospective cohort of 45 MS patients and 20 healthy controls. At baseline, switching lexical access strategy (both in semantic and in phonemic verbal fluency tests) and confrontation naming were significantly impaired in MS patients compared with controls. After 2 years follow-up, switching score decreased, and cluster size increased over time in semantic verbal fluency tasks, suggesting a failure in the retrieval of lexical information rather than an impairment of the lexical pool. In conclusion, these findings underline the significant presence of lexical access problems in patients with MS and could point out their key role in the alterations of high-level communications abilities in MS.
Recent studies have focused on understanding the neural mechanisms underlying the emergence of clinical signs and symptoms in early stage Huntington disease (HD). Although cell-based assays have focused on cell autonomous effects of mutant huntingtin, animal HD models have revealed alterations in the function of neuronal networks, particularly those linking the cerebral cortex and striatum. These findings are complemented by metabolic imaging studies of disease progression in premanifest subjects. Quantifying metabolic progression at the systems level may identify network biomarkers to aid in the objective assessment of new disease-modifying therapies and identify new regions that merit mechanistic study in HD models.
Post-mortem analyses of brains from patients with Parkinson disease who received fetal mesencephalic transplants show that -synuclein-containing (-syn-containing) Lewy bodies gradually appear in grafted neurons. Here, we explored whether intercellular transfer of -syn from host to graft, followed by seeding of -syn aggregation in recipient neurons, can contribute to this phenomenon. We assessed -syn cell-to-cell transfer using microscopy, flow cytometry, and high-content screening in several coculture model systems. Coculturing cells engineered to express either GFP- or DsRed-tagged -syn resulted in a gradual increase in double-labeled cells. Importantly, -syn-GFP derived from 1 neuroblastoma cell line localized to red fluorescent aggregates in other cells expressing DsRed--syn, suggesting a seeding effect of transmitted -syn. Extracellular -syn was taken up by cells through endocytosis and interacted with intracellular -syn. Next, following intracortical injection of recombinant -syn in rats, we found neuronal uptake was attenuated by coinjection of an endocytosis inhibitor. Finally, we demonstrated in vivo transfer of -syn between host cells and grafted dopaminergic neurons in mice overexpressing human -syn. In summary, intercellularly transferred -syn interacts with cytoplasmic -syn and can propagate -syn pathology. These results suggest that -syn propagation is a key element in the progression of Parkinson disease pathology.
Transitory depression of the compound muscle action potential during repetitive nerve stimulation is a well-documented neurophysiologic finding in recessive myotonia congenita. It represents the neurophysiologic counterpart of the transitory weakness often impairing patients at the beginning of a movement after rest, and it is usually better induced using high-rate nerve stimulations. The authors examined 30 patients with recessive myotonia congenita and carried out a 3 Hz nerve stimulation study to ascertain to what extent this protocol was able to detect the occurrence of transitory depression. Their findings were compared with the results obtained by 12 patients affected by dominant myotonia congenita and 12 patients affected by nondystrophic myotonia due to SCN4A mutations. Molecular genetic analysis of the CLCN1 and SCN4A genes was also performed. The 3 Hz nerve stimulation protocol was well tolerated and showed high sensitivity, resulting positive in 66% of recessive case and good reproducibility, if performed after an adequate period of rest. All dominant cases and all patients affected by myotonia due to SCN4A mutations showed negative results. Molecular studies identified 26 different CLCN1 mutations, 16 of which were novel. Transitory depression confirmed to vary in accordance to CLCN1 mutations. The 3 Hz protocol was well tolerated and showed good sensitivity and reproducibility. Furthermore, this test might be suitable for genotype-phenotype correlation studies.
A high number of cytochrome c oxidase (COX)-negative muscle fibres (approximately 45%) without ragged red fibres was found in a 27-year-old male patient with a single unprovoked episode of severe rhabdomyolysis. There was no family history of neuromuscular disorder and sequencing revealed a novel COX III single base pair deletion (MT-CO3{NC_012920.1}:m.[9559delC]). The deletion creates a frame shift and downstream termination codon affecting the last 136 amino acids (MT-CO3{YP_003024032.1}:p.[Pro118GlnfsX124]). The heteroplasmic mutation load in muscle was approximately 58% and single COX-negative fibres harboured significantly greater levels of mutant mitochondrial DNA than COX-positive fibres.
Bilateral anterior cerebral artery (ACA) territory infarction is rare and its associated symptoms are still not well understood. We evaluated the clinical symptoms of four patients with bilateral ACA infarction. The common clinical features were various primitive reflexes and parkinsonian symptoms including akinesia, rigidity and hypophonia. Frontal release signs were present in all patients with ACA infarction even without direct involvement of the prefrontal cortex. Enhanced glabellar tap response, previously not reported in patients with ACA infarction, was the most consistent finding, and electrophysiological studies confirmed hyperexcitability of the late component of the blink reflex. The bilateral lesions in the deep white matter may be associated with the observed symptoms, reflecting functional disconnection of the medial prefrontal-subcortical circuitry.


Studies in sensory neuroscience reveal the critical importance of accurate sensory perception for cognitive development. There is considerable debate concerning the possible sensory correlates of phonological processing, the primary cognitive risk factor for developmental dyslexia. Across languages, children with dyslexia have a specific difficulty with the neural representation of the phonological structure of speech. The identification of a robust sensory marker of phonological difficulties would enable early identification of risk for developmental dyslexia and early targeted intervention. Here, we explore whether phonological processing difficulties are associated with difficulties in processing acoustic cues to speech rhythm. Speech rhythm is used across languages by infants to segment the speech stream into words and syllables. Early difficulties in perceiving auditory sensory cues to speech rhythm and prosody could lead developmentally to impairments in phonology. We compared matched samples of children with and without dyslexia, learning three very different spoken and written languages, English, Spanish, and Chinese. The key sensory cue measured was rate of onset of the amplitude envelope (rise time), known to be critical for the rhythmic timing of speech. Despite phonological and orthographic differences, for each language, rise time sensitivity was a significant predictor of phonological awareness, and rise time was the only consistent predictor of reading acquisition. The data support a language-universal theory of the neural basis of developmental dyslexia on the basis of rhythmic perception and syllable segmentation. They also suggest that novel remediation strategies on the basis of rhythm and music may offer benefits for phonological and linguistic development.
Besides the fact that RTs in cognitive tasks are affected by the specific demands of a trial, the context in which this trial occurs codetermines the speed of the response. For instance, invalid spatial cues generally prolong RTs to targets in the location-cueing paradigm, whereas the magnitude of these RT costs additionally varies as a function of the preceding trial types so that RTs for invalid trials may be increased when preceded by valid rather than invalid trials. In the present fMRI study, we investigated trial sequence effects in a combined oddball and location-cueing paradigm. In particular, we tested whether RTs and neural activity to infrequent invalid or deviant targets varied as a function of the number of preceding valid standard trials. As expected, RTs in invalid and deviant trials were significantly slower when more valid standard trials had been presented beforehand. This behavioral effect was reflected in the neural activity of the right inferior/middle frontal gyrus where the amplitude of the hemodynamic response in invalid and deviant trials was positively related to the number of preceding valid standard trials. In contrast, decreased activity (i.e., a negative parametric modulation effect) was observed when more valid standard trials were successively presented. Further positive parametric effects for the number of preceding valid standard trials were observed in the left caudate nucleus and lingual gyrus. The data suggest that inferior frontal cortex extracts both event regularities and irregularities in event streams.
The present study aimed to examine the influence of musical expertise on the metric and semantic aspects of speech processing. In two attentional conditions (metric and semantic tasks), musicians listened to short sentences ending in trisyllabic words that were semantically and/or metrically congruous or incongruous. Both ERPs and behavioral data were analyzed and the results were compared to previous nonmusicians' data. Regarding the processing of meter, results showed that musical expertise influenced the automatic detection of the syllable temporal structure (P200 effect), the integration of metric structure and its influence on word comprehension (N400 effect), as well as the reanalysis of metric violations (P600 and late positivities effects). By contrast, results showed that musical expertise did not influence the semantic level of processing. These results are discussed in terms of transfer of training effects from music to speech processing.
The gene encoding cholecystokinin (Cck) is abundantly expressed in the mammalian brain and has been associated with such functions as feeding termination and satiety, locomotion and self-stimulation, the modulation of anxiety-like behaviors, and learning and memory. Here we describe the brain expression and song regulation of Cck in the brain of the adult male zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata), a songbird species. Using in situ hybridization we demonstrate that Cck is highly expressed in several discrete brain regions, most prominently the caudalmost portion of the hippocampal formation, the caudodorsal nidopallial shelf and the caudomedial nidopallium (NCM), the core or shell regions of dorsal thalamic nuclei, dopaminergic cell groups in the mesencephalon and pons, the principal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, and the dorsal raphe. Cck was largely absent in song control system, a group of nuclei required for vocal learning and song production in songbirds, although sparse labeling was detected throughout the striatum, including song nucleus area X. We also show that levels of Cck mRNA and the number of labeled cells increase in the NCM of males and females following auditory stimulation with conspecific song. Double labeling further reveals that the majority of Cck cells, excluding those in the reticular nucleus of the thalamus, are non-GABAergic. Together, these data provide the first comprehensive characterization of Cck expression in a songbird, and suggest a possible involvement of Cck regulation in important aspects of birdsong biology, such as perceptual processing, auditory memorization, and/or vocal-motor control of song production.
Core auditory cortices are organized in parallel pathways that process incoming sensory information differently. In the rat, sound filtering properties of the primary (A1) and ventral (VAF) auditory fields are markedly different, yet both are core regions that by definition receive most of their thalamic input from the ventral nucleus (MGBv) of the medial geniculate body (MGB). For example, spike rate responses to sound intensity and frequency are more narrowly resolved in VAF vs. A1. Here we question whether there are anatomic correlates of the marked differences in response properties in these two core auditory fields. Combined Fourier optical imaging and multiunit recording methods were used to map tone frequency responses with high spatial resolution in A1, VAF, and neighboring cortices. The cortical distance representing a given octave was similar, yet response frequency resolution was about twice as large in VAF as in A1. Retrograde tracers were injected into low- and high-isofrequency contours of both regions to compare MGBv label patterns. The distance between clusters of MGBv neurons projecting to low- and high-isofrequency contours in the cortex was twice as large in caudal as in rostral MGB. This suggests that differences in A1 and VAF frequency resolution are related to the anatomic spatial resolution of frequency laminae in the thalamus, supporting a growing consensus that antecedents of cortical specialization can be attributed in part to the structural and functional characteristics of thalamocortical inputs.
Spider monkeys shake their heads so as to facilitate amicable social contact. This occurs frequently during vigorous play fighting, and so is common during the juvenile period. Occasionally, juvenile spider monkeys use headshakes during nonsocial locomotor play. In this study, head shaking in early infancy and in adulthood was studied in a captive troop of spider monkeys, with a total of 8 infants studied from shortly after birth to just before weaning. Three hypotheses to account for these nonsocial headshakes were tested. The play as the experience of the unexpected hypothesis was found wanting because nonsocial headshakes were most common in early infancy, before the onset of the juvenile peak in play. The immature misdirection of signals hypothesis was also found wanting because the headshakes were correctly directed at other monkeys, but not at inanimate objects that were grabbed and mouthed. Both also failed to predict the occurrence of the observed nonsocial headshakes in adults. The hypothesis best supported by the data is that, under some situations, headshakes are self-directed to promote action when confronting contexts of uncertainty.

Understanding causal relationships, or effective connectivity, between parts of the brain is of utmost importance because a large part of the brain's activity is thought to be internally generated and, hence, quantifying stimulus response relationships alone does not fully describe brain dynamics. Past efforts to determine effective connectivity mostly relied on model based approaches such as Granger causality or dynamic causal modeling. Transfer entropy (TE) is an alternative measure of effective connectivity based on information theory. TE does not require a model of the interaction and is inherently non-linear. We investigated the applicability of TE as a metric in a test for effective connectivity to electrophysiological data based on simulations and magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings in a simple motor task. In particular, we demonstrate that TE improved the detectability of effective connectivity for non-linear interactions, and for sensor level MEG signals where linear methods are hampered by signal-cross-talk due to volume conduction.
To understand the functional connectivity of neural networks, it is important to develop simple and incisive descriptors of multineuronal firing patterns. Analysis at the pairwise level has proven to be a powerful approach in the retina, but it may not suffice to understand complex cortical networks. Here we address the problem of describing interactions among triplets of neurons. We consider two approaches: an information-geometric measure (Amari 2001), which we call the &quot;strain,&quot; and the Kullback-Leibler divergence. While both approaches can be used to assess whether firing patterns differ from those predicted by a pairwise maximum-entropy model, the strain provides additional information. Specifically, when the observed firing patterns differ from those predicted by a pairwise model, the strain indicates the nature of this difference--whether there is an excess or a deficit of synchrony--while the Kullback-Leibler divergence only indicates the magnitude of the difference. We show that the strain has technical advantages, including ease of calculation of confidence bounds and bias, and robustness to the kinds of spike-sorting errors associated with tetrode recordings. We demonstrate the biological importance of these points via an analysis of multineuronal firing patterns in primary visual cortex. There is a striking scale-dependent behavior of triplet firing patterns: deviations from the pairwise model are substantial when the neurons are within 300 microns of each other, and negligible when they are at a distance of &gt;600 microns. The strain identifies a consistent pattern to these interactions: when triplet interactions are present, the strain is nearly always negative, indicating that there is less synchrony than would be expected from the pairwise interactions alone.
Advances in recording technologies have given neuroscience researchers access to large amounts of data, in particular, simultaneous, individual recordings of large groups of neurons in different parts of the brain. A variety of quantitative techniques have been utilized to analyze the spiking activities of the neurons to elucidate the functional connectivity of the recorded neurons. In the past, researchers have used correlative measures. More recently, to better capture the dynamic, complex relationships present in the data, neuroscientists have employed causal measures-most of which are variants of Granger causality-with limited success. This paper motivates the directed information, an information and control theoretic concept, as a modality-independent embodiment of Granger's original notion of causality. Key properties include: (a) it is nonzero if and only if one process causally influences another, and (b) its specific value can be interpreted as the strength of a causal relationship. We next describe how the causally conditioned directed information between two processes given knowledge of others provides a network version of causality: it is nonzero if and only if, in the presence of the present and past of other processes, one process causally influences another. This notion is shown to be able to differentiate between true direct causal influences, common inputs, and cascade effects in more two processes. We next describe a procedure to estimate the directed information on neural spike trains using point process generalized linear models, maximum likelihood estimation and information-theoretic model order selection. We demonstrate that on a simulated network of neurons, it (a) correctly identifies all pairwise causal relationships and (b) correctly identifies network causal relationships. This procedure is then used to analyze ensemble spike train recordings in primary motor cortex of an awake monkey while performing target reaching tasks, uncovering causal relationships whose directionality are consistent with predictions made from the wave propagation of simultaneously recorded local field potentials.
Understanding the direction and quantity of information flowing in neuronal networks is a fundamental problem in neuroscience. Brains and neuronal networks must at the same time store information about the world and react to information in the world. We sought to measure how the activity of the network alters information flow from inputs to output patterns. Using neocortical column neuronal network simulations, we demonstrated that networks with greater internal connectivity reduced input/output correlations from excitatory synapses and decreased negative correlations from inhibitory synapses, measured by Kendall's  correlation. Both of these changes were associated with reduction in information flow, measured by normalized transfer entropy (nTE). Information handling by the network reflected the degree of internal connectivity. With no internal connectivity, the feedforward network transformed inputs through nonlinear summation and thresholding. With greater connectivity strength, the recurrent network translated activity and information due to contribution of activity from intrinsic network dynamics. This dynamic contribution amounts to added information drawn from that stored in the network. At still higher internal synaptic strength, the network corrupted the external information, producing a state where little external information came through. The association of increased information retrieved from the network with increased gamma power supports the notion of gamma oscillations playing a role in information processing.
Directed information theory deals with communication channels with feedback. When applied to networks, a natural extension based on causal conditioning is needed. We show here that measures built from directed information theory in networks can be used to assess Granger causality graphs of stochastic processes. We show that directed information theory includes measures such as the transfer entropy, and that it is the adequate information theoretic framework needed for neuroscience applications, such as connectivity inference problems.
The arrival of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has offered major advances in our understanding of both normal and abnormal neurodevelopment. This review is a broad overview of the key findings that anatomical MRI research has provided in regard to the normal developing brain and presents key issues and consideration in pediatric imaging. Volumetric MRI studies, using various methods, have reliably found that gray-matter volume increases and peaks in late childhood, followed by a slow but continued loss, whereas white matter increases rapidly until age 10 years with continued development well beyond adolescence. The introduction of analysis techniques, such as voxel-based morphometry, cortical thickness measures, and cortical pattern mapping, have begun to answer more regionally specific questions. Pediatric neuroimaging studies carry specific requirements, given not only the high degree of variability between individuals, ages, and sexes but also issues of behavioral compliance, MR signal, and postprocessing methodologies such as appropriate normalization. Considerations in future pediatric imaging studies are presented. Ultimately, the promise of computational analysis of structural MRI data is to understand how changes in cerebral morphology relate to acquisition and enhancement of skills and behaviors in typical and atypical development.
The aim of the present study was to improve the assessment of reflex receptive fields (RRF) in humans, using reflex sensitivity and reflex probability maps. Repeated electrical stimulation was applied to elicit the nociceptive withdrawal reflex (NWR) in fifteen healthy volunteers using two stimulation paradigms: fixed (FSI) and adjusted (ASI) stimulation intensities. Stimulation was applied on sixteen sites in the foot sole, and pain intensity ratings and EMG responses were recorded. RRF sensitivity and probability maps were derived, and RRF areas were calculated. During FSI, the stimulation intensities were constant and the pain ratings dropped significantly (p&lt;0.01). In contrast, during ASI the pain ratings were stable, but there was a significant increase in the stimulation intensities (p&lt;0.01). None of the paradigms altered significantly the RRF areas, but the FSI paradigm had lower estimation error (p&lt;0.01). In all cases, the estimation error remained under 10% and 5% after five and ten repetitions, respectively. The 2nd stimulus in the train consistently rendered larger and more reliable RRF areas than the 1st stimulus. The present analysis can be useful in order to identify the most adequate stimulation parameters and quantification variables for RRF assessment in experimental and clinical pain research.
The actions of angiotensin II on type 1 (AT) and type 2 (AT) receptor subtypes are important for normal kidney development before birth. This study investigated the effect of AT receptor antagonism on renal growth and growth regulators in fetal sheep during late gestation. From 125 days of gestation (term 1452 days), chronically catheterised sheep fetuses were infused intravenously for 5 days with either an AT-specific receptor antagonist (GR138950, 2-4 mg/kg per day, n=5) or saline (0.9% NaCl, n=5). Blockade of the AT receptor decreased arterial blood oxygenation and pH and increased blood pCO, haemoglobin and lactate, and plasma cortisol and IGF-II. Blood glucose and plasma thyroid hormones and IGF-I were unchanged between the treatment groups. On the 5th day of infusion, the kidneys of the GR-treated fetuses were lighter than those of the control fetuses, both in absolute and relative terms, and were smaller in transverse cross-sectional width and cortical thickness. In the GR-infused fetuses, renal AT receptor protein concentration and glomerular density were significantly greater than in the saline-infused fetuses. Blockade of the AT receptor had no effect on relative cortical thickness, fractional or mean glomerular volumes, or renal protein levels of the AT receptor, IGF type 1 receptor, insulin receptor or protein kinase C . Therefore, in the ovine fetus, AT receptor antagonism causes increased renal protein expression of the AT receptor subtype, which, combined with inhibition of AT receptor activity, may be partly responsible for growth retardation of the developing kidney.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-) may cause apoptosis and inflammation in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and spinal cord injury (SCI). Recent studies suggest that estrogen (EST) provides neuroprotection against SCI. We tested whether 1,3,5-tris (4-hydroxyphenyl)-4-propyl-1H-pyrazole (PPT) (EST receptor alpha (ER) agonist), 2,3-bis (4-hydroxyphenyl) propionitrile (DPN) (EST receptor beta (ER) agonist), or EST itself would prevent apoptosis in VSC4.1 motoneurons following exposure to TNF-. Cells were exposed to TNF- and 15min later treated with PPT, DPN, or EST. Posttreatment with 50nM PPT, 50nM DPN, or 150nM EST prevented cell death in VSC4.1 motoneurons. Treatment of VSC4.1 motoneurons with PPT, DPN, or EST induced overexpression of ER, ER, or both, which contributed to neuroprotection by upregulating expression of anti-apoptotic proteins (p-AKT, p-CREB, Bcl-2, and p-Src). Our analyses also revealed that EST agonists and EST increased phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). The L-type Ca(2+) channel inhibitor, nifedipine (10M), partially inhibited EST agonist and EST-induced increase in phosphorylated ERK expression. The mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor, PD98059 (5M), partially prevented ER agonists and EST from providing neuroprotection to TNF- toxicity. Presence of the nuclear ER antagonist, ICI 182780 (10M), blocked the neuroprotection provided by all three ER agonists tested. Taken together, our data indicate that both ER and ER contribute to PPT, DPN, or EST-mediated neuroprotection with similar signaling profiles. Our data strongly imply that PPT, DPN, or EST can be used as effective neuroprotective agents to attenuate motoneuron death in ALS and SCI.

This research examined how Chinese children make moral judgments about lie telling and truth telling when facing a &quot;white lie&quot; or &quot;politeness&quot; dilemma in which telling a blunt truth is likely to hurt the feelings of another. We examined the possibility that the judgments of participants (7-11 years of age, N=240) would differ as a function of the social context in which communication takes place. The expected social consequences were manipulated systematically in two studies. In Study 1, participants rated truth telling more negatively and rated lie telling more positively in a public situation where telling a blunt truth is especially likely to have negative social consequences. In Study 2, participants rated truth telling more positively and rated lie telling more negatively in a situation where accurate information is likely to be helpful for the recipient to achieve future success. Both studies showed that with increased age, children's evaluations became significantly influenced by the social context, with the strongest effects being seen among the 11-year-olds. These results suggest that Chinese children learn to take anticipated social consequences into account when making moral judgments about the appropriateness of telling a blunt truth versus lying to protect the feelings of another.
Modulation of ion channels by regulatory proteins within the same macromolecular complex is a well-accepted concept, but the physiological consequences of such modulation are not fully understood. Slowpoke (Slo), a potassium channel critical for action potential repolarization and transmitter release, is regulated by Slo channel-binding protein (Slob), a Drosophila melanogaster Slo (dSlo) binding partner. Slob modulates the voltage dependence of dSlo channel activation in vitro and exerts similar effects on the dSlo channel in Drosophila central nervous system neurons in vivo. In addition, Slob modulates action potential duration in these neurons. Here, we investigate further the functional consequences of the modulation of the dSlo channel by Slob in vivo, by examining larval neuromuscular synaptic transmission in flies in which Slob levels have been altered. In Slob-null flies generated through P-element mutagenesis, as well as in Slob knockdown flies generated by RNA interference (RNAi), we find an enhancement of synaptic transmission but no change in the properties of the postsynaptic muscle cell. Using targeted transgenic rescue and targeted expression of Slob-RNAi, we find that Slob expression in neurons (but not in the postsynaptic muscle cell) is critical for its effects on synaptic transmission. Furthermore, inhibition of dSlo channel activity abolishes these effects of Slob. These results suggest that presynaptic Slob, by regulating dSlo channel function, participates in the modulation of synaptic transmission.
The 2 glycine receptor (GlyR) subunit, abundant in embryonic neurons, is replaced by 1 in the adult nervous system. The single-channel activity of homomeric 2 channels differs from that of 1-containing GlyRs, as even at the lowest glycine concentration (20 M), openings occurred in long (&gt;300-ms) groups with high open probability (P(open); 0.96; cell-attached recordings, HEK-expressed channels). Shut-time intervals within groups of openings were dominated by short shuttings of 5-10 s. The lack of concentration dependence in the groups of openings suggests that they represent single activations, separated by very long shut times at low concentrations. Several putative mechanisms were fitted by maximizing the likelihood of the entire sequence of open and shut times, with exact missed-events allowance (program hjcfit). Records obtained at several glycine concentrations were fitted simultaneously. The adequacy of the different schemes was judged by the accuracy with which they predicted not only single-channel data but also the time course and concentration dependence of macroscopic responses elicited by rapid glycine applications to outside-out patches. The data were adequately described only with schemes incorporating a reaction intermediate in the activation, and the best was a flip mechanism with two binding sites and one open state. Fits with this mechanism showed that for 2 channels, the opening rate constant is very fast, 130,000 s(-1), much as for 1 GlyRs (the receptor in mature synapses), but the estimated true mean open time is 20 times longer (around 3 ms). The efficacy for the flipping step and the binding affinity were lower for 2 than for 1 channels, but the overall efficacies were similar. As we previously showed for 1 homomeric receptors, in 2 glycine channels, maximum P(open) is achieved when fewer than all five of the putative binding sites in the pentamer are occupied by glycine.
We present the case of a patient who had a 3-year history of episodes of transitory unilateral mydriasis with omolateral blurred vision followed by headache. Thereafter, during the last 4 years, the patient developed a migraine with visual aura, without further episodes of transitory mydriasis. We suggest that the transitory mydriasis previously present could be considered as an unusual form of migrainous aura. A possible pathogenetic mechanism is proposed.
The sorting nexin (SNX) family proteins, which contain a Phox homology (PX) domain, play crucial roles in regulating the intracellular membrane trafficking of the endocytic pathway. The proper coordination of this pathway is important for axonal elongation; however, little is known about the expression and intracellular dynamics of the SNX members during the formation of the nervous system. Here the authors found that SNX18, which belongs to the Src-homology-3-PX-Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs domain-containing SNX subfamily, was specifically expressed in differentiating motor neurons in the chick and mouse embryonic spinal cord. The expression of SNX18 in embryonic spinal motor neurons was transient and was downregulated as the neurons matured. The authors further demonstrated that the localization of EGFP-SNX18 in growth cones was dynamically regulated and accumulated especially at areas in contact with permissive substrates. These findings collectively suggest that SNX18 may play an active role in axonal elongation.

We have recently identified a neuroprotective role for omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs) in a toxin-induced mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Combined with epidemiological data, these observations suggest that low n-3 PUFA intake is a modifiable environmental risk factor for PD. In order to strengthen these preclinical findings as prerequisite to clinical trials, we further investigated the neuroprotective role of n-3 PUFAs in Fat-1 mice, a transgenic model expressing an n-3 fatty acid desaturase converting n-6 PUFAs into n-3 PUFAs. Here, we report that the expression of the fat-1 transgene increased cortical n-3:n-6 PUFA ratio (+28%), but to a lesser extent than dietary supplementation (92%). Such a limited endogenous production of n-3 PUFAs in the Fat-1 mouse was insufficient to confer neuroprotection against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine neurotoxicity as assessed by dopamine levels, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons and fibers, as well as nigral Nurr1 and dopamine transporter (DAT) mRNA expression. Nevertheless, higher cortical docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) concentrations were positively correlated with markers of nigral dopaminergic neurons such as the number of TH-positive cells, in addition to Nurr1 and DAT mRNA levels. These associations are consistent with the protective role of DHA in a mouse model of PD. Taken together, these data suggest that dietary intake of a preformed DHA supplement is more effective in reaching the brain and achieving neuroprotection in an animal model of PD.

Both the neuropeptide Y (NPY) and the leptin systems have been shown to be important central mediators of bone metabolism. However, the interaction between these two systems is complex and not fully understood. Here, we show that a unique interaction exists between Y2 and Y4 receptors in the regulation of bone homeostasis that is not evident when combined with lack of Y1 signalling. Despite the hypoleptinaemia shown in male Y2/Y4 double knockout (Y2/ Y4/) mice, when on the leptin-deficient ob/ob background, these mice display reduced cancellous bone mass. However, combined Y2/Y4 deletion enhances the effect of leptin deficiency on the cortical bone compartment. By replicating the enhanced central NPY expression evident in ob/ob mice using virally mediated overexpression of NPY in the hypothalamus of Y receptor knockout mice, we demonstrate that Y2/ Y4/ mice have an exaggerated response to the anti-osteogenic effects of elevated hypothalamic NPY in both cancellous and cortical bone and that this effect appears to be dependent on Y1 receptor signalling. This study highlights the complex interaction between Y receptors in the control of bone mass. Moreover, it suggests that the reduction in cortical bone observed in the absence of leptin is due to the anti-osteogenic effect of elevated hypothalamic NPY levels.
Rating and quantification of cerebral white matter hyperintensities on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are important tasks in various clinical and scientific settings. As manual evaluation is time consuming and imprecise, much effort has been made to automate the quantification of white matter hyperintensities. There is rarely any report that attempts to study the similarity/dissimilarity of white matter hyperintensity patterns that have different sizes, shapes and spatial localizations on the MRI. This paper proposes an original computational neuroscience framework for such a conceptual study with a standpoint that the prior knowledge about white matter hyperintensities can be accumulated and utilized to enable a reliable inference of the rating of a new white matter hyperintensity observation. This computational approach for rating inference of white matter hyperintensities, which appears to be the first study, can be utilized as a computerized rating-assisting tool and can be very economical for diagnostic evaluation of brain tissue lesions.
Spastic hypertonus (muscle over-activity due to exaggerated stretch reflexes) often develops in people with stroke, cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injury. Lesioning of nerves, e.g. with phenol or botulinum toxin is widely performed to reduce spastic hypertonus. We have explored the use of direct electrical current (DC) to lesion peripheral nerves. In a series of animal experiments, DC reduced muscle force by controlled amounts and the reduction could last several months. We conclude that in some cases controlled DC lesioning may provide an effective alternative to the less controllable molecular treatments available today.
This study presents a new automatic spike sorting method based on feature extraction by Laplacian eigenmaps combined with k-means clustering. The performance of the proposed method was compared against previously reported algorithms such as principal component analysis (PCA) and amplitude-based feature extraction. Two types of classifier (namely k-means and classification expectation-maximization) were incorporated within the spike sorting algorithms, in order to find a suitable classifier for the feature sets. Simulated data sets and in-vivo tetrode multichannel recordings were employed to assess the performance of the spike sorting algorithms. The results show that the proposed algorithm yields significantly improved performance with mean sorting accuracy of 73% and sorting error of 10% compared to PCA which combined with k-means had a sorting accuracy of 58% and sorting error of 10%.A correction was made to this article on 22 February 2011. The spacing of the title was amended on the abstract page. No changes were made to the article PDF and the print version was unaffected.
The iron content of the substantia nigra pars compacta increases in the brains of Parkinson's disease patients. Hence, its removal by iron chelators may retard the progression of the disease. However, information on the ability of clinically available iron chelators to cross the blood brain barrier and be neuroprotective is limited. In this present study three iron chelators, which are currently approved for clinical use, namely the hexadendate, deferrioxamine, the bidentate deferiprone and the tridendate chelator deferasirox have been investigated for their efficacy to induce neuroprotection. Previous studies have shown that both deferiprone and deferrioxamine exert neuroprotection in the 6-hydroxy dopamine (6-OHDA) model but no such studies have investigated deferasirox. Focal administration of deferasirox (0.5, 2 and 10 g) into the substantia nigra pars compacta of rats significantly attenuated the loss of dopaminergic neurons and striatal dopamine content resulting from 6-OHDA toxicity. Systemic administration of deferasirox (20 mg/kg), deferiprone (10 mg/kg) or deferrioxamine (30 mg/kg), to the 6-OHDA rat model of Parkinson's disease, significantly attenuated the loss of dopaminergic neurons and striatal dopamine content. Further studies to comprehend the action of these chelators showed that local application of either 0.4 mM deferrioxamine, or 1 mM deferasirox, via a microdialysis probe into the striatum, prior to that of 200 M 6-OHDA, prevented the generation of hydroxyl radicals. Our results confirm that the administration of these chelators show therapeutic efficacy and should be considered as therapeutic agents for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Sepsis is an infectious insult resulting in disturbances in the normal regulation of many organic systems, including the central nervous system. This study aims to evaluate aversive memory as well as its variances-posttraumatic memory and memory of extinction-in survivor rats submitted to sepsis by cecal ligation and perforation (CLP) at 10, 30, and 60 days after CLP, utilizing the inhibitory avoidance (IA) task paradigm. Male Wistar rats underwent either CLP or sham surgery under anesthesia. Sepsis group received antibiotics and fluid support, whereas sham group received only fluid replacement. The rats were divided in four different tasks: (1) aversive memory after 10, 30, and 60 days after CLP; (2) memory of extinction 60 days after CLP; (3) aversive memory-two trainings paradigm 10 days after CLP; and (4) posttraumatic memory 10 days after CLP. The aversive memory was impaired at 10, 30, but not 60 days after CLP, However, no damage was found in aversive memory after two training sessions. Additionally, there was no damage to the memory of extinction 60 days after CLP. Posttraumatic memory impairment was also observed. In this regard, we believe that our results provide relevant insights into the mechanisms involved in the cognitive deficits associated with sepsis.
Striatal delivery of dopamine (DA) by midbrain substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) neurons is vital for motor control and its depletion causes the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. While membrane potential changes or neuronal activity regulates tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, the rate limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis) expression in other catecholaminergic cells, it is not known whether the same occurs in adult SNc neurons. We administered drugs known to alter neuronal activity to mouse SNc DAergic neurons in various experimental preparations and measured changes in their TH expression. In cultured midbrain neurons, blockade of action potentials with 1M tetrodotoxin decreased TH expression beginning around 20h later (as measured in real time by green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression driven off TH promoter activity). By contrast, partial blockade of small-conductance, Ca(2+) -activated potassium channels with 300nM apamin increased TH mRNA and protein between 12 and 24h later in slices of adult midbrain. Two-week infusions of 300nM apamin directly to the adult mouse midbrain in vivo also increased TH expression in SNc neurons, measured immunohistochemically. Paradoxically, the number of TH immunoreactive (TH+) SNc neurons decreased in these animals. Similar in vivo infusions of drugs affecting other ion-channels and receptors (L-type voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels, GABA(A) receptors, high K(+) , DA receptors) also increased or decreased cellular TH immunoreactivity but decreased or increased, respectively, the number of TH+ cells in SNc. We conclude that in adult SNc neurons: (i) TH expression is activity-dependent and begins to change 20h following sustained changes in neuronal activity; (ii) ion-channels and receptors mediating cell-autonomous activity or synaptic input are equally potent in altering TH expression; and (iii) activity-dependent changes in TH expression are balanced by opposing changes in the number of TH+ SNc cells.
Considerable evidence suggests that receptor-mediated excitation and inhibition of brainstem pedunculopontine tegmental (PPT) neurons are critically involved in the regulation of sleep-wake states. However, the molecular mechanisms operating within the PPT-controlling sleep-wake states remain relatively unknown. This study was designed to examine sleep-wake state-associated extracellular-signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) transduction changes in the PPT of freely moving rats. The results of this study demonstrate that the levels of ERK1/2 expression, phosphorylation, and activity in the PPT increased with increased amount of time spent in sleep. The sleep-associated increases in ERK1/2 expression, phosphorylation, and activity were not observed in the cortex, or in the immediately adjacent medial pontine reticular formation. The results of regression analyses revealed significant positive relationships between the levels of ERK1/2 expression, phosphorylation, and activity in the PPT and amounts of time spent in slow-wave sleep, rapid eye movement sleep, and total sleep. Additionally, these regression analyses revealed significant negative relationships between the levels of ERK1/2 expression, phosphorylation, and activity in the PPT and amounts of time spent in wakefulness. Collectively, these results, for the first time, suggest that the increased ERK1/2 signaling in the PPT is associated with maintenance of sleep via suppression of wakefulness.
Neural stem cells give rise to new hippocampal neurons throughout adulthood. Defects in neurogenesis are associated with cognitive dysfunctions, such as Alzheimer disease (AD). Our understanding of the signals controlling this process is limited. The present in vitro study explored the manner in which the Wnt signaling pathway regulates the differentiation of hippocampal progenitors (HPs) into neurons under the influence of amyloid (42) (A(42) ). The results showed that oligomeric A(42) reduced neuronal differentiation. This process was accompanied by a reduction in active -catenin levels and proneural gene expression. The addition of Wnt3a increased the neuronal differentiation of A(42) -treated HPs, at the expense of astrocyte differentiation. The effect of Wnt signaling was attributable to progenitor cell differentiation to the neuronal lineage, and not to increased proliferation or rescue of neurons. The interruption of Wnt signaling by oligomeric A(42) may have clinical implications for the treatment of impaired neurogenesis in AD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of dopamine neurons of the nigrostriatal system, resulting in severe motor disturbances. Although much less appreciated, non-motor symptoms are also very common in PD and many can be traced to serotonin neuronal deficits. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) 2, the rate-limiting enzyme in the serotonin biosynthesis, is a phenotypic marker for serotonin neurons and is known to be extremely labile to oxidation. Therefore, the oxidative processes that prevail in PD could cause TPH2 misfolding and modify serotonin neuronal function much as is seen in dopamine neurons. Oxidation of TPH2 inhibits enzyme activity and leads to the formation of high molecular weight aggregates in a dithiothreitol-reversible manner. Cysteine-scanning mutagenesis shows that as long as a single cysteine residue (out of a total of 13 per monomer) remains in TPH2, it cross-links upon oxidation and only cysteine-less mutants are resistant to this effect. The effects of oxidants on TPH2 catalytic function and cross-linking are also observed in intact TPH2-expressing HEK293 cells. Oxidation shifts TPH2 from the soluble compartment into membrane fractions and large inclusion bodies. Sequential non-reducing/reducing 2-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting confirmed that TPH2 was one of a small number of cytosolic proteins that form disulfide-bonded aggregates. The propensity of TPH2 to misfold upon oxidation of its cysteine residues is responsible for its catalytic lability and may be related to loss of serotonin neuronal function in PD and the emergence of non-motor (psychiatric) symptoms.
Transcriptional dysfunction is a prominent hallmark of Huntington's disease (HD). Several transcription factors have been implicated in the aetiology of HD progression and one of the most prominent is repressor element 1 (RE1) silencing transcription factor (REST). REST is a global repressor of neuronal gene expression and in the presence of mutant Huntingtin increased nuclear REST levels lead to elevated RE1 occupancy and a concomitant increase in target gene repression, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor. It is of great interest to devise strategies to reverse transcriptional dysregulation caused by increased nuclear REST and determine the consequences in HD. Thus far, such strategies have involved RNAi or mutant REST constructs. Decoys are double-stranded oligodeoxynucleotides corresponding to the DNA-binding element of a transcription factor and act to sequester it, thereby abrogating its transcriptional activity. Here, we report the use of a novel decoy strategy to rescue REST target gene expression in a cellular model of HD. We show that delivery of the decoy in cells expressing mutant Huntingtin leads to its specific interaction with REST, a reduction in REST occupancy of RE1s and rescue of target gene expression, including Bdnf. These data point to an alternative strategy for rebalancing the transcriptional dysregulation in HD.
In addition to its well-characterized effects in immune system, chemokine CC motif ligand 2 (CCL2, formerly known as monocyte chemoattractant protein-1) is believed to play an important role in brain physiological and pathological processes. It has been shown that CCL2 and its cognate receptor chemokine CC motif receptor 2 are constitutively expressed in several brain regions including the hippocampus, and the expression is up-regulated under pathological conditions. Whereas most investigations have so far focused on its involvement in CNS pathology, few studies have examined the effects of CCL2 on neuronal and synaptic physiology. In this study, we tested the effects of CCL2 on neuronal excitability and excitatory synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices using whole-cell patch clamp techniques. Bath application of CCL2 depolarized membrane potential and increased spike firing in CA1 neuronal cells. Bath application of CCL2 also produced an increase of excitatory post-synaptic currents recorded in Schaffer-collateral fibers to CA1 synapses. Quantal analysis revealed that CCL2 increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic current occurrence and mean quantal content. Taken together, our data indicate that CCL2 enhances neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission via pre-synaptic mechanisms. These results support the emerging concept that chemokines function as neuromodulators in the CNS.
Parkin is an ubiquitin-protein ligase mutated in Autosomal Recessive - Juvenile Parkinsonism. Here, we describe a cell-based assay to measure Parkin's ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. It relies on the ability of Parkin to recognise depolarised mitochondria and exploits a cell line where Parkin expression is inducible. In these cells, Parkin expression promotes mitophagy and accelerates cell death in response to mitochondrial depolarisers. Time-lapse imaging confirmed cell death and revealed increased perinuclear mitochondrial clustering following induction of Parkin expression in cells exposed to carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone. Similar effects were not observed with -synuclein or DJ-1, other proteins associated with the development of Parkinson's disease, confirming the specificity of the assay. We have used this assay to demonstrate that ligase-defective Parkin mutants are inactive, and cellular proteasomal activity (using the proteasomal inhibitors MG132, clasto-lactacystin -lactone and epoxomicin) is essential for the Parkin mediated effect. As the assay is suitable for high-throughput screening, it has the potential to identify novel proteostasis compounds that stimulate the activity of Parkin mutants for therapeutic purposes, to identify modulators of kinase activities that impact on Parkin function, and to act as a functional read-out in reverse genetics screens aimed at identifying modifiers of Parkin function during mitophagy.
Corticosterone activates two types of intracellular receptors in the rodent brain: the high affinity mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and lower affinity glucocorticoid receptor (GR). These receptors act as transcriptional regulators and mediate slow changes in neuronal activity in a region-dependent manner. For example, in CA1 pyramidal cells, corticosterone slowly changes Ca(2+) currents and glutamate transmission but dentate granule cells appear to be resistant. Recent studies have shown that corticosteroids also exert rapid MR-dependent, nongenomic effects on hippocampal CA1 cells [e.g. increasing the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs)]. In the present study, we investigated whether dentate granule cells are also resistant to the rapid effects of corticosterone. We found that, comparable to the CA1 area, corticosterone quickly and reversibly increases mEPSC frequency but not amplitude of dentate cells. This effect did not require protein synthesis and displayed the pharmacological profile of an MR- rather than GR-dependent event. These data support the hypothesis that, unlike the slow gene-mediated effects of corticosterone, rapid hormonal actions are quite similar for CA1 and dentate cells.
The availability of active steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and side-chain cleavage cytochrome P450 (P450scc) are rate-limiting steps for steroidogenesis. Transcription of StAR and P450scc genes depends on cyclic AMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and CREB co-activator, transducer of regulated CREB activity (TORC), which is regulated by salt-inducible kinase 1 (SIK1). In the present study, we investigated the relationship between TORC activation and adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-induced steroidogenesis in vivo, by examining the time-course of the effect of ACTH injection (4ng, i.v.) on the transcriptional activity of StAR and P450scc genes and the nuclear accumulation of transducer of regulated CREB activity 2 (TORC2) in rat adrenal cortex. ACTH produced rapid and transient increases in plasma corticosterone, with maximal responses between 5 and 15min, and a decrease to almost basal values at 30min. StAR and P450scc hnRNA levels increased 15min following ACTH and decreased toward basal values at 30min. Concomitant with an increase in nuclear phospho-CREB, ACTH injection induced nuclear accumulation of TORC2, with maximal levels at 5min and a return to basal values by 30min. The decline of nuclear TORC2 was paralleled by increases in SIK1 hnRNA and mRNA 15 and 30min after injection, respectively. The early rises in plasma corticosterone preceding StAR and P450scc gene transcription suggest that post-transcriptional and post-translational changes in StAR protein mediate the early steroidogenic responses. Furthermore, the direct temporal relationship between nuclear accumulation of TORC2 and the increase in transcription of steroidogenic proteins, implicates TORC2 in the physiological regulation of steroidogenesis in the adrenal cortex. The delayed induction of SIK1 suggests a role for SIK1 in the declining phase of steroidogenesis.
We have addressed the question of how different rodent species cope with the life-threatening homeostatic challenge of dehydration at the level of transcriptome modulation in the supraoptic nucleus (SON), a specialised hypothalamic neurosecretory apparatus responsible for the production of the antidiuretic peptide hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP). AVP maintains water balance by promoting water conservation at the level of the kidney. Dehydration evokes a massive increase in the regulated release of AVP from SON axon terminals located in the posterior pituitary, and this is accompanied by a plethora of changes in the morphology, electrophysiological properties, biosynthetic and secretory activity of this structure. Microarray analysis was used to generate a definitive catalogue of the genes expressed in the mouse SON, and to describe how the gene expression profile changes in response to dehydration. Comparison of the genes differentially expressed in the mouse SON as a consequence of dehydration with those of the rat has revealed many similarities, pointing to common processes underlying the function-related plasticity in this nucleus. In addition, we have identified many genes that are differentially expressed in a species-specific manner. However, in many cases, we have found that the hyperosmotic cue can induce species-specific alterations in the expression of different genes in the same pathway. The same functional end can be served by different means, via differential modulation, in different species, of different molecules in the same pathway. We suggest that pathways, rather than specific genes, should be the focus of integrative physiological studies based on transcriptome data.
Epigenetics is the term that has been classically used to describe inheritable nongenetic factors that regulate genes. Although these factors were originally thought to act in a long time domain only, it is now clear that they can also be highly dynamic, changing over minutes. Transcription factors, including the glucocorticoid, oestrogen and androgen receptors, interact with these epigenetic mechanisms in a very dynamic manner to modify transcription of genes and consequently contribute to physiological processes, health and disease. Modern usage of the term epigenetics encompasses both longer-term and transient changes and is relevant to multiple biological systems.
Pubertal development is marked by profound changes in stress reactivity. For example, following a brief stressor, such as foot shock, ether inhalation or restraint, prepubertal rats display a prolonged adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone response that takes twice as long to return to baseline compared to adults. Pubertal-related differences in the recovery of the hormonal stress response following a more protracted systemic stressor, such as an immunological challenge, have not yet been investigated. Moreover, it is unclear whether an immunological stressor leads to a differential cytokine response in animals before and after pubertal maturation. To examine these issues, we used a single injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 0.1mg/kg) to induce a hormonal stress and innate immune response and measured plasma ACTH, corticosterone, and the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-6 in prepubertal and adult male rats 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, or 24h after LPS exposure. In a follow-up experiment, we assessed neural activation, as indexed by FOS immunohistochemistry, in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) in prepubertal and adult males 0, 4, 8, or 24h after a 0.1mg/kg injection of LPS. By contrast to the prolonged response observed in prepubertal animals following a variety of acute stressors, we found that corticosterone and IL-6 responses induced by LPS recover toward baseline faster in prepubertal compared to adult rats. Along with these different peripheral responses, we also found that LPS-induced neural activation in the PVN of prepubertal animals showed a faster return to baseline compared to adults. Together, these data indicate that prepubertal and adult animals react in distinct ways, both peripherally and centrally, to an immunological stressor.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is a rare demyelinating disease, affecting selectively the optic nerve and the spinal cord. It was previously considered to be a severe variant of multiple sclerosis (MS) due to the similar pathological features and its resemblance to optico-spinal, or Japanese, MS, typical of Asian populations. The finding that most NMO patients have auto-antibodies against aquaporin-4, a water channel particularly abundant on the astrocytes of the glia limitans, has allowed early diagnosis and specific treatment of these patients, and has greatly improved our knowledge of its pathogenesis. When laboratories worldwide can detect anti-aquaporin-4 auto-antibodies with comparable sensitivity and specificity, we will be able to have large multi-centric studies to define better the epidemiological, clinical and pathological features of patients and their responses to treatment.
Gene therapy represents a potentially useful additional technique to ameliorate the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), and the motor complications of its treatment. The neurodegenerative process itself, as well as the non-motor symptoms of PD, both remain less amenable to most of the current gene therapy approaches. This review presents an overview of the four gene therapies in phase I/II clinical trials, outlines some of the challenges they face, and proposes additional alternative strategies that might improve the clinical prospects of gene therapy for PD. In so doing, we hope to highlight the issue of the current absence of effective treatment for non-motor symptoms of PD and the potential of further candidate targets for gene therapy intervention that might improve upon this, for both specific individuals with genetic forms of PD as well as &quot;sporadic&quot; PD patients.
Mutations in the gene encoding of the catalytic subunit of mtDNA polymerase gamma (POLG1) can cause typical Alpers' syndrome. Recently, a new POLG1 mutation phenotype was described, the so-called juvenile-onset Alpers' syndrome. This POLG1 mutation phenotype is characterized by refractory epilepsy with recurrent status epilepticus and episodes of epilepsia partialis continua, which often necessitate admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) and pose an important mortality risk. We describe two previously healthy unrelated teenage girls, who both were admitted with generalized tonic-clonic seizures and visual symptoms leading to a DNA-supported diagnosis of juvenile-onset Alpers' syndrome. Despite combined treatment with anti-epileptic drugs, both patients developed status epilepticus requiring admission to the ICU. Intravenous magnesium as anti-convulsant therapy was initiated, resulting in clinical and neurophysiological improvement and rapid extubation of both patients. Treating status epilepticus in juvenile-onset Alpers' syndrome with magnesium has not been described previously. Given the difficulties encountered while treating epilepsy in patients with this syndrome, magnesium therapy might be considered.
Increased weakness during cold (cold paresis) was reported in single cases of multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). This was unexpected because demyelination is a feature of MMN and symptoms of demyelination improve, rather than worsen, in cold. It was hypothesized that cold paresis in MMN does not reflect demyelination only, but may indicate the existence of inflammatory nerve lesions with permanently depolarized axons that only just conduct at normal temperature, but fail at lower temperatures. We investigated symptoms of cold paresis in 50 MMN patients, 48 chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) patients, 35 progressive spinal muscular atrophy (PSMA) patients, and 25 chronic idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy patients. We also investigated symptoms of increased weakness during warmth (heat paresis). Cold paresis was reported more often than heat paresis. Cold paresis was most frequently reported in MMN. Multivariate analysis indicated that MMN patients had a 4- to 6-fold higher risk of reporting cold paresis than CIDP or PSMA patients. Because cold paresis is not consistent with demyelination, the lesions in MMN may involve other mechanisms than demyelination only. In conclusion, symptoms of cold paresis are common in peripheral nervous system disorders, particularly in MMN. This supports the above-described hypothesis.
Various visual and sensory phenomena have been described in migraine with aura. Among those, the 'Alice in Wonderland' syndrome is defined as a distortion of the body image with the patient being aware of its unreal nature. Here, the case of a 17-year-old girl with migraine without aura who developed an 'Alice in Wonderland' syndrome repeatedly on topiramate treatment was presented and potential pathophysiological concepts were discussed.
Activation of the caspase family of cysteine proteases is proposed to be an important cell death mechanism in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies or prion diseases. We determined the extent of caspase activation in the brain and peripheral organs of mice that showed clinical signs after intracerebral inoculation with mouse-adapted prions by in vivo administration of a red fluorescent pan-caspase inhibitor, sulforhodamine B-Val-Ala-Asp(OMe)-fluoromethylketone. Fluorescence reflectance imaging identified a significant increase in active caspases in brains of prion-infected, but not uninfected, mice that correlated with increases in procaspase-3 and cleaved caspase-3, a central effector caspase, assessed by Western immunoblot analysis. Fluorescence was found in brain regions in which neuronal loss occurs; immunohistochemical analysis indicated that fluorescence was localized within and adjacent to deposits of abnormal disease-associated conformers of the prion protein (PrP Sc). Fluorescence was also significantly increased in the kidney, lung, and ileum of prion-infected mice. This premortem labeling of caspase activation in the brain, and importantly in peripheral organs, could be exploited as a biomarker for longitudinal monitoring of prion disease progression and the impact of therapy in vivo in addition to, or independently of, PrP and spongiform changes.
Monocular organization of the goldfish horizontal neural integrator was studied during spontaneous scanning saccadic and fixation behaviors. Analysis of neuronal firing rates revealed a population of ipsilateral (37%), conjugate (59%), and contralateral (4%) eye position neurons. When monocular optokinetic stimuli were employed to maximize disjunctive horizontal eye movements, the sampled population changed to 57, 39, and 4%. Monocular eye tracking could be elicited at different gain and phase with the integrator time constant independently modified for each eye by either centripetal (leak) or centrifugal (instability) drifting visual stimuli. Acute midline separation between the hindbrain oculomotor integrators did not affect either monocularity or time constant tuning, corroborating that left and right eye positions are independently encoded within each integrator. Together these findings suggest that the &quot;ipsilateral&quot; and &quot;conjugate/contralateral&quot; integrator neurons primarily target abducens motoneurons and internuclear neurons, respectively. The commissural pathway is proposed to select the conjugate/contralateral eye position neurons and act as a feedforward inhibition affecting null eye position, oculomotor range, and saccade pattern.
When generating a saccade toward a moving target, the target displacement that occurs during the period spanning from its detection to the saccade end must be taken into account to accurately foveate the target and to initiate its pursuit. Previous studies have shown that these saccades are characterized by a lower peak velocity and a prolonged deceleration phase. In some cases, a second peak eye velocity appears during the deceleration phase, presumably reflecting the late influence of a mechanism that compensates for the target displacement occurring before saccade end. The goal of this work was to further determine in the head restrained monkey the dynamics of this putative compensatory mechanism. A step-ramp paradigm, where the target motion was orthogonal to a target step occurring along the primary axes, was used to estimate from the generated saccades: a component induced by the target step and another one induced by the target motion. Resulting oblique saccades were compared with saccades to a static target with matched horizontal and vertical amplitudes. This study permitted to estimate the time taken for visual motion-related signals to update the programming and execution of saccades. The amplitude of the motion-related component was slightly hypometric with an undershoot that increased with target speed. Moreover, it matched with the eccentricity that the target had 40-60 ms before saccade end. The lack of significant difference in the delay between the onsets of the horizontal and vertical components between saccades directed toward a static target and those aimed at a moving target questions the late influence of the compensatory mechanism. The results are discussed within the framework of the &quot;dual drive&quot; and &quot;remapping&quot; hypotheses.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the primary motor cortex (M1) produces a series of corticospinal descending waves, with a direct (D) wave followed by several indirect (I) waves. TMS inducing posterior-anterior (PA) current in the brain predominantly recruits the early I1-wave, whereas anterior-posterior (AP) directed current preferentially recruits the late I3-wave. However, it is not known whether I-waves elicited by different current directions are mediated by the same neuronal populations. We studied the neuronal mechanisms mediating I-waves by examining the influence of short-latency afferent inhibition (SAI) on various I-waves. SAI was tested with electrical median nerve stimulation at the wrist followed by TMS to the contralateral M1 at different current directions. Surface electromyograms and single motor units were recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle. SAI was weaker for the AP compared with that for the PA current direction. With increasing median nerve stimulation intensities, SAI increased for the PA direction but showed a U-shaped relationship for the AP direction. SAI produced more inhibition of late I-waves generated by PA than those generated by AP current direction. We conclude that late I-waves generated by PA and AP current directions are mediated by different neuronal mechanisms.
Conflicting results have led to different views about how temporal modulation is encoded in primary auditory cortex (A1). Some studies find a substantial population of neurons that change firing rate without synchronizing to temporal modulation, whereas other studies fail to see these nonsynchronized neurons. As a result, the role and scope of synchronized temporal and nonsynchronized rate codes in AM processing in A1 remains unresolved. We recorded A1 neurons' responses in awake macaques to sinusoidal AM noise. We find most (37-78%) neurons synchronize to at least one modulation frequency (MF) without exhibiting nonsynchronized responses. However, we find both exclusively nonsynchronized neurons (7-29%) and &quot;mixed-mode&quot; neurons (13-40%) that synchronize to at least one MF and fire nonsynchronously to at least one other. We introduce new measures for modulation encoding and temporal synchrony that can improve the analysis of how neurons encode temporal modulation. These include comparing AM responses to the responses to unmodulated sounds, and a vector strength measure that is suitable for single-trial analysis. Our data support a transformation from a temporally based population code of AM to a rate-based code as information ascends the auditory pathway. The number of mixed-mode neurons found in A1 indicates this transformation is not yet complete, and A1 neurons may carry multiplexed temporal and rate codes.
In the non-human primate brain, a number of multisensory areas have been described where individual neurons respond to visual, tactile and bimodal visuotactile stimulation of the upper limb. It has been shown that such bimodal neurons can integrate sensory inputs in a linear or nonlinear fashion. In humans, activity in a similar set of brain regions has been associated with visuotactile stimulation of the hand. However, little is known about how these areas integrate visual and tactile information. In this functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment, we employed tactile, visual, and visuotactile stimulation of the right hand in an ecologically valid setup where participants were looking directly at their upper limb. We identified brain regions that were activated by both visual and tactile stimuli as well as areas exhibiting greater activity in the visuotactile condition than in both unisensory ones. The posterior and inferior parietal, dorsal, and ventral premotor cortices, as well as the cerebellum, all showed evidence of multisensory linear (additive) responses. Nonlinear, superadditive responses were observed in the cortex lining the left anterior intraparietal sulcus, the insula, dorsal premotor cortex, and, subcortically, the putamen. These results identify a set of candidate frontal, parietal and subcortical regions that integrate visual and tactile information for the multisensory perception of one's own hand.
Propriospinal interneurons in the thoracic spinal cord have vital roles not only in controlling respiratory and trunk muscles, but also in providing possible substrates for recovery from spinal cord injury. Intracellular recordings were made from such interneurons in anesthetized cats under neuromuscular blockade and with the respiratory drive stimulated by inhaled CO(2). The majority of the interneurons were shown by antidromic activation to have axons descending for at least two to four segments, mostly contralateral to the soma. In all, 81% of the neurons showed postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) to stimulation of intercostal or dorsal ramus nerves of the same segment for low-threshold ( 5T) afferents. A monosynaptic component was present for the majority of the peripherally evoked excitatory PSPs. A central respiratory drive potential was present in most of the recordings, usually of small amplitude. Neurons depolarized in either inspiration or expiration, sometimes variably. The morphology of 17 of the interneurons and/or of their axons was studied following intracellular injection of Neurobiotin; 14 axons were descending, 6 with an additional ascending branch, and 3 were ascending (perhaps actually representing ascending tract cells); 15 axons were crossed, 2 ipsilateral, none bilateral. Collaterals were identified for 13 axons, showing exclusively unilateral projections. The collaterals were widely spaced and their terminations showed a variety of restricted locations in the ventral horn or intermediate area. Despite heterogeneity in detail, both physiological and morphological, which suggests heterogeneity of function, the projections mostly fitted a consistent general pattern: crossed axons, with locally weak, but widely distributed terminations.
A major goal of computational neuroscience is the creation of computer models for cortical areas whose response to sensory stimuli resembles that of cortical areas in vivo in important aspects. It is seldom considered whether the simulated spiking activity is realistic (in a statistical sense) in response to natural stimuli. Because certain statistical properties of spike responses were suggested to facilitate computations in the cortex, acquiring a realistic firing regimen in cortical network models might be a prerequisite for analyzing their computational functions. We present a characterization and comparison of the statistical response properties of the primary visual cortex (V1) in vivo and in silico in response to natural stimuli. We recorded from multiple electrodes in area V1 of 4 macaque monkeys and developed a large state-of-the-art network model for a 5  5-mm patch of V1 composed of 35,000 neurons and 3.9 million synapses that integrates previously published anatomical and physiological details. By quantitative comparison of the model response to the &quot;statistical fingerprint&quot; of responses in vivo, we find that our model for a patch of V1 responds to the same movie in a way which matches the statistical structure of the recorded data surprisingly well. The deviation between the firing regimen of the model and the in vivo data are on the same level as deviations among monkeys and sessions. This suggests that, despite strong simplifications and abstractions of cortical network models, they are nevertheless capable of generating realistic spiking activity. To reach a realistic firing state, it was not only necessary to include both N-methyl-d-aspartate and GABA(B) synaptic conductances in our model, but also to markedly increase the strength of excitatory synapses onto inhibitory neurons (&gt;2-fold) in comparison to literature values, hinting at the importance to carefully adjust the effect of inhibition for achieving realistic dynamics in current network models.
The basal amygdala (BA) plays a key role in mediating the facilitating effects of emotions on memory. Recent findings indicate that this function depends on the ability of BA neurons to generate coherent oscillatory activity, facilitating synaptic plasticity in target neurons. However, the mechanisms allowing BA neurons to synchronize their activity remain poorly understood. Here, we aimed to shed light on this question, focusing on a slow periodic inhibitory oscillation previously observed in the BA in vitro. Paired patch recordings showed that these large inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) occur almost synchronously in BA projection neurons, that they were typically not preceded by excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), and that they had little or no correlate in neighboring amygdala nuclei or cortical fields. The initial phase of the IPSPs was associated with an increase in membrane potential fluctuations at 50-100 Hz. In keeping with this, the IPSPs seen in projection cells were correlated with repetitive firing at 50-100 Hz in presumed interneurons and they could be abolished by picrotoxin. However, the IPSPs were also sensitive to 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, implying that they arose from the interplay between glutamatergic and GABAergic BA neurons. In support of this idea, we identified a small subset of projection cells (15%), positively identified as such by retrograde labeling from BA projection sites, that began firing shortly before the IPSP onset and presumably drove interneuronal firing. These results add to a rapidly growing body of data indicating that the BA contains at least two distinct types of projection cells that vary in their relation with interneurons and extra-amygdala targets.
The advent of methods for optical imaging of large-scale neural activity at cellular resolution in behaving animals presents the problem of identifying behavior-encoding cells within the resulting image time series. Rapid and precise identification of cells with particular neural encoding would facilitate targeted activity measurements and perturbations useful in characterizing the operating principles of neural circuits. Here we report a regression-based approach to semiautomatically identify neurons that is based on the correlation of fluorescence time series with quantitative measurements of behavior. The approach is illustrated with a novel preparation allowing synchronous eye tracking and two-photon laser scanning fluorescence imaging of calcium changes in populations of hindbrain neurons during spontaneous eye movement in the larval zebrafish. Putative velocity-to-position oculomotor integrator neurons were identified that showed a broad spatial distribution and diversity of encoding. Optical identification of integrator neurons was confirmed with targeted loose-patch electrical recording and laser ablation. The general regression-based approach we demonstrate should be widely applicable to calcium imaging time series in behaving animals.
Sodium (Na(+)) ions are of primary importance for hydromineral and cardiovascular homeostasis, and the level of Na(+) in the body fluid compartments [plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)] is precisely monitored in the hypothalamus. Glial cells seem to play a critical role in the mechanism of Na(+) detection. However, the precise role of neurons in the detection of extracellular Na(+) concentration ([Na(+)](out)) remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that neurons of the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO), a structure in close contact with the CSF, are specific Na(+) sensors. Electrophysiological recordings were performed on dissociated rat MnPO neurons under isotonic [Na(+)] (100 mM NaCl) with local application of hypernatriuric (150, 180 mM NaCl) or hyponatriuric (50 mM NaCl) external solution. The hyper- and hyponatriuric conditions triggered an in- and an outward current, respectively. The reversal potential of the current matched the equilibrium potential of Na(+), indicating that a change in [Na(+)](out) modified the influx of Na(+) in the MnPO neurons. The conductance of the Na(+) current was not affected by either the membrane potential or the [Na(+)](out). Moreover, the channel was highly selective for lithium over guanidinium. Together, these data identified the channel as a Na(+) leak channel. A high correlation between the electrophysiological recordings and immunofluorescent labeling for the Na(X) channel in dissociated MnPO neurons strongly supports this channel as a candidate for the Na(+) leak channel responsible for the Na(+)-sensing ability of rat MnPO neurons. The absence of Na(X) labeling and of a specific current evoked by a change in [Na(+)](out) in mouse MnPO neurons suggests species specificity in the hypothalamus structures participating in central Na(+) detection.
Immediately after spinal cord injury (SCI), a devastating paralysis results from the loss of brain stem and cortical innervation of spinal neurons that control movement, including a loss of serotonergic (5-HT) innervation of motoneurons. Over time, motoneurons recover from denervation and function autonomously, exhibiting large persistent calcium currents (Ca PICs) that both help with functional recovery and contribute to uncontrolled muscle spasms. Here we systematically evaluated which 5-HT receptor subtypes influence PICs and spasms after injury. Spasms were quantified by recording the long-lasting reflexes (LLRs) on ventral roots in response to dorsal root stimulation, in the chronic spinal rat, in vitro. Ca PICs were quantified by intracellular recording in synaptically isolated motoneurons. Application of agonists selective to 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2C) receptors (including BW723C86) significantly increased the LLRs and associated Ca PICs, whereas application of agonists to 5-HT(1), 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(3), or 5-HT(4/5/6/7) receptors (e.g., 8-OH-DPAT) did not. The 5-HT(2) receptor agonist-induced increases in LLRs were dose dependent, with doses for 50% effects (EC(50)) highly correlated with published doses for agonist receptor binding (K(i)) at 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2C) receptors. Application of selective antagonists to 5-HT(2B) (e.g., RS127445) and 5-HT(2C) (SB242084) receptors inhibited the agonist-induced increase in LLR. However, antagonists that are known to specifically be neutral antagonists at 5-HT(2B/C) receptors (e.g., RS127445) had no effect when given by themselves, indicating that these receptors were not activated by residual 5-HT in the spinal cord. In contrast, inverse agonists (such as SB206553) that block constitutive activity at 5-HT(2B) or 5-HT(2C) receptors markedly reduced the LLRs, indicating the presence of constitutive activity in these receptors. 5-HT(2B) or 5-HT(2C) receptors were confirmed to be on motoneurons by immunolabeling. In summary, 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2C) receptors on motoneurons become constitutively active after injury and ultimately contribute to recovery of motoneuron function and emergence of spasms.
Infectious intracranial aneurysms are a rare but serious potential complication of subacute endocarditis. Early diagnosis and treatment is essential to prevent devastating neurological deficits and mortality. Because nurse practitioners' roles expand into acute care as well as urgent care settings, they are frequently involved in the care of this population. Identifying the patients at risk, ordering appropriate studies, and initiating goal directed therapy are vital to outcomes. For nurse practitioners who are involved in care of neuroscience populations, it is important to be familiar with disease processes. This article provides a literature review of the topic, explores diagnostic methods, discusses management strategies, and presents an illustrative case.
The response to hyperosmotic stresses in the abdominal cavity is regulated, in part, by vasopressin (VP)-secreting neurons in the supraoptic nucleus (SON). How osmotic stress signals are transmitted to the brain is incompletely understood, and whether the transmission routes for osmotic stress signals differ between acute and chronic stresses is unknown. Here we investigated the role of the vagus, splanchnic nerves, and astrocytes in the SON in transducing acute hyperosmotic-stress signals from the abdominal cavity. We found that acute administration of hyperosmotic saline triggered the activation of neurons as well as astrocytes in the SON and the adjoining ventral glia limitans (SON-VGL). Severing the subdiaphragmatic vagal nerve (SDV) prevented the normal response of cells in the SON to HS treatment and attenuated the release of VP into the bloodstream. Lesioning the splanchnic nerves (SNL) diminished HS-induced release of VP, but to a much lesser extent than SDV. Furthermore, SNL did not significantly affect the up-regulation of Fos in SON neurons or the up-regulation of Fos and GFAP in SON and SON-VGL astrocytes that normally occurred in response to HS and did not affect HS-induced expansion of the SON-VGL. Inhibiting astrocytes with fluorocitrate (FCA) prevented the response of the SON to HS and attenuated the release of VP, similarly to SDV surgery. These results suggest that the vagus is the principle route for the transmission of hyperosmotic signals to the brain and that astrocytes in the SON region are necessary for the activation of SON neurons and the release of VP into the bloodstream.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) increases brain beta-amyloid (A) in humans and animals. Although the role of A in the injury cascade is unknown, multiple preclinical studies have demonstrated a correlation between reduced A and improved outcome. Therefore, therapeutic strategies that enhance A clearance may be beneficial after TBI. Increased levels of ATP-binding cassette A1 (ABCA1) transporters can enhance A clearance through an apolipoprotein E (apoE)-mediated pathway. By measuring A and ABCA1 after experimental TBI in C57BL/6J mice, we found that A peaked early after injury (1-3 days), whereas ABCA1 had a delayed response (beginning at 3 days). As ABCA1 levels increased, A levels returned to baseline levels-consistent with the known role of ABCA1 in A clearance. To test if enhancing ABCA1 levels could block TBI-induced A, we treated TBI mice with the liver X-receptor (LXR) agonist T0901317. Pre- and post-injury treatment increased ABCA1 levels at 24h post-injury, and reduced the TBI-induced increase in A. This reduction in A was not due to decreased amyloid precursor protein processing, or a shift in the solubility of A, indicating enhanced clearance. T0901317 also limited motor coordination deficits in injured mice and reduced brain lesion volume. These data indicate that activation of LXR can reduce A accumulation after TBI, and is accompanied by improved functional recovery.
Social functioning deficits are a prominent feature of many neurological and psychiatric conditions, and may include disruption in the acquisition or application of basic or complex social skills. Such disturbances are often resistant to treatment, and individuals with such conditions are often faced with lifelong difficulties in maintaining personal relationships, employment, and independent living. In recent years, a number of psychosocial treatments have been developed to address this growing problem. In this article, we review studies investigating the use of psychosocial training interventions in individuals with acquired brain injuries, which frequently require intervention for impairments in cognitive and social functioning. We then discuss limitations of these studies and highlight specific areas in which such treatments might be improved in the future.
Recognizing and managing the effects of cerebral concussion is very challenging, given the discrete symptomatology. Most individuals with sports-related concussion will not score below 15 on the Glasgow Coma Scale, but will present with rapid onset of short-lived neurological impairment, demonstrating no structural changes on traditional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) scans. The return-to-play decision is one of the most difficult responsibilities facing the physician, and so far this decision has been primarily based on neurological examination, symptom checklists, and neuropsychological (NP) testing. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) may be a more objective tool to assess the severity and recovery of function after concussion. We assessed white matter (WM) fiber tract integrity in varsity level college athletes with sports-related concussion without loss of consciousness, who experienced protracted symptoms for at least 1 month after injury. Evaluation of fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD) of the WM skeleton using tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) revealed a large cluster of significantly increased MD for concussed subjects in several WM fiber tracts in the left hemisphere, including parts of the inferior/superior longitudinal and fronto-occipital fasciculi, the retrolenticular part of the internal capsule, and posterior thalamic and acoustic radiations. Qualitative comparison of average FA and MD suggests that with increasing level of injury severity (ranging from sports-related concussion to severe traumatic brain injury), MD might be more sensitive at detecting mild injury, whereas FA captures more severe injuries. In conclusion, the TBSS analysis used to evaluate diffuse axonal injury of the WM skeleton seems sensitive enough to detect structural changes in sports-related concussion.
In the central nervous system, chemokines are primarily mediators of inflammatory processes. Their receptors, in particular, CXCR4 and CCR5, serve as co-factors along with CD4 that permit Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV) infection. Moreover, experimental evidence has shown that CXCR4 and CCR5 mediate the neurotoxic effects of the HIV envelope protein gp120, suggesting that these receptors could also promote the neuropathogenesis observed in HIV-positive individuals. Therefore, a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms governing the expression of chemokine receptors in the brain may lead to improved therapies that reduce HIV neurotoxicity. This study presents evidence that the expression of chemokine receptors in the brain is modulated by two neurotrophins in an area-specific manner. This new evidence suggests that the neurotrophins may be an adjunct therapy to reduce HIV-mediated neuronal injury evoked by chemokine receptor activation.



We previously reported that some N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonists enhanced histamine neuron activity in rodents. Here, we have investigated the effects of memantine, an NMDA-receptor antagonist used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, on histaminergic neurotransmission. In vitro, memantine antagonized native NMDA receptors with a micromolar potency but had no effect at recombinant human histamine receptors. In vivo, a single administration of memantine increased histamine neuron activity, as shown by the 60% increase of tele-methylhistamine (t-MeHA) levels observed in the brain of mice. This increase occurred with an ED(50) of 0.3  0.1 mg/kg, similar to that found on inhibition of ex vivo [(3)H]dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) binding (1.8  1.3 mg/kg). Two days after pretreatment of mice with memantine at 5 mg/kg twice daily for 5 days, t-MeHA levels were enhanced by 50  7% (p &lt; 0.001), indicating a long-lasting activation of histamine neurons. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis was used to explore genes involved in this persistent effect. H(3) receptor mRNAs were strongly increased, but the density of H(3) receptor binding sites was increased solely in hypothalamus (by 141  24%). Up-regulations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and NMDA-receptor 1 subunit mRNAs were also found but were restricted to hippocampus. mRNA expression of 7-nicotinic receptors remained unchanged in any region. Considering the well established cognitive effects of histamine neurons, the increase in brain t-MeHA levels after single or repeated administration of therapeutic doses of memantine suggests that the drug exerts its beneficial effects on cognitive deficits of Alzheimer's disease, at least partly, by activating histamine neurons.
Voluntary limb movements are initiated in the brain but the neurones responsible for activating the muscles (motoneurones and interneurones) are located in the spinal cord. The spinal cord also contains neurones that provide the brain, and especially the cerebellum, with continuous information on effects of the descending commands. We show that one population of such neurones provide the cerebellum with information on how likely the brain's commands (mediated by descending reticulospinal neurones) are to be executed as planned, depending on the degree of inhibition of motoneurones. They may therefore play an important role in preventing errors in activation of motoneurones and thereby help the brain to correct its signals to the spinal cord before such errors have been committed.
Muscle contraction is triggered by the spread of an action potential along the fibre. The ionic current to generate the action potential is conducted through voltage-activated sodium channels, and mutations of these channels are known to cause several human muscle disorders. Mouse models have been created by introducing point mutations into the sodium channel gene. This achievement has created the need for a high-fidelity technique to record sodium currents from intact mouse muscle fibres. We have optimized a two-electrode voltage clamp, using sharp microelectrodes to preserve the myoplasmic contents. The voltage-dependent behaviour of sodium channel activation, inactivation and slow-inactivation were characterized. The voltage range for these gating behaviours was remarkably hyperpolarized, in comparison to studies in artificial expression systems. These results provide normative data for sodium channels natively expressed in mouse muscle and illustrate the need to modify model simulations of muscle excitability to account for the hyperpolarized shift.
Usually nicotinic receptors in the central nervous system only influence the strength of a signal between neurons. At a few critical connections, for instance some of those involved in the flight response, nicotinic receptors not only modulate the signal, they actually determine whether a signal is conveyed or not. We show at one of the few such connections accessible for study, up to three different nicotinic receptor subtypes mediate the signal. The subtypes appear to be clustered in separate locations. Depending on the number and combination of the subtypes present the signal can range from short to long duration and from low to high amplitude. This provides a critical connection with a built-in plasticity and may enable it to adapt to a changing environment.
If a weight is applied to a finger and the subject asked to produce the same force, the subject generates a force larger than the weight. That is, subjects overestimate the force applied by an external target when matching it. Details of this force overestimation are not well understood. We show that subjects overestimate small target weights, but not larger ones. Furthermore we show for the first time that the force overestimation consists of two components. The first component is a constant. The second component depends on the precise magnitude of the weight and is only present when subjects hold the target weight against gravity. We suggest that the two components are generated in different phases of the force-matching task, are due to different processes, and must have an influence on all proprioceptive judgements of force.
Melatonin occurs in large amounts in the intestinal mucosa and is released during a meal. Recent studies of ours reveal that exogenous melatonin evokes the in vivo secretion of protein and amylase from the rat parotid gland. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of melatonin on the protein synthesis of the parotid gland of pentobarbitone-anaesthetised rats as estimated by the rate of incorporation of [H]leucine into trichloroacetic acid-insoluble material of the gland. Compared with the parotid protein synthesis (set at 100%) of those rats exposed to an intravenous infusion of melatonin (25 mg/kg during 1 hour), under muscarinic and - and -adrenoceptor blockade, the synthesis in the corresponding glands of saline-treated control rats was less (by 25%). The synthesis was also less when the melatonin administration was combined with the melatonin 2-preferring receptor antagonist luzindole (24%), the non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME (18%) and the neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N-PLA (21%). Almost all the melatonin receptor-mediated effect was due to nitric oxide generation via the activity of neuronal type nitric oxide synthase. The present findings lend further weight to the idea that salivary glandular activity associated with food intake is hormonally influenced and they also suggest clinical implications for melatonin in the treatment of xerostomia. Since melatonin is known to exert anti-inflammatory actions in the oral cavity, the stimulatory effect of melatonin may include the synthesis of proteins of importance for the oral defence.
In this study, we assessed the oxidative stress parameters in rats submitted to an animal model of mania induced by ouabain (OUA), which included the use of lithium (Li) and valproate (VPA). Li and VPA treatment reversed and prevented the OUA-induced damage in these structures, however, this effect varies depending on the brain region and treatment regimen. Moreover, the activity of the antioxidant enzymes, namely, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) was found to be increased and decreased, respectively, in the brain of OUA-administered rats. Li and VPA modulated SOD and CAT activities in OUA-subjected rats in both experimental models. Our results support the notion that Li and VPA exert antioxidant-like properties in the brain of rats submitted to animal model of mania induced by ouabain.
The disruption of glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta (GSK3B) homeostasis has implications in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders, namely Alzheimer's disease (AD). GSK3B activity is increased within the AD brain, favoring the hyperphosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein Tau and the formation of neurofibrillary tangles. Such abnormality has also been detected in leukocytes of patients with cognitive disorders. The aim of the present study was to determine the expression of total and phosphorylated GSK3B at protein level in platelets of older adults with varying degrees of cognitive impairment, and to compare GSK3B activity in patients with AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and healthy controls. Sixty-nine older adults were included (24 patients with mild to moderate AD, 22 patients with amnestic MCI and 23 elderly controls). The expression of platelet GSK3B (total- and Ser-9 phosphorylated GSK3B) was determined by Western blot. GSK3B activity was indirectly assessed by means of the proportion between phospho-GSK3B to total GSK3B (GSK3B ratio), the former representing the inactive form of the enzyme. Ser-9 phosphorylated GSK3B was significantly reduced in patients with MCI and AD as compared to controls (p=0.04). Platelet GSK3B ratio was significantly decreased in patients with MCI and AD (p=0.04), and positively correlated with scores on memory tests (r=0.298, p=0.01). In conclusion, we corroborate previous evidence of increased GSK activity in peripheral tissues of patients with MCI and AD, and further propose that platelet GSK may be an alternative peripheral biomarker of this abnormality, provided samples are adequately handled in order to preclude platelet activation.

Potential predictors of remission in mixed bipolar I disorder were identified using early Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) improvement criteria in divalproex-resistant patients randomized to olanzapine augmentation (olanzapine + divalproex; N = 101) in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. In a post-hoc analysis, receiver operating characteristics of 1-point decreases in the CGI-S total score after 2, 4, 7, and 14 days were examined as predictors of endpoint (Week 6 or last observation) remission of depression and/or mania as defined by 21-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS-21) and Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) total score 8. Based on a 1-point improvement in CGI-S as a predictor of remission, all odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were statistically significant for depression or mania remission criteria. ORs for mixed symptom remission with a decrease 1 in CGI-S scores at Day 2 for olanzapine augmentation were (6.727; CI: 2.382, 18.997; p &lt; .001) with negative predictive value = 89.5% and positive predictive value = 44.2%. Changes in HDRS-21 and YMRS individual item scores after 2 days of augmentation as predictors of endpoint remission identified that decreases in HDRS-21 symptom item scores (early, middle, and/or late insomnia; paranoid; agitation; and somatic/gastrointestinal) predicted depressive symptom remission at endpoint, and decreases in YMRS item scores (language-thought disorder and irritability) were associated with manic symptom remission at endpoint. Because remission with augmentation therapy may occur in as few as one in ten individuals who lack very early symptom reduction, lack of early improvement may indicate a need to expediently reassess treatment strategy.
Neuroethics is a developing field, concerned with addressing present and future applied ethical issues brought about directly and indirectly by neuroscience advancements. One domain where neuroscience has begun to have far-reaching ethical implications is in the research and development of pharmaceutical cognitive enhancers. Though such drugs are typically developed to treat cognitive disabilities and improve the quality of life for patients with neuropsychiatric disorders and brain injury, research has found that such drugs can improve performance on cognitive tasks in healthy individuals. In line with such findings is the growing use of these drugs by students and others for cognitive-enhancing purposes. The present paper reviews some of the evidence in both neuropsychiatric and healthy individuals and discusses the implications such research can have for society.
The effects of RU486 and S-P, a more selective glucocorticoid receptor antagonist from Schering-Plough, were investigated on glucocorticoid receptor nuclear translocation and DNA binding. In the in vitro study, AtT20 cells were treated with vehicle or with RU486, S-P or corticosterone (3-300 nM) or co-treated with vehicle or glucocorticoid receptor antagonists (3-300 nM) and 30 nM corticosterone. Both glucocorticoid receptor antagonists induced glucocorticoid receptor nuclear translocation but only RU486 induced DNA binding. RU486 potentiated the effect of corticosterone on glucocorticoid receptor nuclear translocation and DNA binding, S-P inhibited corticosterone-induced glucocorticoid receptor nuclear translocation, but not glucocorticoid receptor-DNA binding. In the in vivo study, adrenalectomized rats were treated with vehicle, RU486 (20 mg/kg) and S-P (50 mg/kg) alone or in combination with corticosterone (3 mg/kg). RU486 induced glucocorticoid receptor nuclear translocation in the pituitary, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex and glucocorticoid receptor-DNA binding in the hippocampus, whereas no effect of S-P on glucocorticoid receptor nuclear translocation or DNA binding was observed in any of the areas analysed. These findings reveal differential effects of RU486 and S-P on areas involved in regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity in vivo and they are important in light of the potential use of this class of compounds in the treatment of disorders associated with hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Many subjects cannot give fully informed consent to take part in research by virtue of age or mental capacity. However, it is unacceptable to deny these patients involvement in research by virtue of a lack of capacity to consent to such research. Further, this would hinder the advancement of medical science and technologies that might ultimately benefit these patients. Conversely, it is as unacceptable to discriminate against these patients and their condition as it is to exploit them or expose them to undue risk. Neuroscientific research raises a number of specific ethical issues in this patient population, in particular issues of consent, potential benefits of research, management of incidental findings and the assignment of appropriate controls. This paper examines the dilemmas that surround such ethical issues, and demonstrates that various procedures including informed consent, deferred consent and consent by proxy can be used to consent patients in both the standard medical and research arenas. Researchers, clinicians and regulatory authorities must work together to understand the benefits, limitations, risks and obligations of any research study involving these patients in order to advance medical care.



A male patient with muscle weakness had clinical findings of ptosis, diplopia, proximal leg weakness, and positive repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS) test. He demonstrated positive acetylcholine receptor antibody. This lung cancer patient was presenting myasthenia gravis. The causal association between non-small-cell lung cancer and non-thymomatous myasthenia gravis has not been clarified yet. To date, there has been no evidence supporting the speculation that association of myasthenia gravis with lung cancer might be one of the phenotypes of paraneoplastic syndrome.

Successful in vitro differentiation of spermatogenic cells into spermatids appears to offer extremely attractive potential for the treatment of impaired spermatogenesis and male infertility. Experimental evidence indicates that biocompatible polymers may improve in vitro reconstitution and regeneration of tissues of various origins. Here, we fabricated highly porous biodegradable poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) or PLGA co-polymer scaffolds by combining the gas-foaming and salt-leaching methods, using ammonium bicarbonate as a porogen, which allowed us to generate polymer scaffolds with a high density of interconnected pores of 400-500 m in average diameter, concomitant with a high malleability to mould a wide range of temporal tissue scaffolds requiring a specific shape and geometry. The PLGA scaffolds were biocompatible and biodegradable, as evidenced by the fact that they survived almost 3 month long subcutaneous xenografting into immunodeficient host mice and became easily destroyable after recovery. Immature rat testicular cells that were seeded onto the surface of the scaffold exhibited about 65% seeding efficiency and up to 75% viability after 18 days in culture. Furthermore, our scaffolds enhanced the proliferation and differentiation of spermatogenic germ cells to a greater extent than conventional in vitro culture methods, such as monolayer or organ culture. Taken together, an implication of the present findings is that the PLGA-based macroporous scaffold may provide a novel means by which spermatocytes could be induced to differentiate into presumptive spermatids.
Among different subtypes of ischemic stroke, atherosclerotic stroke carries the greatest risk (30%) of worsening and recurrence during the acute phase of hospitalization with a 7.9% risk  30 days. Causes of this high risk include plaque rupture leading to thrombus formation, thrombus propagation with consequent vessel occlusion, and distal embolism. In this context, emergent endarterectomy or anticoagulation, followed by deferred endarterectomy, are both controversial. We report a patient with an ischemic stroke caused by thromboembolism from an ulcerated plaque with floating thrombus of the internal carotid artery (ICA). A controversial use of heparin is discussed.


Patients with behavioural-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) present with insidious changes in personality and interpersonal conduct that indicate progressive disintegration of the neural circuits involved in social cognition, emotion regulation, motivation, and decision making. The underlying pathological changes are heterogeneous and are characterised by various intraneuronal inclusions. Biomarkers to detect these histopathological changes in life are becoming increasingly important with the development of disease-modifying drugs. Gene mutations have been found that collectively account for around 10-20% of cases. Recently, criteria proposed for bvFTD define three levels of diagnostic certainty: possible, probable, and definite. Detailed history taking from family members to elicit behavioural features underpins the diagnostic process, with support from neuropsychological testing designed to detect impairment in decision making, emotion processing, and social cognition. Brain imaging is important for increasing the level of diagnostic certainty. A recently developed staging instrument shows much promise for monitoring patients and evaluating therapies, which at present are aimed at symptom amelioration. Carer education and support remain of paramount importance.
The aggregation of casein micelles (CMs) induced by milk-clotting enzymes is a process of fundamental importance in the dairy industry for cheese production; however, it is not well characterized on the nanoscale. Here we enabled the monitoring of the kinetics of aggregation between single CMs (30-600 nm in diameter) by immobilizing them on a glass substrate at low densities and subsequently imaging them with fluorescence microscopy. We validated the new method by a quantitative comparison to ensemble measurements of aggregation. Single-particle statistics allowed us to observe for the first time several heterogeneities in CM aggregation. We observed two types of CM growth: a slow increase in the size of CMs and a stepwise increase attributed to interactions between aggregates preformed in solution. Both types of growth exhibit a lag phase that was very heterogeneous between different CMs, suggesting significant differences in their composition or structure. Detailed size histograms of CMs during aggregation also revealed the presence of two distinct subpopulations with different growth amplitudes and kinetics. The dependence of these distinct nanoscale processes/parameters on aggregation conditions is not accessible to bulk measurements that report only ensemble-average values and may prove important to an in-depth understanding of CM aggregation.
This paper tests claims that children with Grammatical(G)-SLI are impaired in hierarchical structural dependencies at the clause level and in whatever underlies such dependencies with respect to movement, chain formation and feature checking; that is, their impairment lies in the syntactic computational system itself (the Computational Grammatical Complexity hypothesis proposed by van der Lely in previous work). We use a grammaticality judgement task to test whether G-SLI children's errors in wh-questions are due to the hypothesised impairment in syntactic dependencies at the clause level or lie in more general processes outside the syntactic system, such as working memory capacity. We compare the performance of 14 G-SLI children (aged 10-17 years) with that of 36 younger language-matched controls (aged 5-8 years). We presented matrix wh-subject and object questions balanced for wh-words (who/what/which) that were grammatical, ungrammatical, or semantically inappropriate. Ungrammatical questions contained wh-trace or T-to-C dependency violations that G-SLI children had previously produced in elicitation tasks. G-SLI children, like their language controls, correctly accepted grammatical questions, but rejected semantically inappropriate ones. However, they were significantly impaired in rejecting wh-trace and T-to-C dependency violations. The findings provide further support for the CGC hypothesis that G-SLI children have a core deficit in the computational system itself that affects syntactic dependencies at the clause level.

A classical approach in the neurosciences is to study neural activity modulations induced by a stimulus, a task, etc. This approach is anchored in a behaviourist culture and has proven informative within certain limits. The present paper shows that this approach nonetheless neglects aspects of neural activity that can also contribute important information about brain function. Over the last years, the contributions with the strongest impact on progress in cognitive neuroscience have used other approaches that exploit a spatial or temporal variability of neural activity that standard analyses consider as noise and hence do not take into account. By applying multi-variate analyses, spatial variability of evoked responses has permitted decoding sensory and cognitive representations in the brain. Temporal variability of ongoing neural activity influences how stimuli are perceived trial by trial as well as the associated evoked responses which points out the importance of spontaneous brain activity for cognition. We describe these two kind of approaches based on experiments using functional neuroimaging but the conclusions generalize to other techniques applied in the neurosciences.
University of Colorado (CU) students were tested on memory for the &quot;CU Fight Song&quot; in order to examine serial position effects in semantic memory while controlling for familiarity across positions. In Experiment 1, students reconstructed the order of the nine lines of the song. Students with previous exposure to the song performed better and showed a more bowed serial position function than did students with no knowledge of the song. Experiment 2 added a task assessing memory of item information. One word was removed and replaced with a blank in each line, and an alternative word was offered as an option, along with the correct word. Students selected the word that fit into each blank and then reconstructed the order of the lines. There was a bow-shaped curve for order reconstruction, but not for item selection, which implies that the serial position function in semantic memory stems from order, rather than item, information.
Readers learn errors embedded in fictional stories and use them to answer later general knowledge questions (Marsh, Meade, &amp; Roediger, 2003). Suggestibility is robust and occurs even when story errors contradict well-known facts. The current study evaluated whether suggestibility is linked to participants' inability to judge story content as correct versus incorrect. Specifically, participants read stories containing correct and misleading information about the world; some information was familiar (making error discovery possible), while some was more obscure. To improve participants' monitoring ability, we highlighted (in red font) a subset of story phrases requiring evaluation; readers no longer needed to find factual information. Rather, they simply needed to evaluate its correctness. Readers were more likely to answer questions with story errors if they were highlighted in red font, even if they contradicted well-known facts. Although highlighting to-be-evaluated information freed cognitive resources for monitoring, an ironic effect occurred: Drawing attention to specific errors increased rather than decreased later suggestibility. Failure to monitor for errors, not failure to identify the information requiring evaluation, leads to suggestibility.
Both nitric oxide (NO) and endothelins can either increase or decrease myocardial contractility. A positive inotropic effect occurs in response to low NO concentrations, whereas a negative effect is brought about by high concentrations. Activation of protein kinase A and protein kinase G accounts for the increase and decrease in contractility respectively. Basal NO concentration is virtually unknown so that when NO-donors and NOS stimulators add newly released NO, the most frequent effect is a decrease in contractility. This negative inotropic effect represents a protection against the maladaptative activity of the increased production of angiotensin II and cathecholamines in heart failure. Unlike NO, the main effect of endothelins is an increase in contractility. While the increase in contractility is attributed to an activation of Na+/H+ and Na+/Ca2+ exchangers a decrease seems to depend on the triggering of NO-cGMP pathway by endothelin receptors B. Since endothelin concentration increases in several cardiovascular diseases, the blockade of endothelin receptors has been suggested as a therapeutic tool. The study of the endothelial-dependent repolarizing factors revealed the inotropic activity of 14,15 isoform of epoxi-eicosatrienoic acids.
Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to exert multiple actions on neurons. It plays a role in neuronal growth and maintenance and use-dependent plasticity, such as long-term potentiation and learning. This neurotrophin is believed to regulate neuronal plasticity by modifying neuronal excitability and morphology. There is experimental evidence for both an acute and a long-term effect of BDNF on synaptic transmission and structure but the molecular mechanisms underlying these events have not been completely clarified. In order to study the BDNF-induced molecular changes, the set of genes modulated in cultured hippocampal neurons by BDNF treatment was investigated after subchronic treatment with the neurotrophin. Microarray analysis performed with these cells, revealed increased expression of mRNA encoding the neuropeptides neuropeptide Y and somatostatin, and of the secreted peptide VGF (non acronymic), all of which participate in neurotransmission. In addition, the expression of genes apolipoprotein E (ApoE), delta-6 fatty acid desaturase (Fads2) and matrix metalloproteinase 14 (Mmp14), which play a role in neuronal remodelling, was also enhanced. More studies are needed to investigate and confirm the role of these genes in synaptic plasticity, but the results reported in this paper show that microarray analysis of hippocampal cultures can be used to expand our current knowledge of the molecular events triggered by BDNF in the hippocampus.
The molecular mechanisms that coordinate postnatal brain enlargement, synaptic properties, and cognition remain an enigma. Here, we demonstrate that neuronal complexity controlled by p21-activated kinases (PAKs) is a key determinant for postnatal brain enlargement and synaptic properties. We showed that double-knockout (DK) mice lacking both PAK1 and PAK3 were born healthy, with normal brain size and structure, but severely impaired in postnatal brain growth, resulting in a dramatic reduction in brain volume. Remarkably, the reduced brain size was accompanied by minimal changes in total cell count, due to a significant increase in cell density. However, the DK neurons have smaller soma, markedly simplified dendritic arbors/axons, and reduced synapse density. Surprisingly, the DK mice had elevated basal synaptic responses due to enhanced individual synaptic potency but were severely impaired in bidirectional synaptic plasticity. The actions of PAK1 and PAK3 are possibly mediated by cofilin-dependent actin regulation, because the activity of cofilin and the properties of actin filaments were altered in the DK mice. These results reveal an essential in vivo role of PAK1 and PAK3 in coordinating neuronal complexity and synaptic properties and highlight the critical importance of dendrite/axon growth in dictating postnatal brain growth and attainment of normal brain size and function.
The local progenitor population in the olfactory bulb (OB) gives rise to mitral and tufted projection neurons during embryonic development. In contrast, OB interneurons are derived from sources outside the bulb where neurogenesis continues throughout life. While many of the genes involved in OB interneuron development have been characterized, the genetic pathways driving local progenitor cell differentiation in this tissue are largely unknown. To better understand this process, we used transcriptional profiling to monitor gene expression of whole OB at daily intervals from embryonic day 11 through birth, generating a compendium of gene expression encompassing the major developmental events of this tissue. Through hierarchical clustering, bioinformatics analysis, and validation by RNA in situ hybridizations, we identified a large number of transcription factors, DNA binding proteins, and cell cycle-related genes expressed by the local neural progenitor cells (NPCs) of the embryonic OB. Further in silico analysis of transcription factor binding sites identified an enrichment of genes regulated by the E2F-Rb pathway among those expressed in the local NPC population. Together these results provide initial insights into the molecular identity of the OB local NPC population and the transcription factor networks that may regulate their function.
The roles of cells within the nervous system are based on their properties of excitability, which are in part governed by voltage-gated ion channels. HCN channels underlie the hyperpolarization-activated current, I(h), an important regulator of excitability and rhythmicity through control of basic membrane properties. I(h) is present in multiple neuronal types and regions of the central nervous system, and changes in I(h) alter cellular input-output properties and neuronal circuitry important for behavior such as learning and memory. Furthermore, the pathophysiology of neurological diseases of both the central and peripheral nervous system involves defects in excitability, rhythmicity, and signaling, and animal models of many of these disorders have implicated changes in HCN channels and I(h) as critical for pathogenesis. In this review, we focus on recent research elucidating the role of HCN channels and I(h) in behavior and disease. These studies have utilized knockout mice as well as animal models of disease to examine how I(h) may be important in regulating learning and memory, sleep, and consciousness, as well as how misregulation of I(h) may contribute to epilepsy, chronic pain, and other neurological disorders. This review will help guide future studies aimed at further understanding the function of this unique conductance in both health and disease of the mammalian brain.
We describe the clinical and molecular features of a child harboring a novel mutation in SLC6A8 gene in association with a milder phenotype than other creatine transporter (CT1) deficient patients (OMIM 300352) [1-7]. The mutation c.757 G&gt;C p.G253R in exon 4 of SLC6A8 was hemizygous in the child, aged 6 years and 6 months, who showed mild intellectual disability with severe speech and language delay. His carrier mother had borderline intellectual functioning. Although the neurochemical and biochemical parameters were fully consistent with those reported in the literature for subjects with CT1 deficit, in our patient within a general cognitive disability, a discrepancy between nonverbal and verbal skills was observed, confirming the peculiar vulnerability of language development under brain Cr depletion.
Meckel-Gruber syndrome (MKS) is a severe autosomal recessively inherited disorder characterized by developmental defects of the central nervous system that comprise neural tube defects that most commonly present as occipital encephalocele. MKS is considered to be the most common syndromic form of neural tube defect. MKS is genetically heterogeneous with six known disease genes: MKS1, MKS2/TMEM216, MKS3/TMEM67, RPGRIP1L, CEP290, and CC2D2A with the encoded proteins all implicated in the correct function of primary cilia. Primary cilia are microtubule-based organelles that project from the apical surface of most epithelial cell types. Recent progress has implicated the involvement of cilia in the Wnt and Shh signaling pathways and has led to an understanding of their role in normal mammalian neurodevelopment. The aim of this review is to provide an overview of the molecular genetics of the human disorder, and to assess recent insights into the etiology and molecular cell biology of severe ciliopathies from mammalian animal models of MKS.
We have reported previously novel drug-induced inactivation and reactivation of human 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors in a recombinant cell line. To explain these novel observations, a homodimer structure displaying protomer-protomer cross-talk was proposed. To determine whether these novel observations and interpretations are due to an artifactual G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) mechanism unique to the recombinant cell line, we explored the properties of r5-HT receptors expressed by cortical astrocytes in primary culture. As in the recombinant cell line, risperidone, 9-OH-risperidone, methiothepin, and bromocriptine were found to potently inactivate r5-HT receptors. As in the recombinant cell line, exposure of risperidone-inactivated astrocyte r5-HT receptors to competitive antagonists resulted in the reactivation of r5-HT receptors. The potencies of the reactivating drugs closely correlated with their affinities for h5-HT receptors. These results indicate the novel inactivating and reactivating property of drugs is not due to an artifact of the recombinant cell line expressing h5-HT receptors but is an intrinsic property of 5-HT receptors in vitro and ex vivo. This evidence suggests that a native (nonmutated) GPCR, in its native membrane environment (cortical astrocyte primary culture), can function as a homodimer with protomer-protomer cross-talk. Homodimers may be a common GPCR structure. The experimental design used in our studies can be used to explore the properties of other GPCRs in their native forms in recombinant cells, primary cultures expressing the endogenous GPCRs, and possibly in vivo. The homodimer structure and protomer-protomer cross-talk offer new avenues of research into receptor dysfunction in disease states and the development of novel drugs.
We combined functional imaging and genetics to investigate the behavioral and neural effects of a dysbindin-1 (DTNBP1) genotype associated with the expression level of this important synaptic protein, which has been implicated in schizophrenia. On a working memory (WM) task for emotional faces, participants with the genotype related to increased expression showed higher WM capacity for happy faces compared with the genotype related to lower expression. Activity in several task-related brain areas with known DTNBP1 expression was increased, including hippocampal, temporal and frontal cortex. Although these increases occurred across emotions, they were mostly observed in areas whose activity correlated with performance for happy faces. This suggests effects of variability in DTNBP1 on emotion-specific WM capacity and region-specific task-related brain activation in humans. Synaptic effects of DTNBP1 implicate that altered dopaminergic and/or glutamatergic neurotransmission may be related to the increased WM capacity. The combination of imaging and genetics thus allows us to bridge the gap between the cellular/molecular and systems/behavioral level and extend the cognitive neuroscience approach to a comprehensive biology of cognition.

To determine whether brain atrophy differs between the two subtypes of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), Richardson's syndrome (PSP-RS), and PSP parkinsonism (PSP-P), and whether such atrophy directly relates to clinical deficits and the severity of tau deposition. We compared 24 pathologically confirmed PSP cases (17 PSP-RS and 7 PSP-P) with 22 controls from a Sydney brain donor program. Volume loss was analyzed in 29 anatomically discrete brain regions using a validated point-counting technique, and tau-immunoreactive neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes/threads semiquantified. Correlations between the two pathological measures and the presence or absence of cardinal PSP symptoms were investigated. Cortical atrophy was more severe in PSP-RS than PSP-P and affected more frontal lobe regions (frontal pole, inferior frontal gyrus). The supramarginal gyrus was atrophic in both subtypes. Additionally, atrophy of the internal globus pallidus, amygdala, and thalamus was more severe in PSP-RS. As expected, more severe frontal lobe tau pathology differentiated PSP-RS from PSP-P. No correlations were found between the degree of atrophy and severity of tau pathology in any region assessed, or between the severity of atrophy or tau pathology and the presence or absence of cardinal PSP symptoms. Our study shows that thalamocortical atrophy is a defining feature of PSP-RS, but this atrophy does not correlate with the presence of any specific cardinal clinical feature. Interestingly, there is a disassociation between tau pathology and atrophy in the brain regions affected in PSP-RS that requires further investigation.
We investigated the diagnostic accuracy of brainstem MRI measurements in patients with different progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) syndromes and Parkinson's disease (PD). Using 3D T1-weighted images, midbrain, and pons areas, as well as superior (SCP) and middle cerebellar peduncle (MCP) widths were measured in 10 patients with Richardson's syndrome (PSP-RS), 10 patients with PSP-parkinsonism (PSP-P), 25 patients with PD, and 24 healthy controls. The ratio between pons and midbrain areas (pons/midbrain), that between MCP and SCP widths (MCP/SCP), and the MR parkinsonism index ([pons/midbrain]*[MCP/SCP]) were calculated. The pons/midbrain and the MR parkinsonism index allowed to differentiate PSP-RS from PD with high sensitivity (90%, 100%), specificity (96%, 92%), and accuracy (94%, 97%). Only the pons/midbrain was found to distinguish PSP-P from PD, but with a lower diagnostic accuracy (sensitivity = 60%, specificity = 96%, accuracy = 86%). Compared to PSP-RS, PSP-P experience a relatively less severe involvement of infratentorial brain. The pons/midbrain looks as a promising measure in the differentiation of individual PSP-P from PD patients.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) are endogenous lipids that bind principally type-1 and type-2 cannabinoid (CB(1) and CB(2)) receptors. N-Arachidonoylethanolamine (AEA, anandamide) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) are the best characterized eCBs that are released from membrane phospholipid precursors through multiple biosynthetic pathways. Together with their receptors and metabolic enzymes, eCBs form the so-called &quot;eCB system&quot;. The later has been involved in a wide variety of actions, including modulation of basal ganglia function. Consistently, both eCB levels and CB(1) receptor expression are high in several basal ganglia regions, and more specifically in the striatum and in its target projection areas. In these regions, the eCB system establishes a close functional interaction with dopaminergic neurotransmission, supporting a relevant role for eCBs in the control of voluntary movements. Accordingly, compelling experimental and clinical evidence suggests that a profound rearrangement of the eCB system in the basal ganglia follows dopamine depletion, as it occurs in Parkinson's disease (PD). In this article, we provide a brief survey of the evidence that the eCB system changes in both animal models of, and patients suffering from, PD. A striking convergence of findings is observed between both rodent and primate models and PD patients, indicating that the eCB system undergoes dynamic, adaptive changes, aimed at restoring an apparent homeostasis within the basal ganglia network.


POEMS syndrome and amyloidosis are rare plasma cell diseases that share common features, including polyneuropathy. The aim of this study was to investigate serum vascular endothelial growth factor (sVEGF) in patients with amyloidosis and to evaluate changes in response to treatment. Twenty-five patients [17 primary light-chain amyloidosis (AL-A), 7 transthyretin amyloidosis (TTR-A), 1 senile wild-type TTR-A] were studied. sVEGF was analyzed by ELISA. Sera from 8 myeloma and 7 POEMS patients were also evaluated. The median sVEGF level was 420 pg/ml in AL-A and 179 pg/ml in TTR-A patients; this was significantly lower than in POEMS syndrome (median 2580 pg/ml, P = 0.0002 and 0.001, respectively). sVEGF of AL-A patients showed no changes in response to treatment. sVEGF was not increased in amyloid patients regardless of neuropathy, and did not mirror the course of the disease. sVEGF should be tested in patients with overlapping and atypical clinical features.

One of the most fascinating issues in neuroscience is how the brain makes decisions. Recent evidence points to the parietal cortex as an important locus for certain kinds of decisions. Because parietal neurons are also involved in movements, it has been proposed that decisions are encoded in an intentional, action-based framework based on the movements used to report decisions. An alternative or complementary view is that decisions represent more abstract information not linked to movements per se. Parallel experiments on categorization suggest that parietal neurons can indeed represent abstract categorical outcomes that are not linked to movements. This could provide a unified or complementary view of how the brain decides and categorizes.
Over the last five decades, progress in neural recording techniques has allowed the number of simultaneously recorded neurons to double approximately every 7 years, mimicking Moore's law. Such exponential growth motivates us to ask how data analysis techniques are affected by progressively larger numbers of recorded neurons. Traditionally, neurons are analyzed independently on the basis of their tuning to stimuli or movement. Although tuning curve approaches are unaffected by growing numbers of simultaneously recorded neurons, newly developed techniques that analyze interactions between neurons become more accurate and more complex as the number of recorded neurons increases. Emerging data analysis techniques should consider both the computational costs and the potential for more accurate models associated with this exponential growth of the number of recorded neurons.
We present a special focus on computational and systems neuroscience, highlighting recent advances in combining empirical and theoretical approaches, including work presented at the Cosyne meeting in past years.
Homeostatic plasticity is crucial for maintaining neuronal output by counteracting unrestrained changes in synaptic strength. Chronic elevation of synaptic activity by bicuculline reduces the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs), but the underlying mechanisms of this effect remain unclear. We found that activation of EphA4 resulted in a decrease in synaptic and surface GluR1 and attenuated mEPSC amplitude through a degradation pathway that requires the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS). Elevated synaptic activity resulted in increased tyrosine phosphorylation of EphA4, which associated with the ubiquitin ligase anaphase-promoting complex (APC) and its activator Cdh1 in neurons in a ligand-dependent manner. APC(Cdh1) interacted with and targeted GluR1 for proteasomal degradation in vitro, whereas depletion of Cdh1 in neurons abolished the EphA4-dependent downregulation of GluR1. Knockdown of EphA4 or Cdh1 prevented the reduction in mEPSC amplitude in neurons that was a result of chronic elevated activity. Our results define a mechanism by which EphA4 regulates homeostatic plasticity through an APC(Cdh1)-dependent degradation pathway.
Synapses made by local interneurons dominate the thalamic circuits that process signals traveling from the eye downstream. The anatomical and physiological differences between interneurons and the (relay) cells that project to cortex are vast. To explore how these differences might influence visual processing, we made intracellular recordings from both classes of cells in vivo in cats. Macroscopically, all receptive fields were similar, consisting of two concentrically arranged subregions in which dark and bright stimuli elicited responses of the reverse sign. Microscopically, however, the responses of the two types of cells had opposite profiles. Excitatory stimuli drove trains of single excitatory postsynaptic potentials in relay cells, but graded depolarizations in interneurons. Conversely, suppressive stimuli evoked smooth hyperpolarizations in relay cells and unitary inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in interneurons. Computational analyses suggested that these complementary patterns of response help to preserve information encoded in the fine timing of retinal spikes and to increase the amount of information transmitted to cortex.
The treatment of aphasias-acquired language disorders-caused by stroke and other neurological conditions has benefitted from insights from neuroscience and neuropsychology. Hebbian mechanisms suggest that massed practice and exploitation of residual neurological capacities can aid neurorehabilitation of patients with poststroke aphasia, and progress in basic neuroscience research indicates that the language system of the human brain is functionally interwoven with perceptual and motor systems. Intensive speech and language therapies, including constraint-induced aphasia therapy, that activate both the linguistic and concordant motor circuits utilize the knowledge gained from these advances in neuroscience research and can lead to surprisingly rapid improvements in language performance, even in patients with chronic aphasia. Drug-based therapies alone and in conjunction with behavioral language therapies also increase language performance in patients with aphasia. Furthermore, noninvasive transcranial magnetic stimulation and electrical stimulation techniques that target neuronal activity within perilesional areas might help patients with aphasia to regain lost language functions. Intensive language-action therapies that lead to rapid improvements in language skills might provide a new opportunity for investigating fast plastic neuronal changes in the areas of the brain associated with language processing. Here, we review progress in basic neuroscience research and its translational impact on the neurorehabilitation of language disorders after stroke.






An accurate calculation of the first passage time probability density (FPTPD) is essential for computing the likelihood of solutions of the stochastic leaky integrate-and-fire model. The previously proposed numerical calculation of the FPTPD based on the integral equation method discretizes the probability current of the voltage crossing the threshold. While the method is accurate for high noise levels, we show that it results in large numerical errors for small noise. The problem is solved by analytically computing, in each time bin, the mean probability current. Efficiency is further improved by identifying and ignoring time bins with negligible mean probability current.
Aged nonhuman primates accumulate large amounts of human-sequence amyloid  (A) in the brain, yet they do not manifest the full phenotype of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To assess the biophysical properties of A that might govern its pathogenic potential in humans and nonhuman primates, we incubated the benzothiazole imaging agent Pittsburgh Compound B (PIB) with cortical tissue homogenates from normal aged humans, humans with AD, and from aged squirrel monkeys, rhesus monkeys, and chimpanzees with cerebral A-amyloidosis. Relative to humans with AD, high-affinity PIB binding is markedly reduced in cortical extracts from aged nonhuman primates containing levels of insoluble A similar to those in AD. The high-affinity binding of PIB may be selective for a pathologic, human-specific conformation of multimeric A, and thus could be a useful experimental tool for clarifying the unique predisposition of humans to Alzheimer's disease.
The antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is characterized by antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) and vascular brain disease which is often associated with dementia. We examined the neurodegenerative pathological processes underlying APS by inducing APS in a transgenic animal model of Alzheimer's disease. Female C57B6/SJL mice carrying the APP(695)SWE mutation (Tg2576) and wild-type (wt) controls were immunized with -glycoprotein-I (APS mice) or adjuvant alone (controls) at 4 months of age. At the age of 8 months the APP-APS mice developed high levels of aPL associated with motor hypoactivity in a staircase test (p&lt;0.03 by t-test) and impaired performance in the cognitive T-maze (p&lt;0.02 for main effect of treatment by repeated measures ANOVA) relative to APP-CFA mice and controls. wt-APS and wt-control did not differ significantly in their behavior or cognition. Histological studies revealed mature plaques only in the APP-APS group which also had higher amyloid load and number of activated microglia compared to all other groups. The results indicate a significant interaction between APP genotype and the induction of APS on a female background. The mechanisms involved may also be important in human APS-AD co-morbidity.
Monocarboxylate transporter 1 (MCT1) facilitates the transport of important metabolic fuels (lactate, pyruvate and ketone bodies) and possibly also acidic drugs such as valproic acid across the blood-brain barrier. Because an impaired brain energy metabolism and resistance to antiepileptic drugs are common features of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), we sought to study the expression of MCT1 in the brain of patients with this disease. Immunohistochemistry and immunogold electron microscopy were used to assess the distribution of MCT1 in brain specimens from patients with TLE and concomitant hippocampal sclerosis (referred to as mesial TLE or MTLE (n=15)), patients with TLE and no hippocampal sclerosis (non-MTLE, n=13) and neurologically normal autopsy subjects (n=8). MCT1 was present on an extensive network of microvessels throughout the hippocampal formation in autopsy controls and to a lesser degree in non-MTLE. Patients with MTLE were markedly deficient in MCT1 on microvessels in several areas of the hippocampal formation, especially CA1, which exhibited a 37% to 48% loss of MCT1 on the plasma membrane of endothelial cells when compared with non-MTLE. These findings suggest that the uptake of blood-derived monocarboxylate fuels and possibly also acidic drugs, such as valproic acid, is perturbed in the epileptogenic hippocampus, particularly in MTLE. We hypothesize that the loss of MCT1 on brain microvessels is mechanistically involved in the pathophysiology of drug-resistant TLE, and propose that re-expression of MCT1 may represent a novel therapeutic approach for this disease.
Noise trauma in mammals can result in damage to multiple epithelial cochlear cell types, producing permanent hearing loss. Here we investigate whether epithelial stem cell transplantation can ameliorate noise-induced hearing loss in mice. Epithelial stem/progenitor cells isolated from adult mouse tongue displayed extensive proliferation in vitro as well as positive immunolabelling for the epithelial stem cell marker p63. To examine the functional effects of cochlear transplantation of these cells, mice were exposed to noise trauma and the cells were transplanted via a lateral wall cochleostomy 2 days post-trauma. Changes in auditory function were assessed by determining auditory brainstem response (ABR) threshold shifts 4 weeks after stem cell transplantation or sham surgery. Stem/progenitor cell transplantation resulted in a significantly reduced permanent ABR threshold shift for click stimuli compared to sham-injected mice, as corroborated using two distinct analyses. Cell fate analyses revealed stem/progenitor cell survival and integration into suprastrial regions of the spiral ligament. These results suggest that transplantation of adult epithelial stem/progenitor cells can attenuate the ototoxic effects of noise trauma in a mammalian model of noise-induced hearing loss.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is the most likely cause of the migraine aura. Drugs with distinct pharmacological properties are effective in the preventive treatment of migraine. To test the hypothesis that their common denominator might be suppression of CSD we studied in rats the effect of three drugs used in migraine prevention: lamotrigine which is selectively effective on the aura but not on the headache, valproate and riboflavin which have a non-selective effect. Rats received for 4 weeks daily intraperitoneal injections of one of the three drugs. For valproate and riboflavin we used saline as control, for lamotrigine its vehicle dimethyl sulfoxide. After treatment, cortical spreading depressions were elicited for 2h by occipital KCl application. We measured CSD frequency, its propagation between a posterior (parieto-occipital) and an anterior (frontal) electrode, and number of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei in frontal cortex. Lamotrigine suppressed CSDs by 37% and 60% at posterior and anterior electrodes. Valproate had no effect on posterior CSDs, but reduced anterior ones by 32% and slowed propagation velocity. Riboflavin had no significant effect at neither recording site. Frontal Fos expression was decreased after lamotrigine and valproate, but not after riboflavin. Serum levels of administered drugs were within the range of those usually effective in patients. Our study shows that preventive anti-migraine drugs have differential effects on CSD. Lamotrigine has a marked suppressive effect which correlates with its rather selective action on the migraine aura. Valproate and riboflavin have no effect on the triggering of CSD, although they are effective in migraine without aura. Taken together, these results are compatible with a causal role of CSD in migraine with aura, but not in migraine without aura.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a frequent consequence of vehicle, sport and war related injuries. More than 90% of TBI patients suffer mild injury (mTBI). However, the pathologies underlying the disease are poorly understood and treatment modalities are limited. We report here that in mice, the potent PKC activator bryostatin1 protects against mTBI induced learning and memory deficits and reduction in pre-synaptic synaptophysin and post-synaptic spinophylin immunostaining. An effective treatment has to start within the first 8h after injury, and includes 5  i.p. injections over a period of 14 days. The treatment is dose dependent. Exploring the effects of the repeated bryostatin1 treatment on the processing of the amyloid precursor protein, we found that the treatment induced an increase in the putative -secretase ADAM10 and a reduction in -secretase activities. Both these effects could contribute towards a reduction in -amyloid production. These results suggest that bryostatin1 protects against mTBI cognitive and synaptic sequela by rescuing synapses, which is possibly mediated by an increase in ADAM10 and a decrease in BACE1 activity. Since bryostatin1 has already been extensively used in clinical trials as an anti-cancer drug, its potential as a remedy for the short- and long-term TBI sequelae is quite promising.
Recent neuropathological studies have described widespread amyloid- peptide (A) deposition in the striatum of patients with Lewy body disorders, particularly in Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). However, positron emission tomography (PET) studies using the [(11)C]PIB ligand, binding to A deposits, detects significant striatal pathology only in DLB and not in PDD. Employing immunohistochemistry, we examined striatal A deposition in the caudate nucleus and putamen of 52 PD, 41 PDD, 14 DLB, 7 multiple system atrophy (MSA) and 14 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) cases in relation to the presence of dementia. PD, MSA and PSP cases showed little or no A pathology in the striatum. In contrast, both PDD and DLB cases demonstrated significantly greater A deposition in the striatum when compared to PD, MSA and PSP groups. We conclude that striatal A pathology is common in both PDD and DLB and may reflect the development of dementia in these conditions. More detailed examination of the morphology of the A pathology suggests that it is the presence of cored amyloid plaques in DLB, but not PDD, that underlies the differences seen in PET imaging.

Clinical and preclinical studies indicate that women and men differ in relapse vulnerability to drug-seeking behavior during abstinence periods. As relapse is frequently triggered by exposure of the recovered addict to objects previously associated with drug use and the formation of these associations requires memory systems engaged by the hippocampal formation (HF), studies exploring ovarian hormone modulation of hippocampal function are warranted. Previous studies revealed that ovarian steroids alter endogenous opioid peptide levels and trafficking of mu opioid receptors in the HF, suggesting cooperative interaction between opioids and estrogens in modulating hippocampal excitability. However, whether ovarian steroids affect the levels or trafficking of delta opioid receptors (DORs) in the HF is unknown. Here, hippocampal sections of adult male and normal cycling female Sprague-Dawley rats were processed for quantitative immunoperoxidase light microscopy and dual label fluorescence or immunoelectron microscopy using antisera directed against the DOR and neuropeptide Y (NPY). Consistent with previous studies in males, DOR-immunoreactivity (-ir) localized to select interneurons and principal cells in the female HF. In comparison to males, females, regardless of estrous cycle phase, show reduced DOR-ir in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus and proestrus (high estrogen) females, in particular, display reduced DOR-ir in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer. Ultrastructural analysis of DOR-labeled profiles in CA1 revealed that while females generally show fewer DORs in the distal apical dendrites of pyramidal cells, proestrus females, in particular, exhibit DOR internalization and trafficking towards the soma. Dual label studies revealed that DORs are found in NPY-labeled interneurons in the hilus, CA3, and CA1. While DOR colocalization frequency in NPY-labeled neuron somata was similar between animals in the hilus, proestrus females had fewer NPY-labeled neurons that co-labeled with DOR in stratum oriens of CA1 and CA3 when compared to males. Ultrastructural analysis of NPY-labeled axon terminals within stratum radiatum of CA1 revealed that NPY-labeled axon terminals contain DORs that are frequently found at or near the plasma membrane. As no differences were noted by sex or estrous cycle phase, DOR activation on NPY-labeled axon terminals would inhibit GABA release probability equally in males and females. Taken together, these findings suggest that ovarian steroids can impact hippocampal function through direct effects on DOR levels and trafficking in principal cells and broad indirect effects through reductions in DOR-ir in NPY-labeled interneurons, particularly in CA1.

This Special Issue of Neurobiology of Learning and Memory dedicated to Dr. Richard Thompson to celebrate his 80th birthday and his numerous contributions to the field of learning and memory gave us the opportunity to revisit the hypothesis we proposed more than 25years ago regarding the biochemistry of learning and memory. This review summarizes our early 1980s hypothesis and then describes how it was tested and modified over the years following its introduction. We then discuss the current status of the hypothesis and provide some examples of how it has led to unexpected insights into the memory problems that accompany a broad range of neuropsychiatric disorders.
Richard F. Thompson's study of the neurobiological substrates of learning and memory has been a career-long endeavor, chosen early and pursued with uncompromising depth and breadth. His systematic mapping of the major brain systems and mechanisms involved in eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) established the essential role of the cerebellum. Investigations of the interactions between the hippocampus and cerebellum are critically important to this literature, given the essential involvement of these structures in trace EBCC as well as an important modulatory role of the hippocampus in delay EBCC. Hippocampal theta (3-7Hz) oscillations are known to reflect a functional state that influences both the timing of unit firing and the potential for neural plasticity in the hippocampus and other structures. Herein we present a brief summary of research demonstrating the behavioral enhancement due to theta and the underlying neurobiological correlates in both hippocampus and cerebellum during EBCC. Hippocampal and cerebellar local field potentials (LFPs) show that these distantly interconnected brain structures become precisely synchronized when conditions favor rapid behavioral acquisition. Our results suggest a major role for theta in coordinating the widely distributed memory system for trace EBCC. These and other important findings reflect Thompson's own work and his early-career mentoring of scientists whose contributions to the EBCC literature have ensured his major and lasting impact on the neurobiology of learning and memory.
This paper is based on the talk by one of the authors (DL) given at the symposium for the retirement of RF Thompson (RF Thompson: A bridge between 20th and 21st century neuroscience). We first make some informal observations of the historical times and research conditions in the Thompson laboratory when the cerebellum was found to play a critical role in eye lid classical conditioning, the &quot;cerebellar years&quot;. These conditions influenced our collaborative international program on the phenomenon known as &quot;transfer of training&quot; or &quot;savings&quot;. Our research shows that the appearance of &quot;savings&quot; is an artifact of the order of testing, and depends upon the functioning of the contralateral interpositus nucleus (IPN) in a way that is complementary to the role of the IPN in normal eyelid classical conditioning.
Previous data suggest that overtraining can overcome fear conditioning deficits in rats with lesions of the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA). We have previously shown that the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA) is essential for the acquisition and expression of conditional fear to both contextual and auditory conditioned stimuli (CSs) after overtraining. This provides strong evidence that the CEA can compensate for the loss of the BLA. Another brain area that may compensate for the loss of the BLA is the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). We explored this possibility by examining the consequences of lesions or reversible inactivation of the BNST on the expression of overtrained fear in rats with BLA lesions. We demonstrate that lesions or inactivation of the BNST block the expression of freezing to the conditioning context, but not to an auditory conditional stimulus. These results reveal that the BNST has a critical role in the expression of contextual fear, but not fear to an auditory CS, and is therefore not the essential locus of compensation for fear learning in the absence of the BLA.
A few brief anecdotes are provided, relating to life in Richard Thompson's laboratory during the 1980s and 1990s.

ATP can be released from neurons and act as a neuromodulator in the nervous system. Besides neurons, cortical astrocytes also are capable of releasing ATP from acidic vesicles in a Ca(2+)-dependent way. In the present work, we investigated the release of ATP from Mller glia cells of the chick embryo retina by examining quinacrine staining and by measuring the extracellular levels of ATP in purified Mller glia cultures. Our data revealed that glial cells could be labeled with quinacrine, a reaction that was prevented by incubation of the cells with 1M bafilomycin A1 or 2M Evans blue, potent inhibitors of vacuolar ATPases and of the vesicular nucleotide transporter, respectively. Either 50mM KCl or 1mM glutamate was able to decrease quinacrine staining of the cells, as well as to increase the levels of ATP in the extracellular medium by 77% and 89.5%, respectively, after a 5min incubation of the cells. Glutamate-induced rise in extracellular ATP could be mimicked by 100M kainate (81.5%) but not by 100M NMDA in medium without MgCl(2) but with 2mM glycine. However, both glutamate- and kainate-induced increase in extracellular ATP levels were blocked by 50M of the glutamatergic antagonists DNQX and MK-801, suggesting the involvement of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors. Extracellular ATP accumulation induced by glutamate was also blocked by incubation of the cells with 30M BAPTA-AM or 1M bafilomycin A1. These results suggest that glutamate, through activation of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors, induces the release of ATP from retinal Mller cells through a calcium-dependent exocytotic mechanism.
Besides its role as a thrombolytic agent, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) triggers harmful effects in the brain parenchyma after stroke, such as inflammation, excitotoxicity and basal lamina degradation. Neuroserpin, a natural inhibitor of tPA, has shown neuroprotective effects in animal models of brain infarct. However, the molecular mechanisms of neuroserpin-mediated neuroprotection after brain ischemia remain to be well characterized. Then, our aim was to investigate such mechanisms in primary mixed cortical cell cultures after oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). Primary rat mixed cortical cultures containing both astrocytes and neurons were subjected to OGD for 150min and subsequently treated with either tPA (5g/mL), neuroserpin (0.125, 0.25, 0.5 or 1M), and tPA together with neuroserpin at the mentioned doses. Twenty-four hours after treatment, LDH release, caspase-3 activity, MCP-1, MIP-2, active MMP-9, GRO/KC and COX-2 were measured. Statistical differences were analyzed using Student's t-test or one-way ANOVA as appropriate. Treatment with tPA after OGD increased LDH release, active MMP-9, MCP-1 and MIP-2 (all p0.05), but not caspase-3, GRO/KC or COX-2 compared to control. Treatment with neuroserpin after OGD decreased LDH release and active MMP-9 (all p0.05). It had no effect on caspase-3 activity, or on MCP-1, MIP-2, GRO/KC or COX-2 expression compared to control. Administration of tPA together with neuroserpin decreased LDH release, active MMP-9 and MIP-2 (all p0.05) and showed no effect on MCP-1, GRO/KC or COX-2 compared to control. Our results suggest that neuroprotective activity of neuroserpin involves attenuation on tPA-mediated mechanisms of inflammation and BBB disruption after brain ischemia.
Accumulating pathological evidence showing layer-specific neuronal reduction, dendrite deficits and brain volume loss have implicated an apoptotic process in schizophrenia, but the exact mechanism remains elusive. Dopamine hyperactivity at D2 receptor sites was considered as an important mechanism in schizophrenia pathogenesis. Recently, a newly identified D1 and D2 receptor heterooligomer activated by the specific agonist SKF83959 has been shown to stimulate phospholipase C-related intracellular calcium release in the brain. In this study, we intend to test the hypothesis that overstimulation of this calcium-related signaling pathway by high concentration of dopamine and SKF83959 is capable of inducing cortical neuronal apoptosis through calcium disturbance. Our experimental results demonstrated that 10-100M dopamine and 10-50M SKF83959 treatments for 72h were able to induce cortical neuronal apoptosis via the D1 and D2 receptor heterooligomer mediated calcium overload and mitochondria dysfunction-dependent pathways. Meanwhile, we found that although 24h dopamine and SKF83959 treatments have not produced major apoptosis, they induced significant neuronal dendrite retraction as well as reduction of neurotrophic molecules such as phosphorylated AKT, ERK and Bcl-2 through PLC-sensitive pathways. Taken together, prolonged stimulation of dopamine and SKF83959 in cortical neurons can reduce dendrite extension at early stage and induce neuronal apoptosis later on through PLC-calcium related pathways, which might provide important apoptotic mechanisms for schizophrenia pathogenesis.
We determined the expression profile of 300 G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) in embryonic cortical neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and identified a number of highly expressed GPCRs, among which endothelin-B receptor (ET(B)-R) was expressed at the highest level. We also revealed that endothelins (ETs) were predominantly expressed in CD31-positive endothelial cells of the embryonic cerebral cortex. Activation of ET(B)-R induced NPC assembly in vitro by promoting fibronectin-dependent-motility and N-cadherin-associated cell contact. NPC assembly also required a Rho-family GTPase(s) and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase. In the embryonic cerebral cortex, a specific ET(B)-R agonist, IRL-1620, accelerated interkinetic nuclear migration (INM) of NPCs toward the ventricular wall (VW) ex vivo. Conversely, a specific ET(B)-R antagonist, BQ788, slowed INM, thereby inducing mislocalization of phospho-histone H3-positive M-phase nuclei in the ventricular zone (VZ) and decreasing the number of Tuj1-positive newborn neurons. Our results suggest that ET(B)-R-mediated assembly signals drive INM that precedes neurogenesis.
The family of reticulons include three isoforms of the Nogo protein, Nogo A, Nogo B and Nogo C. Nogo A is expressed on neuronal tissue and its primary effect is widely acknowledged to be inhibition of neurite outgrowth. Although both Nogo B and Nogo C are also expressed in neuronal tissue, their roles in the CNS remain to be identified. In this study, we set out to assess whether expression of Nogo A or Nogo B was altered in tissue prepared from aged rats in which increased microglial activation is accompanied by decreased synaptic plasticity. The data indicate that Nogo B, but not Nogo A, was markedly increased in hippocampal tissue prepared from aged rats and that, at least in vitro, Nogo B increased several markers of microglial activation. In a striking parallel with the age-related changes, we demonstrate that intracerebroventricular delivery of amyloid- (A)(1-40)+A(1-42) for 8 days was associated with a depression of long-term potentiation (LTP) and an increase in markers of microglial activation and Nogo B. In both models, evidence of cell stress was identified by increased activity of caspases 8 and 3 and importantly, incubation of cultured neurons in the presence of Nogo B increased activity of both enzymes. The data identify, for the first time, an effect of Nogo B in the brain and specifically show that its expression is increased in conditions where synaptic plasticity is compromised.
Cannabinoid receptors 1 (CB1Rs) play important roles in the regulation of dendritic branching, synapse density, and synaptic transmission through multiple G-protein-coupled signaling systems, including the activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases ERK1/2. The proximal signaling interactions leading to ERK1/2 activation by CB1R in CNS remain, however, unclear. Here, we present evidence that the CB1R agonist methanandamide induced a biphasic and sustained activation of ERK1/2 in primary neurons derived from E7 telencephalon. We show that E7 neurons natively express high levels of CB1R message and protein, the majority of which associates with PKC at basal conditions. We now demonstrate that the first peak of ERK activation by CB1R was mediated by the sequential activation of G(q), PLC, and PKC, selectively, and that the CB1R-activated PKC acutely formed transient signaling modules containing activated Src and Fyn. A second pool of CB1Rs, coupled to PTX-sensitive activation of G(i/o), utilized as effectors additional Src and Fyn molecules to generate a second, additional wave of ERK activation at 15 min. Concurrently to these intermolecular signaling interactions, cytoskeleton-associated proteins MARCKS and p120catenin were drastically modified by phosphorylation of PKC and Src, respectively. These receptor-proximal signaling events correlated well with induction of neuritic outgrowth in the long term. Our data provide evidence for multiprotein signaling complex formation in the coupling of CB1R to activation of ERK in CNS neurons, and may elucidate several of the less understood acute effects of cannabinoid drugs.
Postoperative neurologic deficit due to spinal cord ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is the most devastating complication following thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repairs. The protective potential for 17-Estradiol has not been yet studied in such injury. In this study, ischemia induction for 18 min in male New Zealand White rabbits resulted in the highest percentage (80%) of biphasic paraplegic outcome assessed by Tarlov's score. Acute Estradiol pretreatment (1 mg/kg, i.p., 30 min before I/R induction) altered this outcome and significantly prevented the worsening pattern of neurologic deficits over 48 h of observation. Histopathologic and oxidative stress evaluations of lumbar spinal cords taken in delayed permanent paraplegic phase (48 h after ischemia induction), further confirmed protective efficacy of Estradiol in such context. In western blot analysis, the expression of cleaved caspase-3 and heat shock protein 70 declined in Estradiol pretreated group compared to ischemic control group. TUNEL assay also showed the efficacy of Estradiol to abate motor neuron apoptosis. Interestingly, Estradiol respectively increased and decreased the expression of Cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2, to a significant extent. Estradiol, exerting its protection through affecting one or a combination of involved biochemical factors can constitute a potential candidate to protect against thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repairs induced spinal cord I/R injury.
Stress causes endocrinological changes and leads to induce anxiety. It was determined the anxiety and stress-related endocrinological changes through the observation of the level of glucocorticoid and sphingolipid metabolites in serum after stress. Immobilized stress and electric shock was applied to rats for 7 days. This study investigated the induction of anxiety, changes of TH and pERK expression in cortex and amygdala after stress. Also it was determined the changes of glucocorticoid and anxiety when the rats were given stress after amygdala lesion. The stress-given rats spent a lesser percentage of time significantly in the open arm than the control rats. The elevated level of glucocorticoid after stress was suppressed in amygdala lesion group. The expression of TH in the amygdala was decreased, but the expression of TH was not changed in the cortex after stress. To investigate the changes in sphingolipid metabolites after stress, the levels of sphingosine and the phosphate form of sphingolipid (So-1-P) were analyzed in serum. The level of So-1-P was elevated after stress and anxiety was observed after the So-1-P infusion (100 pmol/10 l/h, i.c.v., for 7 days). Continuous infusion of So-1-P for 7 days led to the significant decrease of TH expression in the amygdala. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that the lesion of amygdala suppressed the stress-induced anxiety and elevation of glucocorticoid in serum. It was also observed that expression of TH in amygdala as well as increased levels of glucocorticoid in serum might be responsible biomarker, at least in part, of chronic stress. These results suggest that the elevation of So-1-P might be involved in induction of anxiety during stress by the modulation of dopaminergic system in amygdala.

The deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) are a key element of the cortico-cerebellar loop. Because of their small size and functional diversity, it is difficult to study them using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). To overcome these difficulties, we present here three related methodological advances. First, we used susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI) at a high-field strength (7T) to identify the dentate, globose, emboliform and fastigial nucleus in 23 human participants. Due to their high iron content, the DCN are visible as hypo-intensities. Secondly, we generated probabilistic maps of the deep cerebellar nuclei in MNI space using a number of common normalization techniques. These maps can serve as a guide to the average location of the DCN, and are integrated into an existing probabilistic atlas of the human cerebellum (Diedrichsen et al., 2009). The maps also quantify the variability of the anatomical location of the deep cerebellar nuclei after normalization. Our results indicate that existing normalization techniques do not provide satisfactory overlap to analyze the functional specialization within the DCN. We therefore thirdly propose a ROI-driven normalization technique that utilizes both information from a T1-weighted image and the hypo-intensity from a T2*-weighted or SWI image to ensure overlap of the nuclei. These techniques will promote the study of the functional specialization of subregions of the DCN using MRI.
Although deposition of -amyloid (A), a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), has also been reported in cognitively intact older people, its influence on brain structure and cognition during normal aging remains controversial. Using PET imaging with the radiotracer Pittsburgh compound B (PIB), structural MRI, and cognitive measures, we examined the relationships between A deposition, gray matter volume, and cognition in older people without AD. Fifty-two healthy older participants underwent PIB-PET and structural MRI scanning and detailed neuropsychological tests. Results from the whole-brain voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analysis revealed that gray matter volume in the left inferior frontal cortex was negatively associated with amyloid deposition across all participants whereas reduced gray matter volume was shown in the posterior cingulate among older people with high amyloid deposition. When gray matter density measures extracted from these two regions were related to other brain regions by applying a structural covariance analysis, distinctive frontal and posterior brain networks were seen. Gray matter volume in these networks in relation to cognition, however, differed such that reduced frontal network gray matter volume was associated with poorer working memory performance while no relationship was found for the posterior network. The present findings highlight structural and cognitive changes in association with the level of A deposition in cognitively intact normal elderly and suggest a differential role of A-dependent gray matter loss in the frontal and posterior networks in cognition during normal aging.
The functional properties of resting brain activity are poorly understood, but have generally been related to self-monitoring and introspective processes. Here we investigated how emotionally positive and negative information differentially influenced subsequent brain activity at rest. We acquired fMRI data in 15 participants during rest periods following fearful, joyful, and neutral movies. Several brain regions were more active during resting than during movie-watching, including posterior/anterior cingulate cortices (PCC, ACC), bilateral insula and inferior parietal lobules (IPL). Functional connectivity at different frequency bands was also assessed using a wavelet correlation approach and small-world network analysis. Resting activity in ACC and insula as well as their coupling were strongly enhanced by preceding emotions, while coupling between ventral-medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala was selectively reduced. These effects were more pronounced after fearful than joyful movies for higher frequency bands. Moreover, the initial suppression of resting activity in ACC and insula after emotional stimuli was followed by a gradual restoration over time. Emotions did not affect IPL average activity but increased its connectivity with other regions. These findings reveal specific neural circuits recruited during the recovery from emotional arousal and highlight the complex functional dynamics of default mode networks in emotionally salient contexts.
Auditory event-related potentials (ERPs) have been used to understand how the brain processes auditory input, and to track developmental change in sensory systems. Localizing ERP generators can provide invaluable insights into how and where auditory information is processed. However, age-appropriate infant brain templates have not been available to aid such developmental mapping. In this study, auditory change detection responses of brain ERPs were examined in 6-month-old infants using discrete and distributed source localization methods mapped onto age-appropriate magnetic resonance images. Infants received a passive oddball paradigm using fast-rate non-linguistic auditory stimuli (tone doublets) with the deviant incorporating a pitch change for the second tone. Data was processed using two different high-pass filters. When a 0.5 Hz filter was used, the response to the pitch change was a large frontocentral positive component. When a 3 Hz filter was applied, two temporally consecutive components associated with change detection were seen: one with negative voltage, and another with positive voltage over frontocentral areas. Both components were localized close to the auditory cortex with an additional source near to the anterior cingulate cortex. The sources for the negative response had a more tangential orientation relative to the supratemporal plane compared to the positive response, which showed a more lateral, oblique orientation. The results described here suggest that at 6 months of age infants generate similar response patterns and use analogous cortical areas to that of adults to detect changes in the auditory environment. Moreover, the source locations and orientations, together with waveform topography and morphology provide evidence in infants for feature-specific change detection followed by involuntary switching of attention.
A growing body of evidence suggests that empathy for pain is underpinned by neural structures that are also involved in the direct experience of pain. In order to assess the consistency of this finding, an image-based meta-analysis of nine independent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) investigations and a coordinate-based meta-analysis of 32 studies that had investigated empathy for pain using fMRI were conducted. The results indicate that a core network consisting of bilateral anterior insular cortex and medial/anterior cingulate cortex is associated with empathy for pain. Activation in these areas overlaps with activation during directly experienced pain, and we link their involvement to representing global feeling states and the guidance of adaptive behavior for both self- and other-related experiences. Moreover, the image-based analysis demonstrates that depending on the type of experimental paradigm this core network was co-activated with distinct brain regions: While viewing pictures of body parts in painful situations recruited areas underpinning action understanding (inferior parietal/ventral premotor cortices) to a stronger extent, eliciting empathy by means of abstract visual information about the other's affective state more strongly engaged areas associated with inferring and representing mental states of self and other (precuneus, ventral medial prefrontal cortex, superior temporal cortex, and temporo-parietal junction). In addition, only the picture-based paradigms activated somatosensory areas, indicating that previous discrepancies concerning somatosensory activity during empathy for pain might have resulted from differences in experimental paradigms. We conclude that social neuroscience paradigms provide reliable and accurate insights into complex social phenomena such as empathy and that meta-analyses of previous studies are a valuable tool in this endeavor.
Vervet monkeys are a frequently studied animal model in neuroscience research. Although equally distantly related to humans, the ancestors of vervets diverged from those of macaques and baboons more than 11 million years ago, antedating the divergence of the ancestors of humans, chimpanzees and gorillas. To facilitate anatomic localization in the vervet brain, two linked on-line electronic atlases are described, one based on registered MRI scans from hundreds of vervets (http://www.loni.ucla.edu/Research/Atlases/Data/vervet/vervetmratlas/vervetmratlas.html) and the other based on a high-resolution cryomacrotome study of a single vervet (http://www.loni.ucla.edu/Research/Atlases/Data/vervet/vervetatlas/vervetatlas.html). The averaged MRI atlas is also available as a volume in Neuroimaging Informatics Technology Initiative format. In the cryomacrotome atlas, various sulcal and subcortical structures have been anatomically labeled and surface rendered views are provided along the primary planes of section. Both atlases simultaneously provide views in all three primary planes of section, rapid navigation by clicking on the displayed images, and stereotaxic coordinates in the averaged MRI atlas space. Despite the extended time period since their divergence, the major sulcal and subcortical landmarks in vervets are highly conserved relative to those described in macaques.
The connectivity information contained in diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) has previously been used to parcellate cortical and subcortical regions based on their connectivity profiles. The aim of the current study is to investigate the utility of a novel approach to connectivity based parcellation of the thalamus using probabilistic tractography and independent component analysis (ICA). We use ICA to identify spatially coherent tractograms as well as their underlying seed regions, in a single step. We compare this to seed-based tractography results and to an established and reliable approach to parcellating the thalamus based on the dominant cortical connection from each thalamic voxel (Behrens et al., 2003a,b). The ICA approach identifies thalamo-cortical pathways that correspond to known anatomical connections, as well as parcellating the underlying thalamus in a spatially similar way to the connectivity based parcellation. We believe that the use of such a multivariate method to interpret the complex datasets created by probabilistic tractography may be better suited than other approaches to parcellating brain regions.
We are able to recognize objects independent of their location in the visual field. At the same time, we also keep track of the location of objects to orient ourselves and to interact with the environment. The lateral occipital complex (LOC) has been suggested as the prime cortical region for representation of object identity. However, the extent to which LOC also represents object location has remained debated. In this study we used high-resolution fMRI in combination with multivoxel pattern classification to investigate the cortical encoding of three object exemplars from four different categories presented in two different locations. This approach allowed us to study location-tolerant object information and object-tolerant location information in LOC, both at the level of categories and exemplars. We found evidence for both location-tolerant object information and object-tolerant location information in LOC at the level of categories and exemplars. Our results further highlight the mixing of identity and location information in the ventral visual pathway.
Emerging research in neuroscience is bridging the gap between mind and body. Thought is brain based and influences brain function. The continuum and bidirectionality of mind and body, thought and brain, emotions and physiology forms the basis of understanding neuropathic pain, a neuropsychiatric condition with myriad clinical manifestations.
Neurologic symptoms such as weakness or abnormal movements that are inconsistent and incongruent with neurologic disease can be described as functional, psychogenic, nonorganic, conversion, or dissociative symptoms. These symptoms often represent a clinical dilemma and a challenge for the clinician. This article provides practical advice on making an accurate diagnosis, options for explaining the diagnosis to the patient, and considering further treatment.
There is debate about a possible association between natalizumab treatment and higher risk of melanoma. Here we report a case of melanoma in a patient who developed melanoma after 77 infusions of natalizumab, without known risk factors. Pharmacovigilance programs of new drugs can help to monitor adverse events in patients at risk.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is generally considered to be a paradigm of pure motor neuron disorder; nevertheless, the possible occurrence of cognitive impairment up to a frank dementia in patients affected by ALS is recognized. The appraisal of the cognitive impairment in ALS patients is crucial not only to the therapeutic trials of this incurable disease, but also to the planning of care, compliance to interventions, the end-of-life decisions. The cognitive/behavioral changes of ALS patients are consistent with frontotemporal dysfunctions; the overlap of neuropathological features of ALS and frontotemporal lobe degeneration (FTLD) supports, in addition, the putative spectrum of ALS and FTD. In the present review, the pertinent clinical, genetic, neuropathological, neuropsychological and neuroimaging data of the literature are comprehensively and critically discussed. The distinct and overlapping features of ALS and FTD are pointed out, as well as the undisclosed questions deserving additional studies.
We report the case of an elderly patient with cobalamin deficiency who progressively developed cognitive and behavioral symptoms associated with neuropsychiatric disturbances. His neuropsychological profile showed many features suggestive for a frontal-dysexecutive syndrome and was related to a predominant asymmetric (right &gt; left) frontal lobe hypoperfusion. He completely recovered after a treatment with vitamin B12 and follow-up of 7 years showed that his improvement remained stable. Along with the other cases reported in the literature, our case also proves that there are some cases of vitamin B12 deficiency that can manifest with the symptoms of frontotemporal dementia and that they are completely reversible after substitution therapy.
A possible relationship between human circadian rhythmicity and polymorphisms in clock genes have been documented. However, these data are controversial, and studies both corroborating and denying them have been reported. T3111C Clock polymorphism had been associated with the human evening preference, however, this association has not been confirmed. Moreover, C111G Per2 polymorphism has been associated with the &quot;morning larks&quot; chronotype in one study, not yet replicated. We have, therefore, performed this study to evaluate whether Per2 C111G and Clock T3111C polymorphisms might influence sleep circadian rhythmicity in a sample of 219 Italian volunteers. A possible interaction between these polymorphisms was also investigated. No differences in Per2 C111G and Clock T3111C allele and genotype frequencies were found, and none of the combined Clock T3111C-Per2 C11G genotypes resulted more frequent in one group compared to the others. Present results do not support a role of these polymorphisms in the circadian phenotypes.




Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is the commonest hereditary neuropathy encompassing a large group of clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorders. The commonest form of CMT, CMT1A, is usually caused by a 1.4 megabase duplication of chromosome 17 containing the PMP22 gene. Mutations of PMP22 are a less common cause of CMT. We describe clinical, electrophysiological and molecular findings of 10 patients carrying PMP22 missense mutations. The phenotype varied from mild hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP) to severe CMT1. We identified six different point mutations, including two novel mutations. Three families were also found to harbour a Thr118Met mutation. Although PMP22 point mutations are not common, our findings highlight the importance of sequencing the PMP22 gene in patients with variable CMT phenotypes and also confirm that the PMP22 Thr118Met mutation is associated with a neuropathy albeit with reduced penetrance.
One of the most significant advances in pain research is the realization that neurons are not the only cell type involved in the etiology of chronic pain. This realization has caused a radical shift from the previous dogma that neuronal dysfunction alone accounts for pain pathologies to the current framework of thinking that takes into account all cell types within the central nervous system (CNS). This shift in thinking stems from growing evidence that glia can modulate the function and directly shape the cellular architecture of nociceptive networks in the CNS. Microglia, in particular, are increasingly recognized as active principal players that respond to changes in physiological homeostasis by extending their processes toward the site of neural damage, and by releasing specific factors that have profound consequences on neuronal function and that contribute to CNS pathologies caused by disease or injury. A key molecule that modulates microglia activity is ATP, an endogenous ligand of the P2 receptor family. Microglia expresses several P2 receptor subtypes, and of these the P2X4 receptor subtype has emerged as a core microglia-neuron signaling pathway: activation of this receptor drives the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a cellular substrate that causes disinhibition of pain-transmitting spinal lamina I neurons. Converging evidence points to BDNF from spinal microglia as being a critical microglia-neuron signaling molecule that gates aberrant nociceptive processing in the spinal cord. The present review highlights recent advances in our understanding of P2X4 receptor-mediated signaling and regulation of BDNF in microglia, as well as the implications for microglia-neuron interactions in the pathobiology of neuropathic pain.
The regional heterogeneity of neuronal phenotypes is a well-known phenomenon. Whether or not glia derived from different brain regions are phenotypically and functionally distinct is less clear. Here, we show that microglia, the resident immune cells of the brain, display region-specific responses for activating agents including glutamate (GLU), lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP). Primary microglial cultures were prepared from brainstem (Brs), cortex (Ctx), hippocampus (Hip), striatum (Str) and thalamus (Thl) of 1-day-old rats and were shown to upregulate the release of nitric oxide (NO) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in a region- and activator-specific manner. With respect to ATP specifically, ATP-induced changes in microglial tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) release, GLU uptake and purinergic receptor expression were also regionally different. When co-cultured with hypoxia (Hyp)-injured neurons, ATP-stimulated microglia from different regions induced different levels of neurotoxicity. These region-specific responses could be altered by pre-conditioning the microglia in a different neurochemical milieu, with taurine (TAU) being one of the key molecules involved. Together, our results demonstrate that microglia display a regional heterogeneity when activated, and this heterogeneity likely arises from differences in the environment surrounding the microglia. These findings present an additional mechanism that may help to explain the regional selectiveness of various brain pathologies.

Mutations in the gene COL4A1, encoding collagen IV A1, are associated with familial porencephaly. Previously, COL4A1 mutation-associated antenatal hemorrhages have been suggested by early post-natal imaging. We describe 2 children with fetal intracerebral hemorrhages and a COL4A1 mutation. There was also extensive hemispheric tissue loss in both infants and loss of cerebellar tissue in one infant. This paper show prenatal evidence of fetal hemorrhage in association with a COL4A1 mutation.
An 11-year-old boy with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) presented with visual hallucinations several years after starting methylphenidate (MPH). The hallucinations resolved upon discontinuation of the drug. Reports of toxic hallucinosis during treatment with MPH are rare. Although the pathogenetic mechanism is unclear, the occurrence of hallucinations may be explained by a chronic increase in synaptic dopamine. Clinicians should be aware of this possible rare adverse manifestation occurring at therapeutic doses.
The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of the neurotrophin family, is involved in nerve growth and survival. Especially, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the BDNF gene, Val66Met, has gained a lot of attention, because of its effect on activity-dependent BDNF secretion and its link to impaired memory processes. We hypothesize that the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism may have modulatory effects on the visual sensory (iconic) memory performance. Two hundred and eleven healthy German students (106 female and 105 male) were included in the data analysis. Since BDNF is also discussed to be involved in the pathogenesis of depression, we additionally tested for possible interactions with depressive mood. The BDNF Val66Met polymorphism significantly influenced iconic-memory performance, with the combined Val/Met-Met/Met genotype group revealing less time stability of information stored in iconic memory than the Val/Val group. Furthermore, this stability was positively correlated with depressive mood exclusively in the Val/Val genotype group. Thus, these results show that the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism has an effect on pre-attentive visual sensory memory processes.
Histamine H(3) receptor antagonists enhance cognition in preclinical models and have been proposed as novel therapeutics for cognitive disorders, in particular Alzheimer's disease (AD). Increased neurotransmitter (e.g. acetylcholine and histamine) release associated with this pharmacology may lead to activation of postsynaptic signaling pathways relevant to cognition and neuroprotection, such as increased phosphorylation of CREB, a transcription factor germane to cognitive function, and the inhibitory residue (Ser-9) of GSK3, a primary tau kinase associated with AD pathology. In the present studies, acute administration of the H(3)-antagonist ABT-239 (0.01-1.0mg/kg i.p.) increased cortical CREB and S(9)-GSK3 phosphorylation in CD1 mice. Donepezil, while increasing CREB phosphorylation, did not increase pS(9)-GSK3 expression in contrast to ABT-239. Continuous (2-wk) s.c. infusion of ABT-239 (0.7 mg/kg/day) normalized reduced cortical CREB and hippocampal S(9)-GSK3 phosphorylation observed in Tg2576 (APP) AD-transgenic mice. In addition, ABT-239 infusion reversed tau hyperphosphorylation in the spinal cord and hippocampus of TAPP (tau  APP) AD-transgenic mice. Interestingly, ABT-239 produced signaling changes (pS(9)-GSK3) in 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) knockout mice. In contrast to wild type, these mice do not exhibit 7 nAChR agonist induced phosphorylation, thus suggesting that H(3)-antagonist-mediated signaling is not dependent on ACh-stimulated 7 nAChR activation. In summary, results of these studies suggest that ABT-239 leads to biochemical signaling that promotes cognitive performance as well as attenuation of tau hyperphosphorylation, raising the intriguing possibility that H(3) antagonists have potential for both symptomatic and disease modifying benefit in the treatment of AD.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) is a major mediator of central and peripheral responses to environmental stressors, and antagonism of its receptors (CRF-R1, -R2) is an active area of pharmacotherapeutic research for stress-related disorders. Stress responses include CRF activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis and behavioural inhibition. Valid in vivo models for the study of these neuro-endocrine and -behavioural CRF pathways and their central-peripheral antagonism are important. The aims of this study in C57BL/6 mice were to describe the acute effects of intracerebroventricular (ICV) CRF using plasma ACTH-CORT titres and locomotor activity as readouts, and to study the impact on these readouts of central versus peripheral pre-treatment with the CRF-R1/2 antagonist, astressin. The following experiments were performed: Effects of (i) serial blood sampling (SBS) per se, (ii) physical confinement+SBS, (iii) ICV saline infusion+SBS, on plasma titres of ACTH-CORT. (iv) Effects of ICV or IP CRF infusion on plasma ACTH-CORT. (v) Effects of ICV CRF on plasma CRF. (vi) Effects of ICV or IP astressin on ICV or IP CRF-stimulated plasma CORT. (vii) Effects of ICV or IP astressin on ICV CRF-induced locomotor inactivity. Main findings were: (i)-(ii) Serial blood sampling per se and physical confinement+SBS led to similar, mild increases in plasma ACTH-CORT. (iii) ICV saline infusion led to a marked increase in plasma ACTH, possibly due to assay crossreactivity with &quot;washed out&quot; pituitary peptides, and a mild increase in plasma CORT. (iv) ICV CRF (0.001-1g) induced no further increase in plasma ACTH versus vehicle, and induced dose-dependent increased plasma CORT. 1g ICV CRF also reduced locomotor activity. (v) ICV CRF-induced dose-dependent increased plasma CRF. (vi) ICV astressin failed to block ICV CRF-induced increased plasma CORT, whereas IP astressin did do so. (vii) ICV CRF-induced locomotor inactivity was blocked by ICV astressin, but not by IP astressin. Therefore, ICV CRF-induced a dose-dependent increase in plasma CORT via a peripheral pathway and a reduction in locomotion via a central pathway, indicated by the double dissociation in the ability of astressin to antagonize these effects relative to its route of administration, IP or ICV, respectively. The preparation described here could be readily used to provide initial indications on the central and peripheral activity of CRF-R antagonists, including pharmacokinetics following peripheral administration.
Selective NPY-Y5 antagonists are known to reduce NPY-evoked increase of food intake under free feeding conditions and drug-reinforced operant responding in rodents suggesting that NPY-Y5 receptors can regulate reinforcers, potentially by modulating the hypothalamic-limbic reward system. However, evidence published to date has revealed a limited expression of NPY-Y5 in the limbic areas. Thus, the first aim of the present study was to investigate the distribution of NPY-Y5 receptor binding sites in rat mesocorticolimbic projection areas such as the nucleus accumbens (NAc), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and lateral hypothalamus (LH). Since mesocorticolimbic release of monoamines has been typically associated to the rewarding and motivational significance of reinforcers, we then compared the ability of NPY and an NPY-Y5 selective agonist, [cPP1-7,NPY19-23,Ala31,Aib32,Gln34]hPP, to evoke changes in extracellular monoamines from these brain regions using in vivo microdialysis techniques. Intracerebral doses of each compound were selected on the basis of those previously demonstrated to trigger food intake in a separate set of animals. We found that NPY-Y5 receptors were widely distributed in both the NAc and mPFC but not in the LH nuclei. Central administration of either NPY (4.5 nmol/rat) or the NPY-Y5 agonist (0.6 nmol/rat) induced a significant increase of dopamine (DA) output of up to 150% of basal values in the NAc. In addition, NPY induced a stepped increase of norepinephrine (NE) outflow in the NAc area. Also extracellular levels of NE levels were increased by both treatments in the mPFC (150% vs basal concentration). Hypothalamic monoamine levels were unaffected by both treatments. Extracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels were also unchanged in all regions. Given the NPY-Y5 agonist paralleled the in vivo ability of NPY to increase DA, these data suggest that the release of NPY may modulate behaviours associated to accumbal DA release such reward and reinforcement by, at least in part, acting on mesocorticolimbic NPY-Y5 receptors.
Locus coeruleus degeneration and reduced central noradrenaline content is an early feature of Alzheimer's disease. In transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease-like pathology, lesioning the locus coeruleus exacerbates -amyloid (A) pathology, neuroinflammation and memory deficits. Here we aimed to determine whether chronic treatment with the (2)-adrenoceptor antagonist fluparoxan, that enhances noradrenaline release, can prevent the onset of Alzheimer's-like pathology and memory deficits in APP/PS1 transgenic mice (TASTPM). Fluparoxan (1mg/kg/day) was administered to TASTPM and wild type mice from 4 to 8 months of age. Memory was assessed at 4 and 8 months of age using the Morris water maze and contextual fear conditioning and at monthly intervals during the duration of treatment using the object recognition and spontaneous alternation task. A plaque load and astrocytosis were measured at 4 and 8 months of age by immunohistochemistry. Fluparoxan treatment prevented age-related spatial working memory deficits in the spontaneous alternation task but not spatial reference memory deficits in the Morris water maze. A plaque load and astrocytosis were unaltered by fluparoxan treatment in TASTPM mice. The findings suggest that fluparoxan treatment selectively prevent the decline of forms of memory where noradrenaline plays an integral role and that this beneficial effect is not due to altered A plaque pathology or astrocytosis.
We have recently shown that chronic THC administration in adolescent female rats induces subtle but lasting alterations in the emotional circuit ending in depressive-like behaviour at adulthood. Here we describe other relevant depressive-like symptoms present in these animals. Adult female rats pretreated with THC display passive coping strategy towards acute stressful situations as demonstrated by their behaviours in the first session of the forced swim test, develop a profound anhedonic state as demonstrated by the reduced consumption of palatable food and present a decrease in social functioning. Besides the emotional symptoms, adolescent exposure to THC induced a significant deficit in object recognition memory. Since it has been reported that deficits in adult hippocampal neurogenesis may underlie the cognitive dysfunction seen in depression, we then survey cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Adolescent THC exposure significantly reduced the number of BrdU-positive cells in THC-treated rats as well as hippocampal volume. We suggest that this complex depressive-like phenotype is triggered by a long-lasting decrease in CB1 receptor functionality in specific brain regions. To test whether an increase in the endocannabinoid signalling could ameliorate the depressive phenotype, adult female rats pre-exposed to THC were injected with URB597 (0.3mg/kg ip) and then tested in behavioural assays. URB597 was able to reverse most depressive-like symptoms induced by adolescent THC exposure such as the passive coping strategy observed in THC exposed animals in the forced swim test as well as anhedonia and the reduced social activity. These results support a role for the endocannabinoid system in the neurobiology of depression and suggest the use of URB597 as a new therapeutic tool with antidepressant properties.
The substituted 4-phenylpiperazine D3 dopamine receptor selective antagonist PG01037 ((E)-N-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)but-2-enyl)-4-(pyridin-2-yl)benzamide) was reported to attenuate L-dopa-associated abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in unilaterally lesioned rats, a model of L-dopa-dependent dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's Disease (Kumar et al., 2009a). We now report that PG01042 (N-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)butyl)-4-(pyridin-3-yl)benzamide), which is a D3 dopamine receptor selective agonist for adenylyl cyclase inhibition and a partial agonist for mitogenesis, is also capable of attenuating AIMs scores. The intrinsic activity of PG01037 and PG01042 were determined using a) a forskolin-dependent adenylyl cyclase inhibition assay and b) an assay for agonist-associated mitogenesis. It was observed that the in vivo efficacy of PG01042 increased when administered by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection simultaneously with L-dopa/benserazide (8 mg/kg each), as compared to a 60 min or 30 min pretreatment. PG01042 was found to attenuate AIM scores in these animals in a dose dependent manner. While PG01042 did not effectively inhibit SKF 81297-dependent AIMs, it inhibited apomorphine-dependent AIM scores. Rotarod studies indicate that PG01042 at a dose of 10 mg/kg did not adversely affect motor coordination of the unilaterally lesioned rats. Evaluation of lesioned rats using a cylinder test behavioral paradigm indicated that PG01042 did not dramatically attenuate the beneficial effects of L-dopa. These studies and previously published studies suggest that both D3 dopamine receptor selective antagonists, partial agonists and agonists, as defined by an adenylyl cyclase inhibition assay and a mitogenic assay, are pharmacotherapeutic candidates for the treatment of L-dopa-associated dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's Disease.
Patients with apparently selective short-term memory (STM) deficits for semantic information have played an important role in developing multi-store theories of STM and challenge the idea that verbal STM is supported by maintaining activation in the language system. We propose that semantic STM deficits are not as selective as previously thought and can occur as a result of mild disruption to semantic control processes, i.e., mechanisms that bias semantic processing towards task-relevant aspects of knowledge and away from irrelevant information. We tested three semantic STM patients with tasks that tapped four aspects of semantic control: (i) resolving ambiguity between word meanings, (ii) sensitivity to cues, (iii) ignoring irrelevant information and (iv) detecting weak semantic associations. All were impaired in conditions requiring more semantic control, irrespective of the STM demands of the task, suggesting a mild, but task-general, deficit in regulating semantic knowledge. This mild deficit has a disproportionate effect on STM tasks because they have high intrinsic control demands: in STM tasks, control is required to keep information active when it is no longer available in the environment and to manage competition between items held in memory simultaneously. By re-interpreting the core deficit in semantic STM patients in this way, we are able to explain their apparently selective impairment without the need for a specialised STM store. Instead, we argue that semantic STM patients occupy the mildest end of spectrum of semantic control disorders.
More efficient processing of high frequency (HF) words is a ubiquitous finding in healthy individuals, yet frequency effects are often small or absent in stroke aphasia. We propose that some patients fail to show the expected frequency effect because processing of HF words places strong demands on semantic control and regulation processes, counteracting the usual effect. This may occur because HF words appear in a wide range of linguistic contexts, each associated with distinct semantic information. This theory predicts that in extreme circumstances, patients with impaired semantic control should show an outright reversal of the normal frequency effect. To test this prediction, we tested two patients with impaired semantic control with a delayed repetition task that emphasised activation of semantic representations. By alternating HF and low frequency (LF) trials, we demonstrated a significant repetition advantage for LF words, principally because of perseverative errors in which patients produced the previous LF response in place of the HF target. These errors indicated that HF words were more weakly activated than LF words. We suggest that when presented with no contextual information, patients generate a weak and unstable pattern of semantic activation for HF words because information relating to many possible contexts and interpretations is activated. In contrast, LF words are associated with more stable patterns of activation because similar semantic information is activated whenever they are encountered.
Errors generate typical brain responses, characterized by two successive event-related potentials (ERP) following incorrect action: the error-related negativity (ERN) and the positivity error (Pe). However, it is unclear whether these error-related responses are sensitive to the magnitude of the error, or instead show all-or-none effects. We studied error-monitoring with ERPs while healthy adult participants performed ballistic pointing movements towards a visual target with or without optical prisms, in alternating runs. This allowed us to record variable pointing errors, ranging from slight to large deviations relative to the visual target. Behavioural results demonstrated a classic effect of prisms on pointing (i.e. initial shifts away from targets, with rapidly improving performance), as well as robust prismatic after-effects (i.e. deviations in the opposite direction when removing the prisms after successful adaptation). Critically, the amplitude of both ERN and Pe were strongly influenced by the magnitude of errors. Error-related ERPs were observed for large deviations, but their amplitudes decreased monotonically when pointing accuracy increased, revealing a parametric modulation of monitoring systems as a function of the severity of errors. These results indicate that early error detection mechanisms do not represent failures in an all-or-none manner, but rather encode the degree of mismatch between the actual and expected motor outcome, providing a flexible cognitive control process that can discriminate between different degrees of mismatch between intentions and outcomes.
Fast goal-directed actions are supposed to be controlled almost exclusively by bottom-up visual control. This mode of processing has been identified with the so-called dorsal visual stream. It is generally accepted that object recognition, mediated by the ventral stream, must be important for deciding what action to execute depending on the specific object to be grasped and the particular purpose. In contrast, the kinematic parameters of the actual movement itself are supposed to be unaffected by recognition processes. This view was recently challenged by the demonstration of a significant impact of object familiarity on grasping kinematics under binocular visual control (McIntosh &amp; Lashley, 2008). This effect was observed for very well known everyday objects. However, it remained unclear whether the effect was really due to long-term, everyday familiarity of the target objects or whether it was simply mediated by short-term learning during the experiment. Therefore, we examined whether the same effect could also be found with objects that were geometrically identical to the ones used by McIntosh and Lashley (2008) and could be distinguished by a pictorial cue but were not associated with long-term, everyday experience. We only found an effect of familiarity under monocular but not under binocular control. Our observation suggests that indeed familiarity exerts an effect on movements under binocular control only if explicit knowledge about the objects is very stable and salient, e.g. after long-term experience.
During sentence processing there is a preference to treat the first noun phrase found as the subject and agent, unless marked the other way. This preference would lead to a conflict in thematic role assignment when the syntactic structure conforms to a non-canonical object-before-subject pattern. Left perisylvian and fronto-parietal brain networks have been found to be engaged by increased computational demands during sentence comprehension, while event-reated brain potentials have been used to study the on-line manifestation of these demands. However, evidence regarding the spatiotemporal organization of brain networks in this domain is scarce. In the current study we used Magnetoencephalography to track spatio-temporally brain activity while Spanish speakers were reading subject- and object-first cleft sentences. Both kinds of sentences remained ambiguous between a subject-first or an object-first interpretation up to the appearance of the second argument. Results show the time-modulation of a frontal network at the disambiguation point of object-first sentences. Moreover, the time windows where these effects took place have been previously related to thematic role integration (300-500 ms) and to sentence reanalysis and resolution of conflicts during processing (beyond 500 ms post-stimulus). These results point to frontal cognitive control as a putative key mechanism which may operate when a revision of the sentence structure and meaning is necessary.
Several lines of evidence show that visual perception is altered at the locus of visual attention: detection is faster, performance better and spatial resolution increased. It is however not known whether attention can affect visual perception further away from its locus. In the present study, we specifically question whether and how visual attention influences spatial perception away from its locus, independently from any saccadic preparation. We use a landmark task in which subjects have to estimate the location of a bisection stimulus relative to two landmark stimuli 15 apart, while fixating one of them. This task is combined with a highly demanding discrimination task performed on one of the two landmarks. This allows us to test for the effect of spatial attention allocation on distance perception, as measured by the subject estimation of the landmarks midpoint. We show that the estimated midpoint is displaced towards the attentional locus, both when attention is instructed on the central landmark or on the peripheral landmark. These results suggest an overrepresentation of space around the attentional locus that can affect perception up to 8 away, and question the existence of an objective spatial representation. They are in line with reports of spatial distortion in hemineglect patients while they strikingly contrast with the spatial compression reported around the time of saccadic execution.
We evaluated hemispheric lateralization of language production in non-right-handed (NRH) patients with schizophrenia compared with matched right-handed (RH) patients, NRH control, and RH control subjects. First, the ability to generate verbs during overt training trials was checked in 78 subjects. They were then evaluated with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing a covert verb generation task. No significant interactions between illness and handedness and no illness effect were observed in functional asymmetry. There was significantly less leftward asymmetry of the inferior frontal, precentral, and supramarginal gyri as well as the intra-parietal sulcus in non-right-handers compared to right-handers taking into account the task performances. Our findings suggested that decreased lateralization for language production was more closely related to handedness than to schizophrenia.
Reduced responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonists in alcohol-dependent animals and humans provided evidence that chronic alcohol consumption increased NMDA receptor function. To further probe alterations in NMDA glutamate receptor function associated with human alcohol dependence, this study examined the interactive effects of agents acting at the glycine(B) coagonist site of the NMDA receptor. In doing so, it tested the hypothesis that raising brain glycine concentrations would accentuate the antagonist-like effects of the glycine(B) partial agonist, D-cycloserine (DCS). Twenty-two alcohol-dependent men and 22 healthy individuals completed 4 test days, during which glycine 0.3g/kg or saline were administered intravenously and DCS 1000mg or placebo were administered orally. The study was conducted under double-blind conditions with randomized test day assignment. In this study, DCS produced alcohol-like effects in healthy subjects that were deemed similar to a single standard alcohol drink. The alcohol-like effects of DCS were blunted in alcohol-dependent patients, providing additional evidence of increased NMDA receptor function in this group. Although glycine administration reduced DCS plasma levels, glycine accentuated DCS effects previously associated with the NMDA receptor antagonists, ketamine and ethanol. Thus, this study provided evidence that raising glycine levels accentuated the NMDA receptor antagonist-like effects of DCS and that alcohol-dependent patients showed tolerance to these DCS effects.
Recent findings have underlined the rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), a structure located caudally to the ventral tegmental area, as an important site involved in the mechanisms of aversion. RMTg contains -aminobutyric acid neurons responding to noxious stimuli, densely innervated by the lateral habenula and providing a major inhibitory projection to reward-encoding midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons. One of the key features of drug addiction is the perseverance of drug seeking in spite of negative and unpleasant consequences, likely mediated by response suppression within neural pathways mediating aversion. To investigate whether the RMTg has a function in the mechanisms of addicting drugs, we studied acute effects of morphine, cocaine, the cannabinoid agonist WIN55212-2 (WIN), and nicotine on putative RMTg neurons. We utilized single unit extracellular recordings in anesthetized rats and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in brain slices to identify and characterize putative RMTg neurons and their responses to drugs of abuse. Morphine and WIN inhibited both firing rate in vivo and excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by stimulation of rostral afferents in vitro, whereas cocaine inhibited discharge activity without affecting EPSC amplitude. Conversely, nicotine robustly excited putative RMTg neurons and enhanced EPSCs, an effect mediated by 7-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Our results suggest that activity of RMTg neurons is profoundly influenced by drugs of abuse and, as important inhibitory afferents to midbrain DA neurons, they might take place in the complex interplay between the neural circuits mediating aversion and reward.
Animals and humans share similar mechanisms of pain detection and similar brain areas involved in pain processing. Also, they show similar pain behaviors, such as reflexed sensation to nociceptive stimuli. Pain is often described in sensory discrimination (algosity) and affective motivation (unpleasantness) dimensions. Both basic and clinical findings indicate that individuals with chronic pain usually suffer more from pain-associated affective disturbances than from the actual pain sensations per se. Although the neural systems responsible for the sensory component of pain have been studied extensively, the neural mechanisms underlying negative affective component are not well understood. This is partly due to the relative paucity of animal paradigms for reliable examination of each component of pain. In humans, the experience of pain and suffering can be reported by language, while in animals, pain can only be inferred through physical and behavioral reactions. Animal behaviors, cognitive psychology and functional brain imaging have made it possible to assess pain affection and pain memory in animals. Animals subjected to either neuropathic injury or inflammatory insult display significant conditioned place aversion to a pain-paired environment in behaviors. The present review aims to summarize the common methods of affective unpleasantness assessment in rats.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is mainly expressed in neurons, to some extent in astrocytes and neuronal stem cells. The alternative splicing of nNOS mRNA generates 5 isoforms of nNOS, including nNOS-, nNOS-, nNOS-, nNOS- and nNOS-2. Monomer of nNOS is inactive, and dimer is the active form. Dimerization requires tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), heme and L-arginine binding. Regulation of nNOS expression relies largely on cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) activity, and nNOS activity is regulated by heat shock protein 90 (HSP90)/HSP70, calmodulin (CaM), phosphorylation and dephosphorylation at Ser847 and Ser1412, and the protein inhibitor of nNOS (PIN). There are primarily 9 nNOS-interacting proteins, including post-synaptic density protein 95 (PSD95), clathrin assembly lymphoid leukemia (CALM), calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II alpha (CAMKIIA), Disks large homolog 4 (DLG4), DLG2, 6-phosphofructokinase, muscle type (PFK-M), carboxy-terminal PDZ ligand of nNOS (CAPON) protein, syntrophin and dynein light chain (LC). Among them, PSD95, CAPON and PFK-M are important nNOS adapter proteins in neurons. The interaction of PSD95 with nNOS controls synapse formation and is implicated in N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-induced neuronal death. nNOS-derived NO is implicated in synapse loss-mediated early cognitive/motor deficits in several neuropathological states, and negatively regulates neurogenesis under physiological and pathological conditions.

Congenital muscular dystrophies (CMD) such as muscle-eye-brain disease caused by defective glycosylation of -dystroglycan (-DG) exhibit defective photoreceptor synaptic function. Mouse knockouts of dystroglycan and its extracellular matrix binding partner pikachurin recapitulate this phenotype. In this study, pikachurin--dystroglycan interactions in several mouse models of CMD were examined by pikachurin overlay experiments. The results show that hypoglycosylation of -dystroglycan resulted in markedly reduced pikachurin--dystroglycan interactions. Expression of pikachurin is abolished at the outer plexiform layer of two mouse models, protein O-mannose N-acetylglucosaminyl transferase 1 (POMGnT1) knockout and Large(myd) mice. Overexpressing LARGE restored this interaction in POMGnT1 knockout cells. These results indicate that pikachurin interactions with -dystroglycan and its localization at the photoreceptor ribbon synapse require normal glycosylation of -dystroglycan.
Recently, resting-state fMRI (R-fMRI) has attracted interest based on its ability to detect the default mode network. We examined the effect of acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) on the fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) during the resting state, and the correlation between changes of mood and fALFF following ATD. We manipulated the central serotonergic levels of 21 right-handed healthy males (mean age=21.571.83 years) following ATD. A within-subjects, double-blind, placebo-controlled, and counter-balanced design was employed. Following ATD or sham depletion, subjects completed the Profile of Mood States (POMS) and underwent 5-min R-fMRI scans. Our findings show that the fALFF of the middle orbitofrontal cortex and precuneus was significantly decreased and the fALFF of the superior parietal lobule, paracentral lobule and precentral gyrus was significantly increased after ATD. The fALFF of the orbitofrontal cortex was negatively correlated with depressive mood. The fALFF of the superior parietal lobule was positively correlated with anger-hostility and the fALFF of the paracentral lobule was negatively correlated with vigor-activity. The middle orbitofrontal cortex plays a key role in serotonin depletion-induced brain changes and individual differences in depressive mood change. These results serve to further elucidate the mechanism of ATD-induced relapse in remitted MDD patients.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neural correlates of deception while remembering neutral events and emotional events. Before fMRI, subjects were presented with a series of neutral and emotional pictures and were asked to rate each picture for arousal. During fMRI, subjects were presented with the studied and nonstudied pictures and were asked to make an honest recognition judgment in response to half of the pictures and a dishonest response to the remaining half. We found that deception pertaining to the memory of neutral pictures was associated with increased activity in the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, and the left orbitofrontal cortex. We also found that deception while remembering emotional pictures was associated with increased activity in the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. An overlapping activation between the two types of deception was found in the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Our results indicate that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is associated with the executive aspects of deception, regardless of the emotional valence of memory content.
The authors review evidence that spontaneous, that is, not stimulus or task driven, activity in the brain at the level of large-scale neural systems is not noise, but orderly and organized in a series of functional networks that maintain, at all times, a high level of coherence. These networks of spontaneous activity correlation or resting state networks (RSN) are closely related to the underlying anatomical connectivity, but their topography is also gated by the history of prior task activation. Network coherence does not depend on covert cognitive activity, but its strength and integrity relates to behavioral performance. Some RSN are functionally organized as dynamically competing systems both at rest and during tasks. Computational studies show that one of such dynamics, the anticorrelation between networks, depends on noise-driven transitions between different multistable cluster synchronization states. These multistable states emerge because of transmission delays between regions that are modeled as coupled oscillators systems. Large-scale systems dynamics are useful for keeping different functional subnetworks in a state of heightened competition, which can be stabilized and fired by even small modulations of either sensory or internal signals.
The 3rd hosting of the Auckland region New Zealand Brain Bee Challenge was held in 2009. Designed as a neuroscience quiz for high school students, the competition provides a valuable case study for science outreach. By engaging with teenagers, the field of neuroscience presents an exciting area of science but also stimulates those in the field to promote and share their research. Neuroscience is the ideal subject to highlight and promote science to young people and the community, as the brain defines unique features such as our personality, emotions, creativity, and intelligence. Understanding brain function and, importantly, determining dysfunction is a growing area of research interest, with relevance to health care systems and government policy, especially in light of the aging population. Feedback from students and teachers indicated that they had learned something about research and the brain, were more aware of options within science including considering neuroscience as a career option, and would recommend participation in the Brain Bee Challenge to other students. A number of participants indicated it was interesting/valuable to have interaction with neuroscientists. Although there are many synergistic benefits resulting from an undertaking such as the Brain Bee Challenge, the following profile highlights the value of the interaction and promotion of research to the community.
Stress response and depression have a significant impact on modern society. Although the symptoms are well characterized, the molecular mechanisms underlying depression are largely unknown. The monoamine hypothesis, which postulates dysfunctional noradrenergic and serotonergic systems as the underlying primary cause of depression, has been valuable for the development of conventional antidepressants, which can reverse these dysfunctional states to some degree. However, recent data from various neuroscience disciplines have questioned the major role of amines in the pathogenesis of depression. A considerable amount of evidence has accumulated that suggests that normalization of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system might be the final step necessary for a remission of depression. In addition, an increasing body of clinical and postmortem evidence is pointing to a role played by -aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate in the etiology of depression. This review examines the evidence, mainly obtained from clinical studies or from postmortem brain material, for a major role of the HPA axis, glutamatergic, and GABAergic systems in the pathogenesis of major and bipolar depression. The authors hope that these insights will stimulate further studies with the final aim of developing new types of antidepressants that combine increased efficacy with a shorter delay of the onset of action and reduced side-effect profiles.


A disruption in normal brain development has been hypothesized to contribute to the aetiology of major psychiatric disorders. According to the 'double-hit' hypothesis, mutant genes-based deviations, associated with specific environmental insults during brain development, may result in neurobehavioural disturbances. The existence of age windows of vulnerability to environmental conditions during brain maturation will be discussed, using as examples a series of studies we have performed during the last years. Major deviations from normative neurobehavioural trajectories have been reported in animal models following exposure to severe stress (either episodes of maternal separation, deprivation or corticosterone supplementation) early in infancy. Rodent models of difficult and/or stressful pregnancies, including obstetric complications (e.g. prenatal restrain stress or neonatal hypoxia) and gestational exposure to infection (e.g prenatal immune challenge), have been associated with profound long-lasting deficits in the offspring's emotional and social behaviour, and with immune and endocrine changes. More recently, adolescence, characterized by elevated rates of brain plasticity, has emerged as an additional period during which sensitivity to environmental influence (either adverse or stimulatory) is maximal. We have reported that both pharmacological (methylphenidate) and environmental (physical or social enrichment) interventions can be used to counteract the detrimental effects of earlier-origin developmental insults. Present findings indicate that these age periods (i.e. prenatal stage, early infancy and adolescence) do represent critical windows open to plastic changes and might be susceptible to both adverse and supportive shaping environmental forces. Taken together, age-related neuroplasticity might be considered not only as a risk factor for psychopathology but also as a potent mechanism for compensation. A better understanding of these critical periods of brain development is a concern for public health and may provide new insights into prevention strategies and into novel therapeutic approaches in neuropsychiatry.
The purpose of this study was to analyze the evidence supporting a staging model for bipolar disorder. The authors conducted an extensive Medline and Pubmed search of the published literature using a variety of search terms (staging, bipolar disorder, early intervention) to find relevant articles, which were reviewed in detail. Only recently specific proposals have been made to apply clinical staging to bipolar disorder. The staging model in bipolar disorder suggests a progression from prodromal (at-risk) to more severe and refractory presentations (Stage IV). A staging model implies a longitudinal appraisal of different aspects: clinical variables, such as number of episodes and subsyndromal symptoms, functional and cognitive impairment, comorbidity, biomarkers, and neuroanatomical changes. Staging models are based on the fact that response to treatment is generally better when it is introduced early in the course of the illness. It assumes that earlier stages have better prognosis and require simpler therapeutic regimens. Staging may assist in bipolar disorder treatment planning and prognosis, and emphasize the importance of early intervention. Further research is required in this exciting and novel area.





While being exposed to an intensive tonic pain stimulus at one area of the body, another phasic pain stimulus applied to a remote site is perceived as less painful. The neurophysiological basis for this &quot;pain inhibits pain&quot; phenomenon has been presumed to be an activation of the spino-bulbo-spinal mechanism termed &quot;diffuse noxious inhibitory controls.&quot; However, several additional mechanisms such as an activation of the descending pain control system may contribute to this observation. Here we investigated the underlying supraspinal mechanisms of &quot;heterotopic noxious conditioning stimulations&quot; (HNCS), representing this specific experimental constellation. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging and behavioral recordings in combination with a modified cold-pressor task and phasic painful stimuli, and investigated the contribution of endogenous opioids to this mechanism using the opioid antagonist naloxone in a double-blind crossover design. HNCS led to marked endogenous analgesia and this effect correlated positively with the perceived intensity of the tonic painful stimulus. Furthermore, HNCS was paralleled by reduced blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) responses in classical pain-responsive regions. Conversely, HNCS led to tonic BOLD increases in subregions of the anterior cingulate cortex. The strength of functional coupling between the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex and key structures of the descending pain control system was enhanced during HNCS, which correlated positively with the individual endogenous analgesia during HNCS. These effects were in part reversed by naloxone, speaking for the contribution of endogenous opioid neurotransmission to this mechanism. Taken together, these results demonstrate a substantial contribution of higher-order brain regions to the phenomenon of hypoalgesia during HNCS. Functional magnetic resonance imaging shows how the human brain is involved in heterotopic noxious conditioning and reveals active supraspinal pain modulatory mechanisms during dual pain stimulation.
It was previously reported that in 5 patients with small-fiber neuropathy, neuropathic pain, and hyperalgesia, application of a single, brief electrical stimulus to the skin could give rise to 2 afferent impulses in a C-nociceptor fiber. These double spikes, which are attributed to unidirectional conduction failure at branch points in the terminal arborisation, provide a possible mechanism for hyperalgesia. We here report that similar multiple spikes are regularly observed in 3 rat models of neuropathic pain: nerve crush, nerve suture, and chronic constriction injury. The proportion of nociceptor fibers exhibiting multiple spikes was similar (10.1-18.5%) in the 3 models, and significantly greater than the proportion in control (unoperated) animals (1.2%). As in the human patients, multiple spikes in the rat models were often provoked by increasing the stimulation rate from 0.25 to 2Hz, but provocation by warming was less consistent. Multiple spiking was also directly dependent on stimulus intensity, consistent with a mechanism that depends on activation of multiple branches. Whereas only double spikes had previously been described in patients, in these more extensive recordings from rats we found that triple spikes could also be observed after a single electrical stimulus. The results strengthen the suggestion that multiple spiking, because of impaired conduction in the terminal branches of nociceptors, may contribute to hyperalgesia in patients with neuropathic pain. Double and triple spikes in c-nociceptors, caused by impaired conduction in terminal branches, may be an important cause of hyperalgesia in patients with neuropathic pain.


The sections in the following review cover six main neurodegenerative diseases. The first article on Alzheimer's disease (AD) outlines the major evidence available to date that links A-amyloid peptide as a proximal cause of AD. The article also highlights how an initial finding of the protein content of the amyloid plaque seen in the brains of patients with AD has led to many very significant findings in the neuroscience field. The next section outlines the many and recent advances that have occurred in the field of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), including the most recent finding related to the fused sarcoma gene (FUS) and the newest nomenclature whereby the FTLD is subtyped according to the presence of specific proteins seen at a microscopic level. The section on Lewy bodies outlines the latest advances in the relationship between the anatomical distribution of Lewy bodies and disease phenotype. The following section includes an overview of current known genetic links with familial causes of motor neuron disease (MND) and an update on the areas being researched into the causes of sporadic MND. The presence of TDP-43 within inclusions and its new diagnostic role in MND are discussed. The final article on prion diseases gives an overview of human prion diseases, including the phenotypic spectrum, epidemiology and diagnostic investigations relevant to disease.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common inflammatory demyelinating and degenerative disease of the CNS. The cause of MS is unknown but environmental risk factors are implicated in MS. Several viruses have been proposed as a trigger for MS, and lately Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has become the leading candidate. An infectious aetiology fits with a number of epidemiological observations in addition to the immunopathological features of the disease. In this review we will summarize the emerging evidence, which demonstrates a strong association between EBV infection and MS. The conundrum remains as to whether EBV is directly involved in the pathophysiology of MS, or alternatively if the immunopathology of MS somehow affects the regulation of EBV infection.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a complex disease with an unknown etiology and no effective cure, despite decades of extensive research that led to the development of several partially effective treatments. Researchers have only limited access to early and immunologically active MS tissue samples, and the modification of experimental circumstances is much more restricted in human studies compared to studies in animal models. For these reasons, animal models are needed to clarify the underlying immune-pathological mechanisms and test novel therapeutic and reparative approaches. It is not possible for a single mouse model to capture and adequately incorporate all clinical, radiological, pathological and genetic features of MS. The three most commonly studied major categories of animal models of MS include: (1) the purely autoimmune experimental autoimmune/allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE); (2) the virally induced chronic demyelinating disease models, with the main model of Theiler's Murine Encephalomyelitis Virus (TMEV) infection and (3) toxin-induced models of demyelination, including the cuprizone model and focal demyelination induced by lyso-phosphatidyl choline (lyso-lecithine). EAE has been enormously helpful over the past several decades in our overall understanding of CNS inflammation, immune surveillance and immune-mediated tissue injury. Furthermore, EAE has directly led to the development of three approved medications for treatment in multiple sclerosis, glatiramer acetate, mitoxantrone and natalizumab. On the other hand, numerous therapeutical approaches that showed promising results in EAE turned out to be either ineffective or in some cases harmful in MS. The TMEV model features a chronic-progressive disease course that lasts for the entire lifespan in susceptible mice. Several features of MS, including the role and significance of axonal injury and repair, the partial independence of disability from demyelination, epitope spread from viral to myelin epitopes, the significance of remyelination has all been demonstrated in this model. TMEV based MS models also feature several MRI findings of the human disease. Toxin-induced demyelination models has been mainly used to study focal demyelination and remyelination. None of the three main animal models described in this review can be considered superior; rather, they are best viewed as complementary to one another. Despite their limitations, the rational utilization and application of these models to address specific research questions will remain one of the most useful tools in studies of human demyelinating diseases.
There is a high prevalence of sleep disorders in children and an apparent increasing need for pharmacologic management. However, because of the paucity of data available with regards to dosing, efficacy, tolerability, and safety profiles of medications as well as a lack of adequate well-designed clinical trials, medications are currently not approved for the pediatric population by the US Food and Drug Administration. There are no pharmacologic guidelines for the specific sleep disorders or the different pediatric age ranges. Additional research is needed for evidence-based pediatric sleep pharmacotherapy. This article reviews pediatric sleep disorders and the pharmacologic therapeutic options.
In a 16-year-old boy with hemiplegia and severe, intractable epilepsy after a neonatal cerebral ischemic insult, cortical motor control was only equivocally assessed by functional magnetic resonance imaging. Therefore, high-precision navigated transcranial magnetic stimulation was performed, which demonstrated that cortical control of muscles on the paretic side was selectively affected. Leg muscle control was located in the contralateral hemisphere, as expected in healthy individuals, whereas forearm muscles were controlled from both hemispheres, and hand muscles were controlled only from the hemisphere ipsilateral to the paresis.
While the effect of listening to music on cognitive abilities is highly debated, studies reporting an enhancing effect of music in elderly populations appear to be more consistent. In this study, the effects of listening to music on attention in groups of cognitively normal older adults and those with mild cognitive impairment were considered. Participants were exposed to both a music and silence condition, and after each condition performed Digit Span and Coding tasks which require attention for maximal performance. The hypothesis that listening to music, compared to a silence condition, enhances performance was not supported for either group. Various explanations for these findings are considered.
The purpose was to assess differences in postural response characteristics between two groups of elite athletes having power or endurance training. Participants were all men and included power- (M age = 21 yr., SD = 3, n = 12) and endurance-trained (M age = 22, SD = 3, n = 12) athletes. Muscle response characteristics and center of pressure measures were recorded during recovery from Fast (10 cm at 80 cm/sec.) and Slow (10 cm at 20 cm/sec.) horizontal platform perturbations. In response to Fast perturbations, power-trained athletes responded with significantly shorter times to stabilize the center of pressure, shorter muscle-contraction onset times, and larger muscle response amplitudes than endurance-trained athletes. This suggests power-trained athletes are more effective than endurance-trained athletes in responding to balance threats such as slips and trips in daily life and that power training should be studied to improve balance control of balance-impaired populations.


Tobacco use is a major cause of disease and premature death in the United States. Nicotine is considered the key component of tobacco responsible for addiction in human smokers. Accumulating evidence supports an important role for the hypocretin (orexin) neuropeptide system in regulating the reinforcing properties of most major drugs of abuse, including nicotine. Here, data showing that nicotine activates hypocretin-producing neurons in the lateral hypothalamus, and that disruption of hypocretin transmission decreases nicotine self-administration behavior in rats will be reviewed. Recent findings suggesting that plasma hypocretin levels may be related to the magnitude of cigarette craving in abstinent smokers will be discussed. Finally, the data suggesting that hypocretin transmission in the insular cortex may play an important role in regulating nicotine self-administration behavior in rats will be reviewed. This latter finding may provide mechanistic insight into the apparent disruption of tobacco addiction reported in human smokers with stroke-associated damage to the insular cortex.
Presynaptic biogenic amine transporters mediate reuptake of released amines from the synapse, thus regulating serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine neurotransmission. Medications utilized in the treatment of depression, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder and other psychiatric disorders possess high affinity for amine transporters. In addition, amine transporters are targets for psychostimulants. Altered expression of biogenic amine transporters has long been implicated in several psychiatric and degenerative disorders. Therefore, appropriate regulation and maintenance of biogenic amine transporter activity is critical for the maintenance of normal amine homoeostasis. Accumulating evidence suggests that cellular protein kinases and phosphatases regulate amine transporter expression, activity, trafficking and degradation. Amine transporters are phosphoproteins that undergo dynamic control under the influence of various kinase and phosphatase activities. This review presents a brief overview of the role of amine transporter phosphorylation in the regulation of amine transport in the normal and diseased brain. Understanding the molecular mechanisms by which phosphorylation events affect amine transporter activity is essential for understanding the contribution of transporter phosphorylation to the regulation of monoamine neurotransmission and for identifying potential new targets for the treatment of various brain diseases.
Alcoholism is a chronic relapsing disorder. Major characteristics observed in alcoholics during an initial period of alcohol abstinence are altered physiological functions and a negative emotional state. Evidence suggests that a persistent, cumulative adaptation involving a kindling/allostasis-like process occurs during the course of repeated chronic alcohol exposures that is critical for the negative symptoms observed during alcohol withdrawal. Basic studies have provided evidence for specific neurotransmitters within identified brain sites being responsible for the negative emotion induced by the persistent cumulative adaptation following intermittent-alcohol exposures. After an extended period of abstinence, the cumulative alcohol adaptation increases susceptibility to stress- and alcohol cue-induced negative symptoms and alcohol seeking, both of which can facilitate excessive ingestion of alcohol. In the alcoholic, stressful imagery and alcohol cues alter physiological responses, enhance negative emotion, and induce craving. Brain fMRI imaging following stress and alcohol cues has documented neural changes in specific brain regions of alcoholics not observed in social drinkers. Such altered activity in brain of abstinent alcoholics to stress and alcohol cues is consistent with a continuing ethanol adaptation being responsible. Therapies in alcoholics found to block responses to stress and alcohol cues would presumably be potential treatments by which susceptibility for continued alcohol abuse can be reduced. By continuing to define the neurobiological basis of the sustained alcohol adaptation critical for the increased susceptibility of alcoholics to stress and alcohol cues that facilitate craving, a new era is expected to evolve in which the high rate of relapse in alcoholism is minimized.

UBB(+1) is a mutant ubiquitin which accumulates in the hallmarks of tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease. Transgenic mice expressing high levels of neuronal UBB(+1) exhibit moderately decreased proteasome activity and spatial reference memory deficits at 9months of age. In the present study, we characterized the behavioral phenotype of male UBB(+1) transgenic mice at different ages. We show that UBB(+1) transgenic mice displayed an age-related functional decline similar to wild-type littermates, without gross neurological abnormalities or alterations in procedural motor-learning and motor coordination. At 15months of age, a transgene-specific spatial learning deficit was dependent on the period of training in the Morris watermaze. This deficit could be eliminated after additional training. We conclude that the previously reported spatial reference memory deficits of UBB(+1) transgenic mice persist during aging. In addition, our results demonstrate that the subtle defect in spatial reference memory formation, caused by a decrease in forebrain proteasome activity, is a persistent defect and not a structural defect.
Avoidance learning affects post-training sleep, and post-training sleep deprivation impairs performance. However, not all rats learn to make avoidance responses, and some rats fail to escape; a definitive behavior of learned helplessness, a model of depression. This study investigated the changes in sleep associated with different behaviors adopted following avoidance training. Rats (n=53) were trained for 100 trials over 2 days (50 trials/day), followed by 23-24 h of post-training polysomnography, then re-tested (25 trials). At re-test, rats were categorized into: 1) Active Avoiders (AA; n=22), 2), Non-learning (NL; n=21), or 3) Escape Failures (EF; n=10). AA rats increased avoidances over days, whereas the NL and EF groups did not. EF rats increased escape failures over days, whereas the NL and AA rats did not. EF rats had increased rapid eye movement (REM) sleep in the first 4h on training day 1. They also had increased non-REM sleep in the first 4h and last 4h on both training days. AA rats had increased REM sleep 13-20 h post-training. The type of behavioral strategy adopted throughout training is associated with a unique pattern of changes in post-training sleep. Training-dependent changes in post-acquisition sleep may reflect distinct processes involved in the consolidation of these different memory traces.
A synergistic relationship is thought to exist between hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity and dopamine neurotransmission. To test whether a high response to dopamine indeed implies a hyperactive HPA-axis, we here used Wistar rats that were selected twice independently (original and replicate lines) for a high or low susceptibility to the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (so-called APO-SUS and APO-UNSUS rats, respectively). The APO-SUS rats from the original line displayed a hyperactive HPA-axis in that higher basal and stress-induced adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels, and lower basal free-corticosterone levels were observed than those found in the original APO-UNSUS rats. In contrast, the activity of the HPA-axis in the APO-SUS rats from the replicate line did not differ from that in the replicate APO-UNSUS rats. Thus, in the APO-SUS/APO-UNSUS rat model the level of HPA-axis activity is not necessarily causally linked to dopamine responsiveness, implying that a hyperactive HPA-axis is not a prerequisite for a high dopaminergic response.
Evidence suggests that the development of obesity in males and females might be mediated by distinct mechanisms, warranting different treatment approaches. In previous studies from this laboratory, a high sucrose diet induced excessive weight gain in female Sprague-Dawley rats and administration of a selective antagonist of 34 nicotinic receptors, 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), prevented this form of obesity. In the present study similar parameters were studied in male rats by using an identical experimental protocol. The effects of repeated administration of 18-MC on body weight gain, deposition of fat, consummatory behavior and biochemical markers of obesity in male rats were also assessed. In contrast to females, males consuming ad libitum quantities of sucrose solution (30%) in combination with normal chow did not become obese; they did not gain excessive weight nor show excessive fat deposition. Repeated administration of 18-MC (20mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated weight gain in both sucrose-consuming and control animals without altering food or fluid intake. The present results indicate that males and females are differentially responsive to high carbohydrate-diet obesity. Such gender disparities could be secondary to sex-specific alterations in cholinergic mechanisms of feeding and body weight regulation.
Recent findings suggest that spontaneous neurotransmission is a bona fide pathway for interneuronal signaling that operates independent of evoked transmission via distinct presynaptic as well as postsynaptic substrates. This article will examine the role of spontaneous release events in neuronal signaling by focusing on aspects that distinguish this process from evoked neurotransmission, and evaluate the mechanisms that may underlie this segregation.
Animals must respond selectively to specific combinations of salient environmental stimuli in order to survive in complex environments. A task with these features, biconditional discrimination, requires responses to select pairs of stimuli that are opposite to responses to those stimuli in another combination. We investigate the characteristics of synaptic plasticity and network connectivity needed to produce stimulus-pair neural responses within randomly connected model networks of spiking neurons trained in biconditional discrimination. Using reward-based plasticity for synapses from the random associative network onto a winner-takes-all decision-making network representing perceptual decision-making, we find that reliably correct decision making requires upstream neurons with strong stimulus-pair selectivity. By chance, selective neurons were present in initial networks; appropriate plasticity mechanisms improved task performance by enhancing the initial diversity of responses. We find long-term potentiation of inhibition to be the most beneficial plasticity rule by suppressing weak responses to produce reliably correct decisions across an extensive range of networks.
Compelling behavioral evidence suggests that humans can make optimal decisions despite the uncertainty inherent in perceptual or motor tasks. A key question in neuroscience is how populations of spiking neurons can implement such probabilistic computations. In this article, we develop a comprehensive framework for optimal, spike-based sensory integration and working memory in a dynamic environment. We propose that probability distributions are inferred spike-per-spike in recurrently connected networks of integrate-and-fire neurons. As a result, these networks can combine sensory cues optimally, track the state of a time-varying stimulus and memorize accumulated evidence over periods much longer than the time constant of single neurons. Importantly, we propose that population responses and persistent working memory states represent entire probability distributions and not only single stimulus values. These memories are reflected by sustained, asynchronous patterns of activity which make relevant information available to downstream neurons within their short time window of integration. Model neurons act as predictive encoders, only firing spikes which account for new information that has not yet been signaled. Thus, spike times signal deterministically a prediction error, contrary to rate codes in which spike times are considered to be random samples of an underlying firing rate. As a consequence of this coding scheme, a multitude of spike patterns can reliably encode the same information. This results in weakly correlated, Poisson-like spike trains that are sensitive to initial conditions but robust to even high levels of external neural noise. This spike train variability reproduces the one observed in cortical sensory spike trains, but cannot be equated to noise. On the contrary, it is a consequence of optimal spike-based inference. In contrast, we show that rate-based models perform poorly when implemented with stochastically spiking neurons.
The progression of a natural bacterial infection is a dynamic process influenced by the physiological characteristics of the target organ. Recent developments in live animal imaging allow for the study of the dynamic microbe-host interplay in real-time as the infection progresses within an organ of a live host. Here we used multiphoton microscopy-based live animal imaging, combined with advanced surgical procedures, to investigate the role of uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) attachment organelles P and Type 1 fimbriae in renal bacterial infection. A GFP+ expressing variant of UPEC strain CFT073 and genetically well-defined isogenic mutants were microinfused into rat glomerulus or proximal tubules. Within 2 h bacteria colonized along the flat squamous epithelium of the Bowman's capsule despite being exposed to the primary filtrate. When facing the challenge of the filtrate flow in the proximal tubule, the P and Type 1 fimbriae appeared to act in synergy to promote colonization. P fimbriae enhanced early colonization of the tubular epithelium, while Type 1 fimbriae mediated colonization of the center of the tubule via a mechanism believed to involve inter-bacterial binding and biofilm formation. The heterogeneous bacterial community within the tubule subsequently affected renal filtration leading to total obstruction of the nephron within 8 h. Our results reveal the importance of physiological factors such as filtration in determining bacterial colonization patterns, and demonstrate that the spatial resolution of an infectious niche can be as small as the center, or periphery, of a tubule lumen. Furthermore, our data show how secondary physiological injuries such as obstruction contribute to the full pathophysiology of pyelonephritis.
Public and media interest in the potential applications of stem cells in regenerative neurology has led to growing hope and expectation. This interest is heightened by the current paucity of treatments available for neurodegenerative diseases and their generally poor prognosis. Patient discussions about stem cells are therefore a common occurrence in clinical practice, requiring neurologists to offer clear and accurate information. In the context of a complex and rapidly evolving field, this can be extremely challenging. Here we address issues around stem cell populations relevant to regenerative neurology, including the opportunities they offer for research and their potential application as direct therapies, concluding with a pragmatic assessment of the likely clinical benefits of stem cell research.
Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease (CJD) is a rare untreatable neurodegenerative disease which every neurologist will occasionally encounter during their career. However, it is likely to appear on their differential diagnosis list significantly more frequently. Numerous conditions can present with subacute encephalopathy which might be sporadic CJD and this article explores these diagnoses. It includes the commonest sporadic CJD mimics which are neurodegenerative, and highlights the relatively rare treatable mimics which must not be missed. It discusses relevant investigations, including serum antibodies, CSF, electroencephalography and MR brain imaging, and strategies when preliminary investigations fail to support sporadic CJD but no alternative diagnosis is readily apparent.

Aging of the human brain is associated with &quot;normal&quot; functional, structural, and molecular changes that underlie alterations in cognition, memory, mood and motor function, amongst other processes. Normal aging also imposes a robust constraint on the onset of many neurological diseases, ranging from late onset neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's diseases (PD), to early onset psychiatric disorders, such as bipolar disorder (BPD) and schizophrenia (SCZ). The molecular mechanisms and genetic underpinnings of age-related changes in the brain are understudied, and, while they share some overlap with peripheral mechanisms of aging, many are unique to the largely non-mitotic brain. Hence, understanding mechanisms of brain aging and identifying associated modulators may have profound consequences for the prevention and treatment of age-related impairments and diseases. Here we review current knowledge on age-related functional and structural changes, their molecular and genetic underpinnings, and discuss how these pathways may contribute to the vulnerability to develop age-related neurological diseases. We highlight recent findings from human post-mortem brain microarray studies, which we hypothesize, point to a potential genetically controlled transcriptional program underlying molecular changes and age-gating of neurological diseases. Finally, we discuss the implications of this model for understanding basic mechanisms of brain aging and for the future investigation of therapeutic approaches.
Rapid technological advances over the past decade have moved us closer to a high throughput molecular approach to neurobiology, where we see the merging of neurogenetics, genomics, physiology, imaging and pharmacology. This is the case more in zebrafish than in any other model organism commonly used. Recent improvements in the generation of transgenic zebrafish now allow genetic manipulation and live imaging of neuronal development and function in early embryonic, larval, and adult animals. The sequenced zebrafish genome and comparative genomics give unprecedented insights into genome evolution and its relation to genome structure and function. There is now information on embryonic and larval expression of over 12,000 genes and just under 1000 mutant phenotypes. We review the remarkable similarity of the zebrafish genetic blueprint for the nervous system to that of mammals and assess recent technological advances that make the zebrafish a model of choice for elucidating the development and function of neuronal circuitry, transgene-based neuroanatomy, and small molecule neuropharmacology.
Autosomal dominant mutations in the presenilin gene PSEN cause familial Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurological disorder pathologically characterized by intraneuronal accumulation and extracellular deposition of amyloid- in plaques and intraneuronal, hyperphosphorylated tau aggregation in neurofibrillary tangles. Presenilins (PS/PSENs) are part of the proteolytic -secretase complex, which cleaves substrate proteins within the membrane. Cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by -secretase releases amyloid- peptides. Besides its role in the processing of APP and other transmembrane proteins, presenilin plays an important role in neural progenitor cell maintenance and neurogenesis. In this review, we discuss the role of presenilin in relation to neurogenesis and neurodegeneration and review the currently available presenilin animal models. In addition to established mouse models, zebrafish are emerging as an attractive vertebrate model organism to study the role of presenilin during the development of the nervous system and in neurodegenerative disorders involving presenilin. Zebrafish is a suitable model organism for large-scale drug screening, making this a valuable model to identify novel therapeutic targets for AD.
Receptor tyrosine kinases couple a wide variety of extracellular cues to cellular responses. The class III subfamily comprises the platelet-derived growth factor receptor, c-Kit, Flt3 and c-Fms, all of which relay cell proliferation signals upon ligand binding. Accordingly, mutations in these proteins that confer ligand-independent activation are found in a subset of cancers. These mutations cluster in the juxtamembrane (JM) and catalytic tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) regions. In the case of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), the juxtamembrane (named ITD for internal tandem duplication) and TKD Flt3 mutants differ in their spectra of clinical outcomes. Although the mechanism of aberrant activation has been largely elucidated by biochemical and structural analyses of mutant kinases, the differences in disease presentation cannot be attributed to a change in substrate specificity or signaling strength of the catalytic domain. This review discusses the latest literature and presents a working model of differential Flt3 signaling based on mis-localized juxtamembrane autophosphorylation, to account for the disease variation. This will have bearing on therapeutic approaches in a complex disease such as AML, for which no efficacious drug yet exists.
The great diversity of structural conformations available to proteins allows this class of molecules to carry out the vast majority of biochemical functions in the cell. In order to function adequately, proteins must be synthesized, folded/assembled and degraded with great temporal and spatial accuracy. Precise coordination of multiple processes, including ribosome assembly and movement along mRNA, charging and recycling of tRNAs, recruitment and action of molecular chaperones, and tight control of the degradation machinery is essential to create and maintain a stable proteome. It has become recently evident that even slight errors in any of these processes may lead to disease states. Accordingly, increasing numbers of human diseases have been identified that are due to mutations in genes encoding proteins involved in this so-called &quot;protein quality control&quot;. Since these processes are essential for the production and maintenance of the entire proteome of the cell, the deleterious effects of these mutations often extend far beyond the faulty gene. This review provides an overview of human disorders caused by defects in mechanisms underlying protein biogenesis and stability.
African swine fever virus (ASFV) is a large double-stranded DNA virus responsible for a lethal pig disease, to which no vaccine has ever been obtained. Its genome encodes a number of proteins involved in virus survival and transmission in its hosts, in particular proteins that inhibit signaling pathways in infected macrophages and, thus, interfere with the host's innate immune response. A recently identified novel ASFV viral protein (pI329L) was found to inhibit the Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) signaling pathway, TLR3 being a crucial &quot;danger detector.&quot; pI329L has been predicted to be a transmembrane protein containing extracellular putative leucine-rich repeats similar to TLR3, suggesting that pI329L might act as a TLR3 decoy. To explore this idea, we used comparative modeling and other structure prediction protocols to propose (a) a model for the TLR3-Toll-interleukin-1 receptor homodimer and (b) a structural fold for pI329L, detailed at atomistic level for its cytoplasmic domain. As this later domain shares only remote sequence relationships with the available TLR3 templates, a more complex modeling strategy was employed that combines the iterative implementation of (multi)threading/assembly/refinement (I-TASSER) structural prediction with expertise-guided posterior refinement. The final pI329L model presents a plausible fold, good structural quality, is consistent with the available experimental data, and it corroborates our hypothesis of pI329L being a TLR3 antagonist.




This study investigates the role of disfluencies such as &quot;um&quot; or &quot;uh&quot; in conversation to discern whether these features of speech serve listener- or speaker-oriented functions by looking at their occurrence (or lack of occurrence) in the speech of participants with autism. Since the characteristic egocentricity of individuals with autism means they should engage in minimal listener-oriented behavior, they are a useful group to differentiate these functions. Transcription, analysis and categorization of 26 spontaneous language samples were derived from age-matched native English-speaking controls and high-functioning individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs). Results showed that individuals with ASD produced fewer filled-pause words (ums and uhs) and revisions than controls, but more silent pauses and disfluent repetitions. Filled-pause words therefore appear to be listener-oriented features of speech.
Sex steroid hormones during development permanently alter, or organize, the brain and behavior, while during adulthood they act to reversibly modulate, or activate, physiology and behavior. Testosterone exerts both organizational and activational effects on the magnitude of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to acute stress. What has never been approached is how testosterone can organize habituation of the HPA axis, in which stress induced elevations in ACTH and corticosterone release decline over repeated exposures to the same stimulus. In the current study we examined HPA responses to repeated psychogenic stress in 65-day-old, adult male rats that received subcutaneous capsules containing the antiandrogen flutamide or the aromatase inhibitor 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione (ATD), introduced within 12h of birth and removed on day 21 of weaning. An additional group of castrated, adult male rats were used to differentiate organizational from activational effects of testosterone. All treatment groups displayed smaller declines in ACTH in response to repeated restraint compared to control animals. Remarkably, the normal decline in corticosterone failed to occur in flutamide- and ATD-treated animals. By contrast, males that were castrated as adults showed a significant reduction in corticosterone after repeated stress. Taken together, these findings underscore an organizing influence of both androgen receptors and estrogen conversion on HPA habituation to repeated psychogenic stress, which appears to occur independent of the activational effects of testosterone.
It was recently shown in humans that exercise affects the neurotrophic factors known to function as neurogenesis regulators. No data related to exercise and pregnancy, however, is yet available. Thus, we investigated the effects of acute exercise on pregnant women during late pregnancy and women postpartum, on the serum concentration of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), prolactin (PRL) and cortisol (COR). Twenty women with uncomplicated pregnancies underwent a graded submaximal exercise test during pregnancy (weeks 32-36 of gestation; T(1)) and postpartum (10-12 weeks after childbirth; T(2)). On two of these test days the women carried out an intensifying exercise test (25 W steps) on a cycle ergometer until a heart rate of 150 bpm was reached. Blood samples were taken in the rest period before beginning the exercise, immediately at the end of the exercise and after recovery periods of 5 and 10 min, respectively. Basal maternal IGF-1, PRL and COR were found to be higher during T(1) (p&lt;.01), while the BDNF was higher during T(2) (p=.00). VEGF was not detectable in the serum of the pregnant women. During T(2), VEGF, which was found to be within the normal range before exercise, was at a higher level after exercise (p&lt;.01). Exercise increased the BDNF and IGF-1 during T(1) and T(2) (p&lt;.01). This study also shows that exercise increases the serum concentrations of IGF-1 and BDNF during pregnancy and postpartum as well as VEGF postpartum. Thus, exercise might be a beneficial lifestyle factor with therapeutic/public health implications i.e. with regard to maternal mood and cognitive performance.









Reproductive and developmental toxicities of zinc supplementation in F(0) rats and F(1) progeny were examined. Rats were treated by gavaging with zinc chloride (ZnCl(2)) at 0.0, 7.5, 15 and 30 mg/kg-d. ZnCl(2) treatment was associated with deficient energy imbalances, reduced number of live pups/litter, decreased live birth index, increased mortality and increased fetal resorption. Changes in serum clinical chemistry and hematologic parameters were sex-related. In F(0) females, ZnCl(2) was associated with increased liver/body weight ratios, reduced creatinine and reduced alkaline phosphatase concentrations. In F(0) males, ZnCl(2) significantly increased relative liver weight and elevated -GGT. In addition, at birth, F(1) males exhibited, a significant (p&lt;0.05) increase in anogenital distance, whereas ZnCl(2) hastened the time of eye opening and incisor eruption in males and females. These results indicate that excess ZnCl(2) supplementation before and during pregnancy and during lactation could pose some health risk concerns to pregnant mothers and their offspring.

More recent theories of addiction suggest that neurocognitive mechanisms, such as attentional processing, cognitive control, and reward processing play a key role in the development or maintenance of addiction. Ultimately, the addiction (with or without substances) is based on the alteration of brain decision-making processes. The neurosciences, particularly those responsible for behavior modification, must take into account the neurobiological processes underlying the observable behavior. Treatments of addiction usually do not take into account these findings, which may be at the base of the low retention rates and high dropout rates of addicted patients. Considered as an alteration of brain functioning, addiction could be addressed successfully through cognitive rehabilitation treatments used in other clinical pathologies such as brain damage or schizophrenia. Although there are few studies, it is suggest that intervention to improve patients' cognitive functioning can improve the efficiency of well-established cognitive-behavioral therapies, such as relapse prevention. This paper reviews the available evidence on cognitive rehabilitation in treating addiction as well as in other pathologies, in order to formulate interventions that may be included in comprehensive rehabilitation programs for people with addictive disorders.




The dopamine system is believed to affect gambling behavior in pathological gambling. Particularly, dopamine release in the ventral striatum appears to affect decision-making in the disorder. This study investigated dopamine release in the ventral striatum in relation to gambling performance on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) in 16 Pathological Gamblers (PG) and 14 Healthy Controls (HC). We used Positron Emission Tomography (PET) to measure the binding potential of [(11)C] raclopride to dopamine D2/3 receptors during a baseline and gambling condition. We hypothesized that decreased raclopride binding potentials in the ventral striatum during gambling (indicating dopamine release) would be associated with higher IGT performance in Healthy Controls, but lower IGT performance in Pathological Gamblers. The results showed that Pathological Gamblers with dopamine release in the ventral striatum had significantly lower IGT performance than Healthy Controls. Furthermore, dopamine release was associated with significantly higher IGT performance in Healthy Controls and significantly lower IGT performance in Pathological Gamblers. The results suggest that dopamine release is involved both in adaptive and maladaptive decision-making. These findings may contribute to a better understanding of dopaminergic dysfunctions in pathological gambling and substance related addictions.
NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography are two premium methods for determining the atomic structures of macro-biomolecular complexes. Each method has unique strengths and weaknesses. While the two techniques are highly complementary, they have generally been used separately to address the structure and functions of biomolecular complexes. In this review, we emphasize that the combination of NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography offers unique power for elucidating the structures of complicated protein assemblies. We demonstrate, using several recent examples from our own laboratory, that the exquisite sensitivity of NMR spectroscopy in detecting the conformational properties of individual atoms in proteins and their complexes, without any prior knowledge of conformation, is highly valuable for obtaining the high quality crystals necessary for structure determination by X-ray crystallography. Thus NMR spectroscopy, in addition to answering many unique structural biology questions that can be addressed specifically by that technique, can be exceedingly powerful in modern structural biology when combined with other techniques including X-ray crystallography and cryo-electron microscopy.
Delivery of proteins or lipids to the plasma membrane or into the extracellular space occurs through exocytosis, a process that requires tethering, docking, priming and fusion of vesicles, as well as F-actin rearrangements in response to specific extracellular cues. GTPases of the Rho family have been implicated as important regulators of exocytosis, but how Rho proteins control this process is an open question. In this review, we focus on molecular connections that drive Rho-dependent exocytosis in polarized and regulated exocytosis. Specifically, we present data showing that Rho proteins interaction with the exocyst complex and IQGAP mediates polarized exocytosis, whereas interaction with actin-binding proteins like N-WASP mediates regulated exocytosis.


The purpose of this study is to examine spatial variations in the prevalence rates of the three most common behaviour problems among 5-year-old children in Canada, to establish the data's suitability for potential spatial analyses of factors contributing to the prevalence of such problems. Data on kindergarten children's outcomes are routinely collected for populations of children in Canada using the Early Development Instrument (EDI), a population-level, teacher completed questionnaire. These data have been previously used to estimate prevalence rates of aggression, anxiety, and hyperactivity. The current study geographically analyzed these estimates to examine their consistency in relation to gender differences at larger provincial geographies and smaller Census Subdivision (CSD) geographies. Multilevel analyses were completed to examine the variation in prevalence at both levels of geography. Data for over 150,000 5-year-olds in three Canadian provinces and 410 Census Subdivisions were available for analyses. Prevalence rates of behaviour problems estimated with the EDI showed consistent gender relationships at both levels of aggregation. Controlling for individuals' age and sex, there was significant variation at the CSD level in risk of behavioural problems, and for anxiety and aggression, this was not explained by the distribution of CSDs in different provinces. This suggests local variation in these aspects of children's behaviour, within provinces. These findings open up the opportunity to further explore the utility and variability of EDI-based spatial variation in children's mental health.


There is growing evidence that Mller glia cells (MGCs) might act as regenerative elements in injured retinas of fishes and amniotes. However, their differentiation potential in humans is yet unknown. We isolated Mller glia from adult human retinas and propagated them in vitro revealing for the first time their ability to differentiate into rod photoreceptors. These results were also confirmed with mice retinas. Here, we describe conditions by which human MGCs adopt a rod photoreceptor commitment with a surprising efficiency as high as 54%. Functional characterization of Mller glia-derived photoreceptors by patch-clamp recordings revealed that their electrical properties are comparable to those of adult rods. Interestingly, our procedure allowed efficient derivation of MGC cultures starting from both injured and degenerating and postmortem human retinas. Human transplanted Mller glia-derived photoreceptors integrate and survive within immunodeficient mouse retinas. These data provide evidence that Mller glia retains an unpredicted plasticity and multipotent potential into adulthood, and it is therefore a promising source of novel therapeutic applications in retinal repair.
Adult neural precursor cells (NPCs) in the subventricular zone (SVZ) normally migrate via the rostral migratory stream (RMS) to the olfactory bulb (OB). Following neural injury, they also migrate to the site of damage. This study investigated the role of Rho-dependent kinase (ROCK) on the migration of NPCs in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, using neurospheres or SVZ explants, inhibition of ROCK using Y27632 promoted cell body elongation, process protrusion, and migration, while inhibiting NPC chain formation. It had no effect on proliferation, apoptosis, or differentiation. Both isoforms of ROCK were involved. Using siRNA, knockdown of both ROCK1 and ROCK2 was required to promote NPC migration and morphological changes; knockdown of ROCK2 alone was partially effective, with little/no effect of knockdown of ROCK1 alone. In vivo, infusion of Y27632 plus Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) into the lateral ventricle for 1 week reduced the number of BrdU-labeled NPCs in the OB compared with BrdU infusion alone. However, ROCK inhibition did not affect the tangential-to-radial switch of NPC migration, as labeled cells were present in all OB layers. The decrease in NPC number at the OB was not attributed to a decrease in NPCs at the SVZ. However, ROCK inhibition decreased the density of BrdU-labeled cells in the RMS and increased the distribution of these cells to ectopic brain regions, such as the accessory olfactory nucleus, where the majority differentiated into neurons. These findings suggest that ROCK signaling regulates NPC migration via regulation of cell-cell contact and chain migration.
Signal-regulated changes in cell size affect cell division and survival and therefore are central to tissue morphogenesis and homeostasis. In this respect, GABA receptors (GABA(A)Rs) are of particular interest because allowing anions flow across the cell membrane modulates the osmolyte flux and the cell volume. Therefore, we have here investigated the hypothesis that GABA may regulate neural stem cell proliferation by inducing cell size changes. We found that, besides neuroblasts, also neural precursors in the neonatal murine subependymal zone sense GABA via GABA(A) Rs. However, unlike in neuroblasts, where it induced depolarization-mediated [Ca(2+)](i) increase, GABA(A) Rs activation in precursors caused hyperpolarization. This resulted in osmotic swelling and increased surface expression of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs). Furthermore, activation of GABA(A) Rs signaling in vitro in the presence of EGF modified the expression of the cell cycle regulators, phosphatase and tensin homolog and cyclin D1, increasing the pool of cycling precursors without modifying cell cycle length. A similar effect was observed on treatment with diazepam. We also demonstrate that GABA and diazepam responsive precursors represent prominin(+) stem cells. Finally, we show that as in in vitro also in in vivo a short administration of diazepam promotes EGFR expression in prominin(+) stem cells causing activation and cell cycle entry. Thus, our data indicate that endogenous GABA is a part of a regulatory mechanism of size and cell cycle entry of neonatal stem cells. Our results also have potential implications for the therapeutic practices that involve exposure to GABA(A) Rs modulators during neurodevelopment.
Cell transplantation offers a novel therapeutic strategy for stroke; however, how transplanted cells function in vivo is poorly understood. We show for the first time that after subacute transplantation into the ischemic brain of human central nervous system stem cells grown as neurospheres (hCNS-SCns), the stem cell-secreted factor, human vascular endothelial growth factor (hVEGF), is necessary for cell-induced functional recovery. We correlate this functional recovery to hVEGF-induced effects on the host brain including multiple facets of vascular repair and its unexpected suppression of the inflammatory response. We found that transplanted hCNS-SCns affected multiple parameters in the brain with different kinetics: early improvement in blood-brain barrier integrity and suppression of inflammation was followed by a delayed spatiotemporal regulated increase in neovascularization. These events coincided with a bimodal pattern of functional recovery, with, an early recovery independent of neovascularization, and a delayed hVEGF-dependent recovery coincident with neovascularization. Therefore, cell transplantation therapy offers an exciting multimodal strategy for brain repair in stroke and potentially other disorders with a vascular or inflammatory component.


Ketamine exerts powerful anesthetic, psychotic, and antidepressant effects in both healthy volunteers and clinically depressed patients. Although ketamine targets particular glutamate receptors, there is a dearth of evidence for additional, alternative molecular substrates for the behavioral actions of this N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist drug. Here, we provide behavioral and molecular evidence for the actions of ketamine using a new vertebrate model for psychiatric disorders: the zebrafish. Subanesthetic doses of ketamine produced a variety of abnormal behaviors in zebrafish that were qualitatively analogous to those previously measured in humans and rodents treated with drugs that produce transient psychosis. In addition, we revealed that the transcription factor Phox2b is a molecular substrate for the actions of ketamine, particularly during periods of hypoxic stress. Finally, we also show that SIRT1, a histone deacetylase widely recognized for its link to cell survival is also affected by hypoxia crises. These results establish a relevant assay system in which the effects of psychotomimetic drugs can rapidly be assessed, and provide a plausible and novel neuronal mechanism through which ketamine affects critical sensory circuits that monitor breathing behavior.
Depletion of central serotonin (5-HT) levels and dysfunction in serotonergic transmission are implicated in a variety of human CNS disorders. The mechanisms behind these serotonergic deficits have been widely studied using rodent models, but only to a limited extent in larger animal models. The pig is increasingly used as an experimental animal model especially in neuroscience research. Here, we present an approach for serotonin depletion in the pig brain. Central serotonin depletion in Danish Landrace pigs was achieved following 4 days treatment with para-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA). On day 5, tissue concentrations of 5-HT in seven distinct brain structures from one hemisphere: frontal and occipital cortex, striatum, hippocampus, cerebellum, rostral, and caudal brain stem, were determined. The other hemisphere was processed for receptor autoradiography. Treatments with 50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg pCPA caused average decreases in 5-HT concentrations of 61%  14% and 66%  16%, respectively, and a substantial loss of 5-HT immunostaining was seen throughout the brain. The serotonin depletion significantly increased 5-HT receptor binding in nucleus accumbens, but did not alter 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptor or serotonin transporter binding in any brain region. In conclusion, 4 days treatment with pCPA effectively reduces 5-HT levels in the pig brain. Further, whereas several 5-HT markers did not change after the pCPA treatment, 5-HT receptors were consistently upregulated, indicating a greater susceptibility of this receptor to altered 5-HT levels. This porcine model of serotonin depletion will be useful in future studies of cerebral serotonergic dysfunction.
This project was done in order to determine why the annual incidence of metoclopramide-associated tardive dyskinesia is much higher than that for the commonly used antipsychotics. To test the hypothesis that metoclopramide tardive dyskinesia may be associated with high concentrations of metoclopramide in the substantia nigra under clinical conditions, the nonspecific binding of tritiated antipsychotics to the dissected melaninized regions of postmortem human substantia nigra was measured. The nonspecific binding at 1 nM [H]ligand was 7.3, 4.2, 2.6, 0.91 and 0.66 fmoles/mg for [H]haloperidol, [H]clozapine, [H]raclopride, [H]metoclopramide, and [H]olanzapine, respectively. After adjusting these values for the known free concentrations of these drugs in plasma or spinal fluid, the amounts that would be bound under clinical conditions would be 231, 113, 15, 11, and 3.4 fmoles/mg for metoclopramide, clozapine, raclopride, haloperidol, and olanzapine, respectively. Using rat striatum as baseline to define antipsychotic binding to nonnigral tissue, the excess amount of binding to the Alzheimer nigral tissue under clinical conditions would be 209, 19, 0, 3.4 and 0.8 fmole/mg for metoclopramide, clozapine, raclopride, haloperidol, and olanzapine, respectively, with a similar pattern for nigral tissues from Huntington and Multiple Sclerosis patients. The high accumulation of metoclopramide is sufficiently high to cause nigral nerve cell membrane damage by metoclopramide's detergent-like action, possibly explaining metoclopramide's toxic ability to elicit early tardive dyskinesia. In addition, the nonspecific binding of metoclopramide was much higher in Alzheimer-diseased substantia nigra, consistent with the fact that older individuals are relatively more vulnerable to metoclopramide tardive dyskinesia.
High-voltage activated Ca(2+) (Ca(V)) channels play a key role in the regulation of numerous physiological events by causing transient changes in the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. These channels consist of a pore-forming Ca(V)(1) protein and three auxiliary subunits (Ca(V), Ca(V)(2) and Ca(V)). Ca(V)(2) is an important component of Ca(V) channels in many tissues and of great interest as a drug target. It is well known that anticonvulsant agent gabapentin (GBP) binds to Ca(V)(2) and reduces Ca(2+) currents by modulating the expression and/or function of the Ca(V)(1) subunit. Recently, we showed that an adamantane derivative of GABA, AdGABA, has also inhibitory effects on Ca(V) channels. However, the importance of the interaction of AdGABA with the Ca(V)(2) subunit has not been conclusively demonstrated and the mechanism of action of the drug has yet to be elucidated. Here, we describe studies on the mechanism of action of AdGABA. Using a combined approach of patch-clamp recordings and molecular biology we show that AdGABA inhibits Ca(2+) currents acting on Ca(V)(2) only when applied chronically, both in a heterologous expression system and in dorsal root-ganglion neurons. AdGABA seems to require uptake and be acting intracellularly given that its effects are prevented by an inhibitor of the L-amino acid transport system. Interestingly, a mutation in the Ca(V)(2) that abolishes GBP binding did not affect AdGABA actions, revealing that its mechanism of action is similar but not identical to that of GBP. These results indicate that AdGABA is an important Ca(V)(2) ligand that regulates Ca(V) channels.

Rapid advances have recently been made in understanding how value-based decision-making processes are implemented in the brain. We integrate neuroeconomic and computational approaches with evidence on the neural correlates of value and experienced pleasure to describe how systems for valuation and decision-making are organized in the prefrontal cortex of humans and other primates. We show that the orbitofrontal and ventromedial prefrontal (VMPFC) cortices compute expected value, reward outcome and experienced pleasure for different stimuli on a common value scale. Attractor networks in VMPFC area 10 then implement categorical decision processes that transform value signals into a choice between the values, thereby guiding action. This synthesis of findings across fields provides a unifying perspective for the study of decision-making processes in the brain.
The melanocortin receptors are a subfamily of G-protein-coupled, rhodopsin-like receptors that are rapidly being acknowledged as an extremely promising target for pharmacological intervention in a variety of different inflammatory pathologies, including stroke. Stroke continues to be a leading cause of death worldwide, with risk factors including smoking, diabetes, hypertension and obesity. The pathophysiology of stroke is highly complex: reintroduction of blood flow to the infarcted brain region is paramount in limiting ischaemic damage caused by stroke, yet a concomitant inflammatory response can compound tissue damage. The possibilities of pro-resolving treatments that target this inflammatory response have only recently begun to be explored. This review discusses the endogenous roles of the melanocortin system in reducing characterized aspects of inflammation, and how these, together with potent neuroprotective actions, suggest its potential as a therapeutic target in stroke.







PET radiotracers for in vivo measurement of -amyloid (A) deposition throughout the brain are contributing to early detection of the neuropathology associated with Alzheimer's disease and enhancing prediction of individuals most likely to develop cognitive impairment and dementia. However, the fact that 30 to 50% of cognitively normal older adults have varying but detectable levels of A poses challenges and opportunities in using amyloid imaging in research and clinical applications. In this review, we summarize studies of the relationship between A burden and cognitive status in impaired and unimpaired individuals and the relationship between A burden and cognitive function. We conclude by operationalizing the way in which information on imaging-assessed A burden and cognitive performance can be used jointly to improve prediction of clinical outcomes, to enhance understanding of the role of A deposition in cognitive impairment, and to identify factors that promote cognitive resilience in the presence of A.
The calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) pathway is important in many processes including several in the central and peripheral nervous systems. CGRP is present in motor neurons and in sensory tracts, with its expression likely regulated by its use. This is supported by the fact that axotomy results in increased CGRP production in the nerve cell body. The target CGRP receptor, produced in part from the calcitonin receptor-like receptor (Calcrl) gene, has been thought to be present in multiple forms based on kinetic studies; however, understanding of the regulation of the expression of the Calcrl gene remains incomplete. CALCRL is an important factor in aging and associated disorders. This study focused on the neuromuscular system where it has been unclear whether different proteins are initially translated and whether higher levels of CALCRL are localized to the endplate regions. Rat gracilis muscle neuromuscular junctions were examined by isolating endplate enriched and non-endplate regions identified by staining for acetylcholine esterase or conjugated -bungarotoxin binding. The CALCRL protein was detected at approximately 60kDa by Western immunoblotting and, in the isolated extracts, we found that the Calcrl mRNA level was elevated 6 fold in the muscle endplate regions and that there were two distinct Calcrl messages present. Sequence analysis showed that the two different Calcrl forms were due to alternative splicing but in a non-coding region of the transcript such that only one translation product would be generated. This indicates that previously identified pharmacologic heterogeneity is most likely due to post-translational modifications and interactions.
Glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCP II) is a glial enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) into glutamate and N-acetylaspartate (NAA). Abnormalities in glutamate neurotransmission are implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In this study, we examined the effects of a novel, orally active GCP II inhibitor, 2-(3-mercaptopropyl)pentanedioic acid (2-MPPA), on the prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits after administration of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist dizocilpine. Oral administration of 2-MPPA (10, 30 or 100mg/kg) significantly attenuated dizocilpine (0.1mg/kg)-induced PPI deficits in mice, in a dose dependent manner. Furthermore, the efficacy of 2-MPPA on dizocilpine-induced PPI deficits was significantly antagonized by pretreatment with the selective group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonist LY341495 (1.0mg/kg). In the same model, however, the selective group II mGluR agonist LY354740 (3, 10 or 30 mg/kg) significantly attenuated dizocilpine-induced PPI deficits at only one dose and prepulse intensity. Our findings suggest that GCP II inhibition may be useful therapeutic strategy for schizophrenia. From a mechanistic perspective, while increased NAAG and activation of group II mGluRs may contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of 2-MPPA, it is likely that additional pharmacological activities are also involved.
The possibility that P2X receptor (P2XR) expression in microglia would mediate neuronal damage via reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was examined in the APPswe/PS1dE9 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). P2X7R was predominantly expressed in CD11b-immunopositive microglia from 3 months of age before Abeta plaque formation. In addition, gp91phox, a catalytic subunit of NADPH oxidase, and ethidium fluorescence were detected in P2XR-positive microglial cells of animals at 6 months of age, indicating that P2XR-positive microglia could produce ROS. Postsynaptic density 95-positive dendrites showed significant damage in regions positive for P2XR in the cerebral cortex of 6 month-old mice. Taken together, up-regulation of P2XR activation and ROS production in microglia are parallel with A increase and correlate with synaptotoxicity in AD.
One of treatment planning techniques with Leksell GammaPlan (LGP) for Gamma Knife stereotactic radiosurgery (GKSRS) uses multiple matrices with multiple dose prescriptions. Computational complexity increases when shots are placed in multiple matrices with different grid sizes. Hence, the experimental validation of LGP calculated dose distributions is needed for those cases. For the current study, we used BANG3 polymer gel contained in a head-sized glass bottle to simulate the entire treatment process of GKSRS. A treatment plan with three 18 mm shots and one 8 mm shot in separate matrices was created with LGP. The prescribed maximum dose was 8 Gy to three shots and 16 Gy to one of the 18 mm shots. The 3D dose distribution recorded in the gel dosimeter was read using a Siemens 3T MRI scanner. The scanning parameters of a CPMG pulse sequence with 32 equidistant echoes were as follows: TR = 7 s, echo step = 13.6 ms, field-of-view = 256 mm  256 mm, and pixel size = 1 mm  1 mm. Interleaved acquisition mode was used to obtain 15 to 45 2-mm-thick slices. Using a calibration relationship between absorbed dose and the spin-spin relaxation rate (R2), we converted R2 images to dose images. MATLAB-based in-house programs were used for R2 estimation and dose comparison. Gamma-index analysis for the 3D data showed gamma values less than unity for 86% of the voxels. Through this study we accomplished the first application of polymer gel dosimetry for a true comparison between measured 3D dose distributions and LGP calculations for plans using multiple matrices for multiple targets.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), an incurable, progressive neurodegenerative disorder, is the most common form of dementia. Therapeutic options have been elusive due to the inability to deliver proteins across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In order to improve the therapeutic potential for AD, we utilized a promising new approach for delivery of proteins across the BBB. We generated a lentivirus vector expressing the amyloid -degrading enzyme, neprilysin, fused to the ApoB transport domain and delivered this by intra-peritoneal injection to amyloid protein precursor (APP) transgenic model of AD. Treated mice had reduced levels of A, reduced plaques and increased synaptic density in the CNS. Furthermore, mice treated with the neprilysin targeting the CNS had a reversal of memory deficits. Thus, the addition of the ApoB transport domain to the secreted neprilysin generated a non-invasive therapeutic approach that may be a potential treatment in patients with AD.
Learning to fear dangerous situations requires the participation of basolateral amygdala (BLA). In the present study, we provide evidence that BLA is necessary for the synaptic strengthening occurring during memory formation in the cerebellum in rats. In the cerebellar vermis the parallel fibers (PF) to Purkinje cell (PC) synapse is potentiated one day following fear learning. Pretraining BLA inactivation impaired such a learning-induced long-term potentiation (LTP). Similarly, cerebellar LTP is affected when BLA is blocked shortly, but not 6 h, after training. The latter result shows that the effects of BLA inactivation on cerebellar plasticity, when present, are specifically related to memory processes and not due to an interference with sensory or motor functions. These data indicate that fear memory induces cerebellar LTP provided that a heterosynaptic input coming from BLA sets the proper local conditions. Therefore, in the cerebellum, learning-induced plasticity is a heterosynaptic phenomenon that requires inputs from other regions. Studies employing the electrically-induced LTP in order to clarify the cellular mechanisms of memory should therefore take into account the inputs arriving from other brain sites, considering them as integrative units. Based on previous and the present findings, we proposed that BLA enables learning-related plasticity to be formed in the cerebellum in order to respond appropriately to new stimuli or situations.
Structural remodeling or repair of neural circuits depends on the balance between intrinsic neuronal properties and regulatory cues present in the surrounding microenvironment. These processes are also influenced by experience, but it is still unclear how external stimuli modulate growth-regulatory mechanisms in the central nervous system. We asked whether environmental stimulation promotes neuronal plasticity by modifying the expression of growth-inhibitory molecules, specifically those of the extracellular matrix. We examined the effects of an enriched environment on neuritic remodeling and modulation of perineuronal nets in the deep cerebellar nuclei of adult mice. Perineuronal nets are meshworks of extracellular matrix that enwrap the neuronal perikaryon and restrict plasticity in the adult CNS. We found that exposure to an enriched environment induces significant morphological changes of Purkinje and precerebellar axon terminals in the cerebellar nuclei, accompanied by a conspicuous reduction of perineuronal nets. In the animals reared in an enriched environment, cerebellar nuclear neurons show decreased expression of mRNAs coding for key matrix components (as shown by real time PCR experiments), and enhanced activity of matrix degrading enzymes (matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9), which was assessed by in situ zymography. Accordingly, we found that in mutant mice lacking a crucial perineuronal net component, cartilage link protein 1, perineuronal nets around cerebellar neurons are disrupted and plasticity of Purkinje cell terminal is enhanced. Moreover, all the effects of environmental stimulation are amplified if the afferent Purkinje axons are endowed with enhanced intrinsic growth capabilities, induced by overexpression of GAP-43. Our observations show that the maintenance and growth-inhibitory function of perineuronal nets are regulated by a dynamic interplay between pre- and postsynaptic neurons. External stimuli act on this interaction and shift the balance between synthesis and removal of matrix components in order to facilitate neuritic growth by locally dampening the activity of inhibitory cues.
The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) Prozac (fluoxetine) is the only registered antidepressant to treat depression in children and adolescents. Yet, while the safety of SSRIs has been well established in adults, serotonin exerts neurotrophic actions in the developing brain and thereby may have harmful effects in adolescents. Here we treated adolescent and adult rats chronically with fluoxetine (12 mg/kg) at postnatal day (PND) 25 to 46 and from PND 67 to 88, respectively, and tested the animals 7-14 days after the last injection when (nor)fluoxetine in blood plasma had been washed out, as determined by HPLC. Plasma (nor)fluoxetine levels were also measured 5 hrs after the last fluoxetine injection, and matched clinical levels. Adolescent rats displayed increased behavioral despair in the forced swim test, which was not seen in adult fluoxetine treated rats. In addition, beneficial effects of fluoxetine on wakefulness as measured by electroencephalography in adults was not seen in adolescent rats, and age-dependent effects on the acoustic startle response and prepulse inhibition were observed. On the other hand, adolescent rats showed resilience to the anorexic effects of fluoxetine. Exploratory behavior in the open field test was not affected by fluoxetine treatment, but anxiety levels in the elevated plus maze test were increased in both adolescent and adult fluoxetine treated rats. Finally, in the amygdala, but not the dorsal raphe nucleus and medial prefrontal cortex, the number of PSA-NCAM (marker for synaptic remodeling) immunoreactive neurons was increased in adolescent rats, and decreased in adult rats, as a consequence of chronic fluoxetine treatment. No fluoxetine-induced changes in 5-HT(1A) receptor immunoreactivity were observed. In conclusion, we show that fluoxetine exerts both harmful and beneficial age-dependent effects on depressive behavior, body weight and wakefulness, which may relate, in part, to differential fluoxetine-induced neuroplasticity in the amygdala.


The aim was to investigate the role of 5-HT(A) receptor activation in induction and preservation of phrenic long-term facilitation (pLTF) at two different time points, before exposures to episodic hypoxia and after pLTF was induced. Adult, male, urethane anesthetized, vagotomized, paralyzed, and mechanically ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to an acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) protocol. Experimental groups of animals received an intravenous injection of WAY-100635, before the onset of the first hypoxic stimulus (WAY0), and after pLTF was induced (WAY60). Peak phrenic nerve activity (pPNA), burst frequency (f), and respiratory rhythm parameters were analyzed during the five hypoxic exposures (TH1-5), as well as at 15 min (T15), 30 min (T30), and 60 min (T60) after the end of the last hypoxic episode. In the control group, pPNA was elevated from baseline (121.6  7.3%, P &lt; 0.001) at 60 min after episodic hypoxia indicating pLTF. Administration of WAY-100635 prior to hypoxic stimulation prevented the induction of pLTF. Additionally, administration of WAY-100635 after pLTF developed impaired preservation of pLTF. In conclusion, there is an important role for 5-HT(A) receptors in induction as well as in preservation of pLTF in urethane anesthetized rats.
Carotid body (CB) Type I cells respond to hypoxia by releasing excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters. This mechanism leads to increased firing of the carotid sinus nerve (CSN) which alters breathing to maintain blood gases within the physiological range. Acetylcholine targets both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors in the rat CB, acting postsynaptically on CSN and presynaptically on Type I cells. Muscarinic Ca(+) signaling is inhibited by the activation of G(i)-coupled receptors including histamine H3 receptors. Here inhibition of adenylate cyclase with SQ22536 mimicked H3 receptor activation. Using Ca(+) imaging techniques it was observed that inhibition of muscarinic Ca(+) signaling was independent of protein kinase A (PKA) as PKA inhibitors H89 and KT5720 were without effect on the muscarinic Ca(+) response. By contrast the Epac (exchange protein activated by cAMP) inhibitor brefeldin A inhibited muscarinic Ca(+) signaling whereas the Epac activator 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP-AM potentiated Ca(+) signaling. Thus in Type I cells inhibition of adenylate cyclase inhibited muscarinic Ca(+) signaling via a PKA-independent pathway that may rely upon modulation of Epac.
In voluntary breaths, driven through the motor cortex, the pattern of activation in human inspiratory intercostal muscles is unknown. We measured single motor unit behaviour in the first, third, and fifth parasternal intercostal muscles in 5 subjects for 'quiet' and matched 'voluntary' inspirations. In voluntary breaths, the average onset, peak and end discharge rate of 264 inspiratory single motor units was greater in the first interspace compared to caudal spaces (p &lt; 0.05). Relative to the onset of inspiratory flow, the time of recruitment of single motor units and the onset of multiunit activity were also earlier in the first compared to the fifth interspace (p &lt; 0.05). For 215 'common' motor units, peak discharge frequencies were 20% higher in voluntary compared to quiet breaths (p &lt; 0.05), due in part, to small differences in the pattern of breathing. A rostrocaudal gradient of motor unit activation across parasternal intercostal muscles was preserved in voluntary and involuntary tasks. A common mechanism may mediate this pattern of recruitment.

Cell surface molecules are present on several lymphocyte subsets and are differentially expressed during lymphocyte development and activation. Human Leukocyte Differentiation Antigen (HLDA) Workshops have played an essential role in the identification and characterization of the molecules found in the membrane of hematopoietic cells. In the present study, the reactivities of sixty-five monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) submitted to the HLDA9 Workshop were tested. A multicolor flow cytometric analysis was performed in order to determine the expression profiles of these proteins on peripheral blood lymphocytes, hematopoietic cell lines, and tonsil B-cells. The following B-cell subsets were assessed: mature nave, pre-germinal center, germinal center, unswitched and switched memory, plasmablasts, and plasma cells. Immunohistochemical analysis on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tonsils was also carried out. Remarkably, a large group of immunoglobulin family inhibitory cell surface molecules were observed on several distinct B-cell subsets including: CD152 (CTLA4), CD170 (Siglec-5), CD272 (BTLA), CD305 (LAIR1), CD307d (FCRL4), and CD329 (Siglec-9). The following molecules were also found to be differentially expressed on B-cell subsets (CD80, CD185 (CXCR5), CD196 (CCR6), CD270 (TNFRSF14), CD307a-c (FCRL1-3), CD319 (SLAMF7) and CD362 (SDC2)) or delineated B-cell subpopulations (CD126 (IL-6R), CD255 (TNFSF12), CD264 (TNFRSF10D), CD267 (TNFRSF13B) and CD329 (Siglec-9)). Of these, only CD307a, CD307b, and CD307d presented a B-cell-specific expression pattern. Our results show that several of these molecules are capable of further subdividing the known B-cell subsets and, in fact, may represent new markers for research, diagnosis, and eventually targets for the treatment of B-cell malignancies and autoimmune diseases.
The SLAM (CD150) family receptors are leukocyte cell-surface glycoproteins involved in leukocyte activation. These molecules and their adaptor protein SAP contribute to the effective germinal center formation, generation of high-affinity antibody-secreting plasma cells, and memory B cells, thereby facilitating long-term humoral immune response. Multi-color flow cytometric analysis was performed to determine the expression of CD48 (SLAMF2), CD84 (SLAMF5), CD150 (SLAM or SLAMF1), CD229 (Ly9 or SLAMF3), CD244 (2B4 or SLAMF4), CD319 (CRACC, CS1, or SLAMF7), and CD352 (NTB-A or SLAMF6) on human cell lines and B-cell subsets. The following subsets were assessed: pro-B, pre-B, immature-B, and mature-B cells from bone marrow; transitional and B1/B2 subsets from peripheral blood; and nave, pre-germinal center, germinal center, memory, plasmablasts, and plasma cells from tonsil and spleen. All receptors were expressed on B cells, with the exception of CD244. SLAM family molecules were widely distributed during B-cell development, maturation and terminal differentiation into plasmablasts and plasma cells, but their expression among various B-cell subsets differed significantly. Such heterogeneous expression patterns suggest that SLAM molecules play an essential and non-redundant role in the control of humoral immune responses.
B cells not only play a pivotal role in humoral immunity, but also are involved in a broad spectrum of immune responses, including antigen presentation and T-cell function regulation. The identification of cell-surface CD molecules derived from a series of Human Leukocyte Differentiation Antigens (HLDA) Workshops has been instrumental to the discovery and functional characterization of human B-cell populations. Moreover, many events regulating B-cell development, activation, and effector functions are orchestrated by these cell-surface molecules. During the Ninth HLDA Workshop (HLDA9) eighteen new CDs were allocated to cell-surface molecules expressed on B cells: CD210a (IL10RA), CD215 (IL15RA), CD270 (TNFRSF14), CD307a (FCRL1), CD307b (FCRL2), CD307c (FCRL3), CD307d (FCRL4), CD351 (FCAMR), CD352 (SLAMF6), CD353 (SLAMF8), CD354 (TREM1), CD355 (CRTAM), CD357 (TNFRSF18), CD358 (TNFRSF21), CD360 (IL21RA), CD361 (EVI2B), CD362 (SDC2), and CD363 (S1PR1). Here we present their expression patterns on leukocytes, including T lymphocytes, NK cells, granulocytes, monocytes, plasmacytoid and monocyte-derived dendritic cells, and several B-cell subsets. These new CD molecules are expressed on B cells at various stages of differentiation; from bone marrow precursor pro-B cells to plasma cells. Three of them, CD307a, CD307b and CD307d, exhibit a B-cell restricted expression pattern, whereas the rest are also present on other leukocytes. In this paper we also review the structural characteristics, expression, and function of these new CD molecules. The availability of monoclonal antibodies directed against novel B cell-surface molecules will have broad implications not only for B-cell biology, but also for the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic tools.
The human immune system is a complex machinery involving numerous proteins. Proteins located at the cell surface of immune cells are of particular relevance due not only to their participation in the network of interactions that regulate the immune response but also to their potential as excellent targets for diagnostic and therapeutic interventions. The main objective of this project is to generate a comprehensive database of the human cell-surface proteins expressed in immune cells and lymphoid tissues. For this purpose, we have integrated information collected from primary literature, databases and electronic information sources. This manually curated database includes the gene symbol and name of the protein, describes the family that each protein belongs to, indicates their type of extracellular domains, and compiles data regarding their expression. Thus far we have identified and catalogued 1015 genes and proteins. The largest families in this compendium are the Ig superfamily with 195 members (~20%) and the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily with 147 members (~14%). Other abundant families include the C-type lectin and the cytokine receptor families with 43 and 42 members respectively (4%). About 25% of the proteins belong to minor families and approximately 4% lack any clear family assignment. More than 60% of the genes encode proteins without a CD number. This database will serve to boost the production of new monoclonal antibodies and to stimulate studies aimed at characterizing the function of these proteins in the immune system as well as identifying potential new biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
The original rotor pursuit test requires that the subject attempts to keep a metal stylus in contact with a small metal disk that was placed in the surface of a turntable that rotated at a constant speed. The present study evaluated the Psychology Experiment Building Language (PEBL) pursuit rotor task. Children (N=427, ages 9-13, 44.4% females) completed a handedness inventory followed by four pursuit rotor trials with each hand. The total time on target increased with age with the dominant as well as non-dominant hands. A small, but significant, sex difference favoring males was also observed. Dextrals spent more time on target than sinistrals with their dominant hand but the reverse pattern was observed for the non-dominant hand. These group differences were independent of prior computer experience. These findings indicate that the freely downloadable PEBL pursuit rotor task is a useful measure of psychomotor function (http://pebl.sf.net) in children and adolescents.
Real world data do not always obey the statistical restraints imposed upon them by sophisticated analysis techniques. In spectral analysis for instance, an ergodic process--the interchangeability of temporal for spatial averaging--is assumed for a repeat-trial design. Many evolutionary scenarios, such as learning and motor consolidation, do not conform to such linear behaviour and should be approached from a more flexible perspective. To this end we previously introduced the method of optimal spectral tracking (OST) in the study of trial-varying parameters. In this extension to our work we modify the OST routines to provide an adaptive implementation capable of reacting to dynamic transitions in the underlying system state. In so doing, we generalise our approach to characterise both slow-varying and rapid fluctuations in time-series, simultaneously providing a metric of system stability. The approach is first applied to a surrogate dataset and compared to both our original non-adaptive solution and spectrogram approaches. The adaptive OST is seen to display fast convergence and desirable statistical properties. All three approaches are then applied to a neurophysiological recording obtained during a study on anaesthetic monitoring. Local field potentials acquired from the posterior hypothalamic region of a deep brain stimulation patient undergoing anaesthesia were analysed. The characterisation of features such as response delay, time-to-peak and modulation brevity are considered.
While genetically modified mice have become a widely accepted tool for modeling the influence of gene function on the manifestation of neurological and psychiatric endophenotypes, only modest headway has been made in characterizing the functional circuit changes that underlie the disruption of complex behavioral processes in various models. This challenge partially arises from the fact that even simple behaviors require the coordination of many neural circuits vastly distributed across multiple brain areas. As such, many independent neurophysiological alterations are likely to yield overlapping circuit disruptions and ultimately lead to the manifestation of similar behavioral deficits. Here we describe the expansion of our neurophysiological recording approach in an effort to quantify neurophysiological activity across many large scale brain circuits simultaneously in freely behaving genetically modified mice. Using this expanded approach we were able to isolate up to 70 single neurons and record local field potential (LFP) activity simultaneously across 11 brain areas. Moreover, we found that these neurophysiological signals remained viable up to 16 months after implantation. Thus, our approach provides a powerful tool that will aid in dissecting the central brain network changes that underlie the complex behavioral deficits displayed by various genetically modified mice.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a psychiatric disease that affects children and persists in 50% of cases into adulthood. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) studies in children suggest that ADHD is associated with structural abnormalities in the brain. However, very little research has been carried out on adult ADHD. Using high-resolution MRI, we tested the hypothesis that adult ADHD patients exhibit gray and/or white matter volume (GMV, WMV) abnormalities in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), cingulate cortex (CC), hippocampus and amygdala, also evaluating putative associations between volumetric data and symptoms of ADHD. We investigated 20 adult patients with ADHD and 20 age-matched healthy controls. We found significantly smaller GMV in the right and left anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) but no GMV/WMV difference in the PFC, hippocampus and amygdala. No correlation was found between ADHD behavioral measures and MRI data. Our results might suggest that adults with ADHD exhibit smaller GMV in the ACC, as measured by VBM. Volumetric abnormalities in the brain of adult ADHD patients might be less pronounced than those found in children and adolescents, although the role played by chronic stimulant treatment needs further investigation.
Human communication in a natural context implies the dynamic coordination of contextual clues, paralinguistic information and literal as well as figurative language use. In the present study we constructed a paradigm with four types of video clips: literal and metaphorical expressions accompanied by congruent and incongruent gesture actions. Participants were instructed to classify the gesture accompanying the expression as congruent or incongruent by pressing two different keys while electrophysiological activity was being recorded. We compared behavioral measures and event related potential (ERP) differences triggered by the gesture stroke onset. Accuracy data showed that incongruent metaphorical expressions were more difficult to classify. Reaction times were modulated by incongruent gestures, by metaphorical expressions and by a gesture-expression interaction. No behavioral differences were found between the literal and metaphorical expressions when the gesture was congruent. N400-like and LPC-like (late positive complex) components from metaphorical expressions produced greater negativity. The N400-like modulation of metaphorical expressions showed a greater difference between congruent and incongruent categories over the left anterior region, compared with the literal expressions. More importantly, the literal congruent as well as the metaphorical congruent categories did not show any difference. Accuracy, reaction times and ERPs provide convergent support for a greater contextual sensitivity of the metaphorical expressions.
Few studies have used Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM) to examine brain structure in Anorexia Nervosa patients. The purpose of the present study was to investigate a sample of Anorexia Nervosa restrictive type (AN-r) adolescent patients in the early stages of the illness, using VBM in order to characterize morphometric gray matter (GM) changes. Participants were 16 AN-r female patients (with no other psychiatric disorders) whose AN-r had been in progress for less than 12 months and 16 age-matched healthy female subjects. High-resolution T1-weighted magnetic resonance images were preprocessed according to the optimized VBM method, and statistically analyzed. The analyses revealed a significant global GM decrease in the AN-r patients; furthermore, a significant region-specific decrease in GM volume was found bilaterally in the middle cingulate cortex, the precuneus, and the inferior and superior parietal lobules. The significant early GM decrease in the aforementioned regions in AN-r adolescent patients suggests that there might be a region-specific GM vulnerability that could play a role in the pathophysiology of the disease. Given that these regions are also involved in the manipulation of mental images and the mental representation of the self, this might explain the presence of a distorted body image in these patients.
Limited research has specifically examined the nature of the dysfunction in emotion categorization representation in schizophrenia. The current study aimed to investigate the perception bias of morphed facial expression in subjects with schizophrenia and healthy controls in the emotion continua. Twenty-eight patients with schizophrenia and thirty-one healthy controls took part in this study. They were administered a standardized set of morphed photographs of facial expressions with varying emotional intensities between 0% and 100% of the emotion, in 10% increments to provide a range of intensities from pleasant to unpleasant and approach to withdraw. Shift points, indicating the time point that the subjects' emotion identification begins to change, and response slopes, indicating how rapidly these changes have happened at the shift points in the emotion continuum, were measured. Patients exhibited a significantly greater response slope (i.e., patients' perception changed more rapidly) and greater shift point (i.e., patients still perceived mild expressions of anger as happy faces) with increasing emotion signal compared with healthy controls when the facial expression morphed from happy to angry. Furthermore, patients with schizophrenia still perceived mild expressions of fear as angry faces(a greater shift point) and were less discriminative from angry to fearful emotion(a flatter response slope). They were sensitive to sadness (a smaller shift point) and the perception changed rapidly (a sharper response slope) as compared with healthy controls in the emotion continuum of happy to sad. In conclusion, patients with schizophrenia demonstrated impaired categorical perception of facial expressions, with generally 'rapid' but 'late' discrimination towards social threat-related stimuli such as angry facial expression. Compared with healthy controls, these patients have a sharper discrimination perception pattern in the emotion continua from positive valence to negative valence.
This study investigates whether social cognitive deficits found in patients with schizophrenia are specific to social threat stimuli, and whether the deficits increase across the delusion spectrum from a subclinical sample to clinical manifestation. The authors presented the meta-analytic review of the published literature on social threat perception performance in three kinds of group comparisons: a subclinical group and a healthy control group, a schizophrenia group and a healthy control group, and a schizophrenia with delusion symptoms group and a healthy control group. The meta-analysis of 20 studies yielded six weighted effect sizes. The largest differences were found between the schizophrenia with delusion group and the healthy controls in both the threat and non-threat conditions. No differences were found between the effect sizes in the threat-related condition and the non-threat condition in any of the three group comparisons. Age was found to be significantly correlated with the effect sizes. The performance differences in both the threat and non-threat conditions reflect a generalized performance deficit, rather than a specific deficit, in the perception of social threat stimuli among patients with schizophrenia.
It is well established that schizophrenia is associated with difficulties in recognizing facial emotional expressions, but few studies have reported the presence of this deficit among their unaffected relatives. This study attempts to add new evidence of familial association on an emotional expression processing test. The study evaluated the performance of 93 paranoid schizophrenia patients, 110 first-degree relatives of probands from multiplex schizophrenia families, and 109 nonpsychiatric controls on a facial emotional recognition test using a computer morphing technique to present the dynamic expressions. The task entailed the recognition of a set of facial expressions depicting the six basic emotions presented in 21 successive frames of increasing intensity. The findings indicated that schizophrenia patients were consistently impaired for the recognition of the six basic facial expressions. In contrast, their unaffected relatives showed a selective impairment for the recognition of disgust and fearful expressions. Familial association of selective facial emotional expressions processing deficit may further implicate promising new endophenotypes that can advance the understanding of affective deficits in schizophrenia.
Our previous study examined a number of methamphetamine (METH)/phencyclidine (PCP)-reactive tags in rat brain, using a serial analysis of gene expression. Among human homologous genes, which matched METH/PCP-reactive tags, three human genes were identified: phosphoprotein enriched in astrocyte 15 (PEA15), ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 4 (ENTPD4), and growth arrest-specific 2 like 1 (GAS2L1), which are localized in the chromosome 1q21.1, 8p21.3, and 22q12.2, respectively. We postulated that these genes are plausible candidate genes that play a role in pathogenesis for schizophrenia. Using tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), we performed a case-control comparison for three SNPs in the PEA15 gene, and six SNPs in the GAS2L1 gene in a sample set of subjects (240 schizophrenia patients and 286 control subjects). Twelve SNPs in the ENTPD4 gene were analyzed in a subset of subjects (94 schizophrenia patients and 94 control subjects). No single SNP displayed a significant difference regarding the allelic frequency or genotypic distribution between the affected cases and controls for any of the genes examined. There was neither a significant difference in the frequency of three marker haplotype in the PEA15 gene or of six marker haplotype in the GAS2L1 gene between the cases and controls. The present study fails to provide evidence for the contribution of PEA15, ENTPD4, and GAS2L1 genes to the etiology of schizophrenia in the Japanese population.
Recent findings from several large-scale community surveys suggest that delusions tend to occur in non-clinical samples as a continuous phenotype rather than as an all-or-none phenomenon. However, the majority of studies on the prevalence of delusions and paranoid ideation are limited to Western samples. The present study aims to examine the phenomenon and base-rate of paranoid ideation in a Chinese non-clinical sample. A total of 4951 undergraduates (65.9% male) completed a checklist for paranoid ideation and the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ). Participants were classified into individuals with and without schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) features based on the SPQ. For the frequency subscale, 2.1-18.2% of the participants without SPD features experienced certain types of paranoid ideation at least once a week during the survey. The prevalence rate even elevated to a higher proportion in conviction and distress dimensions. For the conviction subscale, 9.3-53.5% of the participants somewhat believed of the ideations. For the distress subscale, 14.7-31.3% of the participants felt somewhat distressing in the experienced paranoid ideation. Participants with SPD features reported significantly higher prevalence in most items across these three dimensions. Findings indicate a high base-rate of attenuated forms of psychotic-like symptoms in a non-clinical Chinese sample, and provide further evidence for the continuity of psychotic phenomenon in non-clinical samples.
Dopamine D(2) and D(4) receptors partially codistribute in the dorsal striatum and appear to play a fundamental role in complex behaviors and motor function. The discovery of D(2)R-D(4.)(x)R (D(4.2)R, D(4.4)R or D(4.7)R) heteromers has been made in cellular models using co-immunoprecipitation, in situ Proximity Ligation Assays and BRET(1) techniques with the D(2)R and D(4.7)R receptors being the least effective in forming heteromers. Allosteric receptor-receptor interactions in D(2)R-D(4.2)R and D(2)R-D(4.4) R heteromers were observed using the MAPK assays indicating the existence of an enhancing allosteric receptor-receptor interaction in the corresponding heteromers between the two orthosteric binding sites. The bioinformatic predictions suggest the existence of a basic set of common triplets (ALQ and LRA) in the two participating receptors that may contribute to the receptor-receptor interaction interfaces.
Heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) mediates the cellular response to stress to increase the production of heat shock protein (HSP) chaperones for proper protein folding, trafficking, and degradation; failure of this homeostatic mechanism likely contributes to neurodegeneration. We show that the neuroprotective drug riluzole increased the amount of HSF1 in NG108-15 neuroprogenitor cells by slowing the specific turnover of HSF1 and supporting a more robust and sustained activation of HSF1. Using Hsp70-luciferase as a functional readout of the activity of HSF1, we show that riluzole amplified the heat shock induction of the reporter gene with an optimal increase at 1 M. Immunocytochemical staining and Western blot quantitation of HSP70 in NG108-15 neuroprogenitor cells and embryonic spinal cord neurons provided corroborative evidence that riluzole amplified the HSF1-dependent regulation of HSP70 expression. Parallel studies on the GLT1 glutamate transporter showed that riluzole increased GLT1-reporter and GLT1 protein expression and that the increase was enhanced by heat shock and coincident with the increased expression of HSP70 and HSP90. This result is consistent with the anti-glutamatergic profile of riluzole and the presence of multiple heat shock elements on the GLT1 gene promoter, suggesting that riluzole may modulate GLT1 expression through HSF1. The increased HSP chaperones and GLT1 transporter blunted glutamate-induced and N-methyl D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitotoxic death. In summary, we show that riluzole increased the amount and activity of HSF1 to boost the expression of HSPs and GLT1 for neuroprotection under stress.
Transgenic mice expressing eGFP under population specific promoters are widely used in neuroscience to identify specific subsets of neurons in situ and as sensors of neuronal activity in vivo. Mice expressing eGFP from a bacterial artificial chromosome under the Nr4a1 promoter have high expression within the basal ganglia, particularly within the striosome compartments and striatal-like regions of the extended amygdala (bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, striatal fundus, central amygdaloid nucleus and intercalated cells). Grossly, eGFP expression is inverse to the matrix marker calbindin 28K and overlaps with mu-opioid receptor immunoreactivity in the striatum. This pattern of expression is similar to Drd1, but not Drd2, dopamine receptor driven eGFP expression in structures targeted by medium spiny neuron afferents. Striosomal expression is strong developmentally where Nr4a1-eGFP expression overlaps with Drd1, TrkB, tyrosine hydroxylase and phospho-ERK, but not phospho-CREB, immunoreactivity in &quot;dopamine islands&quot;. Exposure of adolescent mice to methylphenidate resulted in an increase in eGFP in both compartments in the dorsolateral striatum but eGFP expression remained brighter in the striosomes. To address the role of activity in Nr4a1-eGFP expression, primary striatal cultures were prepared from neonatal mice and treated with forskolin, BDNF, SKF-83822 or high extracellular potassium and eGFP was measured fluorometrically in lysates. eGFP was induced in both neurons and contaminating glia in response to forskolin but SKF-83822, brain derived neurotrophic factor and depolarization increased eGFP in neuronal-like cells selectively. High levels of eGFP were primarily associated with Drd1+ neurons in vitro detected by immunofluorescence; however 15% of the brightly expressing cells contained punctate met-enkephalin immunoreactivity. The Nr4a1-GFP mouse strain will be a useful model for examining the connectivity, physiology, activity and development of the striosome system.
Understanding the mechanisms by which sensory experiences are stored remains a compelling challenge for neuroscience. Previous work has described how the activity of neurons in the sensory cortex allows rats to discriminate the physical features of an object contacted with their whiskers. But to date there is no evidence about how neurons represent the behavioural significance of tactile stimuli, or how they are encoded in memory. To investigate these issues, we recorded single-unit firing and local field potentials from the CA1 region of hippocampus while rats performed a task in which tactile stimuli specified reward location. On each trial the rat touched a textured plate with its whiskers, and then turned towards the Left or Right water spout. Two textures were associated with each reward location. To determine the influence of the rat's position on sensory coding, we placed it on a second platform in the same room where it performed the identical texture discrimination task. Over 25 percent of the sampled neurons encoded texture identity--their firing differed for two stimuli associated with the same reward location--and over 50 percent of neurons encoded the reward location with which the stimuli were associated. The neuronal population carried texture and reward location signals continuously, from the moment of stimulus contact until the end of reward collection. The set of neurons discriminating between one texture pair was found to be independent of, and partially overlapping, the set of neurons encoding the discrimination between a different texture pair. In a given neuron, the presence of a tactile signal was uncorrelated with the presence, magnitude, or timing of reward location signals. These experiments indicate that neurons in CA1 form a texture representation independently of the action the stimulus is associated with and retain the stimulus representation through reward collection.
Antamanide is a cyclic decapeptide derived from the fungus Amanita phalloides. Here we show that antamanide inhibits the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, a central effector of cell death induction, by targeting the pore regulator cyclophilin D. Indeed, (i) permeability transition pore inhibition by antamanide is not additive with the cyclophilin D-binding drug cyclosporin A, (ii) the inhibitory action of antamanide on the pore requires phosphate, as previously shown for cyclosporin A; (iii) antamanide is ineffective in mitochondria or cells derived from cyclophilin D null animals, and (iv) abolishes CyP-D peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. Permeability transition pore inhibition by antamanide needs two critical residues in the peptide ring, Phe6 and Phe9, and is additive with ubiquinone 0, which acts on the pore in a cyclophilin D-independent fashion. Antamanide also abrogates mitochondrial depolarization and the ensuing cell death caused by two well-characterized pore inducers, clotrimazole and a hexokinase II N-terminal peptide. Our findings have implications for the comprehension of cyclophilin D activity on the permeability transition pore and for the development of novel pore-targeting drugs exploitable as cell death inhibitors.
A mammalian-like melanopsin (Opn4m) has been found in all major vertebrate classes except reptile. Since the pupillary light reflex (PLR) of the fresh water turtle takes between 5 and 10 min to achieve maximum constriction, and since photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) in mammals use Opn4m to control their slow sustained pupil responses, we hypothesized that a Opn4m homolog exists in the retina of the turtle. To identify its presence, retinal tissue was dissected from seven turtles, and total RNA extracted. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCRs) were carried out to amplify gene sequences using primers targeting the highly conserved core region of Opn4m, and PCR products were analyzed by gel electrophoresis and sequenced. Sequences derived from a 1004-bp PCR product were compared to those stored in GenBank by the basic local alignment search tool (BLAST) algorithm and returned significant matches to several Opn4ms from other vertebrates including chicken. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) was also carried out to compare expression levels of Opn4m in different tissues. The normalized expression level of Opn4m in the retina was higher in comparison to other tissue types: iris, liver, lung, and skeletal muscle. The results suggest that Opn4m exists in the retina of the turtle and provides a possible explanation for the presence of a slow PLR. The turtle is likely to be a useful model for further understanding the photoreceptive mechanisms in the retina which control the dynamics of the PLR.
In vertebrates, myeloid cells comprise polymorphonuclear and mononuclear lineages that arise from 2 successive waves of development: a transitory primitive wave giving rise to limited myeloid cells during embryonic stage and a definitive wave capable of producing myeloid cells throughout the fetal and adult life. One key unresolved question is what factors dictate polymorphonuclear versus mononuclear lineage fates during myelopoiesis. Here we show that during zebrafish embryogenesis interferon regulatory factor-8 (irf8) is expressed specifically in macrophages but not neutrophils. Suppression of Irf8 function in zebrafish causes a depletion of macrophages and an enhanced output of neutrophils but does not affect the overall number, proliferation, and survival of primitive myeloid cells. These data indicate that the skewed myeloid lineage development in Irf8 knockdown embryos results from a cell-fate switching. Such a conclusion is further supported by the observation showing that overexpression of Irf8 promotes macrophage formation at the expense of neutrophil development. Genetic epistasis analysis reveals that Irf8 acts downstream of Pu.1 but is insufficient to promote macrophage development in the absence of Pu.1. Our findings demonstrate that Irf8 is a critical determinant for neutrophil versus macrophage fate choice during zebrafish primitive myelopoiesis.
Circadian (24 hour) clocks are fundamentally important for coordinated physiology in organisms as diverse as cyanobacteria and humans. All current models of the molecular circadian clockwork in eukaryotic cells are based on transcription-translation feedback loops. Non-transcriptional mechanisms in the clockwork have been difficult to study in mammalian systems. We circumvented these problems by developing novel assays using human red blood cells, which have no nucleus (or DNA) and therefore cannot perform transcription. Our results show that transcription is not required for circadian oscillations in humans, and that non-transcriptional events seem to be sufficient to sustain cellular circadian rhythms. Using red blood cells, we found that peroxiredoxins, highly conserved antioxidant proteins, undergo 24-hour redox cycles, which persist for many days under constant conditions (that is, in the absence of external cues). Moreover, these rhythms are entrainable (that is, tunable by environmental stimuli) and temperature-compensated, both key features of circadian rhythms. We anticipate that our findings will facilitate more sophisticated cellular clock models, highlighting the interdependency of transcriptional and non-transcriptional oscillations in potentially all eukaryotic cells.
We report that, in the rat, administering insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II, also known as IGF2) significantly enhances memory retention and prevents forgetting. Inhibitory avoidance learning leads to an increase in hippocampal expression of IGF-II, which requires the transcription factor CCAAT enhancer binding protein  and is essential for memory consolidation. Furthermore, injections of recombinant IGF-II into the hippocampus after either training or memory retrieval significantly enhance memory retention and prevent forgetting. To be effective, IGF-II needs to be administered within a sensitive period of memory consolidation. IGF-II-dependent memory enhancement requires IGF-II receptors, new protein synthesis, the function of activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein and glycogen-synthase kinase 3 (GSK3). Moreover, it correlates with a significant activation of synaptic GSK3 and increased expression of GluR1 (also known as GRIA1) -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxasolepropionic acid receptor subunits. In hippocampal slices, IGF-II promotes IGF-II receptor-dependent, persistent long-term potentiation after weak synaptic stimulation. Thus, IGF-II may represent a novel target for cognitive enhancement therapies.
Neuronal networks exhibit a rich dynamical repertoire, a consequence of both the intrinsic properties of neurons and the structure of the network. It has been hypothesized that inhibitory interneurons corralprincipal neurons into transiently synchronous ensembles that encode sensory information and subserve behavior. How does the structure of the inhibitory network facilitate such spatiotemporal patterning? We established a relationship between an important structural property of a network, its colorings, and the dynamics it constrains. Using a model of the insect antennal lobe, we show that our description allows the explicit identification of the groups of inhibitory interneurons that switch, during odor stimulation, between activity and quiescence in a coordinated manner determined by features of the network structure. This description optimally matches the perspective of the downstream neurons looking for synchrony in ensembles of presynaptic cells and allows a low-dimensional description of seemingly complex high-dimensional network activity.
Stressful events during adulthood are potent adverse environmental factors that can predispose individuals to psychiatric disorders, including depression; however, many individuals exposed to stressful events can adapt and function normally. While stress vulnerability may influence depression, the molecular mechanisms underlying the susceptibility and adaptation to chronic stress within the brain are poorly understood. In this study, two genetically distinct mouse strains that exhibit different behavioral responses to chronic stress were used to demonstrate how the differential epigenetic status of the glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (Gdnf) gene in the ventral striatum modulates susceptibility and adaptation to chronic stress. Our results suggest that the histone modifications and DNA methylation of the Gdnf promoter have crucial roles in the control of behavioral responses to chronic stress. Our data provide insights into these mechanisms, suggesting that epigenetic modifications of Gdnf, along with genetic and environmental factors, contribute to behavioral responses to stress.
In mammals, the osmolality of the extracellular fluid (ECF) is highly stable despite radical changes in salt/water intake and excretion. Afferent systems are required to detect hypo- or hyperosmotic shifts in the ECF to trigger homeostatic control of osmolality. In humans, a pressor reflex is triggered by simply drinking water which may be mediated by peripheral osmoreceptors. Here, we identified afferent neurons in the thoracic dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of mice that innervate hepatic blood vessels and detect physiological hypo-osmotic shifts in blood osmolality. Hepatic sensory neurons are equipped with an inward current that faithfully transduces graded changes in osmolality within the physiological range (~15 mOsm). In mice lacking the osmotically activated ion channel, TRPV4, hepatic sensory neurons no longer exhibit osmosensitive inward currents and activation of peripheral osmoreceptors in vivo is abolished. We have thus identified a new population of sensory neurons that transduce ongoing changes in hepatic osmolality.
Ubiquitin E3 ligases serve for ubiquitination of specific substrates, and its ligase efficacy is regulated by interacting proteins or substrate modifications. Whether and how the ligases themselves are modified by cellular signaling is unclear. Here we report that protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent phosphorylation of Smad Ubiquitin Regulatory Factor 1 (Smurf1) can switch its substrate preference between two proteins of opposing actions on axon development. Extracellular factors that promote axon formation elevated Smurf1 phosphorylation at a PKA site Thr, and preventing this phosphorylation reduced axon formation in cultured hippocampal neurons and impaired polarization of cortical neurons in vivo. Thr-phosphorylation changed the relative affinities of Smurf1 for its substrates, leading to reduced degradation of polarity protein Par6 and increased degradation of growth-inhibiting RhoA. Thus, PKA-dependent phosphorylation of the E3 ligase could switch its substrate preference, contributing to selective protein degradation required for localized cellular function.
Most current Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapies in advanced phases of development target amyloid -peptide (A) production, aggregation, or accumulation. Translational models suggest that anti-A therapies may be highly effective if tested as agents to prevent or delay development of the disease or as therapies for asymptomatic patients with very early signs of AD pathology. However, anti-A therapeutics are currently being tested in symptomatic patients where they are likely to be much less effective or ineffective. The lack of alignment between human clinical studies and preclinical studies, together with predictions about optimal trial design based on our understanding of the initiating role of A aggregates in AD, has created a treatment versus prevention dilemma. In this perspective, we discuss why it is imperative to resolve this dilemma and suggest ways for moving forward in the hopes of enhancing the development of truly effective AD therapeutics.
Oxygen (O) and carbon dioxide (CO) levels vary in different environments and locally fluctuate during respiration and photosynthesis. Recent studies in diverse animals have identified sensory neurons that detect these external variations and direct a variety of behaviors. Detection allows animals to stay within a preferred environment as well as identify potential food or dangers. The complexity of sensation is reflected in the fact that neurons compartmentalize detection into increases, decreases, and short-range and long-range cues. Animals also adjust their responses to these prevalent signals in the context of other cues, allowing for flexible behaviors. In general, the molecular mechanisms for detection suggest that sensory neurons adopted ancient strategies for cellular detection and coupled them to brain activity and behavior. This review highlights the multiple strategies that animals use to extract information about their environment from variations in O and CO.
Some adults fail to adapt to chronic stress, developing symptoms of depression and anxiety. In this issue of Neuron, Uchida and colleagues link maladaptive stress responses to GDNF through a comprehensive investigation of the neurotrophic factor's regulation. Further, this study is an excellent example for investigators interested in neuroepigenetics research.
Hox genes encode DNA-binding proteins that are deployed in overlapping domains along various body axes during embryonic development. This sequential activation of Hox genes in temporal and spatial mode, the Hox code, is critical for the proper positioning of segmented structures along those axes, which include the vertebrate, limbs and, also digestive and reproductive tracts. It remains unknown how Hox genes are regulated to determine the identity of hematopoietic stem cells and their derivatives, which migrate and express most Hox genes. The key questions are whether the hematopoietic system has an axis, how epigenetic mechanisms restrict expression of Hox genes to specific cell types and what role Hox genes play in leukemic transformation? Taking in account these questions, we propose a combinatorial axial model of hematopoietic Hox code to predict the positional identity of the hematopoietic cells. This model will provide new insight into epigenetic therapy in leukemia.
Acute lesions of the posterior medial orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in humans may induce a state of reality confusion marked by confabulation, disorientation, and currently inappropriate actions. This clinical state is strongly associated with an inability to abandon previously valid anticipations, that is, extinction capacity. In healthy subjects, the filtering of memories according to their relation with ongoing reality is associated with activity in posterior medial OFC (area 13) and electrophysiologically expressed at 220-300 ms. These observations indicate that the human OFC also functions as a generic reality monitoring system. For this function, it is presumably more important for the OFC to evaluate the current behavioral appropriateness of anticipations rather than their hedonic value. In the present study, we put this hypothesis to the test. Participants performed a reversal learning task with intermittent absence of reward delivery. High-density evoked potential analysis showed that the omission of expected reward induced a specific electrocortical response in trials signaling the necessity to abandon the hitherto reward predicting choice, but not when omission of reward had no such connotation. This processing difference occurred at 200-300 ms. Source estimation using inverse solution analysis indicated that it emanated from the posterior medial OFC. We suggest that the human brain uses this signal from the OFC to keep thought and behavior in phase with reality.
In natural environments, a sound can be heard as stable despite the presence of other occasionally louder sounds. For example, when a portion in a voice is replaced by masking noise, the interrupted voice may still appear illusorily continuous. Previous research found that continuity illusions of simple interrupted sounds, such as tones, are accompanied by weaker activity in the primary auditory cortex (PAC) during the interruption than veridical discontinuity percepts of these sounds. Here, we studied whether continuity illusions of more natural and more complex sounds also emerge from this mechanism. We used psychophysics and functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans to measure simultaneously continuity ratings and blood oxygenation level-dependent activity to vowels that were partially replaced by masking noise. Consistent with previous results on tone continuity illusions, we found listeners' reports of more salient vowel continuity illusions associated with weaker activity in auditory cortex (compared with reports of veridical discontinuity percepts of physically identical stimuli). In contrast to the reduced activity to tone continuity illusions in PAC, this reduction was localized in the right anterolateral Heschl's gyrus, a region that corresponds more to the non-PAC. Our findings suggest that the ability to hear differently complex sounds as stable during other louder sounds may be attributable to a common suppressive mechanism that operates at different levels of sound representation in auditory cortex.
Adolescence is a time of both cognitive maturation and vulnerability to several major psychiatric illnesses and drug dependence. There is increasing awareness that behavioral or pharmacological intervention during this period may be critical for disease prevention in susceptible individuals. Therefore, we must attain a deeper understanding of how the adolescent brain processes salient events relevant to motivated behavior. To do this, we recorded single-unit and local field potential activity in the orbitofrontal cortex of rats as they performed a simple reward-driven operant task. Adolescents encoded basic elements of the task differently than adults, indicating that neuronal processing of salient events differs in the two age groups. Entrainment of local field potential oscillations, variance in spike timing, and relative proportions of inhibitory and excitatory responses differed in an event-specific manner. Overall adolescent phasic neural activity was less inhibited and more variable through much of the task. Cortical inhibition is essential for efficient communication between neuronal groups, and reduced inhibitory control of cortical activity has been implicated in schizophrenia and other disorders. Thus, these results suggest that reduced inhibitory responses of adolescent cortical neurons to salient events could be a critical mechanism for some of the increased vulnerabilities of this period.
Because insulin acutely enhances the function of dopamine transporters, the tyrosine kinase receptors activated by this hormone may modulate transporter-dependent neurochemical and behavioral effects of psychoactive drugs. In this respect, we examined the effects of insulin on exocytotic monoamine release and the efficacy of the monoamine transporter blocker cocaine in rat nucleus accumbens. Whereas insulin reduced electrically evoked exocytotic [(3)H]dopamine release in nucleus accumbens slices, the hormone potentiated the release-enhancing effect of cocaine thereon. The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 abolished these effects, indicating the involvement of insulin receptors. Similar insulin effects were observed on the release of [(3)H]norepinephrine in nucleus accumbens slices, but not on that of [(3)H]serotonin, and were also apparent in medial prefrontal cortex slices. As might then be expected, insulin also potentiated the dopamine and norepinephrine release-enhancing effects of the selective monoamine uptake inhibitors GBR12909 and desmethylimipramine, respectively. In subsequent behavioral experiments, we investigated the role of insulin in motor impulsivity that depends on monoamine neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens. Intracranial administration of insulin in the nucleus accumbens alone reduced premature responses in the five-choice serial reaction time task and enhanced the stimulatory effect of peripheral cocaine administration on impulsivity, resembling the observed neurochemical effects of the hormone. In contrast, cocaine-induced locomotor activity remained unchanged by intra-accumbal insulin application. These data reveal that insulin presynaptically regulates cocaine-sensitive monoamine transporter function in the nucleus accumbens and, as a consequence, impulsivity. Therefore, insulin signaling proteins may represent targets for the treatment of inhibitory control deficits such as addictive behaviors.
Cells of the inner ear face constant metabolic and structural stress. Exposure to intense sound or certain drugs destroys cochlea hair cells, which in mammals do not regenerate. Thus, an endogenous stress response system may exist within the cochlea to protect it from everyday stressors. We recently described the existence of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in the mouse cochlea. The CRF receptor type 1 (CRFR1) is considered the primary and canonical target of CRF signaling, and systemically it plays an essential role in coordinating the body-wide stress response via activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Here, we describe an essential role for CRFR1 in auditory system development and function, and offer the first description of a complete HPA equivalent signaling system resident within the cochlea. To reveal the role of CRFR1 activation in the cochlea, we have used mice carrying a null ablation of the CRFR1 gene. CRFR1(-/-) mice exhibited elevated auditory thresholds at all frequencies tested, indicating reduced sensitivity. Furthermore, our results suggest that CRFR1 has a developmental role affecting inner hair cell morphology and afferent and efferent synapse distribution. Given the role of HPA signaling in maintaining local homeostasis in other tissues, the presence of a cochlear HPA signaling system suggests important roles for CRFR1 activity in setting cochlear sensitivity, perhaps both neural and non-neural mechanisms. These data highlight the complex pleiotropic mechanisms modulated by CRFR1 signaling in the cochlea.
The first steps in vertebrate vision take place when light stimulates the rod and cone photoreceptors of the retina. This information is then segregated into what are known as the ON and OFF pathways. The photoreceptors signal light information to the bipolar cells (BCs), which depolarize in response to increases (On BCs) or decreases (Off BCs) in light intensity. This segregation of light information is maintained at the level of the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), which have dendrites stratifying in either the Off sublamina of the inner plexiform layer (IPL), where they receive direct excitatory input from Off BCs, or stratifying in the On sublamina of the IPL, where they receive direct excitatory input from On BCs. This segregation of information regarding increases or decreases in illumination (the On and Off pathways) is conserved and signaled to the brain in parallel. The RGCs are the output cells of the retina, and are thus an important cell to study in order to understand how light information is signaled to visual nuclei in the brain. Advances in mouse genetics over recent decades have resulted in a variety of fluorescent reporter mouse lines where specific RGC populations are labeled with a fluorescent protein to allow for identification of RGC subtypes and specific targeting for electrophysiological recording. Here, we present a method for recording light responses from fluorescently labeled ganglion cells in an intact, isolated retinal preparation. This isolated retinal preparation allows for recordings from RGCs where the dendritic arbor is intact and the inputs across the entire RGC dendritic arbor are preserved. This method is applicable across a variety of ganglion cell subtypes and is amenable to a wide variety of single-cell physiological techniques.


Antidepressant medication and electroconvulsive therapy stabilize mood symptoms and increase hippocampal neurogenesis. We examined whether lamotrigine, suggested to give rise to mood-stabilizing and antidepressant effects in addition to its antiepileptic properties, also increases the number of newborn cells in rat hippocampus. Rats (on day P21) received lamotrigine, valproate, or saline intraperitoneally once daily for 7 days. All animals received four intraperitoneal injections of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) on day P28 and were sacrificed the next day. Quantification of BrdU-labeled cells in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus showed an increased number of newborn cells in rats receiving lamotrigine (42.6  3.5 cells/slice) compared with valproate (31.6  2.8) and controls (32.2  3.1; P&lt;0.05). The increased number of BrdU-labeled cells suggests increased neurogenesis, possibly explaining the mood-stabilizing and antidepressant effects of lamotrigine.
Adverse early life experiences can increase the risk of psychiatric and neurological disorders as the result of interference with brain development and maturation. In the present study, we tested whether early life stress, that is, maternal separation (MS), affects cell number, cell proliferation and constitutive apoptotic processes in the substantia nigra (SN) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of juvenile male and female rats. It was found that MS decreased the total number of glia but not neuronal cells in the SN pars compacta (SNc) and VTA of males. Moreover, MS reduced the number of S-100-immunoreactive (IR) glial cells in the SN of females and in the VTA of males. It was also observed that MS decreased the rate of proliferation (as measured by Ki-67-immunoreactivity) in the SN pars reticulata (SNr) and VTA of both males and females. Additionally, MS reduced the number of TUNEL-positive cells in the SNc of both males and females and in the SNr and VTA of males only. Moreover, MS decreased the number of cleaved caspase-9-IR cells in the SN and VTA of male rats. Cleaved caspase-9 was present in microglia cells, which exhibited the morphological hallmarks of apoptosis, but not in neuronal, astrocytic or oligodendrocytic cells. On the contrary, MS increased the number of cleaved caspase-3-IR cells in the SN and VTA of both male and female rats. Cleaved caspase-3-IR cells did not display signs of apoptosis and had an astrocytic phenotype (S-100-IR). In males exposed to MS, a decrease in caspase-3 enzymatic activity in the SN was also observed. In summary, the results of the present study revealed that early life stress affects the number, proliferation and naturally occurring apoptosis of glia cells in the SN and VTA in a sex-dependent manner and consequently may impair brain functions that are regulated by these structures.
By challenging specific receptors, melatonin synthesized and released by photoreceptors regulates various physiological functions in the vertebrate retina. Here, we studied modulatory effects of melatonin on K+ currents of rod-dominant ON type bipolar cells (Rod-ON-BCs) in rat retinal slices by patch-clamp techniques. Double immunofluorescence experiments conducted in isolated cell and retinal section preparations showed that the melatonin MT receptor was expressed in somata, dendrites and axon terminals of rat Rod-ON-BCs. Electrophysiologically, application of melatonin selectively inhibited the tetraethylammonium (TEA)-sensitive K+ current component, but did not show any effect on the 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-sensitive component. Consistent with the immunocytochemical result, the melatonin effect was blocked by co-application of 4-phenyl-2-propionamidotetralin (4-P-PDOT), a specific MT receptor antagonist. Neither protein kinase A (PKA) nor protein kinase G (PKG) seemed to be involved because both the PKA inhibitor Rp-cAMP and the PKG inhibitor KT5823 did not block the melatonin-induced suppression of the K+ currents. In contrast, application of the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U73122 or the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide IV (Bis IV) eliminated the melatonin effect, and when the Ca+ chelator BAPTA-containing pipette was used, melatonin failed to inhibit the K+ currents. These results suggest that suppression of the TEA-sensitive K+ current component via activation of MT receptors expressed on rat Rod-ON-BCs may be mediated by a Ca+-dependent PLC/inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP/PKC signaling pathway.
Stem cells can exist in either active or quiescent states. In the aging hippocampus, adult neural stem cells (aNSCs) shift into a quiescent state, contributing to age-related reductions in hippocampal neurogenesis. Here, we focused on the subventricular zone (SVZ) stem cell niche of the adult forebrain, asking to what extent quiescence-associated changes in aNSCs are initiated between early and middle-age. Immunohistochemical and label retention experiments revealed that the overall output of the SVZ stem cell system was already highly decreased in middle-aged mice (12-months-old) compared with young adult mice (2-month-old), as measured by reduced marker expression for multiple neural precursor sub-populations and diminished addition of SVZ-derived neuroblasts to the olfactory bulbs (OBs). These changes were associated with significant cytological aberrations within the SVZ niche, including an overall atrophy of the SVZ and accumulation of large lipid droplets within ependymal cells, which are key support cells of the SVZ niche. Importantly, the reduced output of the middle-aged SVZ stem cell system correlated with quiescence-associated changes in middle-aged aNSCs. Specifically, while tissue culture experiments showed that young adult and middle-aged forebrains possessed equal numbers of neurosphere-forming aNSCs, the middle-aged neurospheres exhibited differences in their in vitro properties, and middle-aged aNSCs in vivo divided less frequently. These findings demonstrate that aNSCs begin undergoing quiescence-associated changes between early and mid-adulthood in the mouse SVZ, and serve as a useful framework for further studies aimed at defining the early events involved in aging-associated quiescence of aNSCs.
In songbirds, neurons in the song nucleus HVC exhibit a striking example of selective auditory response, firing more to playback of the bird's own song (BOS) than to conspecific songs. This song selectivity has been found in various songbird species, both those that sing a single individual-specific song as well as those, such as the canary, in which both song structure and individual-identity encoding in song is more complex. In the present study, we investigated how the BOS is represented in the HVC of anesthetized long-day canaries by using temporal and spectral variants of the BOS stimulus. We addressed the question of how selective HVC neurons were by quantifying the number of song elements, called phrases, that evoked auditory responses. Phrases that were individual-specific or that were frequently delivered in an individual's songs did not drive HVC neurons to a greater degree than others. Reordering phrases or altering their acoustic structure caused a decrease in the auditory responsiveness of HVC neurons. This sensitivity to the spectral and temporal features of the BOS involved neurons that failed to respond to BOS variants or were driven by a reduced number of phrases, as well as neurons whose auditory responsiveness extended beyond the features of the individual's song, responding to phrases that were not sung by the bird itself. Therefore, the neural strategy by which BOS structure is represented in the canary HVC may require something other than a strict representation of the repertoire of song components. We suggest that the individual's song could be coded, at least in part, by an ensemble of broadly tuned neurons.
Complex brain diseases and neurological disorders in human generally result from the disturbance of multiple genes and signaling pathways. These disturbances may derive from mutations, deletions, translocations or rearrangements of specific gene(s). However, over the past years, it has become clear that such disturbances may also derive from alterations in the epigenome affecting several genes simultaneously. Our work recently demonstrated that epigenetic mechanisms in the adult brain are in part regulated by protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), a protein Ser/Thr phosphatase that negatively regulates hippocampus-dependent long-term memory (LTM) and synaptic plasticity. PP1 is abundant in brain structures involved in emotional processing like the amygdala, it may therefore be involved in the regulation of fear memory, a form of memory related to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in human. Here, we demonstrate that PP1 is a molecular suppressor of fear memory and synaptic plasticity in the amygdala that can control chromatin remodeling in neurons. We show that the selective inhibition of the nuclear pool of PP1 in amygdala neurons significantly alters posttranslational modifications (PTMs) of histones and the expression of several memory-associated genes. These alterations correlate with enhanced fear memory, and with an increase in long-term potentiation (LTP) that is transcription-dependent. Our results underscore the importance of nuclear PP1 in the amygdala as an epigenetic regulator of emotional memory, and the relevance of protein phosphatases as potential targets for therapeutic treatment of brain disorders like PTSD.
Humans and mice with loss-of-function mutations of the genes encoding kisspeptins (Kiss1) or kisspeptin receptor (Kiss1r) are infertile due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Within the hypothalamus, Kiss1 mRNA is expressed in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) and the arcuate nucleus (Arc). In order to better study the different populations of kisspeptin cells we generated Kiss1-Cre transgenic mice. We obtained one line with Cre activity specifically within Kiss1 neurons (line J2-4), as assessed by generating mice with Cre-dependent expression of green fluorescent protein or -galactosidase. Also, we demonstrated Kiss1 expression in the cerebral cortex and confirmed previous data showing Kiss1 mRNA in the medial nucleus of amygdala and anterodorsal preoptic nucleus. Kiss1 neurons were more concentrated towards the caudal levels of the Arc and higher leptin-responsivity was observed in the most caudal population of Arc Kiss1 neurons. No evidence for direct action of leptin in AVPV Kiss1 neurons was observed. Melanocortin fibers innervated subsets of Kiss1 neurons of the preoptic area and Arc, and both populations expressed melanocortin receptors type 4 (MC4R). Specifically in the preoptic area, 18-28% of Kiss1 neurons expressed MC4R. In the Arc, 90% of Kiss1 neurons were glutamatergic, 50% of which also were GABAergic. In the AVPV, 20% of Kiss1 neurons were glutamatergic whereas 75% were GABAergic. The differences observed between the Kiss1 neurons in the preoptic area and the Arc likely represent neuronal evidence for their differential roles in metabolism and reproduction.
Increased central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) signaling has been associated with various psychiatric symptoms, including anxiety, depression and psychosis. CRF signaling in both the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been implicated in anxiety-like behavior. In addition, repeated activation of CRF receptors within the BLA induces a chronic anxious state. Here we studied the effects of local repeated CRF infusion in the BLA and mPFC on different forms of anxiety, as assessed during light-enhanced startle (LES, general anxiety) and acquisition of fear-potentiated startle (FPS, cue-conditioned fear). In addition, as CRF has been implicated in sensorimotor gating, prepulse inhibition (PPI) was assessed to determine if local CRF infusion within the BLA or mPFC would interfere with the processing of sensory information. To this end, canulas were placed bilaterally in either the BLA or mPFC of Wistar rats. After recovery, animals were infused with h/rCRF (200 ng/side) or vehicle for five consecutive days. Long term effects of local CRF infusion on LES and acquisition of FPS were measured 4 and 10 days post-treatment, respectively. In addition, the acute (day 1), sub-chronic (day 5) and long-term (7 days post treatment) effects on PPI were measured in the same animals. A clear regional differentiation was found on the long lasting effect of CRF on anxiety-like behavior: infusion into the BLA only enhanced acquisition of FPS, whereas infusion into the mPFC only enhanced LES. Sub-chronic CRF infusion into the BLA, but not the mPFC, disrupted PPI. This disturbed PPI was normalized 7 days post-treatment. Together, the current study shows that local repeated CRF receptor activation in the BLA and mPFC is differentially involved in anxiety- and fear-related behavior. In addition, the BLA may be involved in CRF-induced sensorimotor gating deficits. The absence of a long-term effect on these PPI deficits suggests that lasting activation of CRF receptors is a prerequisite for CRF-mediated effects on sensorimotor gating. The long-term effects of repeated CRF infusion on LES and acquisition of FPS on the other hand, show that in case of anxiety-related processes repeated CRF infusion may have lasting effects.
Alcoholism is a relapsing disorder associated with excessive consumption after periods of abstinence. Neuroadaptations in brain structure, plasticity and gene expression occur with chronic intoxication but are poorly characterized. Here we report identification of pathways altered during abstinence in prefrontal cortex, a brain region associated with cognitive dysfunction and damage in alcoholics. To determine the influence of genetic differences, an animal model was employed with widely divergent responses to alcohol withdrawal, the Withdrawal Seizure-Resistant (WSR) and Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) lines. Mice were chronically exposed to highly intoxicating concentrations of ethanol and withdrawn, then left abstinent for 21 days. Transcriptional profiling by microarray analyses identified a total of 562 genes as significantly altered during abstinence. Hierarchical cluster analysis revealed that the transcriptional response correlated with genotype/withdrawal phenotype rather than sex. Gene Ontology category overrepresentation analysis identified thyroid hormone metabolism, glutathione metabolism, axon guidance and DNA damage response as targeted classes of genes in low response WSR mice, with acetylation and histone deacetylase complex as highly dimorphic between WSR and WSP mice. Confirmation studies in WSR mice revealed both increased neurotoxicity by histopathologic examination and elevated triidothyronine (T3) levels. Most importantly, relapse drinking was reduced by inhibition of thyroid hormone synthesis in dependent WSR mice compared to controls. These findings provide in vivo physiological and behavioral validation of the pathways identified. Combined, these results indicate a fundamentally distinct neuroadaptive response during abstinence in mice genetically selected for divergent withdrawal severity. Identification of pathways altered in abstinence may aid development of novel therapeutics for targeted treatment of relapse in abstinent alcoholics.
Oxidative stress is considered a major contributor in the pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS). Acrolein, a highly reactive aldehyde byproduct of lipid peroxidation, is thought to perpetuate oxidative stress. In this study, we aimed to determine the role of acrolein in an animal model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mice. We have demonstrated a significant elevation of acrolein protein adduct levels in EAE mouse spinal cord. Hydralazine, a known acrolein scavenger, significantly improved behavioral outcomes and lessened myelin damage in spinal cord. We postulate that acrolein is an important pathological factor and likely a novel therapeutic target in MS.
Glutamate transmission from vestibular end organs to central vestibular nuclear complex (VNC) plays important role in transferring sensory information about head position and movements. Three isoforms of vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) have been considered so far the most specific markers for glutamatergic neurons/cells. In this study, VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 were immunohistochemically localized to axon terminals in VNC and somata of vestibular primary afferents in association with their central and peripheral axon endings, and VGLUT1 and VGLUT3 were co-localized to hair cells of otolith maculae and cristae ampullaris. VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 defined three subsets of Scarpa's neurons (vestibular ganglionic neurons): those co-expressing VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 or expressing only VGLUT2, and those expressing neither. In addition, many neurons located in all vestibular subnuclei were observed to contain hybridized signals for VGLUT2 mRNA and a few VNC neurons, mostly scattered in medial vestibular nucleus (MVe), displayed VGLUT1 mRNA labelling. Following unilateral ganglionectomy, asymmetries of VGLUT1-immunoreactivity (ir) and VGLUT2-ir occurred between two VNCs, indicating that the VNC terminals containing VGLUT1 and/or VGLUT2 are partly of peripheral origin. The present data indicate that the constituent cells/neurons along the vestibular pathway selectively apply VGLUT isoforms to transport glutamate into synaptic vesicles for glutamate transmission.
Human and animals are able to decide that A&gt;C after having learnt that A&gt;B and B&gt;C. This basic property of logical thinking has been studied by transitive inference (TI) tasks. It has been hypothesized that subjects displace the premises of the inference on a mental line to solve the task. An evidence in favor of this interpretation is the observation of the symbolic distance effect, that is the improvement of the performance as the distance between items increases. This effect has been interpreted as support to the hypothesis that ability to perform TI tasks follows the same rules and is mediated by the same brain circuits involved in the performance of spatial tasks. We tested ten subjects performing a TI on an ordered list of Japanese characters while they were fixating either leftwards or rightwards, to evaluate whether the eye position modulated the performance in making TI as it does in spatial tasks. Our results show a significant linear decrease of the reaction time with the increase of the symbolic distance and a shift of this trend towards lower reaction times when subjects were fixating to the left. We interpret this eye position effect as a further evidence that spatial and reasoning tasks share the same underlying mechanisms and neural substrates. The eye position effect also points to a parietal cortex involvement in the neural circuit involved in transitive reasoning.
Patients with spatial hemi-neglect display systematic deviations of the subjective vertical. The magnitude of such deviations was shown to be modulated by internal factors mediating the perception of verticality, including head-orientation. The present study investigated whether and how spatial orientation deficits are modulated by external, contextual changes in neglect patients. In a classic rod-and-frame task, we analyzed effects of frame orientation on the subjective visual vertical (SVV) in neglect patients, control patients with left- or right-sided brain damage without neglect and healthy participants. We found that neglect patients, but not brain-damaged control patients, generally display a systematic counterclockwise (CCW) tilt in their SVV judgments. Furthermore, all participant groups displayed a typical rod-and-frame effect (RFE), that is, a modulation of the SVV as a function of frame tilt. However, in the control groups, this modulation was only moderate whereas in the neglect group SVV judgments were substantially and systematically modulated by frame orientation: with CCW frame tilts, the spatial bias of neglect patients increased as a function of the magnitude of the tilt whereas with clockwise (CW) frame tilts, the spatial bias was decreased in case of moderate frame tilts and even reversed in case of stronger frame tilts, resulting in a substantial CW spatial bias. This dramatically enhanced RFE might be caused by a pathologically increased influence of contextual cues on the subjective vertical in neglect patients as a consequence of impaired processing of gravitational information. The results indicate a systematic bias of the subjective vertical along with an impairment of spatial orientation constancy which leads to severe perturbations of subjective space as well as an increased reliance on internal and external cues mediating the perception of verticality in neglect.
Previous work from our laboratory suggests that paradoxical sleep deprivation (PSD) decreases persistent sodium currents and hyperpolarization-activated cation currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons, and this leads to decreases in neuron excitability. Here, we further investigate the mechanisms of rhythmic theta-range activity in the hippocampus by examining the resonance characteristics of hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Sleep deprivation (SD) interfered with the rhythmic activity of theta band in the hippocampus, which may be involved in the deficit of the spatial learning ability of rats. Additionally, SD changes the voltage dependence of resonance. The effect of SD on the ion currents may contribute to the alternation of the theta resonance of neurons and further influence the physiological function. These results suggest that changes in neuron resonance lead to changes in the generation of rhythmic theta activity, and may contribute to behavioral deficits associated with theta activity during learning and memory tasks. We suggest the resonant properties of hippocampal neurons are potential targets for preventing deleterious effects of sleep deprivation.
Activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) was shown to be essential for embryogenesis and brain development while NAP, an active motif of ADNP, is neuroprotective in a broad range of neurodegenerative disorders. In the present study, we examined the protective potential of ADNP/NAP in a mouse model of excitotoxic brain lesion mimicking brain damage associated with cerebral palsy. We demonstrated that NAP had a potent neuroprotective effect against ibotenate-induced excitotoxic damage in the cortical plate and the white matter of P5 mice, and moderate against brain lesions of P0 mice. In contrast, endogenous ADNP appears not to be involved in the response to excitotoxic challenge in the studied model. Our findings further show that NAP reduced the number of apoptotic neurons through activation of PI-3K/Akt pathway in the cortical plate or both PI-3K/Akt and MAPK/MEK1 kinases in the white matter. In addition, NAP prevented ibotenate-induced loss of pre-oligodendrocytes without affecting the number of astrocytes or activated microglia around the site of injection. These findings indicate that protective actions of NAP are mediated by triggering transduction pathways that are crucial for neuronal and oligodendroglial survival, thus, NAP might be a promising therapeutic agent for treating developing brain damage.
The adult brain is considered to be a radioresistant organ since it is mainly composed of non-dividing cells. However, in adult animals there are a few neurogenic brain areas that are affected by ionizing radiation whose plasticity and capacity for recovery are still unclear. Here, mice were irradiated with a minimal lethal dose of radiation in order to determine its effects on the subventricular zone (SVZ), the rostral migratory stream (RMS), and the olfactory bulb (OB). These regions underwent a dramatic reduction in cell proliferation and ensuing morphological alterations, accompanied by a patent reactive gliosis. Bone marrow stem cell (BMSC) transplants were also performed after the radiation treatment to allow the mouse survival with a view to analyzing long-term effects. Normal proliferation rates were not recovered over time and although bone marrow-derived cells reached the brain, they were not incorporated into the SVZ-RMS-OB pathway in an attempt to rescue the damaged regions. Since neurogenesis produces new interneurones in the OB, thus feeding cell turnover, the volume and lamination of the OB were analyzed. The volume of the OB proved to be dramatically reduced at postnatal day 300 (P300), and this shrinkage affected the periependymal white matter, the granule cell layer, the external plexiform layer, and the glomerular layer. These results should be taken into account in cell therapies employing BMSC, since such cells reach the encephalon, although they cannot restore the damage produced in neurogenic areas. This study thus provides new insight into the long-term effects of ionizing radiation, widely employed in animal experimentation and even in clinical therapies for human beings.
The disturbance of the insulin-signaling pathway plays an important role in Alzheimer's disease. Resistance to insulin signaling renders neurons energy-deficient and vulnerable to oxidization or other metabolic insults and impairs synaptic plasticity. In search of neuroprotective drugs, we synthesized a peptide analogue, P165, an active domain of the soluble amyloid precursor protein, which is resistant to degradation and is suitable for oral administration in a clinical setting. Initially, we confirmed that P165 can protect cells from streptozotocin-caused damage and stimulate cell outgrowth using cultured SH-SY5Y cell lines treated with streptozotocin. P165 significantly reduced lactate dehydrogenase leakage from damaged cells, thereby rescuing cell energy production. Insulin signaling such as insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) proteins were upregulated to stimulate cell survival and growth. We proceeded to investigate the effect of P165 on streptozotocin-treated Alzheimer's disease (AD) rats. The data showed that P165 protected synaptic loss and dysfunction by increasing synaptophysin and PSD-95 (post synaptic density-95), while simultaneously decreasing -synuclein expression. Moreover, animal behavior testing clearly showed that P165 increased rats' learning and memory activity. Overall, these results constitute evidence that peptide analogue 165 may protect synapse and improve learning and memory ability in AD.
Adult neurogenesis is impaired in the hippocampus of transgenic R6 mouse models of Huntington's disease (HD). The phenotypes of R6 transgenic mice mimic several symptoms and signs of the disease (Li et al., 2005). They exhibit neurological and endocrine changes resembling some symptoms seen in humans. The reduction in neurogenesis is only apparent in the dentate gyrus as the number of newborn neurons in the subventricular zone, and olfactory bulb, is normal in R6 mice. The mechanism(s) underlying the reduction in hippocampal neurogenesis is still not fully understood. Here we show that the number of neuroblasts, but not granule neuron progenitors, is greatly reduced in 11-week old transgenic mice compared with wild-type (WT) controls. We demonstrate that NeuroD1 expression is reduced in the hippocampus. This is coupled to a decreased expression of downstream markers doublecortin and calretinin in maturing neurons. Taken together, our results suggest that mutant huntingtin (Htt) causes alterations of proteins expression in hippocampal progenitors, which might contribute to cognitive deficits in Huntington's disease.
The present study reports timed norms for 435 object pictures in Mandarin Chinese. These data include naming latency, name agreement, concept agreement, word length, and age of acquisition (AoA) based on children's naming and adult ratings, and several other adult ratings of concept familiarity, subjective word frequency, image agreement, image variability, and visual complexity. Furthermore, we examined factors that influence the naming latencies of the pictures. The results show that concept familiarity, AoA, concept agreement, name agreement, and image agreement are significant predictors of naming latencies, whereas subjective word frequency is not a reliable determinant. These results are discussed in light of picture naming data in other languages. An item-based index for the norms is provided in the Table S1.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a rare genetic disease associated with the degeneration of GABAergic striatal projection neurons in the basal ganglia leading to movement disorders with behavioral symptoms for which there is presently no therapy. Abnormally high levels of monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, which are potentially linked to cytotoxic free radical formation, are known to occur during aging and in neurodegenerative disorders (MAO-B is markedly increased in plaque-associated astrocytes in Alzheimer's disease). We therefore measured, with anatomical resolution, MAO-A and -B activities in 5 cases of HD (severity grades 1-3) and age-matched controls by quantitative enzyme radioautography using radiolabeled enzyme inhibitors (3)H-Ro 41-1049 and (3)H-lazabemide, respectively, as high-affinity ligands in vitro. MAO-A was increased significantly (ca. 50%; p&lt;0.01) in the putamen and substantia nigra pars compacta of the basal ganglia and in the pons. Higher increases in MAO-B (75%-200%; p&lt;0.01) occurred in the putamen, ventral striatum, globus pallidus externus and internus of the basal ganglia and in the insular cortex. The increased enzyme levels (especially of MAO-B) seemed to correlate with the grade of disease severity. We conclude that MAO increases in those regions of HD brains which are known to undergo neurodegeneration accompanied by glioses. Whether or not this increased enzyme activity is a cause or effect of the resulting loss of the GABAergic projection neurons in HD is yet to be clarified. Moreover, it remains to be seen if selective enzyme inhibitors have therapeutic utility in the treatment of HD by reducing oxidative stress locally.
Along with chronic neurotoxic effects, the long-term consumption of amphetamines has been associated to psychiatric symptoms and memory disturbances. Dendritic spine dynamics have been discussed as a possible morphological correlate. However, the underlying mechanisms are still elusive. 3,4-Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), a major drug of abuse and a main metabolite after 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) intake, provokes a loss of dendritic spine-like protrusions in primary cultures of rat cortical neurons. 3,4-Methylenedioxyamphetamine also induced a rapid activation of the p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) pathway and phosphorylation of heat shock protein 27 (hsp27) indicative for its decreased chaperone activity. Concurrent pharmacological inhibition of the p38 MAPK by SB203580 abolished hsp27 phosphorylation and diminished the loss of dendritic spine-like protrusions. Moreover, upon MDA treatment dendritic spine-like protrusions were stabilized in neurons constitutively expressing hsp27. In parallel experiments we observed a robust activation of the heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF-1) and a subsequent increase of hsp27 and hsp70. The regulation of small heat shock proteins corroborates the existence of a neuronal stress response after MDA treatment. Pharmacological targeting of small heat shock protein phosphorylation may provide a new strategy to preserve spine integrity after amphetamine exposure.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) protects dopamine (DA) neurons from 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) toxicity. We have now explored this protection over 8 weeks following toxin administration. Infusion of Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the striatum was followed 1 week later by GDNF (9g) or its vehicle. Six hours later, animals received 6-OHDA (4 g) into the same site. 6-OHDA caused a loss of cells in the substantia nigra that expressed both FG and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and striatal terminals expressing TH, the high affinity dopamine transporter (DAT), and the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) as assessed 2-8 weeks later. Loss of FG(+) cells, and striatal DA was completely blocked by GDNF by 2 weeks. In contrast, GDNF only slightly attenuated the loss of TH, DAT, or VMAT2 in the striatum at 2 weeks, but had restored these markers by 4-8 weeks. Thus, GDNF prevents DA cell death and loss of striatal DA content, but several weeks are required to fully restore the dopaminergic phenotype. These results provide insight into the mechanism of GDNF protection of DA neurons, and may help avoid incorrect interpretations of temporary phenotypic changes.
Previous fMRI studies of schizophrenia have shown a prefrontal abnormality during response inhibition. However, the association with the clinical symptoms in schizophrenia remains unclear. The aim of the present study was to clarify the association of psychotic symptoms with the prefrontal function during response inhibition in patients with schizophrenia. We evaluated the prefrontal activity during the Go/NoGo task in 14 patients with schizophrenia and age- and gender-matched 40 healthy controls using multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy. We also examined the relationship between the prefrontal function during the Go/NoGo task and psychotic symptoms assessed by the PANSS five-factor model in patients with schizophrenia. Subjects in both groups performed well on the task, and the omission and commission error rates in the NoGo condition showed no statistically significant differences. The comparison of prefrontal activation between the Go condition and the NoGo condition in each group revealed that the healthy controls had a significant deactivation during the NoGo condition in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), and such changes were not shown in patients with schizophrenia. Furthermore, in patients with schizophrenia, the excitement score of the PANSS five-factor model was positively correlated with the activation in the right prefrontal cortex and frontopolar region. These results suggested that the abnormal prefrontal activity during simple inhibition of response would be associated with excitement symptoms in patients with schizophrenia.
In response to food reward and other pertinent events, midbrain dopaminergic neurons fire short bursts of action potentials causing a phasic release of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex (rapid and transient increases in cortical dopamine concentration). Here we apply short (2s) iontophoretic pulses of glutamate, GABA, dopamine and dopaminergic agonists locally, onto layer 5 pyramidal neurons in brain slices of the rat medial prefrontal cortex (PFC). Unlike glutamate and GABA, brief dopaminergic pulses had negligible effects on the resting membrane potential. However, dopamine altered action potential firing in an extremely rapid (&lt;1s) and transient (&lt;5 min) manner, as every neuron returned to baseline in less than 5-min post-application. The physiological responses to dopamine differed markedly among individual neurons. Pyramidal neurons with a preponderance of D1-like receptor signaling respond to dopamine with a severe depression in action potential firing rate, while pyramidal neurons dominated by the D2 signaling pathway respond to dopamine with an instantaneous increase in spike production. Increasing levels of dopamine concentrations around the cell body resulted in a dose dependent response, which resembles an &quot;inverted U curve&quot; (Vijayraghavan S, Wang M, Birnbaum SG, Williams GV, Arnsten AF (2007) Inverted-U dopamine D1 receptor actions on prefrontal neurons engaged in working memory. Nat Neurosci 10:376-384), but this effect can easily be caused by an iontophoresis current artifact. Our present data imply that one population of PFC pyramidal neurons receiving direct synaptic contacts from midbrain dopaminergic neurons would stall during the 0.5s of the phasic dopamine burst. The spillover dopamine, on the other hand, would act as a positive stimulator of cortical excitability (30% increase) to all D2-receptor carrying pyramidal cells, for the next 40s.
A new neuropsychological study of a rare patient provides novel evidence that amygdala lesions can virtually abolish the experience of fear, illuminating neurobiological mechanisms of fear experience.
A new study shows that the 'fast' component of motor adaptation is distinct from its 'slow' counterpart and shares critical resources with declarative memory.

A key issue in the realization of retinal prosthetic devices is reliable transduction of information carried by light into specific patterns of electrical activity in visual information processing networks. Soft organic materials can be used to couple artificial sensors with neuronal tissues. Here, we interface a network of primary neurons with an organic blend. We show that primary neurons can be successfully grown onto the polymer layer without affecting the optoelectronic properties of the active material or the biological functionality of neuronal network. Moreover, action potentials can be triggered in a temporally reliable and spatially selective manner with short pulses of visible light. Our results may lead to new neuronal communication and photo manipulation techniques, thus paving way to the development of artificial retinas and other neuroprosthetic interfaces based on organic photodetectors.

Synaptic transmission in the CNS represents the classic mechanism through which neural cells communicate. While vesicular neurotransmitter release has been known to be the preserve of gray matter, it is now known that synaptic-style release of glutamate, the brain's major excitatory neurotransmitter, occurs deep in white matter. Here it permits communication between axons and glial cells, enabling axon activity to couple with high fidelity to glial physiology. As white matter is increasingly well-recognized as a substrate for disease, dysregulation of white matter synaptic transmission will play an important role in the development of pathologies as diverse as stroke, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer disease, and schizophrenia. This review highlights progress in this new and important field.



Extinction of conditioned fear response is thought to be a biological process underlying exposure therapy for anxiety disorders. We have previously reported that an AMPA receptor potentiator, 4-[2-(phenylsulfonylamino)ethylthio]-2,6-difluorophenoxyacetamide (PEPA), facilitates extinction of fear memory formed through contextual fear conditioning in mice that had never been exposed to experimental stress. On the other hand, recent findings suggest that the fear extinction is impaired in stressed rats or mice. The purpose of the present study was to examine whether PEPA facilitates impaired extinction of fear in stressed mice. For this purpose, mice were applied stress (a 2h restraint, a 20min forced swim, and ether inhalation), and contextual fear conditioning was carried out 7 days later. After 1-3 days of conditioning, mice were re-exposed to the context for 6min, and behavioral freezing response was measured. The time mice spent frozen decreased following every extinction session, and the decrease was remarkably slower in the stressed mice than in control non-stressed mice. PEPA (3, 10, 30mg/kg body weight) or vehicle was intraperitoneally administered into stressed mice once before the first extinction session. The significant decrease of the freezing response in the extinction sessions was only seen in the 30mg/kg PEPA-administered stressed mice, compared with vehicle-administered stressed mice. A similar extent of decrease in the freezing response in the extinction sessions was observed in the PEPA-administered (30mg/kg) and d-cycloserine-administered (30mg/kg) mice. These results suggest that PEPA facilitates extinction of contextual fear in stressed mice.
Studies in humans use blood lactate to determine the degree of the exercise intensity, suggesting that exercise with elevated blood lactate concentrations results in increased BDNF plasma concentrations. However, it is not clear if lactate per se or rather other mechanisms are responsible for changes in blood BDNF concentrations. The lactate clamp method at rest is an appropriate method to examine physiological responses of lactate on the human organism without the effects of exercise. Eight male sport students placed in a sitting position received intravenous infusions with a 4 molar sodium-lactate solution in an incremental design starting with an infusion rate of 0.01ml/kgBW/min for the first three minutes, which was increased every three minutes by 0.01ml/kgBW/min up to 0.08ml/kg/min in the 24th minute. All together each subject received 4.2mmol of infusion. Venous blood samples were taken before and immediately after the infusion as well as in the 24th and the 60th min after the infusion period and analysed for BDNF. Blood gases and capillary blood lactate (La) were analysed before the test, every three minutes directly before increasing the infusion rate, at the end of the infusion and in the post infusions period until the 12th min and after 24 and 60min. BDNF and La increased significantly after the infusion and reached baseline values at the end of the experiment (p&lt;0.05, p&lt;0.01, respectively). pH and hydrogen ions increased from the beginning until the end of the infusion period (p&lt;0.01). This data suggest that blood lactate is involved in the regulation of BDNF blood concentrations.
Reduction in cortical presynaptic markers, notably parvalbumin (PV), for the chandelier subtype of inhibitory -amino-butyric acid (GABA) interneurons is a highly replicated post-mortem finding in schizophrenia. Evidence from genetic and pharmacological studies implicates hypofunction of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated glutamatergic signaling as a critical component of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Serine racemase (SR) produces the endogenous NMDAR co-agonist d-serine, and disruption of the SR gene results in reduced NMDAR signaling. SR null mutant (-/-) mice were used to study the link between NMDAR hypofunction and decreased PV expression, assessed by immunoreactive (IR) cell density in the medial prefrontal cortex and hippocampus and protein levels in brain homogenates from the frontal cortex and hippocampus. Contrary to expectations, SR -/- mice showed modest elevations in PV-IR cell density and no difference in PV expression in brain homogenate. To control for these surprising results, we investigated PV expression in mice and rats following subchronic phencyclidine or ketamine treatments in adulthood. PV expression was not affected by drug these treatment in either species, failing to reproduce previously published findings. Our findings challenge the hypothesis that pathological deficits in PV expression are simply a consequence of NMDAR hypofunction.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are a group of inherited neurodegenerative disorders characterized by epilepsy, progressive motor and cognitive decline, blindness, and by the accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment. Late-infantile onset forms (LINCL) include those linked to mutations in CLN8 gene, encoding a transmembrane protein at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In the motor neuron degeneration (mnd) mouse model of the CLN8-LINCL (CLN8(mnd)), we carried out an analysis of ER stress-related molecules in CNS structures that exhibit a variable rate of disease progression (early retinal degeneration and delayed brain and motoneuron dysfunction). At the presymptomatic state of 1-month-old CLN8(mnd) mice, we found an upregulation of GRP78 and activation of the transcription factor-6 (ATF6) in all structures examined, an activation of a CHOP-dependent pathway in the cerebellum, hippocampus and retina, a caspase-12-dependent pathway in the retina and no activation of these two pathways in the cerebral cortex and spinal cord. An increased CHOP expression was detected in the cortex and spinal cord at the early symptomatic state (4 months). Caspase-3 cleavage occurred presymptomatically in the cerebellum, hippocampus and retina, and symptomatically in the cerebral cortex and spinal cord. We also monitored activation of NF-B, which is engaged in the alarming phase of ER stress, together with increased levels of TRAF2, TNF- and TNFR1, and no activation of ASK-1/JNK signalling pathway, all over mnd structures. The results suggest that early ER-stress responses distinctly combined and ER-stress pathways integrated with inflammatory responses may contribute to the progression of the CLN8(mnd) disease in CNS structures.
Cytoskeleton dynamics, membranes trafficking and positioning are essential for the proper functioning of any mammalian cell. The identification of the molecules and mechanisms that allow these cellular processes to interface is vital for understanding cell behaviors. Ndel1, the mammalian homolog of the Aspergillus nidulans NudE, organizes the cytoskeleton and regulates molecular motors, thereby impacting on the positioning of membranes. Hypothetically, Ndel1 can act in concert with enzymes controlling membrane trafficking (vesicle-mediated transport) per se, but this idea has never been investigated. We now report that a pool of Ndel1 associates directly with Dynamin 2 (Dyn2), a large cytosolic GTPase involved in the trafficking of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1. In vitro, Ndel1 enhances Dyn2 GTPase activity in its unassembled and assembled forms, without promoting oligomerization of the enzyme. In cells, gain and loss of function of Ndel1 recapitulate the effects of overexpression of Dyn2 and Dyn2 dominant negative with reduced GTPase activity on the intracellular localization of GluR1, respectively, without affecting the stability of microtubules. Together, these results indicate that Ndel1 regulates Dyn2 GTPase activity and impacts GluR1-containing membranes distribution in a manner reminiscent of Dyn2.
The second messenger phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP(3)), formed by the p110 family of PI3-kinases, promotes cellular growth, proliferation, and survival, in large part by activating the protein kinase Akt/PKB. We show that inositol polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK) physiologically generates PIP(3) as well as water soluble inositol phosphates. IPMK deletion reduces growth factor-elicited Akt signaling and cell proliferation caused uniquely by loss of its PI3-kinase activity. Inhibition of p110 PI3-kinases by wortmannin prevents IPMK phosphorylation and activation. Thus, growth factor stimulation of Akt signaling involves PIP(3) generation through the sequential activations of the p110 PI3-kinases and IPMK. As inositol phosphates inhibit Akt signaling, IPMK appears to act as a molecular switch, inhibiting or stimulating Akt via its inositol phosphate kinase or PI3-kinase activities, respectively. Drugs regulating IPMK may have therapeutic relevance in influencing cell proliferation.
Recognition of a particular individual occurs when we reactivate links between current perceptual inputs and the previously formed representation of that person. This recognition can be achieved by identifying, separately or simultaneously, distinct elements such as the face, silhouette, or voice as belonging to one individual. In humans, those different cues are linked into one complex conceptual representation of individual identity. Here we tested whether rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) also have a cognitive representation of identity by evaluating whether they exhibit cross-modal individual recognition. Further, we assessed individual recognition of familiar conspecifics and familiar humans. In a free preferential looking time paradigm, we found that, for both species, monkeys spontaneously matched the faces of known individuals to their voices. This finding demonstrates that rhesus macaques possess a cross-modal cognitive representation of individuals that extends from conspecifics to humans, revealing the adaptive potential of identity recognition for individuals of socioecological relevance.
Vocal ontogeny in songbirds provides a good model for understanding how complex motor behavior, including speech, is learned. For birdsong, as for other motor learning, it has generally been assumed that a subject's motor output at any point during learning represents what the subject has learned to produce by that time. Here, we show, however, that juvenile zebra finches partway through song learning, singing immature song, are capable of producing song with much more mature properties, depending on the behavioral context. In these birds, we were able to elicit courtship (female-directed) song, which young birds normally sing infrequently, and to compare it with the alone or &quot;undirected&quot; song (Undir) predominantly produced during learning as well as with the same bird's subsequent adult song. We found that the juvenile courtship song was much less variable than the immature Undir and as stereotyped as the adult song produced after a further month of practice. More strikingly, the juvenile courtship song was also acoustically much more similar than Undir to the adult song. This finding demonstrates that the Undir that juvenile birds usually produce underestimates the extent of learning and that song structure is learned faster than previously thought. Moreover, the rapid improvement in song quality in response to external social cues supports the idea that courtship singing is a state of motor &quot;performance,&quot; in which the bird selects the best variants of the song learned during singing alone, and suggests that such performance states can reveal unappreciated progression of learning.
The mechanosensory hair cells of many auditory receptor organs are tuned by an electrical resonance that increases their responses to stimulation over a narrow band of frequencies. The small oscillations of membrane potential characteristic of this phenomenon have previously been detectable only through intracellular electrode measurements, which are laborious and preclude analysis at the level of an entire sensory organ. We used a voltage-sensitive dye to image hair-cell electrical resonance in an intact preparation of the bullfrog's sacculus, a receptor organ sensitive to low-frequency seismic and auditory stimuli. Imaging revealed distinct populations of hair cells whose resonant response varied with the frequency of transepithelial electrical stimulation. Most of the hair cells in the saccular epithelium in vitro were electrically tuned to stimulation at 25-50 Hz. The frequency dependence of the fluorescence signal was sensitive to pharmacological blockade of large-conductance Ca(2+)-sensitive K(+) channels and to enzymatic digestion. At an elevated concentration of Ca(2+), we observed transient fluorescence signals that probably represented action potentials. The stroboscopic imaging and analysis techniques described here present a general approach for studying subthreshold oscillations in electrically excitable cells.
Chondrichthyans possess endoskeletal appendages called branchial rays that extend laterally from their hyoid and gill-bearing (branchial) arches. Branchial ray outgrowth, like tetrapod limb outgrowth, is maintained by Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling. In limbs, distal endoskeletal elements fail to form in the absence of normal Shh signaling, whereas shortened duration of Shh expression correlates with distal endoskeletal reduction in naturally variable populations. Chondrichthyans also exhibit natural variation with respect to branchial ray distribution--elasmobranchs (sharks and batoids) possess a series of ray-supported septa on their hyoid and gill arches, whereas holocephalans (chimaeras) possess a single hyoid arch ray-supported operculum. Here we show that the elongate hyoid rays of the holocephalan Callorhinchus milii grow in association with sustained Shh expression within an opercular epithelial fold, whereas Shh is only transiently expressed in the gill arches. Coincident with this transient Shh expression, branchial ray outgrowth is initiated in C. milii but is not maintained, yielding previously unrecognized vestigial gill arch branchial rays. This is in contrast to the condition seen in sharks, where sustained Shh expression corresponds to the presence of fully formed branchial rays on the hyoid and gill arches. Considered in light of current hypotheses of chondrichthyan phylogeny, our data suggest that the holocephalan operculum evolved in concert with gill arch appendage reduction by attenuation of Shh-mediated branchial ray outgrowth, and that chondrichthyan branchial rays and tetrapod limbs exhibit parallel developmental mechanisms of evolutionary reduction.
Aberrant transcriptional regulation in the brain is thought to be one of the key components of the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders. Heat shock factors (HSFs) modulate cellular homeostasis through the control of gene expression. However, the roles of HSFs in brain function have yet to be elucidated fully. In the present study, we attempted to clarify the role of HSF1-mediated gene regulation in neuronal and behavioral development using HSF1-deficient (HSF1(-/-)) mice. We found granule neurons of aberrant morphology and impaired neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of HSF1(-/-) mice. In addition, HSF1(-/-) mice showed aberrant affective behavior, including reduced anxiety and sociability but increased depression-like behavior and aggression. Furthermore, HSF1 deficiency enhanced behavioral vulnerability to repeated exposure to restraint stress. Importantly, rescuing the HSF1 deficiency in the neonatal but not the adult hippocampus reversed the aberrant anxiety and depression-like behaviors. These results indicate a crucial role for hippocampal HSF1 in neuronal and behavioral development. Analysis of the molecular mechanisms revealed that HSF1 directly modulates the expression of polysialyltransferase genes, which then modulate polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) levels in the hippocampus. Enzymatic removal of PSA from the neonatal hippocampus resulted in aberrant behavior during adulthood, similar to that observed in HSF1(-/-) mice. Thus, these results suggest that one role of HSF1 is to control hippocampal PSA-NCAM levels through the transcriptional regulation of polysialyltransferases, a process that might be involved in neuronal and behavioral development in mice.
The present study aimed at determining whether and what factors affect the control of motor sequences related to interactions between conspecifics. Experiment 1 demonstrated that during interactions between conspecifics guided by the social intention of feeding, a social affordance was activated, which modified the kinematics of sequences constituted by reaching-grasping and placing. This was relative to the same sequence directed to an inanimate target. Experiments 2 and 4 suggested that the related-to-feeding social request emitted by the receiver (i.e. the request gesture of mouth opening) is prerequisite in order to activate a social affordance. Specifically, the two experiments showed that the social request to be fed activated a social affordance even when the sequences directed towards a conspecific were not finalized to feed. Experiment 3 showed that moving inside the peripersonal space of a conspecific, who did not produce any social request, marginally affected the sequence. Finally, experiments 5 and 6 indicated that the gaze of a conspecific is necessary to make a social request effective at activating a social affordance. Summing up, the results of the present study suggest that the control of motor sequences can be changed by the interaction between giver and receiver: the interaction is characterized by a social affordance that the giver activates on the basis of social requests produced by the receiver. The gaze of the receiver is a prerequisite to make a social request effective.
In this study, we developed a methodology to improve the survival, vascular differentiation and regenerative potential of umbilical cord blood (UCB)-derived hematopoietic stem cells (CD34(+) cells), by co-culturing the stem cells in a 3D fibrin gel with CD34(+)-derived endothelial cells (ECs). ECs differentiated from CD34(+) cells appear to have superior angiogenic properties to fully differentiated ECs, such as human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Our results indicate that the pro-survival effect of CD34(+)-derived ECs on CD34(+) cells is mediated, at least in part, by bioactive factors released from ECs. This effect likely involves the secretion of novel cytokines, including interleukin-17 (IL-17) and interleukin-10 (IL-10), and the activation of the ERK 1/2 pathway in CD34(+) cells. We also show that the endothelial differentiation of CD34(+) cells in co-culture with CD34(+)-derived ECs is mediated by a combination of soluble and insoluble factors. The regenerative potential of this co-culture system was demonstrated in a chronic wound diabetic animal model. The co-transplantation of CD34(+) cells with CD34(+)-derived ECs improved the wound healing relatively to controls, by decreasing the inflammatory reaction and increasing the neovascularization of the wound.
This article reports a historical study of factors influencing the achievement of clinical preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) in 1990, 22 years after its first demonstration in animals. During the 1970s, research on PGD continued in large farm animals, but serious interest in human PGD was not evident until 1986. First, interest in PGD during the 1970s waned with the advent of prenatal testing, which for gynaecologists was clinically more familiar, technically simpler and ethically less challenging than IVF. Indeed, IVF was viewed with widespread suspicion until the first IVF births in 1978. Second, interest in clinical PGD was stimulated by the UK Parliamentary reaction against human embryo research that greeted the Warnock Report in 1984. This hostility led scientists to initiate a pro-research campaign, further galvanized in 1985 by MP Enoch Powell's bid to ban such research. However, while Powell abhorred embryo research, he approved of PGD, a stance that divided the anti-research lobby. Accordingly, the campaigners for research emphasized that it was needed to achieve PGD. Powell demanded evidence of such projects and PGD research increased from 1986. It is concluded that UK political debates on embryo research played a critical role in stimulating the achievement of clinical PGD. Human pregnancies following preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) for embryo sex were announced in 1990, 22 years after the technique was pioneered in animals. PGD in humans required not only technological advances, such as IVF and sensitive diagnostic tests, but also the motivation to develop and apply them. Our historical analysis shows that, although research on PGD continued in large farm animals during the 1970s, and techniques of the required sensitivity were developed on mouse embryo models, interest in clinical PGD was not evident until 1986. Two factors stimulated this sudden change in motivation. First, interest in PGD was depressed during the 1970s by the advent of prenatal diagnostic techniques, which for gynaecologists were clinically, technically and ethically less challenging than IVF. IVF was then regarded with a suspicion that only started to wane in the early 1980s following the first IVF births. Second, the UK Parliamentary reaction against human embryo research that greeted the Warnock Report in 1984 provided a positive stimulus to clinical PGD by prompting scientists to form a pro-research lobby, which was further galvanized in early 1985 by MP Enoch Powell's almost-successful bid to ban human embryo research. We show that while Powell abhorred embryo research, he approved of PGD, a stance that fractured the unity of the anti-research lobby. Accordingly, the pro-research lobby emphasized that embryo research was needed to achieve PGD. Powell demanded evidence of such projects, thereby, we argue, stimulating PGD research from 1986. Our evidence shows that UK political debates about PGD played a critical role in stimulating the achievement of PGD clinically.


Myelin components that inhibit axonal regeneration are believed to contribute significantly to the lack of axonal regeneration noted in the adult central nervous system. Three proteins found in myelin, Nogo, myelin-associated glycoprotein, and oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein, inhibit neurite outgrowth in vitro. All of these proteins interact with the same receptors, namely, the Nogo receptor (NgR) and paired immunoglobulin-like receptor B (PIR-B). As per previous reports, corticospinal tract (CST) regeneration is not enhanced in NgR-knock-out mice after spinal cord injury. Therefore, we assessed CST regeneration in PIR-B-knock-out mice. We found that hindlimb motor function, as assessed using the Basso mouse scale, footprint test, inclined plane test, and beam walking test, did not differ between the PIR-B-knock-out and wild-type mice after dorsal hemisection of the spinal cord. Further, tracing of the CST fibers after injury did not reveal enhanced axonal regeneration or sprouting in the CST of the PIR-B-knock-out mice. Systemic administration of NEP1-40, a NgR antagonist, to PIR-B knock-out mice did not enhance the regenerative response. These results indicate that PIR-B knock-out is not sufficient to induce extensive axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury.
Through protein interactions mediated by their cytoplasmic C termini the GluN2A and GluN2B subunits of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) have a key role in the formation of NMDAR signaling complexes at excitatory synapses. Although these signaling complexes are thought to have a crucial role in NMDAR-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation (LTP), the role of the C terminus of GluN2A in coupling NMDARs to LTP enhancing and/or suppressing signaling pathways is unclear. To address this issue we examined the induction of LTP in the hippocampal CA1 region in mice lacking the C terminus of endogenous GluN2A subunits (GluN2AC/C). Our results show that truncation of GluN2A subunits produces robust, but highly frequency-dependent, deficits in LTP and a reduction in basal levels of extracellular signal regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) activation and phosphorylation of AMPA receptor GluA1 subunits at a protein kinase A site (serine 845). Consistent with the notion that these signaling deficits contribute to the deficits in LTP in GluN2AC/C mice, activating ERK2 and increasing GluA1 S845 phosphorylation through activation of -adrenergic receptors rescued the induction of LTP in these mutants. Together, our results indicate that the capacity of excitatory synapses to undergo plasticity in response to different patterns of activity is dependent on the coupling of specific signaling pathways to the intracellular domains of the NMDARs and that abnormal plasticity resulting from mutations in NMDARs can be reduced by activation of key neuromodulatory transmitter receptors that engage converging signaling pathways.
The development of different brain regions involves the coordinated control of proliferation and cell fate specification along and across the neuraxis. Here, we identify Plxdc2 as a novel regulator of these processes, using in ovo electroporation and in vitro cultures of mammalian cells. Plxdc2 is a type I transmembrane protein with some homology to nidogen and to plexins. It is expressed in a highly discrete and dynamic pattern in the developing nervous system, with prominent expression in various patterning centres. In the chick neural tube, where Plxdc2 expression parallels that seen in the mouse, misexpression of Plxdc2 increases proliferation and alters patterns of neurogenesis, resulting in neural tube thickening at early stages. Expression of the Plxdc2 extracellular domain alone, which can be cleaved and shed in vivo, is sufficient for this activity, demonstrating a cell non-autonomous function. Induction of proliferation is also observed in cultured embryonic neuroepithelial cells (ENCs) derived from E9.5 mouse neural tube, which express a Plxdc2-binding activity. These experiments uncover a direct molecular activity of Plxdc2 in the control of proliferation, of relevance in understanding the role of this protein in various cancers, where its expression has been shown to be altered. They also implicate Plxdc2 as a novel component of the network of signalling molecules known to coordinate proliferation and differentiation in the developing nervous system.
Osteopontin (OPN) is a pleiotropic protein implicated in various inflammatory responses including ischemia-reperfusion (I-R) injury. Two distinct forms of the protein have been identified: an extensively studied secreted form (sOPN) and a less-well-known intracellular form (iOPN). Studies have shown that increased OPN expression parallels the time course of macrophage infiltration into injured tissue, a late event in the development of cerebral infarcts. sOPN has been suggested to promote remodeling of the extracellular matrix in the brain; the function of iOPN may be to facilitate certain signal transduction processes. Here, we studied OPN expression in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to global forebrain I-R injury. We found iOPN in the cytoplasm of both cortices and the hippocampus, but unexpectedly only the right cortex exhibited a marked increase in the iOPN level after 45 min of reperfusion. Acetaminophen, a drug recently shown to decrease apoptotic incidence, caspase-9 activation, and mitochondrial dysfunction during global I-R, significantly inhibited the increase in iOPN protein in the right cortex, suggesting a role for iOPN in the response to I-R injury in the right cortex.

Reading and speech-in-noise perception, fundamental aspects of human communication, have been linked to neural indices of auditory brainstem function. However, how these factors interact is currently unclear. Multivariate analysis methods (structural equation modeling) were employed to delineate and quantify the relationships among factors that relate to successful reading and speech in noise perception in children. Neural measures of subcortical speech encoding that reflect the utilization of stimulus regularities, differentiation of stop consonants, and robustness of neural synchrony predicted 73% of the variance in reading scores. A different combination of neural measures, specifically, utilization of stimulus regularities, strength of encoding of lower harmonics, and the extent of noise-induced timing delays uniquely predicted 56% of the variance in speech-in-noise perception measures. The neural measures relating to reading and speech-in-noise perception were substantially non-overlapping and resulted in poor fitting models when substituted for each other, thereby suggesting distinct neural signatures for the two skills. When phonological processing and working memory measures were added to the models, brainstem measures still uniquely predicted variance in reading ability and speech-in-noise perception, highlighting the robustness of the relationship between subcortical auditory function and these skills. The current study suggests that objective neural markers may prove valuable in the assessment of reading or speech-in-noise abilities in children.
Stressful life events and chronic stress are implicated in the development of depressive disorder in humans. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and galanin have been shown to modulate the stress response, and exert antidepressant-like effects in rodents. To further investigate these neuropeptides in depression-like behaviour, NPY and galanin gene expression was studied in brains of mice subjected to chronic restraint stress (CRS) and concomitant treatment with the antidepressant fluoxetine (FLX). CRS caused a significant increase in depression-like behaviour that was associated with increased NPY mRNA levels in the medial amygdala. Concomitant FLX treatment reverted depression-like effects of CRS and led to significant increases in levels of NPY and galanin mRNA in the dentate gyrus, amygdala, and piriform cortex. These findings suggest that effects on NPY and galanin gene expression could play a role in the antidepressant effects of FLX.
This review brings together two strands of investigation in the neuropsychology and neurophysiology of schizophrenia that have been particularly productive over the last 20 years. We review the literature on working memory deficits, particularly in the visual domain, and changes in oscillatory neural activity as measured with electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG). We argue that recent results suggest a link between these two phenomena, in that altered oscillations underlie some of the working memory deficits. We furthermore argue that early sensory mechanisms contribute more to working memory (and other) deficits than previously thought. The final part of our review suggests links between working memory, oscillations, and their alterations in schizophrenia and the dopamine, GABA, glutamate and acetylcholine system. These links have already resulted in the development of new remediation strategies, which have some translational potential.
Injection of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol into the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) elicits robust feeding in satiated rats, but has no effect on water intake. The current study was designed to examine whether intra-AcbSh muscimol injections influence the intake of ethanol solutions in rats trained to drink using a limited access paradigm. We confirmed that bilateral injections of muscimol (100 ng) into the AcbSh produce large increases in the intake of sucrose solutions and of the chow maintenance diet but found in two independent experiments that these injections potently reduce the intake of a 10% ethanol solution. Furthermore, intra-AcbSh muscimol significantly increased intake of an ethanol-sucrose mixture. These results demonstrate that activating GABA(A) receptors in the vicinity of the AcbSh can have opposite effects on the intake of different caloric substances and are consistent with the possibility that GABAergic circuits in the AcbSh may play a role in mediating voluntary ethanol intake.
Visuo-spatial learning and memory were assessed in male and female mice of 13 inbred strains on a small diameter mouse version of the Barnes maze surrounded by a wall and intra-maze visual cues. Mice completed acquisition and reversal training to assess learning, followed by a probe test to assess memory for the spatial location of the escape hole. The C57BL/6J and CAST/EiJ strains showed better learning performance than the other strains. A/J and 129/SvImJ strains showed poor learning performance, which may be due to their low rates of exploration. No differences in memory were found between strains in the probe test. Males showed better learning performance than females in the DBA/2J and C3H/HeJ strains, but there were no sex differences in the other strains. However, mice may not have used visuo-spatial cues to locate the escape hole in this maze, as (1) all strains primarily used the non-spatial serial/thigmotaxic search strategy, (2) no strains showed a reversal effect when the escape hole location was moved, and (3) learning and memory performance were not correlated with measures of visual ability. Multivariate and univariate analyses of variance indicated that mice with good visual ability performed better than mice with poor visual ability, but the effect sizes were small. The small diameter of the maze and the presence of a wall around the edge of the maze may promote thigmotaxis in mice, increasing the use of a non-visual search strategy, thereby reducing the influence of vision on performance and decreasing the sensitivity of this maze design to detect strain differences in visuo-spatial learning and memory. These results indicate that the design of the Barnes maze has a significant effect on learning and memory processes.
The process of spatial updating is crucial for maintaining perceptual stability despite gross and frequent displacements of space following saccadic eye movements. Efference copies of motor commands are used to update retinal coordinates across saccades. The present study investigated neural correlates of saccadic updating in a perceptual context with regard to temporal dynamics and modulation by intra- versus interhemispheric transfer of updating-related information. Twenty-two subjects engaged in a perceptual localization task which required trans-saccadic spatial updating while event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded. In accordance with previous studies, post-saccadic perceptual localization of stimuli presented before a saccade was less accurate when relying on efference copy signals (i.e. updating was required) as compared to a control condition not involving updating. Updating-related ERP components emerged before and after saccade onset. There was no clear transfer-dependent modulation of the presaccadic component. A negative deflection between 30 and 70 ms after saccade onset was most pronounced for rightward saccades, and when intrahemispheric transfer was required. A slower positive deflection starting about 170-230 ms after saccade onset had a shorter latency for leftward than for rightward saccades and was not modulated by transfer. In accordance with previous work, this relative positivity is thought to reflect sensory memory, whereas the earlier negative deflection can be more directly linked to the updating process itself.

The study investigates time-variant directed interactions between brain regions during the interburst-burst EEG pattern (trac alternant) characteristic of quiet sleep in healthy neonates. The transition from interburst to burst is of particular interest as the generation of the EEG characteristics at burst onset reflects timing and time-variant interplay between the cortical and the thalamo-cortical brain structures. To study the dynamics of the interactions, time-variant partial directed coherence (PDC), a measure of effective connectivity, was used which allows analysis in the time-frequency range. The main results of the grand mean PDC analysis are: (1) PDC time-frequency patterns are frequently associated with phase-locked oscillations. (2) Interhemispheric interactions are dominant between frontal, central and occipital electrodes and intrahemispheric interactions are much less substantial. (3) An interaction breakdown for the frequency ranges 1-4 Hz (Fp(1)  Fp(2)) and 0.5-3 Hz (Fp(2)  Fp(1)) exists which lasts about 2.5s and which is located at about burst onset. (4) Strong interactions in the high-frequency range 3.5-4.5 Hz between the frontal electrodes can be observed for both directions at the burst onset. It can be concluded that the evolution of strong interactions in the high-frequency range, which starts shortly before or at the burst onset from frontal regions to anteroposterior directions as well as the frontal interhemispheric interactions, are associated with the burst onset generation. Additionally, the collapsing of the interactions before burst onset and after the burst are indicative of neuronal reorganisation processes.
The vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT-2) is responsible for packaging intraneuronal dopamine into synaptic vesicles in preparation for synaptic release and is a critical regulator of cytoplasmic dopamine levels and dopaminergic function. It has long been recognized that VMAT-2 is also a critical mediator of amphetamine-induced dopamine release. Amphetamine-induced lesions during development have the potential to produce numerous permanent abnormalities in neural circuitry and function. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the effects of amphetamine on the levels of VMAT-2, -synuclein and phosphorylated tyrosine hydroxylase in the striatum of neonatal rats. We found that chronic amphetamine administration in postnatal rats produces dopaminergic deficits in the striatum, including decreases in the levels of VMAT-2 and phosphorylated tyrosine hydroxylase. In addition, an increase in -synuclein expression was observed in the striatum of postnatal rats following chronic amphetamine treatment. Furthermore, we identified a role of (10mg/kg) melatonin, a methoxyindole released from the pineal gland, in attenuating the detrimental effects of amphetamine on dopaminergic neurons.
Neurons transform time-varying inputs into action potentials emitted stochastically at a time dependent rate. The mapping from current input to output firing rate is often represented with the help of phenomenological models such as the linear-nonlinear (LN) cascade, in which the output firing rate is estimated by applying to the input successively a linear temporal filter and a static non-linear transformation. These simplified models leave out the biophysical details of action potential generation. It is not a priori clear to which extent the input-output mapping of biophysically more realistic, spiking neuron models can be reduced to a simple linear-nonlinear cascade. Here we investigate this question for the leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF), exponential integrate-and-fire (EIF) and conductance-based Wang-Buzski models in presence of background synaptic activity. We exploit available analytic results for these models to determine the corresponding linear filter and static non-linearity in a parameter-free form. We show that the obtained functions are identical to the linear filter and static non-linearity determined using standard reverse correlation analysis. We then quantitatively compare the output of the corresponding linear-nonlinear cascade with numerical simulations of spiking neurons, systematically varying the parameters of input signal and background noise. We find that the LN cascade provides accurate estimates of the firing rates of spiking neurons in most of parameter space. For the EIF and Wang-Buzski models, we show that the LN cascade can be reduced to a firing rate model, the timescale of which we determine analytically. Finally we introduce an adaptive timescale rate model in which the timescale of the linear filter depends on the instantaneous firing rate. This model leads to highly accurate estimates of instantaneous firing rates.
Functional neuroimaging (e.g., with fMRI) has been difficult to perform in mice, making it challenging to translate between human fMRI studies and molecular and genetic mechanisms. A method to easily perform large-scale functional neuroimaging in mice would enable the discovery of functional correlates of genetic manipulations and bridge with mouse models of disease. To satisfy this need, we combined resting-state functional connectivity mapping with optical intrinsic signal imaging (fcOIS). We demonstrate functional connectivity in mice through highly detailed fcOIS mapping of resting-state networks across most of the cerebral cortex. Synthesis of multiple network connectivity patterns through iterative parcellation and clustering provides a comprehensive map of the functional neuroarchitecture and demonstrates identification of the major functional regions of the mouse cerebral cortex. The method relies on simple and relatively inexpensive camera-based equipment, does not require exogenous contrast agents and involves only reflection of the scalp (the skull remains intact) making it minimally invasive. In principle, fcOIS allows new paradigms linking human neuroscience with the power of molecular/genetic manipulations in mouse models.
The itch field has made great advances in recent years, building upon earlier work to form a clearer picture of the biology behind this important sensory modality. Models for how itch is encoded have emerged that fit with physiological, molecular, and behavioral data. The molecular mechanisms of itch, both peripherally and centrally, are being revealed with the aid of newer animal models. Future work must address shortcomings in our current understanding of itch including limitations of current experimental methods. Here we review what is known about the cells, molecules, and circuits involved in itch and highlight key questions that remain to be answered.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), which are members of the sodium-selective cation channels belonging to the epithelial sodium channel/degenerin (ENaC/DEG) family, act as membrane-bound receptors for extracellular protons as well as nonproton ligands. At least five ASIC subunits have been identified in mammalian neurons, which form both homotrimeric and heterotrimeric channels. The highly proton sensitive ASIC3 channels are predominantly distributed in peripheral sensory neurons, correlating with their roles in multimodal sensory perception, including nociception, mechanosensation, and chemosensation. Different from other ASIC subunit composing ion channels, ASIC3 channels can mediate a sustained window current in response to mild extracellular acidosis (pH 7.3-6.7), which often occurs accompanied by many sensory stimuli. Furthermore, recent evidence indicates that the sustained component of ASIC3 currents can be enhanced by nonproton ligands including the endogenous metabolite agmatine. In this review, we first summarize the growing body of evidence for the involvement of ASIC3 channels in multimodal sensory perception and then discuss the potential mechanisms underlying ASIC3 activation and mediation of sensory perception, with a special emphasis on its role in nociception. We conclude that ASIC3 activation and modulation by diverse sensory stimuli represent a new avenue for understanding the role of ASIC3 channels in sensory perception. Furthermore, the emerging implications of ASIC3 channels in multiple sensory dysfunctions including nociception allow the development of new pharmacotherapy.

The TRPV1 receptor functions as a molecular integrator, and blockade of this receptor modulates enhanced somatosensitivity across several animal models of pathological pain, including models of osteoarthritic (OA) pain. In order to further characterize the contributions of TRPV1 to OA-related pain, we investigated the systemic effects of a selective TRPV1 receptor antagonist, A-889425, on grip force behavior, and on the evoked and spontaneous firing of spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) and nociceptive specific (NS) neurons in the monoiodoacetate (MIA) model of OA. Administration of A-889425 (10-300 mol/kg, p.o.) alleviated grip force impairment in OA rats 3 weeks after the MIA injection. Also at 3 weeks post-MIA injection, the responses of WDR and NS neurons to 300 g von Frey hair stimulation of the knee joint were significantly reduced by A-889425 administration (10 and 30 mol/kg, i.v.) in OA, but not sham-OA rats. Spontaneous firing of WDR neurons was elevated in the OA rats compared to sham-OA rats and may reflect ongoing discomfort in the OA animal. In addition to an effect on mechanotransmission, systemic administration of A-889425 reduced the elevated spontaneous firing of WDR neurons in OA rats but did not alter spontaneous firing in sham rats. The present data demonstrate that blockade of TRPV1 receptors modulates the firing of two important classes of spinal nociceptive neurons in a rat model of OA. The effect of A-889425 on neuronal responses to intense mechanical stimulation of the knee and on the spontaneous firing of WDR neurons adds to the growing appreciation for the role of TRPV1 receptors in pathological mechanotransmission and possibly non-evoked discomfort, respectively.
Here, we present the first experimental in vitro evidence of the existence of spontaneous and visible light-induced ultraweak photon emission from freshly isolated whole eye, lens, vitreous humor, and retina samples from rats. These results suggest that the photochemical source of retinal discrete noise, as well as retinal phosphenes, may originate from natural bioluminescent photons within the eyes. During normal vision, the eyes are continuously exposed to ambient powerful photons that pass through various parts of the eyes, which can produce ultraweak delayed bioluminescent photons that arise from diverse parts of the eyes. Although the importance and possible role of ambient light-induced permanent delayed photons (within different parts of the eyes) during vision requires further investigation, our study may provide evidence of an origin of discrete dark noise and retinal phosphenes.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as superoxide are emerging as important signaling molecules in physiological plasticity but also in peripheral and spinal cord pain pathology. Underlying mechanisms and pain-related ROS signaling in the brain remain to be determined. Neuroplasticity in the amygdala plays a key role in emotional-affective pain responses and depends on group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and protein kinases. Using patch-clamp, live-cell imaging, and behavioral assays, we tested the hypothesis that mitochondrial ROS links group I mGluRs to protein kinase activation to increase neuronal excitability and pain behavior. Agonists for mGluR1/5 (DHPG) or mGluR5 (CHPG) increased neuronal excitability of neurons in the laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC). DHPG effects were inhibited by an mGluR5 antagonist (MTEP), IP(3) receptor blocker (xestospongin C), or ROS scavengers (PBN, tempol), but not by an mGluR1 antagonist (LY367385) or NO synthase inhibitor (l-NAME). Tempol inhibited the effects of IP(3) but not those of a PKC activator, indicating that ROS activation was IP(3) mediated. Live-cell imaging in CeLC-containing brain slices directly showed DHPG-induced and synaptically evoked mitochondrial superoxide production. DHPG also increased pain-related vocalizations and spinal reflexes through a mechanism that required mGluR5, IP(3), and ROS. Combined application of inhibitors of ERK (U0126) and PKA (KT5720) was necessary to block completely the excitatory effects of a ROS donor (tBOOH). A PKC inhibitor (GF109203X) had no effect. Antagonists and inhibitors alone did not affect neuronal excitability. The results suggest an important role for the novel mGluR5- IP(3)-ROS-ERK/PKA signaling pathway in amygdala pain mechanisms.
During locomotion, adult rodent lumbar motoneurons fire in high-frequency (80-100 Hz) 1-2 s bursts every several seconds, releasing between 10,000 and 20,000 vesicles per burst. The estimated total vesicle pool size indicates that all vesicles would be used within 30 s; thus, a mechanism for rapid endocytosis and vesicle recycling is necessary to maintain effective transmission and motor behavior. However, whether such rapid recycling exists at mouse neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) or how it is regulated has been unclear. Here, we show that much less FM1-43 dye is lost per stimulus with 100 Hz stimulation than with 10 Hz stimulation even when the same number of vesicles undergo exocytosis. Electrophysiological data using folimycin show this lesser amount of dye loss is caused in part by the rapid reuse of vesicles. We showed previously that a myosin light chain kinase (MLCK)-myosin II pathway was required for effective transmission at 100 Hz. Here, we confirm the activation of MLCK, based on increased nerve terminal phospho-MLC immunostaining, with 100 Hz but not with 10 Hz stimulation. We further demonstrate that activation of MLCK, by increased extracellular Ca(2+), by PKC (protein kinase C) activation, or by a MLCK agonist peptide, reduces the amount of dye lost even with 10 Hz stimulation. MLCK activation at 10 Hz also resulted in more vesicles being rapidly reused. Thus, MLCK activation by 100 Hz stimulation switches the mechanism of vesicle cycling to a rapid-reuse mode and is required to sustain effective transmission in adult mouse NMJs.
Little is known about how the neuronal cytoskeleton is regulated when a dendrite decides whether to branch or not. Previously, we reported that postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) acts as a stop signal for dendrite branching. It is yet to be elucidated how PSD-95 affects the cytoskeleton and how this regulation relates to the dendritic arbor. Here, we show that the SH3 (src homology 3) domain of PSD-95 interacts with a proline-rich region within the microtubule end-binding protein EB3. Overexpression of PSD-95 or mutant EB3 results in a decreased lifetime of EB3 comets in dendrites. In line with these data, transfected rat neurons show that overexpression of PSD-95 results in less organized microtubules at dendritic branch points and decreased dendritogensis. The interaction between PSD-95 and EB3 elucidates a function for a novel region of EB3 and provides a new and important mechanism for the regulation of microtubules in determining dendritic morphology.
Macrophage-mediated axonal dieback presents an additional challenge to regenerating axons after spinal cord injury. Adult adherent stem cells are known to have immunomodulatory capabilities, but their potential to ameliorate this detrimental inflammation-related process has not been investigated. Using an in vitro model of axonal dieback as well as an adult rat dorsal column crush model of spinal cord injury, we found that multipotent adult progenitor cells (MAPCs) can affect both macrophages and dystrophic neurons simultaneously. MAPCs significantly decrease MMP-9 (matrix metalloproteinase-9) release from macrophages, effectively preventing induction of axonal dieback. MAPCs also induce a shift in macrophages from an M1, or &quot;classically activated&quot; proinflammatory state, to an M2, or &quot;alternatively activated&quot; antiinflammatory state. In addition to these effects on macrophages, MAPCs promote sensory neurite outgrowth, induce sprouting, and further enable axons to overcome the negative effects of macrophages as well as inhibitory proteoglycans in their environment by increasing their intrinsic growth capacity. Our results demonstrate that MAPCs have therapeutic benefits after spinal cord injury and provide specific evidence that adult stem cells exert positive immunomodulatory and neurotrophic influences.
Perceptual decisions that are used to select particular actions can appear to be formed in an intentional framework, in which sensory evidence is converted directly into a plan to act. However, because the relationship between perceptual decision-making and action selection has been tested primarily under conditions in which the two could not be dissociated, it is not known whether this intentional framework plays a general role in forming perceptual decisions or only reflects certain task conditions. To dissociate decision and motor processing in the brain, we recorded from individual neurons in the lateral intraparietal area of monkeys performing a task that included a flexible association between a decision about the direction of random-dot motion and the direction of the appropriate eye-movement response. We targeted neurons that responded selectively in anticipation of a particular eye-movement response. We found that these neurons encoded the perceptual decision in a manner that was distinct from how they encoded the associated response. These decision-related signals were evident regardless of whether the appropriate decision-response association was indicated before, during, or after decision formation. The results suggest that perceptual decision-making and action selection are different brain processes that only appear to be inseparable under particular behavioral contexts.
Various types of neurons and glia are generated following a precise spatial and temporal order during neurogenesis. The mechanisms that control this sequential generation of neuronal and glial cell types from the same progenitor population are not well understood. Growth differentiation factor 11 (Gdf11) belongs to the TGF- family of proteins and is expressed transiently in newly born neurons adjacent to the progenitor domain in the developing spinal cord. We examined the phenotypes of Gdf11(-/-) mouse embryos and found that without Gdf11, neuronal differentiation in the spinal cord progresses at a slower rate. Higher progenitor proliferation rate, along with a delay in gliogenesis, is also observed in Gdf11(-/-) spinal cord but only after the peak of Gdf11 expression, indicating that Gdf11 can cause long-lasting changes in progenitor properties. These changes can be preserved in vitro, as neurospheres derived from Gdf11(-/-) and wild-type littermates at a stage after, but not before the onset of Gdf11 expression, exhibit differences in proliferation and differentiation potential. Moreover, these changes in progenitor properties can be induced in vitro by the addition of Gdf11. We also demonstrate that the effects of Gdf11 on progenitor cells are associated with its ability to upregulate p57(Kip2) and p27(Kip1) while downregulating Pax6 expression. These results support a model in which Gdf11 secreted by newly born neurons in the developing spinal cord facilitates the temporal progression of neurogenesis by acting as a positive feedback signal on the progenitor cells to promote cell cycle exit and decrease proliferation ability, thus changing their differentiation potential.
Oligodendrocyte development is tightly controlled by a variety of extracellular growth and differentiation factors. The mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), ERK1 and ERK2, are critical intracellular signaling molecules important for transducing these extracellular signals. The extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) are ubiquitously expressed, coordinately regulated, and highly similar, but Erk2 deletion in mice is embryonic lethal whereas Erk1 deletion is not. Several studies have suggested that MAPK signaling is important for oligodendrocyte differentiation, although specific roles for the two ERK isoforms have not been investigated. In this study, we deleted Erk2 in the developing mouse cortex from GFAP-expressing radial glia that generate neurons and oligodendrocytes. In vitro analysis revealed that loss of ERK2 resulted in fewer galactocerebroside-expressing mature oligodendrocytes in cortical cultures. In vivo, a delay in the expression of the myelin protein MBP was observed in the corpus callosum at postnatal day 10 (P10). In contrast, Erk1 deletion did not affect oligodendrocyte differentiation. By P21, MBP expression was restored to wild-type levels, demonstrating that the loss of ERK2 results in a delay but not a complete arrest in the appearance of differentiated oligodendrocytes in vivo. Importantly, both the proliferation and total number of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) appeared normal in the Erk2 conditional knock-out cortex, demonstrating that ERK2 plays a specific role in the timing of forebrain myelination but is not critical for the proliferation or survival of OPCs. Oligodendrocyte-specific deletion of Erk2 also resulted in decreased levels of MBP, indicating a cell-autonomous effect of ERK2 in the oligodendrocyte lineage.
Cocaine-mediated neuroadaptations in the prefrontal cortical-nucleus accumbens pathway underlie drug-seeking in animals with a cocaine self-administration (SA) history. Neuroplasticity in the cortico-accumbens pathway is regulated, in part, by the expression and availability of neurotrophic factors, such as BDNF. We have previously demonstrated that infusion of BDNF into the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) immediately after the last of 10 cocaine SA sessions attenuates contextual, cue- and cocaine prime-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking (Berglind et al., 2007) and normalizes cocaine-induced disruption of glutamatergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens (Berglind et al., 2009). In the present study, the suppressive effect of intra-dmPFC BDNF on cocaine-seeking is shown to depend on Trk receptor-mediated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling in the dmPFC. The tyrosine kinase inhibitor, K252a, and the mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase inhibitor, U0126 (1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis[2-aminophenylthio]butadiene), prevented BDNF's suppressive effects on cocaine-seeking. Vehicle-infused rats with a cocaine SA history showed significant decreases in ERK and cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB), but not Akt, phosphorylation after the final cocaine SA session that were reversed by intra-dmPFC BDNF. Additionally, BDNF's ability to normalize cocaine-mediated decreases in ERK and CREB phosphorylation was blocked by U0126, demonstrating that ERK/MAPK activation mediated the behavioral effects. This study elucidates a mechanism whereby BDNF/TrkB (tropomyosin receptor kinase B) activates ERK-regulated CREB phosphorylation in the dmPFC to counteract the neuroadaptations induced by cocaine SA and subsequent relapse to cocaine-seeking.
The GluA2 (GluR2) subunit is critical for the regulation of AMPA receptor properties and synaptic plasticity, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that GluA2 regulates metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent long-term depression (mGluR-LTD) through a previously unknown mechanism involving N-cadherin-dependent and cofilin-mediated actin reorganization. We show that GluA2 is indispensable for mGluR-LTD in the hippocampus, and surprisingly this action of GluA2 is mediated by its extracellular domain interaction with N-cadherin. Accordingly, we show that the function of N-cadherin is regulated by and required for mGluR-LTD. Furthermore, we show that the regulatory effect of GluA2/N-cadherin is mediated through activation of Rho GTPase Rac1 and its downstream actin regulator cofilin, and, importantly, the requirement for GluA2/N-cadherin can be overcome by manipulating cofilin. These results provide compelling evidence that the extracellular domain of GluA2 regulates long-lasting synaptic plasticity through a signaling mechanism that is distinct from those used by the other domains of the receptor subunit.
This study aimed to examine whether or not there are gender differences in sweet stimulus-induced analgesia for cold pain in adults. In a randomized cross-over design, twenty men and 20 women held either a 24% sucrose solution or distilled water in their mouth before and while they immersed their hand in cold water and their pain response was examined. Unlike the women, when the men held the sucrose solution in their mouth, the latency of the onset of pain significantly increased, compared with the distilled water. Meanwhile, the level of pain tolerance was not significantly different for both sexes. The findings reveal that the analgesic effect of a sweet stimulus on the pain threshold is influenced by gender differences in human adults, indicating that sweet stimulus-induced analgesia has a brief analgesic effect, particularly for men. Although more research is warranted, the sweet stimulus could be put to practical application as an adjunct to acute pain management for men.
A key finding in studies of the neurobiology of learning memory is that the amygdala is critically involved in Pavlovian fear conditioning. This is well established in delay-cued and contextual fear conditioning; however, surprisingly little is known of the role of the amygdala in trace conditioning. Trace fear conditioning, in which the CS and US are separated in time by a trace interval, requires the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. It is possible that recruitment of cortical structures by trace conditioning alters the role of the amygdala compared to delay fear conditioning, where the CS and US overlap. To investigate this, we inactivated the amygdala of male C57BL/6 mice with GABA (A) agonist muscimol prior to 2-pairing trace or delay fear conditioning. Amygdala inactivation produced deficits in contextual and delay conditioning, but had no effect on trace conditioning. As controls, we demonstrate that dorsal hippocampal inactivation produced deficits in trace and contextual, but not delay fear conditioning. Further, pre- and post-training amygdala inactivation disrupted the contextual but the not cued component of trace conditioning, as did muscimol infusion prior to 1- or 4-pairing trace conditioning. These findings demonstrate that insertion of a temporal gap between the CS and US can generate amygdala-independent fear conditioning. We discuss the implications of this surprising finding for current models of the neural circuitry involved in fear conditioning.
In this issue of Cancer Cell, Arozarena etal. describe that the oncogenic BRAF Val600Glu mutant, which occurs in about half of melanomas, downregulates the cGMP-hydrolysing phosphodiesterase PDE5A in melanoma cells through the ERK-MAPK cascade coupled to the POU-domain transcription factor BRN2, thereby increasing intracellular cGMP levels and promoting invasiveness.
Signaling pathways necessary for memory formation, such as the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, appear highly conserved across species and paradigms. Learning that food is inedible (LFI) represents a robust form of associative, operant learning that induces short- (STM) and long-term memory (LTM) in Aplysia. We investigated the role of MAPK signaling in LFI memory in vivo. Inhibition of MAPK activation in animals prior to training blocked STM and LTM. Discontinuing MAPK signaling immediately after training inhibited LTM with no impact on STM. Therefore, MAPK signaling appears necessary early in memory formation for STM and LTM, with prolonged MAPK activity required for LTM. We found that LFI training significantly increased phospho-MAPK levels in the buccal ganglia. Increased MAPK activation was apparent immediately after training with greater than basal levels persisting for 2 h. We examined the mechanisms underlying training-induced MAPK activation and found that PKG activity was necessary for the prolonged phase of MAPK activation, but not for the early MAPK phase required for STM. Furthermore, we found that neither the immediate nor the prolonged phase of MAPK activation was dependent upon nitric oxide (NO) signaling, although expression of memory was dependent on NO as previously reported. These studies emphasize the role of MAPK and PKG in negatively reinforced operant memory and demonstrate a role for PKG-dependent MAPK signaling in invertebrate associative memory.
Physical activity improves learning and hippocampal neurogenesis. It is unknown whether compounds that increase endurance in muscle also enhance cognition. We investigated the effects of endurance factors, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  agonist GW501516 and AICAR, activator of AMP-activated protein kinase on memory and neurogenesis. Mice were injected with GW for 7 d or AICAR for 7 or 14 d. Two weeks thereafter mice were tested in the Morris water maze. AICAR (7 d) and GW improved spatial memory. Moreover, AICAR significantly, and GW modestly, elevated dentate gyrus neurogenesis. Thus, pharmacological activation of skeletal muscle may mediate cognitive effects.
Whereas short-term plasticity involves covalent modifications that are generally restricted to either presynaptic or postsynaptic structures, long-term plasticity involves the growth of new synapses, which by its nature involves both pre- and postsynaptic alterations. In addition, an intermediate-term stage of plasticity has been identified that might form a bridge between short- and long-term plasticity. Consistent with that idea, although short-term term behavioral sensitization in Aplysia involves presynaptic mechanisms, intermediate-term sensitization involves both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms. However, it has not been known whether that is also true of facilitation in vitro, where a more detailed analysis of the mechanisms involved in the different stages and their interrelations is feasible. To address those questions, we have examined pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms of short- and intermediate-term facilitation at Aplysia sensory-motor neuron synapses in isolated cell culture. Whereas short-term facilitation by 1-min 5-HT involves presynaptic PKA and CamKII, intermediate-term facilitation by 10-min 5-HT involves presynaptic PKC and postsynaptic Ca(2+) and CamKII, as well as both pre- and postsynaptic protein synthesis. These results support the idea that the intermediate-term stage is the first to involve both pre- and postsynaptic molecular mechanisms, which could in turn serve as some of the initial steps in a cascade leading to synaptic growth during long-term plasticity.



Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra. Although the exact cause of the dopaminergic neurodegeneration remains elusive, recent postmortem and experimental studies have revealed an essential role for neuroinflammation that is initiated and driven by activated microglial and infiltrated peripheral immune cells and their neurotoxic products (such as proinflammatory cytokines, reactive oxygen species, and nitric oxide) in the pathogenesis of PD. A bacterial endotoxin-based experimental model of PD has been established, representing a purely inflammation-driven animal model for the induction of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration. This model, by itself or together with genetic and toxin-based animal models, provides an important tool to delineate the precise mechanisms of neuroinflammation-mediated dopaminergic neuron loss. Here, we review the characteristics of this model and the contribution of neuroinflammatory processes, induced by the in vivo administration of bacterial endotoxin, to neurodegeneration. Furthermore, we summarize the recent experimental therapeutic strategies targeting endotoxin-induced neuroinflammation to elicit neuroprotection in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. The potential of the endotoxin-based PD model in the development of an early-stage specific diagnostic biomarker is also emphasized.
A fundamental trait of the human self is its continuum experience of space and time. Perceptual aberrations of this spatial and temporal continuity is a major characteristic of schizophrenia spectrum disturbances--including schizophrenia, schizotypal personality disorder and schizotypy. We have previously found the classical Perceptual Aberration Scale (PAS) scores, related to body and space, to be positively correlated with both behavior and temporo-parietal activation in healthy participants performing a task involving self-projection in space. However, not much is known about the relationship between temporal perceptual aberration, behavior and brain activity. To this aim, we composed a temporal Perceptual Aberration Scale (tPAS) similar to the traditional PAS. Testing on 170 participants suggested similar performance for PAS and tPAS. We then correlated tPAS and PAS scores to participants' performance and neural activity in a task of self-projection in time. tPAS scores correlated positively with reaction times across task conditions, as did PAS scores. Evoked potential mapping and electrical neuroimaging showed self-projection in time to recruit a network of brain regions at the left anterior temporal cortex, right temporo-parietal junction, and occipito-temporal cortex, and duration of activation in this network positively correlated with tPAS and PAS scores. These data demonstrate that schizotypal perceptual aberrations of both time and space, as reflected by tPAS and PAS scores, are positively correlated with performance and brain activation during self-projection in time in healthy individuals along the schizophrenia spectrum.

Optic nerve head (ONH) astrocytes have been proposed to play both protective and deleterious roles in glaucoma. We now show that, within the postlaminar ONH myelination transition zone (MTZ), there are astrocytes that normally express Mac-2 (also known as Lgals3 or galectin-3), a gene typically expressed only in phagocytic cells. Surprisingly, even in healthy mice, MTZ and other ONH astrocytes constitutive internalize large axonal evulsions that contain whole organelles. In mouse glaucoma models, MTZ astrocytes further up-regulate Mac-2 expression. During glaucomatous degeneration, there are dystrophic processes in the retina and optic nerve, including the MTZ, which contain protease resistant -synuclein. The increased Mac-2 expression by MTZ astrocytes during glaucoma likely depends on this -synuclein, as mice lacking -synuclein fail to up-regulate Mac-2 at the MTZ after elevation of intraocular pressure. These results suggest the possibility that a newly discovered normal degradative pathway for axons might contribute to glaucomatous neurodegeneration.
Our ability to return to the start of a route recently performed in darkness is thought to reflect path integration of motion-related information. Here we provide evidence that motion-related interoceptive representations (proprioceptive, vestibular, and motor efference copy) combine with visual representations to form a single multimodal representation guiding navigation. We used immersive virtual reality to decouple visual input from motion-related interoception by manipulating the rotation or translation gain of the visual projection. First, participants walked an outbound path with both visual and interoceptive input, and returned to the start in darkness, demonstrating the influences of both visual and interoceptive information in a virtual reality environment. Next, participants adapted to visual rotation gains in the virtual environment, and then performed the path integration task entirely in darkness. Our findings were accurately predicted by a quantitative model in which visual and interoceptive inputs combine into a single multimodal representation guiding navigation, and are incompatible with a model of separate visual and interoceptive influences on action (in which path integration in darkness must rely solely on interoceptive representations). Overall, our findings suggest that a combined multimodal representation guides large-scale navigation, consistent with a role for visual imagery or a cognitive map.
The D2/AKT1/GSK-3 signaling pathway has been involved in the downstream intracellular effects of dopamine, in the pathophysiology of cognitive deficits and related brain activity in schizophrenia, as well as in response to treatment with antipsychotics. Polymorphisms in the D2 (DRD2 rs1076560) and AKT1 (AKT1 rs1130233) genes have been associated with their respective protein expression and with higher-order cognition and brain function, including attention. Given the strong potential for their relationship, we investigated the interaction of these polymorphisms on multiple molecular and in vivo phenotypes associated with this signaling pathway. We measured AKT1 and GSK-3 proteins and phosphorylation in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, functional MRI cingulate response during attentional control, behavioral accuracy during sustained attention, and response to 8 wk of treatment with olanzapine in a total of 190 healthy subjects and 66 patients with schizophrenia. In healthy subjects, we found that the interaction between the T allele of DRD2 rs1076560 and the A allele of AKT1 rs1130233 was associated with reduced AKT1 protein levels and reduced phosphorylation of GSK-3, as well as with altered cingulate response and reduced behavioral accuracy during attentional processing. On the other hand, interaction of these two alleles was associated with greater improvement of Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale scores in patients with schizophrenia after treatment with olanzapine. The present results indicate that these functional polymorphisms are epistatically associated with multiple phenotypes of relevance to schizophrenia. Our results also lend support to further investigation of this downstream molecular pathway in the etiology and treatment of this disorder.
The physiological importance of the insulin responsive glucose transporter GLUT4 in adipocytes and muscle in maintaining glucose homeostasis is well established. A key protein associated with this process is the aminopeptidase IRAP which co-localizes with GLUT4 in specialized vesicles, where it plays a tethering role. In this study, we investigated the distribution of both GLUT4 and IRAP in the kidney to gain insights into the potential roles of these proteins in this organ. Both IRAP and GLUT4 immunostaining was observed in the epithelial cells of the proximal and distal tubules and thick ascending limbs in the cortex, but very little overlap between GLUT4 and IRAP immunoreactivity was observed. GLUT4 staining was consistent with a vesicular localization, whereas IRAP staining was predominantly on the luminal surface. In the principal cells of the inner medulla collecting duct (IMCD), IRAP immunoreactivity was detected throughout the cell, with limited overlap with the vasopressin responsive water channel aquaporin-2 (AQP-2). AQP-2 levels were observed to be two-fold higher in IRAP knockout mice. Based on our results, we propose that GLUT4 plays a role in shunting glucose across epithelial cells. In the kidney cortex, IRAP, in concert with other peptidases, may be important in the generation of free amino acids for uptake, whereas in the principal cells of the inner medulla IRAP may play a localized role in the regulation of vasopressin bioactivity.
The neuropathology of schizophrenia remains elusive. One indication of this elusiveness is that the literature, in contrast to that on the neuropathology of almost any other disease, deals predominantly with measures of normal structures rather than with the demonstration and characterization of pathological structures. An important exception to this trend has been the continued search, over four decades, for reactive glia. In this article, we review histological and radiological evidence for and against astrocytosis and microgliosis specifically associated with schizophrenia. The studies are generally limited by small samples, flawed designs, and potentially biased methods of counting cells. Interpretation of these studies is further complicated by the frequent presence of glial reactions in older individuals without psychiatric disease. Nonetheless, some of the positive findings in the literature cannot easily be dismissed. A sufficiently large autopsy study, weighted toward younger subjects, could provide a definitive answer, which if positive could be a major step toward finding an underlying pathological process.

The simple diamine diaminoethane (ethylenediamine, EDA) has been shown to activate GABA receptors in the central and peripheral nervous systems, partly by a direct action and partly by releasing endogenous GABA. These effects have been shown to be produced by the complexation of EDA with bicarbonate to form a carbamate. The present work has compared EDA, GABA and -alanine responses in rat CA1 neurons using extracellular and intracellular recordings, as well as neocortical evoked potentials in vivo. Superfusion of GABA onto hippocampal slices produced depolarisation and a decrease of field epsps, both effects fading rapidly, but showing sensitivity to blockade by bicuculline. EDA produced an initial hyperpolarisation and increase of extracellular field epsp size with no fade and only partial sensitivity to bicuculline, with subsequent depolarisation, while -alanine produces a much larger underlying hyperpolarisation and increase in fepsps, followed by depolarisation and inhibition of fepsps. The responses to -alanine, but not GABA or EDA, were blocked by strychnine. In vivo experiments, recording somatosensory evoked potentials, confirmed that EDA produced an initial increase followed by depression, and that this effect was not fully blocked by bicuculline. Overall the results indicate that EDA has actions in addition to the activation of GABA receptors. These actions are not attributable to activation of -alanine-sensitive glycine receptors, but may involve the activation of sites sensitive to adipic acid, which is structurally equivalent to the dicarbamate of EDA. The results emphasise the complex pharmacology of simple amines in bicarbonate-containing solutions.
Phospholipase A(2) releases the fatty acid arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids. We used the purported phospholipase A(2) stimulator, melittin, to examine the effects of endogenous arachidonic acid signaling on dopamine transporter function and trafficking. In HEK-293 cells stably transfected with the dopamine transporter, melittin reduced uptake of [((3))H]dopamine. Additionally, measurements of fatty acid content demonstrated a melittin-induced release of membrane-incorporated arachidonic acid, but inhibitors of phospholipase C, phospholipase D, and phospholipase A(2) did not prevent the release. Subsequent experiments measuring [(125)I]RTI-55 binding to the dopamine transporter demonstrated a direct interaction of melittin, or a melittin-activated endogenous compound, with the transporter to inhibit antagonist binding. This effect was not specific to the dopamine transporter, as [(3)H]spiperone binding to the recombinant dopamine D(2) receptor was also inhibited by melittin treatment. Finally, melittin stimulated an increase in internalization of the dopamine transporter, and this effect was blocked by pretreatment with cocaine. Thus, melittin acts through multiple mechanisms to regulate cellular activity, including release of membrane-incorporated fatty acids and interaction with the dopamine transporter.
Coactivator proteins, such as steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) greatly enhance gene expression by amplifying steroid-induced transcription regulated by receptors such as estrogen receptor. These proteins may also play a role in the development of sex differences in central nervous system as well the maintenance of the sexually dimorphic behaviors in adulthood. One well-studied sexually dimorphic behavior is singing in songbirds such as the Australian zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata). Song learning and production is controlled by the song control system, a collection of sexually dimorphic nuclei found in the avian telencephalon. While the actions of steroid hormones on song nuclei development has been under debate, steroids, such as testosterone, influence singing behavior in adulthood. We hypothesize that the differential expression of coactivators in male and female brains aid in organizing the song nuclei during development and function in adulthood to aid in activating the song control nuclei to induce singing behavior. The distribution of SRC-1-immunoreactive neurons was localized in the brains of male and female zebra finches on the day of hatch (P1) and in adults. In adults SRC-1 immunoreactive cells are found in the four main song control nuclei as well as other steroid sensitive brain regions. We found that SRC-1 is sexually dimorphic in the adult zebra finch telencephalon, suggesting that coactivators may play a role in the maintenance of sexually dimorphic behaviors including singing.
The epidemic of obesity and diabetes is causing an increased incidence of dyslipidemia-related heart failure. While the primary etiology of lipotoxic cardiomyopathy is an elevation of lipid levels resulting from an imbalance in energy availability and expenditure, increasing evidence suggests a relationship between dysregulation of membrane phospholipid homeostasis and lipid-induced cardiomyopathy. In the present study, we report that the Drosophila easily shocked (eas) mutants that harbor a disturbance in phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) synthesis display tachycardia and defects in cardiac relaxation and are prone to developing cardiac arrest and fibrillation under stress. The eas mutant hearts exhibit elevated concentrations of triglycerides, suggestive of a metabolic, diabetic-like heart phenotype. Moreover, the low PE levels in eas flies mimic the effects of cholesterol deficiency in vertebrates by stimulating the Drosophila sterol regulatory element-binding protein (dSREBP) pathway. Significantly, cardiac-specific elevation of dSREBP signaling adversely affects heart function, reflecting the cardiac eas phenotype, whereas suppressing dSREBP or lipogenic target gene function in eas hearts rescues the cardiac hyperlipidemia and heart function disorders. These findings suggest that dysregulated phospholipid signaling that alters SREBP activity contributes to the progression of impaired heart function in flies and identifies a potential link to lipotoxic cardiac diseases in humans.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by progressive cell death in the substantia nigra pars compacta, which leads to dopamine depletion in the striatum and indirectly to cortical dysfunction. Increased glutamatergic transmission in the basal ganglia is implicated in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease and glutamate receptor mediated excitotoxicity has been suggested to be one of the possible causes of the neuronal degeneration. In the present study, the effects of serotonin, gamma-aminobutyric acid and bone marrow cells infused intranigrally to substantia nigra individually and in combination on unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine induced Parkinson's rat model was analyzed. Scatchard analysis of total glutamate and NMDA receptor binding parameters showed a significant increase in Bmax (P &lt; 0.001) in the cerebral cortex of 6-hydroxydopamine infused rat compared to control. Real Time PCR amplification of NMDA2B, mGluR5, bax, and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase were up regulated in cerebral cortex of 6-hydroxydopamine infused rats compared to control. Gene expression studies of GLAST, -Synuclien and Cyclic AMP response element-binding protein showed a significant (P &lt; 0.001) down regulation in 6-OHDA infused rats compared to control. Behavioural studies were carried out to confirm the biochemical and molecular studies. Serotonin and GABA along with bone marrow cells in combination showed reversal of glutamate receptors and behaviour abnormality shown in the Parkinson's rat model. The therapeutic significance in Parkinson's disease is of prominence.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) migrate from the olfactory epithelium towards the olfactory bulb during development. However, the guidance mechanism for OEC migration remains a mystery. Here we show that migrating OECs expressed the receptor of the repulsive guidance factor Slit-2. A gradient of Slit-2 in front of cultured OECs first caused the collapse of the leading front, then the reversal of cell migration. These Slit-2 effects depended on the Ca(2+) release from internal stores through inositol (1,4,5)-triphosphate receptor channels. Interestingly, in response to Slit-2 stimulation, collapse of the leading front required the activation of the F-actin severing protein cofilin in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, whereas the subsequent reversal of the soma migration depended on the reversal of RhoA activity across the cell. Finally, the Slit-2-induced repulsion of cell migration was fully mimicked by co-application of inhibitors of F-actin polymerization and RhoA kinase. Our findings revealed Slit-2 as a repulsive guidance factor for OEC migration and an unexpected link between Ca(2+) and cofilin signaling during Slit-2-triggered repulsion.
Mammals expend energy in many ways, including basic cellular maintenance and repair, digestion, thermoregulation, locomotion, growth and reproduction. These processes can vary tremendously among species and individuals, potentially leading to large variation in daily energy expenditure (DEE). Locomotor energy costs can be substantial for large-bodied species and those with high-activity lifestyles. For humans in industrialized societies, locomotion necessary for daily activities is often relatively low, so it has been presumed that activity energy expenditure and DEE are lower than in our ancestors. Whether this is true and has contributed to a rise in obesity is controversial. In humans, much attention has centered on spontaneous physical activity (SPA) or non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT), the latter sometimes defined so broadly as to include all energy expended due to activity, exclusive of volitional exercise. Given that most people in Western societies engage in little voluntary exercise, increasing NEAT may be an effective way to maintain DEE and combat overweight and obesity. One way to promote NEAT is to decrease the amount of time spent on sedentary behaviours (e.g. watching television). The effects of voluntary exercise on other components of physical activity are highly variable in humans, partly as a function of age, and have rarely been studied in rodents. However, most rodent studies indicate that food consumption increases in the presence of wheels; therefore, other aspects of physical activity are not reduced enough to compensate for the energetic cost of wheel running. Most rodent studies also show negative effects of wheel access on body fat, especially in males. Sedentary behaviours per se have not been studied in rodents in relation to obesity. Several lines of evidence demonstrate the important role of dopamine, in addition to other neural signaling networks (e.g. the endocannabinoid system), in the control of voluntary exercise. A largely separate literature points to a key role for orexins in SPA and NEAT. Brain reward centers are involved in both types of physical activities and eating behaviours, likely leading to complex interactions. Moreover, voluntary exercise and, possibly, eating can be addictive. A growing body of research considers the relationships between personality traits and physical activity, appetite, obesity and other aspects of physical and mental health. Future studies should explore the neurobiology, endocrinology and genetics of physical activity and sedentary behaviour by examining key brain areas, neurotransmitters and hormones involved in motivation, reward and/or the regulation of energy balance.
The vascularization of the human thalami is supplied by many perforating arteries, which exhibit complex distribution and many possible individual variations. One rare variant is the artery of Percheron that supplies the paramedian thalami bilaterally. Its ictal occlusion may result in a symmetric paramedian infarction, which generally leads to impairment of consciousness associated with hypersomnia. Our aim is to describe in detail sleep-wake schedules, sleep structure and microstructure in a 68-year-old patient with occlusion of Percheron's artery. EEG monitoring, performed 24 h after the onset of symptoms, showed severe disruption of the sleep-wake cycle, with episodes of sleep and wakefulness recurring irregularly during day and night. Thalamic nuclei are part of the human arousal system; medial thalamic nuclei play a pivotal role in sleep regulation at different levels. A diagnosis of paramedian thalamic infarction should be considered in patients who present with recurrent episodes of unresponsiveness.
To evaluate the role of infections in the development of neuromyelitis optica (NMO), 19 patients positive for anti-aquaporin-4 antibody were screened for 24 viral and bacterial infections. Serological evidence of recent viral infection was found in 7 of 15 patients screened during the acute phase of the neurologic illness, which was a significantly more frequent rate of infection than seen in the control group of 33 patients with neurodegenerative, metabolic, or vertebral diseases (47% versus 15%). Mumps virus and human herpes viruses were the frequent causal agents, although there was no statistical difference in frequency between the two groups. Most patients with identified recent infection had monophasic or recurrent myelitis without evidence of optic nerve involvement and small number of total clinical relapses. Disease history tended to be shorter in patients with identified recent infection than those without, and an expanded long spinal cord lesion in magnetic resonance imaging was rarely found in patients with identified recent infection, although statistical significance could not be shown. These findings indicate that, not single, but various viral infections, can be associated with the development of NMO during the early stages of the illness, although the exact pathogenesis of NMO has yet to be clarified.
Previous studies suggested that activity-dependent conduction block (CB) contributes to weakness in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). These studies, however, investigated only one nerve segment per patient, employed cervical magnetic stimulation which may be submaximal, included nerves with extremely low compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) which precludes assessment of CB, and lacked predefined criteria for activity-dependent CB. Obtaining more robust evidence for activity-dependent CB is important because it may be treated pharmacologically. We investigated 22 nerve segments in each of 18 CIDP patients, employed supramaximal electrical stimulation, excluded nerves with markedly reduced CMAPs, and adopted criteria for activity-dependent CB. Each nerve was tested before and immediately after 60 s of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) of the relevant muscle. Per nerve segment we calculated segmental area ratio: (area proximal CMAP)/(area distal CMAP). Per nerve we calculated total area ratio: (area CMAP evoked at Erb's point)/(area most distally evoked CMAP). MVC induced no change in mean area ratios and no activity-dependent CB according to our criteria, except for one segment. MVC induced increases in distal and proximal CMAP area and duration. In segments with demyelinative slowing, MVC induced an increase in CMAP duration prolongation. Thus, in CIDP, muscle activity induces virtually no CB, but it may increase temporal dispersion of nerve action potentials.
The hepatitis A virus (HAV) infects millions of people worldwide every year. Case histories report on various acute neuropathy syndromes in the context of acute HAV infection, but any causal link has not been established. Epidemiological data also cast doubt on the importance of HAV as a trigger for Guillain-Barr syndrome. The virtual absence of a chronic HAV-infected state likely explains the rare occurrence of extrahepatic immune-mediated diseases, including an absence of chronic autoimmune neuromuscular disorders. Several vaccines against HAV provide effective protection against natural infection. Isolated case histories report on an unconvincing association between HAV vaccination and neuropathy. Medical and epidemiological data show insufficient evidence to support a causal relationship between HAV vaccines and neuropathy syndromes. Aluminum hydroxide, a HAV vaccine adjuvant, is considered a trigger of the macrophagic myofasciitis syndrome. This review concludes that it seems unnecessary to routinely consider HAV infection or vaccination as triggers of neuromuscular diseases.
Flexible goal-directed behavior has been studied across species using reinforcer devaluation tasks, in which subjects form associations between specific stimuli (cues) and specific reinforcer(s). The reinforcer is subsequently devalued by selective satiation or taste aversion. Following devaluation, subjects adjust their responding to the cues reflecting the new value of the reinforcer. Tasks currently used in rats differ in several ways from tasks used in monkeys and this may explain contrasting results between the two species. To address one of the differences, we developed a rat task independent of spatial cues. It employs two visual cues presented simultaneously, changing left and right positions pseudorandomly. Each cue predicts one of two food reinforcers. Rats were trained to lever press in response to the two visual cues. Subsequently, they were satiated on one of the foods followed by an extinction test where in each trial they could choose to respond to one of the two cues, one predicting the devalued reinforcer and the other the non-devalued. This procedure was repeated later with the alternative food devalued. The rats adjusted their responding by choosing the cue predicting the devalued food significantly less (p&lt;0.05) than the alternative cue. These results show that rats can discriminate two visual stimuli presented simultaneously, devalue two different foods by selective satiation, and transfer the new value to the visual cues. Discrimination of the visual cues is not aided by spatial cues, thereby eliminating a major difference between the instrumental tasks used in rats and the task used in monkeys.
A major challenge in neuroscience is identifying the cellular and molecular processes underlying learning and memory formation. In the past decades, significant progress has been made in understanding cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying hippocampal learning and memory using long-term potentiation (LTP) experiments in brain slices as a model system. To expedite LTP measurements it is helpful to further optimize such recording systems. Here, we describe a modification of a multi-slice recording system (SliceMaster, Scientifica Limited, East Sussex, UK) that allows absolutely stable measurements of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) for up to 8 h in up to eight slices simultaneously. The software Notocord() was used for on-line data acquisition and to control the digital pattern generator which can generate different patterns for slice stimulation, inducing different types of LTP. Moreover, in contrast to common gravity-driven perfusion systems, a Pumped Perfusion System was employed to recycle drug solutions applied to the hippocampal slice. In addition, slices were positioned on two stacked grids for optimal recording of fEPSPs. These two stacked grids were placed in the measuring chambers allowing recordings for several hours without any perturbances. In summary, this modified slice-recording system improves throughput and allows for better statistical design, increases number of used slices per animal and enables very robust LTP measurements for up to 7 h. Hence, this system is suitable not only to investigate molecular mechanisms underlying the late phase of LTP, but also to screen candidate compounds in the context of drug discovery.
Contextual conditioning in rats is typically quantified using startle amplitude or freezing time. Our goal was to create a robust contextual conditioning protocol combining both startle amplitude and freezing time as measures of contextual anxiety. Comparison of 0.8 mA - 250 ms shocks with an established shock configuration (0.3 mA - 1 s) favoured the first parameters. Subsequently, we systematically investigated the effect of shock intensity (0.6 mA, 0.8 mA or 1.0 mA) and concurrently compared two different contextual conditioning procedures (shocks alone versus unpaired shock-tone presentations). In future experiments, this second type of contextual conditioning may form the optimal contrasting condition for a cued fear conditioning group, trained with explicit cue-shock pairings. The 0.8 mA shocks produced significant contextual freezing and startle potentiation, whereas the 0.6 mA and 1.0 mA shocks only led to a significant increase of freezing time. We found no major differences between the two types of conditioning, implying that these procedures might be equivalent. In conclusion, training with ten 0.8 mA - 250 ms shocks produced reliable contextual conditioning as measured with both startle amplitude and freezing time.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is rapidly becoming a leading method in both cognitive neuroscience and clinical neurology. However, the cellular and network level effects of stimulation are still unclear and their study relies heavily on indirect physiological measurements in humans. Direct electrophysiological studies of the effect of magnetic stimulation on neuronal activity in behaving animals are severely limited by both the size of the stimulating coils, which affect large regions of the animal brain, and the large artifacts generated on the recording electrodes. We present a novel mini-coil which is specifically aimed at studying the neurophysiological mechanism of magnetic stimulation in behaving primates. The mini-coil fits into a chronic recording chamber and provides focal activation of brain areas while enabling simultaneous extracellular multi-electrode recordings. We present a comparison of this coil to a commercial coil based on the theoretical and recorded magnetic fields and induced electric fields they generate. Subsequently, we present the signal recorded in the behaving primate during stimulation and demonstrate the ability to extract the spike trains of multiple single units from each of the electrodes with minimal periods affected by the stimulus artifact (median period &lt;2.5 ms). The directly recorded effect of the magnetic stimulation on cortical neurons is in line with peripheral recordings obtained in humans. This novel mini-coil is a key part of the infrastructure for studying the neurophysiological basis of magnetic stimulation, thereby enabling the development and testing of better magnetic stimulation tools and protocols for both neuroscientists and clinicians.
Competitive dopamine receptor antagonists accelerate psychomotor stimulant self-administration. According to pharmacological theory of competitive antagonism antagonists raise the equiactive agonist concentration. In the self-administration paradigm this is assumed to be the satiety threshold or C(min). The magnitude of the proportional increase in satiety threshold (agonist concentration ratio) as a function of antagonist dose should reflect the antagonist pharmacodynamic potency. The time course of this effect should reflect the rate of change of antagonist occupancy of receptors and, therefore, antagonist concentration, i.e. pharmacokinetics. Rats self-administered apomorphine or cocaine at a stable rate and were then injected i.v. with one of four competitive D-like or D-like dopamine receptor antagonists and the session continued. The agonist concentrations at the time of each self-administration (satiety thresholds) were calculated during the session. The antagonists accelerated self-administration of both agonists with a concomitant increase in the calculated satiety thresholds. The maximum agonist concentration ratio was proportional to the dose of antagonist. The time courses of the changes in agonist concentration ratio were independent of the agonist and of the dose of antagonist. Schild analysis of the maximum agonist concentration ratio as a function of the antagonist dose allowed apparent pA (or K(dose)) to be measured. Antagonist K(dose) values should provide a quantitative basis for receptor identification in behavioral pharmacology. The assay system may also measure the pharmacokinetics of antagonist elimination from the brain. Agonist self-administration represents a sensitive in vivo pharmacological assay system that provides information useful for pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling of antagonist effects.
Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) acts via seven transmembrane receptors on gonadotrophs to stimulate gonadotrophin synthesis and secretion, and thereby mediates central control of reproduction. Type I mammalian GnRHR are unique, in that they lack C-terminal tails. This is thought to underlie their resistance to rapid homologous desensitisation as well as their slow rate of internalisation and inability to provoke G-protein-independent (arrestin-mediated) signalling. More recently it has been discovered that the vast majority of human GnRHR are actually intracellular, in spite of the fact that they are activated at the cell surface by a membrane impermeant peptide hormone. This apparently reflects inefficient exit from the endoplasmic reticulum and again, the absence of the C-tail likely contributes to their intracellular localisation. This review is intended to cover some of these novel aspects of GnRHR biology, focusing on ways that we have used automated fluorescence microscopy (high content imaging) to explore GnRHR localisation and trafficking as well as spatial and temporal aspects of GnRH signalling via the Ca(2+)/calmodulin/calcineurin/NFAT and Raf/MEK/ERK pathways.
Recent advances in G protein-coupled receptors have challenged traditional definitions of agonism, antagonism, affinity and efficacy. The discovery of agonist functional selectivity and receptor allosterism has meant researchers have an expanded canvas for designing and discovering novel drugs. Here we describe modes of agonism emerging from the discovery of functional selectivity and allosterism. We discuss the concept of ago-allosterism, where ligands can initiate signaling by themselves and influence the actions of another ligand at the same receptor. We introduce the concept of dualsteric ligands that consist of distinct elements which bind to each of the orthosteric and an allosteric domain on a single receptor to enhance subtype selectivity. Finally, the concept that efficacy should be defined by the activity of an endogenous ligand will be challenged by the discovery that some ligands act as 'super-agonists' in specific pathways or at certain receptor mutations.
Evaluating whole-brain or global gray matter volume decline rate is important in distinguishing neurodegenerative diseases from normal aging and in anticipating cognitive decline over a given period in non-demented subjects. Whether a significant negative correlation exists between baseline regional gray matter volume of several regions and global gray matter volume decline in the subsequent time period in healthy subjects has not yet been clarified. Therefore, we analyzed the correlation between baseline regional gray matter volumes and the rate of global gray matter volume decline in the period following baseline using magnetic resonance images of the brains of 381 healthy subjects by applying a longitudinal design over 6 years using voxel-based morphometry. As a result, the annual percentage change in gray matter ratio (GMR, APC(GMR)), in which GMR represents the percentage of gray matter volume in the intracranial volume, showed a significant negative correlation with the baseline regional gray matter volumes of the right posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus and the left hippocampus. Additionally, baseline regional gray matter volume of both the right PCC/precuneus and the left hippocampus significantly distinguished whether the APC(GMR) was above or below the mean of APC(GMR). Our results suggest that baseline regional gray matter volume predicts the rate of global gray matter volume decline in the subsequent period in healthy subjects. Our study may contribute to distinguishing neurodegenerative diseases from normal aging and to predicting cognitive decline.
Left-hemispheric dominance for language and right-hemispheric dominance for spatial processing are distinctive characteristics of the human brain. However, variations of these hemispheric asymmetries have been observed, with a minority showing crowding of both functions to the same hemisphere or even a mirror reversal of the typical lateralization pattern. Here, we used diffusion tensor imaging and functional magnetic imaging to investigate the role of the corpus callosum in participants with atypical hemispheric dominance. The corpus callosum was segmented according to the projection site of the underlying fibre tracts. Analyses of the microstructure of the identified callosal segments revealed that atypical hemispheric dominance for language was associated with high anisotropic diffusion through the corpus callosum as a whole. This effect was most evident in participants with crowding of both functions to the right. The enhanced anisotropic diffusion in atypical hemispheric dominance implies that in these individuals the two hemispheres are more heavily interconnected.
Reconstruction of movements from non-invasively recorded brain activity is a key technology for brain-machine interfaces (BMIs). However, electroencephalography (EEG) or magnetoencephalography (MEG) inevitably records a mixture of signals originating from many cortical regions, and thus it is not only less effective than invasive methods but also poses more difficulty for incorporating neuroscience knowledge. We combined two sparse Bayesian methods to overcome this difficulty. First, thousands of cortical currents were estimated on the order of millimeters and milliseconds by a hierarchical Bayesian MEG inverse method, and then a sparse regression method automatically selected only relevant cortical currents in accurate reconstruction of movements by a linear weighted sum of their time series. Using the combined methods, we reconstructed two-dimensional trajectories of the index fingertip during pointing movements to various directions by moving the wrist joint. A good generalization (reconstruction) performance was observed for test datasets: mean error between the predicted and actual positions was 15 mm, which was 7% of the path length of the required movement. The reconstruction accuracy of the proposed method was significantly higher than directly using MEG sensor signals. Moreover, spatial distribution and temporal characteristics of weight values revealed that the primary sensorimotor, higher motor, and parietal regions mainly contributed to the reconstruction with expected time courses. These results suggest that the combined sparse Bayesian methods provide effective means to predict movement trajectory from non-invasive brain activity directly related to sensorimotor control.
Current theories of cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia emphasize an impairment in the ability of individuals suffering from this disorder to monitor their own performance, and adjust their behavior to changing demands. Detecting an error in performance is a critical component of evaluative functions that allow the flexible adjustment of behavior to optimize outcomes. The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) has been repeatedly implicated in error-detection and implementation of error-based behavioral adjustments. However, accurate error-detection and subsequent behavioral adjustments are unlikely to rely on a single brain region. Recent research demonstrates that regions in the anterior insula, inferior parietal lobule, anterior prefrontal cortex, thalamus, and cerebellum also show robust error-related activity, and integrate into a functional network. Despite the relevance of examining brain activity related to the processing of error information and supporting behavioral adjustments in terms of a distributed network, the contribution of regions outside the dACC to error processing remains poorly understood. To address this question, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine error-related responses in 37 individuals with schizophrenia and 32 healthy controls in regions identified in the basic science literature as being involved in error processing, and determined whether their activity was related to behavioral adjustments. Our imaging results support previous findings showing that regions outside the dACC are sensitive to error commission, and demonstrated that abnormalities in brain responses to errors among individuals with schizophrenia extend beyond the dACC to almost all of the regions involved in error-related processing in controls. However, error related responses in the dACC were most predictive of behavioral adjustments in both groups. Moreover, the integration of this network of regions differed between groups, with the cerebellar regions and the dACC less connected to the network in individuals with schizophrenia compared to controls. Our findings demonstrate a blunted response to error commission in the dACC that is associated with reduced error-related behavioral adjustments in individuals with schizophrenia. This result supports the hypothesis that a failure to respond appropriately to errors in individuals with schizophrenia is linked to alterations in dACC function leading to a compromise in the implementation of cognitive control. Our findings highlight the importance of examining brain activity related to the processing of error information and supporting error-related behavioral adjustments in terms of a distributed network.
How we measure time and integrate temporal cues from different sensory modalities are fundamental questions in neuroscience. Sensitivity to a &quot;beat&quot; (such as that routinely perceived in music) differs substantially between auditory and visual modalities. Here we examined beat sensitivity in each modality, and examined cross-modal influences, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to characterize brain activity during perception of auditory and visual rhythms. In separate fMRI sessions, participants listened to auditory sequences or watched visual sequences. The order of auditory and visual sequence presentation was counterbalanced so that cross-modal order effects could be investigated. Participants judged whether sequences were speeding up or slowing down, and the pattern of tempo judgments was used to derive a measure of sensitivity to an implied beat. As expected, participants were less sensitive to an implied beat in visual sequences than in auditory sequences. However, visual sequences produced a stronger sense of beat when preceded by auditory sequences with identical temporal structure. Moreover, increases in brain activity were observed in the bilateral putamen for visual sequences preceded by auditory sequences when compared to visual sequences without prior auditory exposure. No such order-dependent differences (behavioral or neural) were found for the auditory sequences. The results provide further evidence for the role of the basal ganglia in internal generation of the beat and suggest that an internal auditory rhythm representation may be activated during visual rhythm perception.
Maintaining attention and performance over time is an essential part of many activities, and effortful cognitive control is required to avoid vigilance decrements and interference from distraction. Regions at or near right middle frontal gyrus (Brodmann's area (BA) 9), as well as in other prefrontal and parietal areas, are often activated in studies of sustained attention (e.g., Cabeza and Nyberg, 2000; Kim et al., 2006; Lim et al., 2010). This activation has often been interpreted as representing the engagement of cognitive control processes. However, such studies are typically implemented at one level of task difficulty, without an experimental manipulation of control demands. The present study used the distractor condition sustained attention task (dSAT), which has been used extensively in animals to determine the role of neuromodulator systems in attentional performance, to test the hypotheses that BA 9 is sensitive to changes in the demand for cognitive control and that this sensitivity reflects an increased engagement of attentional effort. Continuous arterial spin labeling (ASL) was used to measure neural activity in sixteen healthy, young adults performing a sustained attention task under standard conditions and under a distraction condition that provided an experimental manipulation of demands on cognitive control. The distractor impaired behavioral performance and increased activation in right middle frontal gyrus. Larger increases in right middle frontal gyrus activity were associated with greater behavioral vulnerability to the distractor. These findings indicate that while right middle frontal gyrus regions are sensitive to demands for attentional effort and control, they may not be sufficient to maintain performance under challenge. In addition, they demonstrate the sensitivity of ASL methods to variations in task demands, and suggest that the dSAT may be a useful tool for translational cross-species and clinical research.
Signal transmission between different brain regions requires connecting fiber tracts, the structural basis of the human connectome. In contrast to animal brains, where a multitude of tract tracing methods can be used, magnetic resonance (MR)-based diffusion imaging is presently the only promising approach to study fiber tracts between specific human brain regions. However, this procedure has various inherent restrictions caused by its relatively low spatial resolution. Here, we introduce 3D-polarized light imaging (3D-PLI) to map the three-dimensional course of fiber tracts in the human brain with a resolution at a submillimeter scale based on a voxel size of 100 m isotropic or less. 3D-PLI demonstrates nerve fibers by utilizing their intrinsic birefringence of myelin sheaths surrounding axons. This optical method enables the demonstration of 3D fiber orientations in serial microtome sections of entire human brains. Examples for the feasibility of this novel approach are given here. 3D-PLI enables the study of brain regions of intense fiber crossing in unprecedented detail, and provides an independent evaluation of fiber tracts derived from diffusion imaging data.
Oscillatory activity is a principal mode of operation in the brain. Despite an intense resurgence of interest in the mechanisms and functions of brain rhythms, methods for the detection and analysis of oscillatory activity in neurophysiological recordings are still highly variable across studies. We recently proposed a method for detecting oscillatory activity from time series data, which we call the BOSC (Better OSCillation detection) method. This method produces systematic, objective, and consistent results across frequencies, brain regions and tasks. It does so by modeling the functional form of the background spectrum by fitting the empirically observed spectrum at the recording site. This minimizes bias in oscillation detection across frequency, region and task. Here we show that the method is also robust to dramatic changes in state that are known to influence the shape of the power spectrum, namely, the presence versus absence of the alpha rhythm, and can be applied to independent components, which are thought to reflect underlying sources, in addition to individual raw signals. This suggests that the BOSC method is an effective tool for measuring changes in rhythmic activity in the more common research scenario wherein state is unknown.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can non-invasively modify cortical neural activity by means of a time-varying magnetic field. For example, in cognitive neuroscience, it is applied to create reversible &quot;virtual lesions&quot; in healthy humans (usually assessed as diminished performance in a behavioral task), thereby helping to establish causal structure-function relationships. Despite its widespread use, it is still rather unclear how TMS acts on existing, task-related neural activity, potentially resulting in a measurable effect on the behavioral level. Here, we deliver TMS to early visual areas while recording EEG in order to directly characterize the interaction between TMS-evoked (TEPs) and visual-evoked potentials (VEPs). Simultaneously, the subjects' performance is assessed in a visual forced-choice task. This allows us to compare the TMS effects on the VEPs across different levels of behavioral impairment. By systematically varying the stimulation intensity, we demonstrate that TMS strongly enhances the overall visual stimulus-related activity (rather than disrupting it). This enhancement effect saturates when behavior is impaired. This might indicate that the neural coding of the visual stimulus is robust to noise within a certain dynamic range (as indexed by the enhancement). Strong disturbances might saturate this range, causing behavioral impairment. Variation of the timing between the visual stimulus and the magnetic pulse reveals a &quot;constructive interference&quot; between the TEPs and VEPs: The better the overlap between both evoked potentials, the stronger the interaction effect when TMS and visual stimulation are combined. Importantly, however, this effect is uncorrelated with the strength of behavioral impairment.
Voltage sensitive dye imaging (VSDI) is the only technique that allows to directly measure neuronal activity over a large cortical population. It thus gives access to the dynamics of lateral interactions within or between cortical areas. However, VSDI signal suffers from a weak signal-to-noise ratio and processing methods are either rudimentary or dedicated to spatial or temporal denoising alone. Here we present an innovative method inspired by fMRI data processing, where the goal is to allow, for the first time, denoising of spatio-temporally inseparable VSDI signals and in the most challenging experimental condition, i.e. single trials in awake behaving monkeys. The method is based on a linear model (LM) decomposition of individual VSDI trials. The LM was designed meticulously by identifying all noise and signal components that are known to affect VSDI. We then compared its output against the classical methods based on blank division and detrending. LM proved to be significantly much more efficient to denoise spatial maps and temporal dynamics compared to these usual techniques. It also largely reduced trial-to-trial variability. These performances resulted in a four-fold improvement of signal-to-noise ratio and a two-fold increase of response detectability. Hence, with this method, fewer trials were needed to reach a high signal-to-noise ratio. Lastly, we showed that the LM method can accommodate for a large range of response dynamics, a crucial property for estimating spatial spread of activity or contrast dynamics. We believe that this method will make a strong contribution to imaging dynamics of population responses with high spatial and temporal resolution in trial-based experiments of awake animals.
Expectancies strongly shape our perception of the world and preconceptions about stimulus characteristics can even bias the sensory system for illusory percepts. Here we assessed with functional magnetic resonance imaging how anticipatory mental imagery of a mildly fearful face created a predictive bias that proactively altered perception of highly fearful faces and generated the &quot;illusion&quot; of reduced fearfulness. We found that anticipatory activation of the fusiform gyrus (FG) was modulated by the fearfulness of the imagined face. Further during anticipatory imagery, regulatory influences from the lateral and ventromedial prefrontal cortex on the FG primed the perceptual system for a subsequent misperception. This was achieved by increasing perceptual activation in higher-order brain regions for the evaluation of affective valence and contextual framing, while at the same time restricting bottom-up arousal and attention to fearful expressions. Anticipatory mental imagery may thus represent an effective antecedent strategy through which emotional perception can be significantly altered.
Poets and philosophers have long acknowledged moral sentiments as key motivators of human social behavior. Prosocial sentiments, which include guilt, pity and embarrassment, enable us to care about others and to be concerned about our mistakes. Functional imaging studies have implicated frontopolar, ventromedial frontal and basal forebrain regions in the experience of prosocial sentiments. Patients with lesions of the frontopolar and ventromedial frontal areas were observed to behave inappropriately and less prosocially, which could be attributed to a generalized emotional blunting. Direct experimental evidence for brain regions distinctively associated with moral sentiment impairments is lacking, however. We investigated this issue in patients with the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia, a disorder in which early and selective impairments of social conduct are consistently observed. Using a novel moral sentiment task, we show that the degree of impairment of prosocial sentiments is associated with the degree of damage to frontopolar cortex and septal area, as assessed with 18-Fluoro-Deoxy-Glucose-Positron Emission Tomography, an established measure of neurodegenerative damage. This effect was dissociable from impairment of other-critical feelings (anger and disgust), which was in turn associated with dorsomedial prefrontal and amygdala dysfunction. Our findings suggest a critical role of the frontopolar cortex and septal region in enabling prosocial sentiments, a fundamental component of moral conscience.
Neuroscientific research on the perception of emotional signals has mainly focused on how the brain processes threat signals from photographs of facial expressions. Much less is known about body postures or about the processing of dynamic images. We undertook a systematic comparison of the neurofunctional network dedicated to processing facial and bodily expressions. Two functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments investigated whether areas involved in processing social signals are activated differently by threatening signals (fear and anger) from facial or bodily expressions. The amygdala (AMG) was more active for facial than for bodily expressions. Body stimuli triggered higher activation than face stimuli in a number of areas. These were the cuneus, fusiform gyrus (FG), extrastriate body area (EBA), temporoparietal junction (TPJ), superior parietal lobule (SPL), primary somatosensory cortex (SI), as well as the thalamus. Emotion-specific effects were found in TPJ and FG for bodies and faces alike. EBA and superior temporal sulcus (STS) were more activated by threatening bodies.


The detection of changes in postsynaptic gene expression after the administration of mood stabilizers, alone or in combination with antipsychotics, and antidepressants in animal models of drug treatment, may represent a valuable strategy to explore the molecular targets of the mainstay treatments for bipolar disorder. In this study we investigated, in both acute and chronic paradigms, the expression of specific postsynaptic density genes (Homer1a, Homer1b/c, and PSD95) and genes putatively implicated in mood stabilizers mechanism of action (GSK3b, ERK) after administration of first (haloperidol) or second generation antipsychotics (quetiapine 30 mg/kg), alone or in combination with valproate. Moreover, we compared the effects of an antidepressant agent widely used in bipolar depression (citalopram) with a low dose of quetiapine (15 mg/kg), which has been demonstrated to display antidepressant action in bipolar depression. In striatal regions, Homer1a expression was strongly induced by haloperidol compared to all the other treatments. Haloperidol plus valproate also markedly induced Homer1a, but to a significant lesser extent than haloperidol alone. Also in the chronic paradigm haloperidol, but not haloperidol plus valproate, induced Homer1a expression in all the subregions of the caudate-putamen and in the nucleus accumbens core. The high dose of quetiapine significantly induced Homer1a in anterior cingulated, premotor and motor subregions of the cortex, and the extent of induction was significantly higher as compared to the lower dose. Oppositely, Homer1a expression was decreased in the cortex by citalopram acute administration. ERK gene was upregulated in cortex and striatum by the acute treatment with valproate and with the combination of haloperidol or quetiapine plus valproate, whereas no significant differences were noticed in GSK3b expression among treatments. PSD95 showed a significant upregulation by acute citalopram and by haloperidol plus valproate in both cortical and subcortical regions. Haloperidol and quetiapine 30 mg/kg, oppositely, significantly reduced the expression of the gene in the cortex. In conclusion, these results suggest that the combined treatment with a typical or an atypical antipsychotic plus valproate may induce differential modulation of postsynaptic genes expression when compared to the effects of these drugs individually administered.

This study investigated the role of H(1) receptor in the state-dependent memory deficit induced by l-histidine (LH) in mice using Trial 1/2 protocol in the elevated plus-maze (EPM). The test was performed for two consecutive days: Trial 1 (T1) and Trial 2 (T2). Before both trials, mice received a combined injection i.p. of saline+saline (SAL/SAL), 500 mg/kg L-histidine+saline (LH/SAL), 500 mg/kg L-histidine+16 mg/kg chlorpheniramine (LH/CPA) or saline+16 mg/kg chlorpheniramine (SAL/CPA). The trials were performed in the EPM 10 min after the last injection. Each animal was placed in the center of the maze facing the open arm and had five minutes to explore it. On both days, test sessions were videotaped. The behavioral measures were scored from videotape. Data were analyzed based on Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and the Fisher's LSD test. The data showed no effects on anxiety since there was no difference between the SAL/SAL and the other groups in Trial 1, respectively, open arm entries (OAE), open arm time (OAT) and their percentages (%OAE and %OAT). During Trial 2, OAE, OAT, %OAE and %OAT were reduced in mice treated with SAL/SAL, LH/CPA and SAL/CPA, while the group LH/SAL did not show any difference in these measures. No significant changes were observed in enclosed arm entries (EAE), an EPM index of general exploratory activity. Thus, it can be suggested that LH induces emotional memory deficit and the treatment with chlorpheniramine was able to revert this effect, suggesting this action of LH was mediated by the H(1) receptor.
Inferior parietal lobule (IPL) is implicated in the pathogenesis of first rank symptoms (FRS) in schizophrenia by functional neuroimaging studies. However, the relationship between IPL cortical thickness and FRS is yet to be explored. In this study, cortical thickness of IPL was analyzed in antipsychotic-nave schizophrenia patients (total number = 51) with [FRS(+); N = 25] and those without FRS [FRS(-); N = 26] in comparison with group-matched healthy controls (N = 47). FRS(+) patients showed significant cortical thickness deficit in right IPL (specifically angular gyrus) in comparison with both FRS(-) patients (p = 0.005) and healthy controls (p = 0.0002); lack of difference on the left side might possibly be related to larger variance in healthy controls. Deficient cortical thickness involving IPL in FRS(+) schizophrenia patients adds further support to the role of internal monitoring system in the pathogenesis of FRS in schizophrenia.

Research at the interface of psychology, neuroscience, molecular biology, and genetics, focusing on the amygdala, has begun to reveal a rule book for emotional reactions. Variations in intrinsic and extrinsic factors tweak the sensitivity of the amygdala, giving rise to differences in behavior between individuals. At their most extreme, these variations may generate psychological disorders, and even our current rudimentary understanding of this brain region suggests novel strategies for the treatment of such disorders.
We studied the properties of the permeability transition pore (PTP) in rat liver mitochondria and in mitoplasts retaining inner membrane ultrastructure and energy-linked functions. Like mitochondria, mitoplasts readily underwent a permeability transition following Ca(2+) uptake in a process that maintained sensitivity to cyclosporin A. On the other hand, major differences between mitochondria and mitoplasts emerged in PTP regulation by ligands of the outer membrane translocator protein of 18 kDa, TSPO, formerly known as the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor. Indeed, (i) in mitoplasts, the PTP could not be activated by photo-oxidation after treatment with dicarboxylic porphyrins endowed with protoporphyrin IX configuration, which bind TSPO in intact mitochondria; and (ii) mitoplasts became resistant to the PTP-inducing effects of N,N-dihexyl-2-(4-fluorophenyl)indole-3-acetamide and of other selective ligands of TSPO. Thus, the permeability transition is an inner membrane event that is regulated by the outer membrane through specific interactions with TSPO.
TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is associated with a spectrum of neurodegenerative diseases. Although TDP-43 resembles heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins, its RNA targets and physiological protein partners remain unknown. Here we identify RNA targets of TDP-43 from cortical neurons by RNA immunoprecipitation followed by deep sequencing (RIP-seq). The canonical TDP-43 binding site (TG)(n) is 55.1-fold enriched, and moreover, a variant with adenine in the middle, (TG)(n)TA(TG)(m), is highly abundant among reads in our TDP-43 RIP-seq library. TDP-43 RNA targets can be divided into three different groups: those primarily binding in introns, in exons, and across both introns and exons. TDP-43 RNA targets are particularly enriched for Gene Ontology terms related to synaptic function, RNA metabolism, and neuronal development. Furthermore, TDP-43 binds to a number of RNAs encoding for proteins implicated in neurodegeneration, including TDP-43 itself, FUS/TLS, progranulin, Tau, and ataxin 1 and -2. We also identify 25 proteins that co-purify with TDP-43 from rodent brain nuclear extracts. Prominent among them are nuclear proteins involved in pre-mRNA splicing and RNA stability and transport. Also notable are two neuron-enriched proteins, methyl CpG-binding protein 2 and polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 2 (PTBP2). A PTBP2 consensus RNA binding motif is enriched in the TDP-43 RIP-seq library, suggesting that PTBP2 may co-regulate TDP-43 RNA targets. This work thus reveals the protein and RNA components of the TDP-43-containing ribonucleoprotein complexes and provides a framework for understanding how dysregulation of TDP-43 in RNA metabolism contributes to neurodegeneration.

Insulin signaling to the brain is important not only for metabolic homeostasis but also for higher brain functions such as cognition. GABA (-aminobutyric acid) decreases neuronal excitability by activating GABA(A) channels that generate phasic and tonic currents. The level of tonic inhibition in neurons varies. In the hippocampus, interneurons and dentate gyrus granule cells normally have significant tonic currents under basal conditions in contrast to the CA1 pyramidal neurons where it is minimal. Here we show in acute rat hippocampal slices that insulin (1 nM) &quot;turns on&quot; new extrasynaptic GABA(A) channels in CA1 pyramidal neurons resulting in decreased frequency of action potential firing. The channels are activated by more than million times lower GABA concentrations than synaptic channels, generate tonic currents and show outward rectification. The single-channel current amplitude is related to the GABA concentration resulting in a single-channel GABA affinity (EC(50)) in intact CA1 neurons of 17 pM with the maximal current amplitude reached with 1 nM GABA. They are inhibited by GABA(A) antagonists but have novel pharmacology as the benzodiazepine flumazenil and zolpidem are inverse agonists. The results show that tonic rather than synaptic conductances regulate basal neuronal excitability when significant tonic conductance is expressed and demonstrate an unexpected hormonal control of the inhibitory channel subtypes and excitability of hippocampal neurons. The insulin-induced new channels provide a specific target for rescuing cognition in health and disease.



Schwann cells are one of the commonly used cells in repair strategies following spinal cord injuries. Schwann cells are capable of supporting axonal regeneration and sprouting by secreting growth factors (1,2) and providing growth promoting adhesion molecules (3) and extracellular matrix molecules (4). In addition they myelinate the demyelinated axons at the site of injury (5). However following transplantation, Schwann cells do not migrate from the site of implant and do not intermingle with the host astrocytes (6,7). This results in formation of a sharp boundary between the Schwann cells and astrocytes, creating an obstacle for growing axons trying to exit the graft back into the host tissue proximally and distally. Astrocytes in contact with Schwann cells also undergo hypertrophy and up-regulate the inhibitory molecules (8-13). In vitro assays have been used to model Schwann cell-astrocyte interactions and have been important in understanding the mechanism underlying the cellular behaviour. These in vitro assays include boundary assay, where a co-culture is made using two different cells with each cell type occupying different territories with only a small gap separating the two cell fronts. As the cells divide and migrate, the two cellular fronts get closer to each other and finally collide. This allows the behaviour of the two cellular populations to be analyzed at the boundary. Another variation of the same technique is to mix the two cellular populations in culture and over time the two cell types segregate with Schwann cells clumped together as islands in between astrocytes together creating multiple Schwann-astrocyte boundaries. The second assay used in studying the interaction of two cell types is the migration assay where cellular movement can be tracked on the surface of the other cell type monolayer (14,15). This assay is commonly known as inverted coverslip assay. Schwann cells are cultured on small glass fragments and they are inverted face down onto the surface of astrocyte monolayers and migration is assessed from the edge of coverslip. Both assays have been instrumental in studying the underlying mechanisms involved in the cellular exclusion and boundary formation. Some of the molecules identified using these techniques include N-Cadherins 15, Chondroitin Sulphate proteoglycans(CSPGs) (16,17), FGF/Heparin (18), Eph/Ephrins(19). This article intends to describe boundary assay and migration assay in stepwise fashion and elucidate the possible technical problems that might occur.
While knowing what to expect is important, it is equally important to know when to expect it and to respond accordingly. This is apparent even in simple Pavlovian training situations in which animals learn to respond more strongly closer to reward delivery. Here we report that the nucleus accumbens core, an area well-positioned to represent information about the timing of impending rewards, plays a critical role in this timing function.

Activation of NMDA receptors during cerebral ischemia triggers signaling pathways that promote both neuronal death and survival. In this issue of Neuron, Sasaki et al. present evidence for a new endogenous survival pathway involving the kinase SIK2 and the CREB coactivator TORC1. The powerful neuroprotection conferred by this pathway has considerable translational potential for stroke therapy.
Locusts possess an identified neuron, the descending contralateral movement detector (DCMD), conveying visual information about impending collision from the brain to thoracic motor centers. We built a telemetry system to simultaneously record, in freely behaving animals, the activity of the DCMD and of motoneurons involved in jump execution. Cocontraction of antagonistic leg muscles, a required preparatory phase, was triggered after the DCMD firing rate crossed a threshold. Thereafter, the number of DCMD spikes predicted precisely motoneuron activity and jump occurrence. Additionally, the time of DCMD peak firing rate predicted that of jump. Ablation experiments suggest that the DCMD, together with a nearly identical ipsilateral descending neuron, is responsible for the timely execution of the escape. Thus, three distinct features that are multiplexed in a single neuron's sensory response to impending collision-firing rate threshold, peak firing time, and spike count-probably control three distinct motor aspects of escape behaviors.
The brain changes in response to experience and altered environment. This neural plasticity is largely mediated by morphological and functional modification of synapses, a process that depends on both synthesis and degradation of proteins. It is now clear that regulated proteolysis plays a critical role in the remodeling of synapses, learning and memory, and neurodevelopment. Here, we highlight the mechanisms and functions of proteolysis in synaptic plasticity and discuss its alteration in disease states.
We previously reported that some main olfactory bulb (MOB) mitral/tufted (M/T) cells send a direct projection to the &quot;vomeronasal&quot; amygdala in female mice and selectively respond to volatile male mouse urinary odors. We asked whether MOB M/T cells that project to the vomeronasal amygdala exist in male mice and whether there is a sexually dimorphic response of these neurons to volatile male urinary pheromones. Gonadectomized male and female mice received bilateral injections of the retrograde tracer, Cholera toxin-B (CTb) into the medial amygdala (Me), which is part of the vomeronasal amygdala. All subjects were then treated with estradiol benzoate and progesterone before being exposed to volatile male urinary odors whereupon they were sacrificed 90 min later. Sections of the MOB were immunostained for Fos protein and/or CTb. Male mice, like females, displayed a small population of MOB M/T cells that project to the Me. While the general localization of these cells was similar in the two sexes, there were statistically significant sex differences in the percentage of MOB M/T cells in the anterior and posterior medial segments of the MOB that were retrogradely labeled by CTb. Male urinary volatiles stimulated equivalent, significant increases in Fos expression by MOB M/T neurons projecting to the Me in the two sexes. By contrast, in the same mice exposure to male urinary volatiles stimulated a significant increase in Fos expression by mitral cells in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) only in female subjects. Thus any sexually dimorphic behavioral or neuroendocrine responses to male urinary volatiles likely depend on the differential processing of these odor inputs in the AOB and/or other downstream forebrain structures after their detection by the main olfactory system.
Developmental dyslexia is a language-based learning disability, and a number of candidate dyslexia susceptibility genes have been identified, including DYX1C1, KIAA0319, and DCDC2. Knockdown of function by embryonic transfection of small hairpin RNA (shRNA) of rat homologues of these genes dramatically disrupts neuronal migration to the cerebral cortex by both cell autonomous and non-cell autonomous effects. Here we sought to investigate the extent of non-cell autonomous effects following in utero disruption of the candidate dyslexia susceptibility gene homolog Dyx1c1 by assessing the effects of this disruption on GABAergic neurons. We transfected the ventricular zone of embryonic day (E) 15.5 rat pups with either Dyx1c1 shRNA, DYX1C1 expression construct, both Dyx1c1 shRNA and DYX1C1 expression construct, or a scrambled version of Dyx1c1 shRNA, and sacrificed them at postnatal day 21. The mothers of these rats were injected with BrdU at either E13.5, E15.5, or E17.5. Neurons transfected with Dyx1c1 shRNA were bi-modally distributed in the cerebral cortex with one population in heterotopic locations at the white matter border and another migrating beyond their expected location in the cerebral cortex. In contrast, there was no disruption of migration following transfection with the DYX1C1 expression construct. We found untransfected GABAergic neurons (parvalbumin, calretinin, and neuropeptide Y) in the heterotopic collections of neurons in Dyx1c1 shRNA treated animals, supporting the hypothesis of non-cell autonomous effects. In contrast, we found no evidence that the position of the GABAergic neurons that made it to the cerebral cortex was disrupted by the embryonic transfection with any of the constructs. Taken together, these results support the notion that neurons within heterotopias caused by transfection with Dyx1c1 shRNA result from both cell autonomous and non-cell autonomous effects, but there is no evidence to support non-cell autonomous disruption of neuronal position in the cerebral cortex itself.
Current data concerning the effects of maternal seizure during pregnancy on newborns are limited. This study was carried out to investigate the effect of prenatal pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced kindling on learning and memory of offspring. Female Wistar rats were kindled with i.p. injections of 25 mg/kg of PTZ on day 13 of their pregnancy. The spatial performance and passive avoidance learning of pups were tested at 7 weeks and 12 weeks of age using Morris water maze (MWM) task and shuttle-box apparatus, respectively. We found, for the first time, that prenatal exposure to maternal seizure induced by PTZ leads to a significant impairment of learning and memory. In addition, the number of live birth was significantly lower in kindled rats compared to control. In MWM studies, the young offspring of kindled rats had poor spatial learning ability. The frequent tonic-clonic seizures in pregnancy was also associated with a poor memory as evidenced by decrease in distance swam in the target quadrant by the offspring of the kindled mother in the adulthood. Data obtained from shuttle-box studies showed that retention latencies of pups born to kindled dams were significantly reduced compared to those born to control dams. The hippocampus, amygdala and frontal cortex are very important for memory consolidation and our data suggest that subsequent developmental events are not sufficient to overcome the adverse effects of prenatal exposure to maternal seizures to these regions of the brain. These observations may have clinical implications for cognitive and memory dysfunction associated with epilepsy during pregnancy.
Dynasore was recently developed as a small molecule, selective non-competitive inhibitor of the protein dynamin. This inhibitor has been shown to block dynamin-dependent endocytosis and is now used commonly to study vesicular recycling at synapses. We have measured the effects of dynasore on spontaneous and evoked transmitter release at the frog neuromuscular junction and shown that, in addition to inhibiting endocytosis, dynasore increases the probability of transmitter release. Furthermore, we have shown that dynasore exposure leads to an increase in resting intra-terminal calcium, but this effect does not completely account for the dynasore-mediated increase in the probability of transmitter release. Therefore, in interpreting effects of the dynamin inhibitor dynasore at synapses, one must be alert to potential increases in presynaptic calcium concentration and transmitter release probability.
The posterior subregion of the dorsomedial striatum (pDMS) has been implicated in spatial learning. Here we investigated the role of dopamine (DA) signals in the pDMS in place and response learning using a T-maze task. Rats subjected to a DA depletion of the pDMS and sham controls were trained for 7 days to retrieve food from the west arm of the maze starting from the south, that is to make a left turn at the choice point. On day 8, a probe test was given in which the starting arm was inserted as the north arm. On days 9-16 animals received further training, and on day 17, a second probe test was performed. We examined whether animals responded on probe tests according to a response strategy (left turn at choice point) or to a place strategy (right turn at choice point). Our results revealed that, unlike sham controls, rats with a pDMS DA depletion preferentially used a response rather than a place strategy already on the first probe test. These findings provide further support for a role of the pDMS in spatially guided behavior and indicate that DA signals in the pDMS are critical for the use of a place strategy.
I.c.v. injection of L-ornithine has been shown to have sedative and hypnotic effects on neonatal chicks exposed to acute stressful conditions. To clarify the mechanism, we conducted three experiments under strengthened stressful conditions with corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). In Experiment 1, the effect of i.c.v. injection of CRF, L-ornithine (0.5 mol) or CRF with L-ornithine on the stressful response of chicks was investigated. Compared with the vehicle control, CRF increased distress vocalizations and the time spent in active wakefulness. L-ornithine increased the time spent in sleeping posture, even following stimulation with CRF. In Experiment 2, dose-dependent effects of L-ornithine were investigated using i.c.v. administration with vehicle, CRF alone or CRF plus L-ornithine (0.125, 0.25 or 0.5 mol). L-ornithine decreased the CRF-stimulated distress vocalizations in a dose-dependent manner. In Experiment 3, the chicks were injected i.c.v. with either CRF, CRF plus L-ornithine (0.5 mol), CRF plus the -aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor antagonist picrotoxin or L-ornithine with picrotoxin. The sedative and hypnotic effects induced by L-ornithine were blocked with co-administration of picrotoxin. These results suggest that L-ornithine could attenuate CRF-stimulated stress behaviors acting at GABAA receptors.
Prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP) is an RF-amide peptide that is believed to be the physiological ligand for the G-protein coupled receptor GPR10. This receptor is highly expressed in the GABAergic principal neurons of the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN), but the cellular and physiological effects of receptor activation on thalamic function are not yet clear. The present study examined the effects of PrRP on excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the RTN and the ventrobasal complex (VB) of the thalamus. In RTN neurons, PrRP enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission by selectively increasing the amplitude of the NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC; NMDA-EPSC). AMPA receptor mediated current were not affected. A mutated form of PrRP with negligible affinity to GPR10 was ineffective, and no enhancement of NMDA-EPSCs was observed in the ventrobasal thalamus, which does not express GPR10. The effect was distinct from that of neuropeptide FF (NPFF), which enhanced both AMPA and NMDA receptor mediated responses and probably acted though a presynaptic NPFF receptor. Taken together, these results suggest that PrRP selectively modulates NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in RTN neurons through postsynaptic GPR10 receptors. This effect appears to involve an unconventional mechanism because it was not blocked by intracellularly applied GDPS. PrRP also increased by 50-75% the amplitude of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSCs) in both ventrobasal nucleus and RTN neurons. The former represents inhibitory input from RTN neurons to thalamocortical relay cells and the latter a local inhibition produced by RTN axon collaterals. Miniature IPSC analysis revealed that PrRP enhanced release of GABA and thus acted presynaptically. In conclusion, PrRP increases both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the thalamus via distinct mechanisms, and the receptors responsible for these actions are in all cases present in the principal neuron of the RTN.
Increasing evidence suggests that plastic changes underlying skill learning may occur at early stages of neural processing. However, whether visual perceptual learning (PL) is accompanied by neuronal plasticity phenomena in the primary visual cortex (V1) is yet unknown. Here, we provide the first evidence that practice with specific visual stimuli (gratings) induces long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic responses in the rat V1. We report that in rats which have improved through practice their ability to discriminate between two gratings of different spatial frequency, the input/output curves of field potentials evoked in layers II-III of V1 slices by stimulation of either vertical and horizontal connections are shifted leftward compared to controls. Thus, visual PL is followed by potentiation of synaptic transmission both in vertical and horizontal connections (mimicry). We next show that this increase in intracortical connectivity gain is paralleled by LTP-like phenomena caused by the learning process: indeed, visual PL occludes further LTP (occlusion). Mimicry and occlusion are not present in the primary somatosensory cortex of rats trained with PL. These results demonstrate that LTP accompanies PL and highlight the notion that learning can occur at processing stages as early as the primary sensory cortices.
Parkinson's disease (PD) involves both motor and non-motor disturbances. Non-motor features include alterations in sensory olfactory function which may constitute a viable biomarker for the disorder. It is not clear what causes olfactory dysfunction but it appears to coincide with the development of synucleopathy within the olfactory bulb (OB). Elevation in alpha-synuclein (a-syn) is indeed a risk factor for development of the sporadic disorder. The multifactorial nature of the idiopathic disease combined with variability in its presentation suggests that it is likely to be influenced by several factors and that in vivo models that explore the synergistic effect of alpha-synuclein elevation with other potential contributing factors are likely to be of importance in understanding the disease etiology. Using a dual transgenic (DTg) mouse model of dopaminergic alpha-synuclein overexpression coupled with doxycycline (Dox)-inducible glutathione (GSH) depletion in these same cells, we demonstrate an age-related loss in behavioral olfactory function coupled with a significant neurodegeneration of glomerular dopaminergic neurons. This is accompanied by increase in alpha-synuclein levels in non-dopaminergic cells in the granule cell layer (GCL). In addition, isolated olfactory bulb synaptosomes from dual transgenic lines with Dox consistently showed a slight but significant reduction in maximum mitochondrial respiration compared to controls. These results suggest that in the presence of increased oxidative stress, increased alpha-synuclein expression within dopaminergic OB neurons results in neurodegeneration in the glomerular layer (GL) and increased alpha-synuclein levels in the granular cell layer which coincide with olfactory dysfunction.
In the mammalian retina, excitotoxicity has been shown to be involved in apoptotic retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death and is associated with certain retinal disease states including glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy and retinal ischemia. Previous studies from this lab [Wehrwein E, Thompson SA, Coulibaly SF, Linn DM, Linn CL (2004) Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 45:1531-1543] have demonstrated that acetylcholine (ACh) and nicotine protects against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity in isolated adult pig RGCs through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Activation of nAChRs in these RGCs triggers cell survival signaling pathways and inhibits apoptotic enzymes [Asomugha CO, Linn DM, Linn CL (2010) J Neurochem 112:214-226]. However, the link between binding of nAChRs and activation of neuroprotective pathways is unknown. In this study, we examine the hypothesis that calcium permeation through nAChR channels is required for ACh-induced neuroprotection against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity in isolated pig RGCs. RGCs were isolated from other retinal tissue using a two step panning technique and cultured for 3 days under different conditions. In some studies, calcium imaging experiments were performed using the fluorescent calcium indicator, fluo-4, and demonstrated that calcium permeates the nAChR channels located on pig RGCs. In other studies, the extracellular calcium concentration was altered to determine the effect on nicotine-induced neuroprotection. Results support the hypothesis that calcium is required for nicotine-induced neuroprotection in isolated pig RGCs. Lastly, studies were performed to analyze the effects of preconditioning on glutamate-induced excitotoxicity and neuroprotection. In these studies, a preconditioning dose of calcium was introduced to cells using a variety of mechanisms before a large glutamate insult was applied to cells. Results from these studies support the hypothesis that preconditioning cells with a relatively low level of calcium before an excitotoxic insult leads to neuroprotection. In the future, these results could provide important information concerning therapeutic agents developed to combat various diseases involved with glutamate-induced excitotoxicity.
The rostral ventro-medial medullary reticular formation is a complex structure that is involved with a variety of motor functions. It contains glycinergic neurons that are activated during active (rapid eye movement (REM)) sleep (AS); these neurons appear to be responsible for the postsynaptic inhibition of motoneurons that occurs during this state. We have reported that neurons in this same region contain nitric oxide (NO) synthase and that they innervate brainstem motor pools. In the present study we examined the c-fos expression of these neurons after carbachol-induced active sleep (C-AS). Three control and four experimental cats were employed to identify c-fos expressing nitrergic neurons using immunocytochemical techniques to detect the Fos protein together with neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase activity. The classical neurotransmitter content of the nitrergic cells in this region was examined through the combination of immunocytochemical techniques for the detection of glutamate, glycine, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), tyrosine hydroxilase (TH) or GABA together with nNOS. During C-AS, there was a 1074% increase in the number of nitrergic neurons that expressed c-fos. These neurons did not contain glycine, ChAT, TH or GABA, but a subpopulation (15%) of them displayed glutamate-like immunoreactivity. Therefore, some of these neurons contain both an excitatory neurotransmitter (glutamate) and an excitatory neuromodulator (NO); the neurotransmitter content of the rest of them remains to be determined. Because some of the nitrergic neurons innervate brainstem motoneurons it is possible that they participate in the generation of tonic and excitatory phasic motor events that occur during AS. We also suggest that these nitrergic neurons may be involved in autonomic regulation during this state. In addition, because NO has trophic effects on target neurons, the present findings represent the first, albeit indirect, evidence for a possible trophic function of this nature during AS.
The positive effect of adult undifferentiated mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) on neuronal survival has already been reported, although the mechanisms by which MSCs exert their effect are still a matter of debate. Here we have demonstrated that MSCs are able to prolong the survival of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons mainly by inhibiting some proteolytic enzymes, and in particular the pathway of metalloproteinases (MMPs), a family of proteins that are involved in many neuronal processes, including survival. The inhibition of MMPs was both direct, by acting on MT-MMP1, and indirect, by acting on those proteins that regulate MMPs' activation, such as Timp-1 and Sparc. The importance of the MMPs' down-regulation for neuronal survival was also demonstrated by using N-isobutyl-N-(4-methoxyphenylsulfonyl)-glycyl hydroxamic acid (NNGH), a wide range inhibitor of metalloproteinases, which was able to increase the survival of DRG neurons in a significant manner. The down-regulation of MMPs, obtained both by MSC contact and by chemical inhibition, led to the inactivation of caspase 3, the executor of apoptotic death in DRG neurons cultured alone, while caspase 7 was found to be irrelevant for the apoptotic process. The capacity of MSCs to prevent apoptosis mainly by inactivating the metalloproteinase pathway is an important finding that sheds light on MSCs' mechanism of action, making undifferentiated MSCs a promising tool for the treatment of many different neurodegenerative pathologies.
Data on the prevalence of persistent olfactory bulb ventricles (OBV) in humans remain contradictory. The aim of this study was to investigate the hypothesis of large cystic-like OBVs filled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as a frequent finding in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Fifty normosmic volunteers (25 men and 25 women, mean 40 years) underwent 3 Tesla MRI of the anterior skull base. Normal smell function was determined by testing of the odor threshold discrimination identification score using the Sniffin' Sticks test kit. The voxel size of the constructive interference in steady state (CISS) sequence was 0.40.40.4 mm (TR 12.18 ms, TE 6.09 ms) using a 12-channel head coil. Image quality was rated by three observers according to predefined criteria on an ordinal scale. Additionally, contrast-to-noise (CNR) and signal-to-noise (SNR) ratios were calculated. Quantitative signal intensity (SI) measurement of olfactory bulb (OB) structures and small Virchow-Robin spaces (VRS) was performed using multi planar reconstruction mode. Ninety-one OBs were eligible for evaluation. Image quality was rated as adequate in 55% and as excellent in 36% of cases. CNR and SNR calculations resulted in values of 21.59 and 19.06, respectively. Wilcoxon signed rank test revealed significant higher SI values for OB center compared to OB surface (P&lt;0.001) and to OB base (P&lt;0.001) but also significant lower SI values compared to small VRS (P&lt;0.001) in 94.5%. In 5.5%, SI measurement revealed signs for CSF-filled structures in the OB. High-resolution 3 Tesla MRI did not verify the hypothesis of large cystic CSF-filled OBVs as a frequent finding although evidence is growing that the hyperintense signal in the center of OBs might be associated with interstitial or finely dispersed CSF/fluid or with tiny, histologically detectable remnants of OBVs.
Systemic administration of salicylate at high doses can induce reversible tinnitus and hyperacusis in humans and animals. For this reason, a number of studies have investigated the salicylate-induced changes of neural activity in the auditory cortex (AC); however, most previous studies of the AC were conducted on brain slices or anesthetized animals, which cannot completely represent the actual conditions. Few efforts have been made to examine the neural activity of awake animals, and only recorded the local field potential (LFP) of the AC. In this study, we recorded neural spike activities from chronically implanted electrodes in the primary AC (A1) of awake cats, and investigated the changes of neural responses to pure-tone and click-train stimuli after systemic injection of 200 mg/kg salicylate. We found that sound-evoked spike activities were significantly increased from 1 h after salicylate administration, and the increase of neural responses lasted longer than 3 days with a peak at 12 h. Salicylate not only increased the amplitude of transient responses at the onset and offset of pure-tone stimuli, but also induced a sustained response during the prolonged stimulus period and a late response at 100 ms after stimulus offset. The significant enhancement of neural responses was observed over the entire tested frequency range (0.1-16 kHz) with a relative peak in the band of 3.2-9.6 kHz. The capability of exhibiting spikes synchronizing with successive clicks was also enhanced. All these effects were more apparent when the neurons were driven by high intensity sounds. Salicylate-administration also decreased the mean spontaneous rate in A1 units, and the decrease of spontaneous rate was larger in the units with a high initial spontaneous rate. Our data confirm that salicylate can modulate the neural activity at the cortical level and provide more information for understanding the mechanism of salicylate-induced tinnitus.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is strongly involved in cognition and behavior. It receives input from brainstem nuclei implicated in behavioral wakefulness and electrographic cortical activation, such as the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). Moreover, the hypocretinergic/orexinergic (Hcrt/Ox) hypothalamic neurons innervate DRN, thus modulating its activity and presumably allowing transitions between sleep-wakefulness cycle states. Dysfunction in this system is associated with narcolepsy. In this study we aimed to determine the precise location of DRN neurons projecting to mPFC and the extent to which they contain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine); we have also assessed whether Hcrt1/OxA neurons innervate DRN neurons that could sustain behavioral wakefulness through their projections to mPFC. The retrograde tracer Fluorogold was injected into mPFC and DRN sections were processed for double immunolabeling of anti-Fluorogold and either anti-5-hydroxytryptamine or anti-Hcrt1/OxA antisera. Most DRN neurons projecting to mPFC were located in the ventral sector of the rostral and intermediate DRN, and around half of them were serotonergic. Hcrt1/OxA-immunoreactivity in DRN was observed in unmyelinated axons and axon boutons (varicosities or axon terminals). Hcrt1/OxA immunoreactivity was observed within the cytoplasm and in dense-cored vesicles of these axons. Hcrt1/OxA-labeled boutons established both asymmetric synapses (n=30) and appositional contacts (n=102) with Fluorogold-labeled dendrites belonging to DRN neurons projecting to mPFC. Our results show that Hcrt1/OxA neurons may exert a direct synaptic influence on DRN neurons that could facilitate wakefulness, although other non-synaptic actions through volume transmission are also suggested.
Age-related impairment in synaptic plasticity, like long-term potentiation (LTP), has been repeatedly reported. We had shown that late stages of LTP in the rat dentate gyrus can be modulated by emotional factors, but this is impaired by aging. In the present study we have searched for possible impairments in emotional and spatial memory tasks that may correspond to the impaired reinforcement observed at the cellular level. We have trained young and aged animals in a battery of tests: exploration (open field) object recognition, anxiety (plus maze) fear conditioning and spatial memory (Morris' water maze (MWM)). The open field, anxiety, and novelty recognition showed no age differences except a reduced velocity in aged rats. Emotional and contextual memories were preserved, but acquisition was slightly impaired. Age-dependent impairments appeared in spatial memory, evaluated in terms of latency and distance to reach the hidden escape platform in the water maze task, but these were not related with impairments in other tests, in particular there was no relation between spatial and emotional memory impairments. Age-related impairments in different paradigms were caused by different independent factors that did not correlated with each other.
This longitudinal study aimed to assess the sensorimotor balance strategies before and after vestibular schwannoma (VS) surgery according to the degree of pre-operative vestibular lesion. Thirty-eight VS patients were split in three groups according to caloric vestibular test results before surgery; nine had a symmetrical vestibular response (vestibular normoreflexy), 19 with a decreased response of more than 20% of the affected side (vestibular hyporeflexy) and 10 with an absent caloric response on the side of the affected labyrinth (vestibular areflexy). They underwent pendular rotary vestibular testing (RVT), allowing to evaluate gain and directional preponderance of the vestibulo-ocular reflex, and a sensory organisation test (SOT), evaluating balance control in six conditions (C1 to C6). These tests were performed shortly before, and 8 and 90 days after surgery. Directional preponderance performances of patients with vestibular normoreflexy or hyporeflexy followed a classical time-course with a huge asymmetry just after surgery and a recovery to pre-operative performances at 90 days; patients with vestibular areflexy were relatively stable in time. Variation in SOT performances of patients with vestibular normoreflexy, especially in the more complex C4 to C6, followed a classical time-course with an important postural degradation just after surgery and a recovery to pre-operative performances at 90 days. Patients with vestibular areflexy showed no balance degradation just after surgery and a marked increase in performances at 90 days after surgery, especially in C5 and C6. Performances of patients with vestibular hyporeflexy were intermediate, close to performances of patients with vestibular normoreflexy before surgery and close to performances of patients with vestibular areflexy at 8 and 90 days after surgery. Pre-operative vestibular function alteration triggers an adaptive process, characterized by a restoration of the symmetry of the vestibular nuclei activity and by sensory substitution and new behavioural strategies, allowing the anticipation of unilateral vestibular deafferentation effects.
In mammals, the olfactory sensory neurons are the only ones directly in contact with an aggressive environment. Thus, the olfactory mucosa is one of the few neuronal zones which are continuously renewed during adulthood. We have previously shown that endothelin is locally matured in the olfactory mucosa and that olfactory sensory neurons preferentially express ETB receptors, while ETA receptors are rather present in non neuronal olfactory mucosa cells. In addition to its vasoactive effect, the endothelin system is known for its pleiotropic effects including the modulation of cell population dynamics. We thus examined its potential neuroprotective effect in the olfactory mucosa using a primary culture of olfactory sensory neurons lying on non neuronal cells. While a serum deprivation led to a massive decrease of the density of olfactory sensory neurons in the primary cultures, endothelin 1 (ET-1) rescued part of the neuronal population through both ETA and ETB receptors. This effect was mainly anti-apoptotic as it reduced cleaved caspase-3 signal and nuclear condensation. Furthermore, the olfactory epithelium of ETB-deficient rats displayed increased apoptosis. These results strongly suggest that ET-1 acts as an anti-apoptotic factor on olfactory sensory neurons, directly through ETB and indirectly by limiting non neuronal cells death through ETA.
Peripheral sensory neurons respond to stimuli containing a wide range of spatio-temporal frequencies. We investigated electroreceptor neuron coding in the gymnotiform wave-type weakly electric fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus. Previous studies used low to mid temporal frequencies (&lt;256 Hz) and showed that electroreceptor neuron responses to sensory stimuli could be almost exclusively accounted for by linear models, thereby implying a rate code. We instead used temporal frequencies up to 425 Hz, which is in the upper behaviorally relevant range for this species. We show that electroreceptors can: (A) respond up to the highest frequencies tested and (B) display strong nonlinearities in their responses to such stimuli. These nonlinearities were manifested by the fact that the responses to repeated presentations of the same stimulus were coherent at temporal frequencies outside of those contained in the stimulus waveform. Specifically, these consisted of low frequencies corresponding to the time varying contrast or envelope of the stimulus as well as higher harmonics of the frequencies contained in the stimulus. Heterogeneities in the afferent population influenced nonlinear coding as afferents with the lowest baseline firing rates tended to display the strongest nonlinear responses. To understand the link between afferent heterogeneity and nonlinear responsiveness, we used a phenomenological mathematical model of electrosensory afferents. Varying a single parameter in the model was sufficient to account for the variability seen in our experimental data and yielded a prediction: nonlinear responses to the envelope and at higher harmonics are both due to afferents with lower baseline firing rates displaying greater degrees of rectification in their responses. This prediction was verified experimentally as we found that the coherence between the half-wave rectified stimulus and the response resembled the coherence between the responses to repeated presentations of the stimulus in our dataset. This result shows that rectification cannot only give rise to responses to low frequency envelopes but also at frequencies that are higher than those contained in the stimulus. The latter result implies that information is contained in the fine temporal structure of electroreceptor afferent spike trains. Our results show that heterogeneities in peripheral neuronal populations can have dramatic consequences on the nature of the neural code.
The medial thalamic parafascicular nucleus (PF) and the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) are implicated in the processing and suppression of the affective dimension of pain. The present study evaluated the functional interaction between PF and rACC in mediating the suppression of pain affect in rats following administration of morphine or carbachol (acetylcholine agonist) into PF. Vocalizations that occur following a brief noxious tailshock (vocalization afterdischarges) are a validated rodent model of pain affect, and were preferentially suppressed by injection of morphine or carbachol into PF. Vocalizations that occur during tailshock were suppressed to a lesser degree, whereas, spinal motor reflexes (tail flick and hindlimb movements) were only slightly suppressed by injection of carbachol into PF and unaffected by injection of morphine into PF. Blocking glutamate receptors in rACC (NMDA and non-NMDA) by injecting D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (AP-5) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione disodium (CNQX) produced dose-dependent antagonism of morphine-induced increases in vocalization thresholds. Carbachol-induced increases in vocalization thresholds were not affected by injection of either glutamate receptor antagonist into rACC. The results demonstrate that glutamate receptors in the rACC contribute to the suppression of pain affect produced by injection of morphine into PF, but not to the suppression of pain affect generated by intra-PF injection of carbachol.
Feedback inhibition serves to modulate release when neurotransmitter levels in the synaptic cleft are elevated. The &quot;classical&quot; feedback auto-inhibition of neurotransmitter release is predominantly mediated by activation of presynaptic G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and exhibits slow kinetics. In cholinergic and glutamatergic synapses and for focal graded depolarization of the axon terminal, feedback inhibition was found to be voltage-dependent. At high depolarizations, such as the one produced by an action potential, low concentrations of neurotransmitter were insufficient to inhibit release. On the other hand, at higher neurotransmitter concentrations, feedback inhibition was observed also for action potential-evoked release. This finding suggests the presence of an additional mechanism of feedback inhibition that operates also at large presynaptic depolarizations. Using the glutamatergic crayfish neuromuscular junction we discovered a novel, extremely fast, form of feedback inhibition which hampers action potential-evoked release. This novel mechanism is pertussis toxin-insensitive, and is activated already 1 ms after flash photolysis producing glutamate concentrations higher than the ones required to activate the classical feedback inhibition. This finding implies that this mechanism is recruited only when glutamate levels in the synaptic cleft are relatively high (after high-frequency activation or in pathological conditions). We show that both the classical and this novel mechanism operate under physiological conditions.
Recent studies suggested that acute sound exposure resulting in a temporary threshold shift in young adult animals within a series of maladaptive plasticity changes in central auditory structures. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of the neurotrophin family, is involved in post-trauma peripheral hair cell and spiral ganglion cell survival and has been shown to modulate synaptic strength in cochlear nucleus following sound exposure. The present study evaluated levels of BDNF and its receptor (tyrosine kinase B, [TrkB]) in the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) following a unilateral moderate sound exposure in young (7-8 months) and aged (28-29 months) Fischer Brown Norway (FBN) rats. Eighty days post-exposure, auditory brainstem response (ABR) thresholds for young exposed rats approached control values while aged exposed rats showed residual permanent threshold shifts (PTS) relative to aged controls. BDNF protein levels were significantly up-regulated by 9% in young exposed fusiform cells ipsilateral to the exposure. BDNF levels in aged sound-exposed fusiform cells increased 31% ipsilateral to the exposure. Protein levels of the BDNF receptor, TrkB, were also significantly increased in aged but not in young sound-exposed DCN fusiform cells. The present findings suggest a relationship between the up-regulation of BDNF/TrkB and the increase in spontaneous and driven activity previously observed for aged and sound-exposed fusiform cells. This might be due to a selective maladaptive compensatory down-regulation of glycinergic inhibition in DCN fusiform cells.
Inflammation plays a vital role in the pathogenesis of ischemic stroke. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may protect brain tissues from ischemic injury. In this study, we investigated whether intranasal BDNF exerted neuroprotection against ischemic insult by modulating the local inflammation in rats with ischemic stroke. Rats were subjected to temporary occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery (120 min) and intranasal BDNF or vehicle was adminstrated 2 h after reperfusion. Infarct volume and neuron injury were measured using triphenyltetrazolium chloride, Nissl staining and TUNEL assay, respectively. Microglia were detected by immunohistofluorescence. Tumor necrosis factor-, interleukin10 and mRNAs were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. DNA-binding activity of nuclear factor-kappa B was measured by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. BDNF level in brain tissues was markedly raised following intranasal administration. There were more Nissl positive and less TUNEL positive neurons in BDNF group than in control group while intranasal BDNF did not reduce the infarct volume significantly (n=6, 0.270.04 vs. 0.240.05, P&gt;0.05). BDNF increased the number of activated microglia (OX-42 positive) and phagocytotic microglia (ED1 positive). BDNF suppressed tumor necrosis factor- and mRNA expression while increasing the interleukin10 and mRNA expression. BDNF also increased DNA-binding activity of nuclear factor-kappa B (n=6, 49.781.23 vs. 52.891.64, P&lt;0.05). Our data suggest intranasal BDNF might protect the brain against ischemic insult by modulating local inflammation via regulation of the levels of cellular, cytokine and transcription factor in the experimental stroke.
The ectoenzyme tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) is mostly known for its role in bone mineralization. However, in the severe form of hypophosphatasia, TNAP deficiency also results in epileptic seizures, suggesting a role of this enzyme in brain functions. Accordingly, TNAP activity was shown in the neuropil of the cerebral cortex in diverse mammalian species. However in spite of its clinical significance, the neuronal localization of TNAP has not been investigated in the human brain. By using enzyme histochemistry, we found an unprecedented pattern of TNAP activity appearing as an uninterrupted layer across diverse occipital-, frontal- and temporal lobe areas of the human cerebral cortex. This marked TNAP-active band was localized infragranulary in layer 5 as defined by quantitative comparisons on parallel sections stained by various techniques to reveal the laminar pattern. On the contrary, TNAP activity was localized in layer 4 of the primary visual and somatosensory cortices, which is consistent with earlier observations on other species. This result suggests that the expression of TNAP in the thalamo-recipient granular layer is an evolutionary conserved feature of the sensory cortex. The observations of the present study also suggest that diverse neurocognitive functions share a common cerebral cortical mechanism depending on TNAP activity in layer 5. In summary, the present data point on the distinctive role of layer 5 in cortical computation and neurological disorders caused by TNAP dysfunctions in the human brain.
The synthetic retinoid 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cis-RA), prescribed for the treatment of severe nodular acne, has been linked to an increased incidence of depression. Chronic treatment studies in rodents have shown that 13-cis-RA induces an increase in depression-related behaviours and a functional uncoupling of the hippocampus and dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). Changes in the number of serotoninergic neurons in the DRN have been reported in depressed human patients. Given that retinoids have apoptotic effects, we hypothesized that a decrease in the number of serotoninergic neurons in the DRN or median raphe nucleus (MRN) would lead to decreased serotoninergic tone and in turn to the behavioural changes seen with 13-cis-RA administration. Here, we used immunolabelling and unbiased stereological methods to estimate the number of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) neurons in the MRN and DRN of vehicle control and 13-cis-RA-treated adult mice. In the MRN, the number of 5-HT immunolabelled cells was 1815194 in control, compared with 1954111 in 13-cis-RA treated tissues. The number of 5-HT immunolabelled cells was much higher in the DRN, with 7148377 cells in the control, compared with 7578424 in the 13-cis-RA treated group. Further analysis of the DRN revealed that there were no changes in the number of 5-HT neurons within distinct subregions of the DRN. Similarly, changes in the density of serotoninergic neurons or in the volume of the MRN or DRN were not observed in 13-cis-RA treated animals. These data show that apoptotic actions of 13-cis-RA do not occur in vivo at drug concentrations that induce changes in depression-related behaviour and functional uncoupling of the DRN and hippocampus. The potential pro-depressant behavioural and molecular effects associated with chronic administration of 13-cis-RA may result from changes in serotoninergic activity rather than changes in the number of serotoninergic neurons.
The clinical course of the degenerative motor neuron disorder amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is closely related to hypoxia. The normal response to hypoxia involves two pathways in particular: the hypoxia inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) pathway (which notably controls the synthesis of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)) and the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-b) pathway (responsible for the production of inflammatory mediators, including prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)). Defects in VEGF gene expression are known to cause motor neuron degeneration in animal models. Circulating monocytes are precursors of the microglia, which are involved in the pathogenesis of ALS. To establish whether the HIF-1 and/or NF-B pathways are deregulated during hypoxia in early-stage, sporadic ALS, we analyzed the response to acute (1 h) and prolonged (24 h) hypoxia in monocytes from ALS and healthy controls. We measured protein expression and mRNA transcription for VEGF, HIF-1, HIF-2, prolyl hydroxylases 1 and 2 (PHD-1 and -2, part of the HIF proteasome-dependent degradation pathway) and their modulation by PGE2. Our results showed that (i) the HIF-1 (but not HIF-2) and VEGF production induced by acute and prolonged hypoxia was selectively and markedly altered in ALS patients and (ii) this defect was not compensated for by PGE2 addition. Moreover, altered HIF-1 activation was associated with low levels of proteolysis by PHD-2 in cells from sporadic ALS patients (relative to controls). For the first time, we have demonstrated clinical and functional abnormalities in the HIF-1 pathway during hypoxia in monocytes from sporadic ALS patients.
Repeated cocaine exposure induces locomotor sensitization, which is mediated by adaptive changes in synaptic transmission in the mesolimbic dopamine pathway. The molecular mechanisms underlying this adaptation remain poorly understood. One pathway that may play a role is the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) which is implicated in synaptic plasticity. In the present study, we found that cocaine exposure stimulates mTOR activity in rat brain. Furthermore, inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin blocked the induction as well as the expression of cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization in rats. These data elucidate a novel mechanism by which the mTOR pathway mediates cocaine-induced behavioral changes and could suggest a new interventional strategy for drug abuse.
Several lines of evidence suggest the existence of multiple progestin receptors that may account for rapid and delayed effects of progesterone in the CNS. The delayed effects have been long attributed to activation of the classical progestin receptor (Pgr). Recent studies have discovered novel progestin signaling molecules that may be responsible for rapid effects. These include progesterone receptor membrane component 1 (Pgrmc1), Pgrmc2, progestin and adipoQ receptor 7 (Paqr7) and Paqr8. The functions of these molecules have been investigated extensively in non-neural, but not in neural tissues, partly because it is unclear which are expressed in the brain and where they are expressed. To address these issues, we compared the distributions of mRNAs encoding Pgr, Pgrmc1, Pgrmc2, Paqr7 and Paqr8 using in situ hybridization with radiolabeled oligodeoxynucleotidyl probes in forebrain tissues of estradiol-treated female rats. We also examined the distribution of serpine mRNA binding protein 1 (Serbp1), a putative binding partner of Pgrmc1. Analyses of adjacent brain sections showed that the highest expression of mRNAs encoding Pgr, Pgrmc1, Pgrmc2 and Serbp1 was detected in several hypothalamic nuclei important for female reproduction. In contrast, expression patterns of Paqr7 and Paqr8 were low and homogeneous in the hypothalamus, and more abundant in thalamic nuclei. The neuroanatomical distributions of these putative progestin signaling molecules suggest that Pgrmc1 and Pgrmc2 may play roles in neuroendocrine functions while Paqr7 and Paqr8 are more likely to regulate sensory and cognitive functions.
Activation of the dopaminergic (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) by ethanol has been implicated in its rewarding and reinforcing effects. We previously demonstrated that ethanol enhances GABA release onto VTA-DA neurons via activation of 5-HT2C receptors and subsequent release of calcium from intracellular stores. Here we demonstrate that excitation of VTA-DA neurons by ethanol is limited by an ethanol-enhancement in GABA release. In this study, we performed whole-cell voltage clamp recordings of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) and cell-attached recordings of action potential firing from VTA-DA neurons in midbrain slices from young Long Evans rats. Acute exposure to ethanol (75 mM) transiently enhanced the firing rate of VTA-DA neurons as well as the frequency of mIPSCs. Simultaneous blockade of both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors (Picrotoxin (75 M) and SCH50911 (20 M)) disinhibited VTA-DA firing rate whereas a GABA(A) agonist (muscimol, 1 M) strongly inhibited firing rate. In the presence of picrotoxin, ethanol enhanced VTA-DA firing rate more than in the absence of picrotoxin. Additionally, a sub-maximal concentration of muscimol together with ethanol inhibited VTA-DA firing rate more than muscimol alone. DAMGO (3 M) inhibited mIPSC frequency but did not block the ethanol-enhancement in mIPSC frequency. DAMGO (1 and 3 M) had no effect on VTA-DA firing rate. Naltrexone (60 M) had no effect on basal or ethanol-enhancement of mIPSC frequency. Additionally, naltrexone (20 and 60 M) did not block the ethanol-enhancement in VTA-DA firing rate. Overall, the present results indicate that the ethanol enhancement in GABA release onto VTA-DA neurons limits the stimulatory effect of ethanol on VTA-DA neuron activity and may have implications for the rewarding properties of ethanol.
The prefrontal cortex is highly vulnerable to traumatic brain injury (TBI) and its structural and/or functional alterations as a result of TBI can give rise to persistent working memory (WM) dysfunction. Using a rodent model of TBI, we have described profound WM deficits following TBI that are associated with increases in prefrontal catecholamine (both dopamine and norepinephrine) content. In this study, we examined if enhanced norepinephrine signaling contributes to TBI-associated WM dysfunction. We demonstrate that administration of 1 adrenoceptor antagonists, but not 2A agonist, at 14 days post-injury significantly improved WM performance. mRNA analysis revealed increased levels of 1A, but not 1B or 1D, adrenoceptor in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of brain-injured rats. As 1A and 1B adrenoceptor promoters contain putative cAMP response element (CRE) sequences, we therefore examined if CRE-binding protein (CREB) actively engages these sequences in order to increase receptor gene transcription following TBI. Our results show that the phosphorylation of CREB is enhanced in the mPFC at time points during which increased 1A mRNA expression was observed. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays using mPFC tissue from injured animals indicated increased phospho-CREB binding to the CRE sites of 1A, but not 1B, promoter compared to that observed in uninjured controls. To address the translatability of our findings, we tested the efficacy of the FDA-approved 1 antagonist Prazosin and observed that this drug improves WM in injured animals. Taken together, these studies suggest that enhanced CREB-mediated expression of 1 adrenoceptor contributes to TBI-associated WM dysfunction, and therapies aimed at reducing 1 signaling may be useful in the treatment of TBI-associated WM deficits in humans.
Based on the specificity of its inputs and targets, the lateral habenular complex (LHb) constitutes a pivotal motor-limbic interface implicated in various cerebral functions particularly in regulating monoamine transmission. Despite its functional significance, cellular characteristics underlying LHb functionality have not been examined systematically. The present study aimed to correlate morphological and electrophysiological properties of neurons within the different subnuclei of the LHb using whole-cell recording and neurobiotin labeling in rat slice preparations. Morphological analysis revealed a heterogeneous population of projection neurons randomly distributed throughout the LHb. According to somatodendritic characteristics four main categories were classified including spherical, fusiform, polymorphic and vertical cells. Electrophysiological characterization of neurons within the different categories demonstrated homologous profiles and no significant differences between groups. Typically, LHb neurons possessed high input resistances and long membrane time constants. They also displayed time-dependent inward rectification and distinct afterhyperpolarization. A salient electrophysiological feature of LHb neurons was their ability to generate rebound bursts of action potentials in response to membrane hyperpolarization. Based on the pattern of spontaneous activity, neurons were classified as silent, tonic or bursting. The occurrence of distinctive firing modes was not related to topographic allocation. The patterns of spontaneous firing and evoked discharge were highly sensitive to alterations in membrane potential and merged upon de- and hyperpolarizing current injection and synaptic stimulation. Besides projection neurons, recordings revealed the existence of a subpopulation of cells possessing morphological and physiological properties of neocortical neurogliaform cells. They were considered to be interneurons. Our data suggest that neurons within the different LHb subnuclei behave electrophysiologically more similar than expected, considering their morphological heterogeneity. We conclude that the formation of functional neuronal entities within the LHb may be achieved through defined synaptic inputs to particular neurons, rather than by individual neuronal morphologies and intrinsic membrane properties.
The role of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) expressed by primary afferent neurons in nociception remains controversial. The aim of this study was to develop mice with a tissue selective knockdown of NMDARs in these neurons and to evaluate their behavioral responses to different types of painful stimuli. Mice with floxed NMDAR NR1 subunit gene (fNR1) were crossed with mice expressing Cre recombinase under the control of the peripherin promotor (Prph-Cre). Male Prph-Cre+ floxed NR1 mice were compared to Cre- littermates. Both quantitative RT/PCR and Western blotting indicated a 75% reduction in NR1 expression in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) extracts with no effect on NR1 expression in spinal cord, brain or the enteric nervous system. Immunocytochemistry with antibodies to NR1 revealed decreased staining in all size classes of DRG neurons. NMDA produced a detectable increase in [Ca2+]i in 60% of DRG neurons cultured from Cre- mice, but only 15% of those from Cre+ mice. Furthermore, the peak [Ca2+]i responses were 64% lower in neurons from Cre+ mice. There was no significant difference between Cre+ and Cre- mice in response latencies to the hotplate or tail withdrawal tests of thermal nociception, nor was there a difference in withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli of the tail or paw. However, compared to Cre- littermates, Cre+ knockdown mice had a 50% decrease in the phase 2 response to formalin injection (P&lt;0.001). There was no effect on phase 1 responses. These results suggest that NMDA receptors expressed by primary afferent nerves play an important role in the development of sensitized pain states.
Hippocampal neurogenesis occurs throughout life in mammals and has pivotal roles in brain functions. An enriched environment stimulates hippocampal neurogenesis, but the exact mechanisms are still unclear. The present study investigated the role of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) in adult hippocampal neurogenesis under standard or enriched rearing conditions. Rearing in the enriched conditions from 4-weeks old for 4-weeks increased the survival of newly divided cells in the subgranular zone and granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus of wild-type and PACAP-knockout (PACAP-/-) mice. The increase in the survival in the granule cell layer was less in PACAP-/- mice than in the wild-type mice. In contrast, the proliferation of newly divided cells in mice reared in the standard and enriched conditions did not differ between the wild-type and PACAP-/- mice. Regarding the differentiation of newborn cells in the dentate gyrus, most of the newly divided cells exhibited the neuronal phenotype in both the wild-type and PACAP-/- mice under standard and enriched conditions. These findings suggest that endogenous PACAP is partly involved in the survival of the enriched environment-induced generation, but not in the basal rate, of newborn cells in the dentate gyrus of the adult hippocampus.
Accumulating evidence has shown that a polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin-transporter (5-HTTLPR) modulates neural activation during the perceptual processing of emotional facial expressions. Furthermore, behavioral research has shown that attentional bias for negative information is increased in s allele carriers. We examined the interactions among 5-HTTLPR (including SNP rs25531), life events and gender on the detection of facial emotions. We found a main effect of genotype, as well as moderating effects of childhood emotional abuse (CEA) and recent life events (RLE). S homozygous participants recognized negative facial expressions at a lower intensity than the other genotype groups. This effect was more evident in female participants and in participants who had experienced life events. The 5-HTTLPR genotype affects facial emotional perception, a process which is linked to a neurobiological response to threat and vulnerability to emotional disorders.
The mechanism of action of the A2A adenosine receptor agonist 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl) phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine hydrochloride (CGS-21680) in the facilitation of spontaneous (isotonic and hypertonic condition) and K+-evoked acetylcholine (ACh) release was investigated in the mouse diaphragm muscles. At isotonic condition, the CGS-21680-induced excitatory effect on miniature end-plate potential (MEPP) frequency was not modified in the presence of CdCl2 and in a medium free of Ca2+ (0Ca2+-EGTA), but it was abolished after buffering the rise of intracellular Ca2+ with 1,2-bis-(2-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetra(acetoxy-methyl) (BAPTA-AM) and when the Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin was used to deplete intracellular Ca2+ stores. CGS-21680 did not have a direct effect on the Ca2+-independent neurotransmitter-releasing machinery, since the modulatory effect on the hypertonic response was also occluded by BAPTA-AM and thapsigargin. CGS-21680 facilitation on K+-evoked ACh release was not altered by the P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channel (VDCC) blocker -Agatoxin IVA, but it was completely prevented by both, the L-type VDCC blocker nitrendipine (which is known to immobilize their gating charges), or thapsigargin, suggesting that the effects of CGS-21680 on L-type VDCC and thapsigargin-sensitive internal stores are associated. We found that the VDCC pore blocker Cd2+ (2 mM Ca2+ or 0Ca2+-EGTA) failed to affect the CGS-21680 effect in high K+ whereas nitrendipine in 0Ca2+-EGTA+Cd2+ occluded its action. The blockade of Ca2+ release from endoplasmic reticulum with ryanodine antagonized the facilitating effect of CGS-21680 in control and high K+ concentration. It is concluded that, at the mouse neuromuscular junction, activation of A2A receptors facilitates spontaneous and K+-evoked ACh release by an external Ca2+-independent mechanism but that involves mobilization of Ca2+ from internal stores: during spontaneous ACh release stimulating directly the ryanodine-sensitive stores and, at high K+, probably modulating the L-type VDCCs which may cause the opening of the ryanodine receptors that would be directly coupled to the channels. In both cases, Ca2+ released from the endoplasmic reticulum would be capable of activating the exocytotic machinery, thus producing facilitation of ACh release.
Neurons in the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) show a wide range of axonal projection pathways, intrinsic firing properties, and responses to head movements. To determine whether MVN neurons participating in the vestibulocular reflexes (VOR) have distinctive electrophysiological properties related to their output pathways, a new preparation was devised using transverse brain slices containing the chicken MVN and abducens nucleus. Biocytin Alexa Fluor was injected extracellularly into the abducens nucleus so that MVN neurons whose axons projected to the ipsilateral (MVN/ABi) and contralateral (MVN/ABc) abducens nuclei were labeled selectively. Whole-cell, patch-clamp recordings were performed to study the active and passive membrane properties, sodium conductances, and spontaneous synaptic events in morphologically-identified MVN/AB neurons and compare them to MVN neurons whose axons could not be traced (MVN/n). Located primarily in the rostral half of the ventrolateral part of the MVN, MVN/AB neurons mainly have stellate cell bodies with diameters of 20-25 m. Compared to MVN/n neurons, MVN/ABi and MVN/ABc neurons had lower input resistances. Compared to all other MVN neuron groups studied, MVN/ABc neurons showed unique firing properties, including type A-like waveform, silence at resting membrane potential, and failure to fire repetitively on depolarization. It is interesting that the frequency of spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory synaptic events was similar for all the MVN neurons studied. However, the ratio for miniature to spontaneous inhibitory events was significantly lower for MVN/ABi neurons compared to MVN/n neurons, suggesting that MVN/ABi neurons retained a larger number and/or more active inhibitory presynaptic neurons within the brain slices. Also, MVN/ABi neurons had miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) with slower decay time and half width compared to MVN/n neurons. Altogether, these findings underscore the diversity of electrophysiological properties of MVN neuron classes distinguished by axonal projection pathways. This represents the first study of MVN/AB neurons in brain slice preparations and supports the concept that the in vitro brain slice preparation provides an advantageous model to investigate the cellular and molecular events in vestibular signal processing.
Previous research has identified several key processes of visual perception and visually guided action that are implicated in schizophrenia. Yet, it is not well understood whether similar or different brain mechanisms mediate the abnormalities in these two processes. To explore this issue, we examined visual and visuomotor processing in schizophrenia, utilizing an illusion known as the Roelofs effect. This illusion refers to the spatial mislocalization of an object within an off-centered frame, with the object appearing to be shifted towards the opposite direction of the frame offset. In this study, localization of the object was measured either by a direct visual response or by an immediate or delayed visuomotor (reaching-to-touch) response. Patients demonstrated significantly greater magnitudes of the Roelofs effect in all response modes, indicating the existence of excessive spatial contextual effects of the frame during the processing of visual and visuomotor information, and when the two types of information are integrated over a delayed visuomotor response condition. These results provide evidence for a hypothesis of improper inhibitory control as a common mechanism underpinning abnormal visual and visuomotor processes in this mental disorder.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are important signaling factors in many cellular processes including cell proliferation and survival during development and synaptic plasticity induced by acute nociception in the adult. There is extensive evidence for the involvement of members of the MAPK family, the extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERKs 1/2), in the development of acute inflammatory somatic and visceral pain, but their role in the maintenance of chronic pain states is unknown. We have previously shown that ovariectomy of adult mice (OVX) generates a persistent and estrogen-dependent abdominal hyperalgesic state that lasts for several months and is not related to a persistent nociceptive afferent input. Here we have used OVX mice to study a possible role of ERK 1/2 in the spinal processing of this form of chronic abdominal hyperalgesia. Eight weeks after OVX the mice showed a robust abdominal hyperalgesia and a significant increase in the activation of ERK1/2 in the lumbosacral spinal cord. This enhanced activation was not seen in control and sham-operated mice or in regions of the cord other than lumbosacral in OVX mice. Also, the increased activation of ERK 1/2 observed in OVX mice matched the time course of the hyperalgesic state as no activation was observed at week 1 after OVX when the hyperalgesic state had not yet developed. Administration of slow-release pellets containing 17-estradiol at week 5 post OVX reversed both the development of the hyperalgesia and the enhanced activation of ERK 1/2, suggesting that this activation, like the hyperalgesic state, was estrogen-dependent. Intrathecal injections of the ERK 1/2 inhibitor U0126 successfully rescued the mice from the abdominal hyperalgesia for up to 24 h after the injection and also reversed the enhanced expression of ERK 1/2. Our study shows, for the first time, activation of ERK 1/2 in the spinal cord matching the time course of an estrogen-dependent chronic hyperalgesic state.
Sensory neurons display transient changes in their response properties following prolonged exposure to an appropriate stimulus (adaptation). In adult cat primary visual cortex, spatial frequency-selective neurons shift their preferred spatial frequency (SF) after being adapted to a non-preferred SF. In anesthetized cats prepared for electrophysiological recordings in the visual cortex, we applied a non-preferred spatial frequency for two successive periods of adaptation (a recovery and interval of 90 min separated both phases of adaptation) in order to determine if a first adaptation retained an influence on a second adaptation. The first application of a non-preferred SF shifted the tuning curve of the cell mainly in the direction of the imposed SF. The results showed that attractive shifts occurred more frequently (68%) than repulsive (12%) changes in cortical cells. The increase of responsivity was band-limited and occurred around the imposed SF, while flanked responses remained unmodified in all conditions. After a recovery period allowing neurons to restore their original SF tuning curves, we carried out a second adaptation which produced four major results: (1) a higher proportion of repulsive shifts (31%) compared to attractive shifts (49%), (2) an increase of the magnitude of the attractive shifts, (3) an additional enhancement of the evoked firing rate for the newly acquired SF, and (4) for the acquired SF the variability coefficient decreased following the second adaptation. The supplementary response changes suggest that neurons in area 17 keep a &quot;memory&quot; trace of the previous stimulus properties. It also highlights the dynamic nature of basic neuronal properties in adult cortex since repeated adaptations modified both the spatial frequency tuning selectivity and the response strength to the preferred spatial frequency. These enhanced neuronal responses suggest that the range of adaptation-induced plasticity available to the visual system is broader than anticipated.
Neuronal migration is an intricate process involving a wide range of cellular mechanisms, some of which are still largely unknown. Using specially prepared culturing substrates, we were able to explore this and other developmental processes in networks composed of cultured locust neurons, and to analyze the role of neurite tension in these processes. Time lapse investigation shows that the shape and position of the cell soma are both linked to the extent and direction of the combined tension in its neurites. In particular, for migrating neurons (over 1-2 days) with three main neurites, a force-balance between neurite tension forces was demonstrated (F=0). The results presented here suggest that neuronal migration is strongly affected by tension in neurites rather than being entirely determined by the interaction between soma and substrate. The validity of these results to other in-vitro and in-vivo data is discussed.
The cerebellum, which controls coordinated and rapid movements, is a potential target for the deleterious effects of drugs of abuse including cannabis (i.e. marijuana, cannabinoids). Prenatal exposure to cannabinoids has been documented to cause abnormalities in motor and cognitive development, but the exact mechanism of this effect at the cellular level has not been fully elucidated. Previous studies indicate that cannabinoids are capable of modulating synaptic neurotransmission. In addition to altering synaptic activity, cannabinoid exposure may also change intrinsic neuronal properties. In the present study several different approaches including behavioral assays, extracellular field potential recordings and whole-cell patch clamp recordings, were used to address whether maternal exposure to the CB1 cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55-212-2 (WIN) affects the intrinsic electrophysiological properties of Purkinje neurons. WIN treatment of pregnant rats produced a significant decrease in the rearing frequency, total distance moved and mobility of the offspring, but significantly increased the time of the righting reflex, the grooming frequency and immobility. Neuromotor function, as assessed in the grip test and balance beam test, was also significantly impaired in prenatally WIN-treated group. Prenatal exposure to WIN increased the amplitude of population spikes (PS) recorded from the cerebellar Purkinje cell layer of offspring following synaptic blockage. WIN treatment of pregnant rats also profoundly affected the intrinsic properties of Purkinje neurons in offspring. This treatment increased the firing regularity, firing frequency, amplitude of afterhyperpolarization (AHP), the peak amplitude of action potential and the first spike latency, but decreased significantly the time to peak and duration of action potentials, the instantaneous firing frequency, the rate of rebound action potential and the voltage &quot;sag&quot; ratio. These results raise the possibility that maternal exposure to cannabinoids may profoundly affect the intrinsic membrane properties of cerebellar Purkinje neurons of offspring by altering the membrane excitability through modulation of intrinsic ion channels.
The deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) are the terminal components of the cerebellar circuitry and constitute its primary output structure. Their activity is important for certain forms of motor learning as well as generation and control of movement. DCN neurons receive glutamatergic excitatory inputs from the pontine nuclei via mossy fibres (MFs) and concomitantly receive inputs from 5-HT-containing neurons of the raphe nuclei. We aimed to explore the roles of 5-HT at MF-DCN synapses by using cerebellar slices from 11 to 15-day-old rats. Bath application of 5-HT reversibly decreased the amplitude of stimulation-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs) via the activation of 5-HT1B receptors at the presynaptic terminals of the MFs. Burst stimulation of the MFs elicited long-term depression (LTD) at the MF-DCN synapses that require activation of the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR). In the presence of 5-HT, the extent of burst-induced LTD of MF EPSCs was significantly reduced. Application of 5-HT also decreased the amplitude of mGluR-dependent slow EPSCs evoked by similar burst stimulation. Furthermore, (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), a group I mGluR agonist, induced chemical LTD of MF EPSCs, and 5-HT had no significant effect on this LTD. Taken together, the results suggest that 5-HT not only has transitory inhibitory effects on MF EPSCs but also plays a role in regulating the long-term synaptic efficacy.
Adult neurogenesis continues throughout life in the mammalian hippocampus and evidence suggests that adult neurogenesis is involved in hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Numerous studies have demonstrated that spatial learning enhances neurogenesis in the hippocampus but few studies have examined whether enhanced neurogenesis is related to enhanced activation of new neurons in response to spatial learning. Furthermore, the majority of these studies have utilized Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. However, Long-Evans and Sprague-Dawley rats have been reported to have different learning abilities. In order to determine whether these strains exhibit a similar enhancement of neurogenesis and new neuronal activation in response to spatial learning we tested both strains in a hippocampus-dependent or hippocampus-independent version of the Morris water task (MWT) and then compared levels of neurogenesis and activation of these new cells in the hippocampus. Here we show that despite equivalent performance in the MWT, spatial learning produced a different effect on neurogenesis in each strain. Spatial learning increased cell survival and the number of immature neurons in SD rats compared to cage control and cue-trained rats. In Long-Evans (LE) rats however, spatial learning increased cell survival (BrdU-labeling) but did not increase the number of immature neurons (doublecortin-labeling). Furthermore, we report here an intriguing difference in the activation of new neurons (using the immediate early gene product zif268) in SD versus LE rats. In SD rats we show that spatial learning increases the percentage of doublecortin-labeled cells that are activated during a probe trial. Conversely, in LE rats spatial learning increased the activation of BrdU-labeled but not doublecortin-labeled cells. This interesting difference suggests that different ages or maturational stages of cells are recruited by spatial learning in the two strains. These findings may lead to a better understanding of how and why neurogenesis is regulated by spatial learning.
The origin of rhythm generation in mammalian spinal cord networks is still poorly understood. In a previous study, we showed that spontaneous activity in spinal networks takes its origin in the properties of certain intrinsically spiking interneurons based on the persistent sodium current (INaP). We also showed that depolarization block caused by a fast inactivation of the transient sodium current (INaT) contributes to the generation of oscillatory activity in spinal cord cultures. Recently, a toxin called beta-pompilidotoxin (-PMTX) that slows the inactivation process of tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive sodium channels has been extracted from the solitary wasp venom. In the present study, we therefore investigated the effect of -PMTX on rhythm generation and on sodium currents in spinal networks. Using intracellular recordings and multielectrode array (MEA) recordings in dissociated spinal cord cultures from embryonic (E14) rats, we found that -PMTX reduces the number of population bursts and increases the background asynchronous activity. We then uncoupled the network by blocking all synaptic transmission (APV, CNQX, bicuculline and strychnine) and observed that -PMTX increases both the intrinsic activity at individual channels and the number of intrinsically activated channels. At the cellular level, we found that -PMTX has two effects: it switches 58% of the silent interneurons into spontaneously active interneurons and increases the firing rate of intrinsically spiking cells. Finally, we investigated the effect of -PMTX on sodium currents. We found that this toxin not only affects the inactivation of INaT but also increases the peak amplitude of the persistent sodium current (INaP). Altogether, theses findings suggest that -PMTX acting on INaP and INaT enhances intrinsic activity leading to a profound modulation of spontaneous rhythmic activity in spinal networks.
The amygdala plays a critical role in determining the emotional significance of sensory stimuli and the production of fear-related responses. Large amygdalar lesions have been shown to practically abolish innate defensiveness to a predator; however, it is not clear how the different amygdalar systems participate in the defensive response to a live predator. Our first aim was to provide a comprehensive analysis of the amygdalar activation pattern during exposure to a live cat and to a predator-associated context. Accordingly, exposure to a live predator up-regulated Fos expression in the medial amygdalar nucleus (MEA) and in the lateral and posterior basomedial nuclei, the former responding to predator-related pheromonal information and the latter two nuclei likely to integrate a wider array of predatory sensory information, ranging from olfactory to non-olfactory ones, such as visual and auditory sensory inputs. Next, we tested how the amygdalar nuclei most responsive to predator exposure (i.e. the medial, posterior basomedial and lateral amygdalar nuclei) and the central amygdalar nucleus (CEA) influence both unconditioned and contextual conditioned anti-predatory defensive behavior. Medial amygdalar nucleus lesions practically abolished defensive responses during cat exposure, whereas lesions of the posterior basomedial or lateral amygdalar nuclei reduced freezing and increased risk assessment displays (i.e. crouch sniff and stretch postures), a pattern of responses compatible with decreased defensiveness to predator stimuli. Moreover, the present findings suggest a role for the posterior basomedial and lateral amygdalar nuclei in the conditioning responses to a predator-related context. We have further shown that the CEA does not seem to be involved in either unconditioned or contextual conditioned anti-predatory responses. Overall, the present results help to clarify the amygdalar systems involved in processing predator-related sensory stimuli and how they influence the expression of unconditioned and contextual conditioned anti-predatory responses.
The lipid kinase PIK3C3 (also known as VPS34) regulates multiple aspects of endo-membrane trafficking processes. PIK3C3 is widely expressed by neurons in the CNS, and its catalytic product PI3P is enriched in dendritic spines. Here we generated a line of conditional mutant mouse in which Pik3c3 is specifically deleted in hippocampal and in small subsets of cortical pyramidal neurons using the CaMKII-Cre transgene. We found that Pik3c3-deficiency initially causes loss of dendritic spines accompanied with reactive gliosis, which is followed by progressive neuronal degeneration over a period of several months. Layers III and IV cortical neurons are more susceptible to Pik3c3-deletion than hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, in aged conditional Pik3c3 mutant animals, there are extensive gliosis and severe secondary loss of wild type neurons. Our analyses show that Pik3c3 is essential for CNS neuronal homeostasis and Pik3c3flox/flox; CaMKII-Cre mouse is a useful model for studying pathological changes in progressive forebrain neurodegeneration.
Clinical and genetic studies have suggested a role for voltage gated calcium channels (VGCCs) in the pathogenesis of migraine. Release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) from trigeminal neurons has also been implicated in migraine. The VGCCs are located presynaptically on neurons and are involved in the release of these peptides to different stimuli. We have examined the presence and importance of VGCCs in controlling the CGRP release from rat dura mater, freshly isolated trigeminal ganglion (TG) and trigeminal nucleus caudalis (TNC). Each of the four VGCCs, P/Q-, N-, and L- and T-type are abundantly found in TG and TNC relative to the dura mater and each mediates a significant fraction of high potassium concentration induced CGRP release. In dura mater, blockade of P/Q-, N- and L-type VGCCs by -agatoxin TK, -conotoxin GVIA and nimodipine at 1 M respectively, significantly decreased the potassium induced CGRP release. In the absence of calcium ions (Ca2+) and in the presence of a cocktail of blockers, the stimulated CGRP release from dura mater was reduced almost to the same level as basal CGRP release. In the TG -conotoxin GVIA inhibited the potassium induced CGRP release significantly. In the absence of Ca2+ and in the presence of a cocktail of blockers the stimulated CGRP release was significantly reduced. In the TNC only the cocktail of blockers and the absence of Ca2+ could reduce the potassium induced release significantly. These results suggest that depolarization by high potassium releases CGRP, and the release is regulated by Ca2+ ions and voltage-gated calcium channels.
Adult zebrafish have the ability to recover from spinal cord injury and exhibit re-growth of descending axons from the brainstem to the spinal cord. We performed gene expression analysis using microarray to find damage-induced genes after spinal cord injury, and found that Sox11b mRNA is up-regulated at 11 days after injury. However, the functional relevance of Sox11b for regeneration is not known. Here, we report that the up-regulation of Sox11b mRNA after spinal cord injury is mainly localized in ependymal cells lining the central canal and in newly differentiating neuronal precursors or immature neurons. Using an in vivo morpholino-based gene knockout approach, we demonstrate that Sox11b is essential for locomotor recovery after spinal cord injury. In the injured spinal cord, expression of the neural stem cell associated gene Nestin, and the proneural gene Ascl1a (Mash1a), which are involved in the self-renewal and cell fate specification of endogenous neural stem cells, respectively, is regulated by Sox11b. Our data indicate that Sox11b promotes neuronal determination of endogenous stem cells and regenerative neurogenesis following spinal cord injury in the adult zebrafish. Enhancing Sox11b expression to promote proliferation and neurogenic determination of endogenous neural stem cells after injury may be a promising strategy in restorative therapy after spinal cord injury in mammals.
The ability to control locomotion through the environment and to intercept, or avoid objects is fundamental to the survival of all locomotor species. The extent to which this control relies upon optic flow, visual direction cues or non-visual sensory inputs has long been debated. Here we look at the use of sensory information in young and middle-aged participants using a locomotor-driven interceptive task. Both groups of participants were asked to produce forward displacements in more or less impoverished environments by manipulating a joystick and to regulate, if necessary, their displacement velocity so as to intercept approaching targets. We show that the displacements produced by the middle-aged participants were more nonlinear in comparison with young participants. The errors in the middle-aged group can be accounted for by a constant bearing angle (CBA) model that incorporates a decrease in the sensitivity of sensory detection with advancing age. The implications of this study to a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying the detection of the rate of change in bearing angle are discussed.
Purkinje cells (PCs) are one of the principal neurons in the cerebellar cortex that play a central role in the coordination of fine-tuning body movement and balance. To acquire normal cerebellum function, PCs develop extensive dendritic arbors that establish synaptic connections with the parallel fibers of granule cells to form the proper neuronal circuitry. Therefore, dendritic arborization of PCs is an important developmental step to construct the mature neural network in the cerebellum. However, the genetic control of this process is not fully understood. In this study, Foxp4, a forkhead transcription factor that is expressed specifically in migrating and mature PCs of cerebellum from embryonic stages to adulthood, was knocked down by small interfering RNA (siRNA) in organotypic cerebellar slice culture. When Foxp4 expression was knocked down at postnatal day 5 (P5), no abnormalities for early dendritic remodeling of PCs were observed. However, when Foxp4 was knocked down in P10 cerebellar slices, the organization of PC dendritic arbors was highly impaired, leaving hypoplastic but non-apoptotic cell bodies. The radial alignment of Bergmann glial fibers that associated with PC dendrites was also lost. These results suggest that Foxp4 is dispensable for the early PC dendrite outgrowth, but is essential for the maintenance of PC dendritic arborization and subsequent association with Bergmann glial fibers.
In the gut, transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) 1 activation leads to release of neurotransmitters such as neuropeptides and nitric oxide. However, the distribution of TRPV1 nerve fibers and neurotransmitters released form sensory nerve endings in the enteric nervous system are currently not well understood. The present study investigated the immunohistochemical distribution of TRPV1 channels, sensory neuropeptides, and nitric oxide and their co-localization in mouse large intestine. Numerous TRPV1 and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivities were detected, mainly in the mucosa, submucosal layer, and myenteric plexus. Abundant substance P (SP), neurokinin A (NKA), and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-immunoreactivity were revealed in muscle layers. Motor function studies of circular and longitudinal muscles found that contractile responses to capsaicin in the rectum were most sensitive among the rectum, and distal, transverse, and proximal colon. Double labeling studies were carried out in horizontal sections of mouse rectum. TRPV1/protein gene product (PGP)9.5 double labeled axons were observed, but PGP9.5 and neuronal nuclear protein immunopositive cell bodies did not express TRPV1 immunoreactivity in the myenteric plexus. In the mucosa, submucosal layer, deep muscular plexus, circular muscle, myenteric plexus and longitudinal muscle layer, TRPV1 nerve fibers were found to contain CGRP, SP and nNOS. SP and NKA were almost entirely colocalized at the axons and cell bodies in all layers. Double labeling with c-Kit revealed that TRPV1 nerve fibers localized adjacent to the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC). These results suggest that the TRPV1-expressing nerve and its neurotransmitters regulate various functions of the large intestine.
The neuropeptide S receptor (NPSR) is a G-protein coupled receptor that is potently activated by the linear 20 amino acid peptide, neuropeptide S (NPS). Central administration of NPS promotes arousal and anxiolytic-like effects in rodents, and fails to promote such effects in NPSR knockout animals or in the presence of NPSR-selective antagonists. In situ hybridization (ISH) studies in rat brain have revealed that the mRNAs encoding the NPS precursor and the NPS receptor are expressed at high levels in discrete regions of the rat CNS. The distribution of the NPSR protein in brain has not been reported due to a lack of available antibodies. We have generated and validated a NPSR-specific antibody and used it to determine the distribution of the NPSR in male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat brain. The anti-NPSR antibody identified a single protein by Western blot with an estimated molecular weight of 65 kD, which was prevented by pre-incubation of the antibody with the immunizing peptide. The protein distribution identified with this antibody in rat brain was consistent both with the mRNA distribution identified by in situ hybridization, and to the localization pattern identified by a second NPSR-specific antibody against a distinct NPSR epitope. NPSR protein was identified in the medial amygdala (MeA), substantia nigra pars compacta, subiculum, dorsal raphe, and several hypothalamic and thalamic regions. Additionally, NPSR protein was localized in the pyramidal cell layer of the ventral hippocampus, the medial habenula (MHb), and was widely distributed in the cortex. The distribution of NPSR protein provides further insight into the organization of the NPS system and may guide future studies on the role of the NPSR in brain.
Brain vasopressin plays a role in behavioral and cognitive functions and in pathological conditions. Relevant examples are pair bonding, social recognition, fear responses, stress disorders, anxiety and depression. At the neuronal level, vasopressin exerts its effects by binding to V1a receptors. In the brainstem, vasopressin can excite facial motoneurons by generating a sustained inward current which is sodium-dependent, tetrodotoxin-insensitive and voltage-gated. This effect is independent of intracellular calcium mobilization and is unaffected by phospholipase C (PLC) or protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors. There are two major unsolved problems. (i) What is the intracellular signaling pathway activated by vasopressin? (ii) What is the exact nature of the vasopressin-sensitive cation channels? We performed recordings in brainstem slices. Facial motoneurons were voltage-clamped in the whole-cell configuration. We show that a major fraction, if not the totality, of the peptide effect was mediated by cAMP signaling and that the vasopressin-sensitive cation channels were directly gated by cAMP. These channels appear to exclude lithium, are suppressed by 2-aminoethoxydiphenylborane (2-APB) and flufenamic acid (FFA) but not by ruthenium red or amiloride. They are distinct from transient receptor channels and from cyclic nucleotide-regulated channels involved in visual and olfactory transduction. They present striking similarities with cation channels present in a variety of molluscan neurons. To our knowledge, the presence in mammalian neurons of channels having these properties has not been previously reported. Our data should contribute to a better knowledge of the neural mechanism of the central actions of vasopressin, and may be potentially significant in view of clinical applications.
Environmental enrichment has been shown to be neuroprotective in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Because PD patients are not typically diagnosed until later neuropathological stages, the current study investigated the capacity of an enriched environment (EE) to stimulate restoration of neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and locomotor recovery after lesioning, as opposed to before. A low-dose chronic MPTP regimen was used to achieve a partial, less severe lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway not seen in acute MPTP models. Both young adult (10 weeks) and aged (12 months) C57BL/6J male mice were used to assess the effects of aging on recovery with EE intervention. After the first week of either MPTP (7 mg/kg/d in young; 5 mg/kg/d in aged) or saline injection, animals from both groups were housed in a standard environment (SE) or an EE for 3 weeks, with continued daily administration of MPTP. We are the first to report that following 3 weeks exposure to an EE, young and aged MPTP-lesioned mice showed a significant 53% and 52% restoration of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-labeled neurons in the SNpc, respectively. This increase in TH-labeled cells in the MPTP+EE group was correlated with recovery of free-standing rear (FSR) behavior in both age groups; however, improved locomotor control as measured by foot faults (FF) per total activity was only seen in the aged MPTP+EE group. Our data demonstrate that an EE promotes neurorestoration in TH protein expression in SNpc neurons as well as some locomotor recovery in both young and aged animals in this mouse model of PD.
Electroporation of neurons, i.e. electric-field induced generation of membrane nanopores to facilitate internalization of molecules, is a classic technique used in basic neuroscience research and recently has been proposed as a promising therapeutic strategy in the area of neuro-oncology. To optimize electroporation parameters, optical techniques capable of delivering time and spatially-resolved information on electroporation pore formation at the nanometer scale would be advantageous. For this purpose we describe here a novel optical method based on second harmonic generation (SHG) microscopy. Due to the nonlinear and coherent nature of SHG, the 3D radiation lobes from stained neuronal membranes are sensitive to the spatial distribution of scatterers in the illuminated patch, and in particular to nanopore formation.We used phase-array analysis to computationally study the SHG signal as a function of nanopore size and nanopore population density and confirmed experimentally, in accordance with previous work, the dependence of nanopore properties on membrane location with respect to the electroporation electric field; higher nanopore densities, lasting &lt; 5 milliseconds, are observed at membrane patches perpendicular to the field whereas lower density is observed at partly tangent locations. Differences between near-anode and near-cathode cell poles are also measured, showing higher pore densities at the anodic pole compared to cathodic pole. This technique is promising for the study of nanopore dynamics in neurons and for the optimization of novel electroporation-based therapeutic approaches.

Learning of arbitrary stimulus-response associations is an adaptive behavior essential for species survival in an ever-changing environment. Particular subdivisions of the striatum have been shown to be critical for both motor-response learning and reversal learning. However, recent evidence suggests that different cortical and subcortical brain regions may be involved in response learning, a kind of learning more complex than previously thought. In fact, many brain regions subserving response learning seem to be also related to reversal learning, traditionally ascribed to the prefrontal cortex. The present study examined the role of different subdivisions of the rat prefrontal cortex, striatum, amygdala and the ventral tegmental area on both response and reversal learning evaluated in the water T-maze. Increased neuronal metabolic activity, as measured by cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry, was found in most brain regions after training rats in a response learning task as compared to yoked controls. Reversal learning was associated with a return to baseline CO activity levels except for the orbitofrontal cortex and the ventral tegmental area. Analysis of functional connectivity among brain regions showed significant correlations in CO activity between particular cortical and striatal subdivisions in the reversal learning group. These findings suggest that the interaction of specific frontal and subcortical regions is required for reversal but not for response learning. However, our findings support the involvement of a cortico-limbic-striatal circuit in both types of learning.
One of the histopathological consequences of a penetrating ballistic brain injury is the formation of a permanent cavity. In a previous study using the penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI) model, engrafted human amnion-derived multipotent progenitor (AMP) cells failed to survive when injected directly in the injury tract, suggesting that the cell survival requires a supportive matrix. In this study, we seated AMP cells in a collagen-based scaffold, injected into the injury core, and investigated cell survival and neuroprotection following PBBI. AMP cells suspended in AMP cell conditioned medium (ACCS) or in a liquefied collagen matrix were injected immediately after a PBBI along the penetrating injury tract. Injured control rats received only liquefied collagen matrix. All animals were allowed to survive two weeks. Consistent with our previous results, AMP cells suspended in ACCS failed to survive; likewise, no collagen was identified at the injury site when injected alone. In contrast, both AMP cells and the collagen were preserved in the injury cavity when injected together. In addition, AMP cells/collagen treatment preserved some apparent brain tissue in the injury cavity, and there was measurable infiltration of endogenous neural progenitor cells and astrocytes into the preserved brain tissue. AMP cells were also found to have migrated into the subventricular zone and the corpus callosum. Moreover, the AMP cell/collagen treatment significantly attenuated the PBBI-induced axonal degeneration in the corpus callosum and ipsilateral thalamus and improved motor impairment on rotarod performance. Overall, collagen-based scaffold provided a supportive matrix for AMP cell survival, migration, and neuroprotection.
Cerebellar cortical interneurons such as Golgi cells, basket cells, stellate cells, unipolar brush cells, and granule cells play an essential role in the operations of the cerebellum. However, detailed functional studies of the activity of these cells in both anesthetized and behaving animals have been hampered by problems in recognizing their physiological signatures. We have extracellularly recorded the spontaneous activity of vestibulocerebellar interneurons in ketamine/xylazine-anesthetized rats and subsequently labeled them with Neurobiotin using the juxtacellular technique. After recovery and morphological identification of these cells, they were related to statistical measures of their spontaneous activity. Golgi cells display a somewhat irregular firing pattern with relatively low average frequencies. Unipolar brush cells are characterized by more regular firing at higher rates. Basket and stellate cells are alike in their firing characteristics, which mainly stand out by their irregularity; some of them are set apart by their very slow average rate. The spontaneous activity of interneurons examined in the ketamine/xylazine rabbit fit within this general pattern. In the rabbit, granule cells were identified by the spontaneous occurrence of extremely high-frequency bursts of action potentials, which were also recognized in the rat. On the basis of these observations, we devised an algorithm that reliably determined the identity of 75% of the cells with only 2% incorrect classifications. The remaining cells were placed into border categories within which no classification was attempted. We propose that this algorithm can be used to help classify vestibulocerebellar interneurons recorded in awake, behaving animals.
Extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer (EMMPRIN, CD147) is a member of the Ig superfamily, with various physiological roles including the induction of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), leukocyte activation, and tumor progression. In this study, we illustrate a novel involvement of EMMPRIN in multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). We found EMMPRIN levels to be upregulated on peripheral leukocytes before onset of EAE clinical signs and on infiltrating leukocytes and resident cells within the CNS in symptomatic mice. In EAE brain sections, EMMPRIN expression was localized with MMP-9 protein and activity. The increased EMMPRIN level was also characteristic of brain samples from MS subjects, particularly in plaque-containing areas. To evaluate the implications of elevated EMMPRIN levels, we treated EAE mice with an EMMPRIN function-blocking antibody and found reduced EAE clinical severity accompanied by decreased CNS parenchymal infiltration of leukocytes. Amelioration of EAE clinical signs by the anti-EMMPRIN antibody was critically dependent on its administration around the period of onset of clinical signs, which is typically associated with significant influx of leukocytes into the CNS. Moreover, the reduction in disease severity in anti-EMMPRIN-treated mice was associated with diminished MMP proteolytic activity at the glia limitans, the final barrier before parenchymal infiltration of leukocytes. Together, our results are the first to emphasize a role for EMMPRIN in MS and EAE, whereby EMMPRIN regulates leukocyte trafficking through increasing MMP activity. These results identify EMMPRIN as a novel therapeutic target in MS.
Progesterone plays a key role in ovarian cycle-related synaptic plasticity and neuronal excitability. Progesterone receptors (PRs), which mediate the cellular actions of progesterone, are expressed in the hippocampus and other limbic regions, but their functional significance remains unknown. Here, we report a novel role of PRs as crucial mediators in the development of epileptogenesis, which is the process whereby a normal brain becomes progressively epileptic because of precipitating factors. The PR knock-out (PR(-/-)) mouse, which lacks both the PR-A and PR-B isoforms, exhibited an increased resistance to epileptogenesis in the hippocampus and amygdala kindling models. Lack of PRs markedly impaired the persistence of seizure expression at 4 weeks after kindling development. We further show that selective inhibition of PRs in the brain by antisense oligos or pharmacological blockade of PRs by RU-486 [11-[p-(dimethylamino)phenyl]-17-hydroxy-17-(1-propynyl)estra-4,9-dien-3-one] resulted in a significant decrease in epileptogenesis in wild-type (PR(+/+)) mice. The delayed epileptogenesis in PR knock-out mice was not substantially affected by inhibition of neurosteroid synthesis. Mice lacking PRs show supersensitivity to the antiseizure responses of progesterone. Collectively, these results suggest that PRs in the hippocampus are linked to signaling pathways that control susceptibility to epileptogenesis and possibly persistence of an epileptic-like state. The PR pathway may represent a unique target for preventing or retarding epileptogenesis in females.
Among the pathologic hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neurodegeneration, only synaptic loss in the brains of AD patients closely correlates with the degree of dementia in vivo. Here, we describe a molecular basis for this AD loss of synapses: pathological reduction of synaptogenic PKC isozymes and their downstream synaptogenic substrates, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor. This reduction, particularly of PKC  and , occurs in association with elevation of soluble  amyloid protein (A), but before the appearance of the amyloid plaques or neuronal loss in the Tg2576 AD transgenic mouse strain. Conversely, treatment of the Tg2576 mouse brain with the PKC activator, bryostatin-1, restores normal or supranormal levels of PKC  and , reduces the level of soluble A, prevents and/or reverses the loss of hippocampal synapses, and prevents the memory impairment observed at 5 months postpartum. Similarly, the PKC -specific activator, DCP-LA, effectively prevents synaptic loss, amyloid plaques, and cognitive deficits (also prevented by bryostatin-1) in the much more rapidly progressing 5XFAD transgenic strain. These results suggest that synaptic loss and the resulting cognitive deficits depend on the balance between the lowering effects of A on PKC  and  versus the lowering effects of PKC on A in AD transgenic mice.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of the neurotrophin family, promotes survival and synaptic plasticity in the human brain. The Val66Met polymorphism of the BDNF gene interferes with intracellular trafficking, packaging, and regulated secretion of this neurotrophin. The human prefrontal cortex (PFC) shows lifelong neuroplastic adaption implicating the Val66Met BDNF polymorphism in the recovery of higher-order executive functions after traumatic brain injury (TBI). In this study, we examined the effect of this BDNF polymorphism on the recovery of executive functioning after TBI. We genotyped a sample of male Vietnam combat veterans consisting of a frontal lobe lesion group with focal penetrating head injuries and a non-head-injured control group for the Val66Met BDNF polymorphism. The Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System as a standardized psychometric battery was administrated to examine key domains of executive functions. The results revealed that the Met allele but not the hypothesized Val allele promotes recovery of executive functioning. Overall, the Met66 carriers in the lesion group performed as well as the Met66 carriers in the control group. The Met66 allele accounted for 6.2% of variance for executive functioning independently of other significant predictors including preinjury intelligence, left hemisphere volume loss, and dorsolateral PFC volume loss. The findings point to different mechanisms of the Val66Met BDNF gene in complex phenotypes under normal and pathological conditions. A better understanding of these mechanisms could be instrumental in the development and application of effective therapeutic strategies to facilitate recovery from TBI.
Multiple stimuli present in the visual field at the same time compete for neural representation by mutually suppressing their evoked activity throughout visual cortex, providing a neural correlate for the limited processing capacity of the visual system. Competitive interactions among stimuli can be counteracted by top-down, goal-directed mechanisms such as attention, and by bottom-up, stimulus-driven mechanisms. Because these two processes cooperate in everyday life to bias processing toward behaviorally relevant or particularly salient stimuli, it has proven difficult to study interactions between top-down and bottom-up mechanisms. Here, we used an experimental paradigm in which we first isolated the effects of a bottom-up influence on neural competition by parametrically varying the degree of perceptual grouping in displays that were not attended. Second, we probed the effects of directed attention on the competitive interactions induced with the parametric design. We found that the amount of attentional modulation varied linearly with the degree of competition left unresolved by bottom-up processes, such that attentional modulation was greatest when neural competition was little influenced by bottom-up mechanisms and smallest when competition was strongly influenced by bottom-up mechanisms. These findings suggest that the strength of attentional modulation in the visual system is constrained by the degree to which competitive interactions have been resolved by bottom-up processes related to the segmentation of scenes into candidate objects.
In the gray matter of the brain, astrocytes have been suggested to export lactate (derived from glucose or glycogen) to neurons to power their mitochondria. In the white matter, lactate can support axon function in conditions of energy deprivation, but it is not known whether lactate acts by preserving energy levels in axons or in oligodendrocytes, the myelinating processes of which are damaged rapidly in low energy conditions. Studies of cultured cells suggest that oligodendrocytes are the cell type in the brain that consumes lactate at the highest rate, in part to produce membrane lipids presumably for myelin. Here, we use pH imaging to show that oligodendrocytes in the white matter of the rat cerebellum and corpus callosum take up lactate via monocarboxylate transporters (MCTs), which we identify as MCT1 by confocal immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. Using cultured slices of developing cerebral cortex from mice in which oligodendrocyte lineage cells express GFP (green fluorescent protein) under the control of the Sox10 promoter, we show that a low glucose concentration reduces the number of oligodendrocyte lineage cells and myelination. Myelination is rescued when exogenous l-lactate is supplied. Thus, lactate can support oligodendrocyte development and myelination. In CNS diseases involving energy deprivation at times of myelination or remyelination, such as periventricular leukomalacia leading to cerebral palsy, stroke, and secondary ischemia after spinal cord injury, lactate transporters in oligodendrocytes may play an important role in minimizing the inhibition of myelination that occurs.
Hypothetical reports of intended behavior are commonly used to draw conclusions about real choices. A fundamental question in decision neuroscience is whether the same type of valuation and choice computations are performed in hypothetical and real decisions. We investigated this question using functional magnetic resonance imaging while human subjects made real and hypothetical choices about purchases of consumer goods. We found that activity in common areas of the orbitofrontal cortex and the ventral striatum correlated with behavioral measures of the stimulus value of the goods in both types of decision. Furthermore, we found that activity in these regions was stronger in response to the stimulus value signals in the real choice condition. The findings suggest that the difference between real and hypothetical choice is primarily attributable to variations in the value computations of the medial orbitofrontal cortex and the ventral striatum, and not attributable to the use of different valuation systems, or to the computation of stronger stimulus value signals in the hypothetical condition.
Understanding the physical encoding of a memory (the engram) is a fundamental question in neuroscience. Although it has been established that the lateral amygdala is a key site for encoding associative fear memory, it is currently unclear whether the spatial distribution of neurons encoding a given memory is random or stable. Here we used spatial principal components analysis to quantify the topography of activated neurons, in a select region of the lateral amygdala, from rat brains encoding a Pavlovian conditioned fear memory. Our results demonstrate a stable, spatially patterned organization of amygdala neurons are activated during the formation of a Pavlovian conditioned fear memory. We suggest that this stable neuronal assembly constitutes a spatial dimension of the engram.
The news in addiction medicine for 2010 include somatic, neuroscientific as well as psychotherapeutic aspects. First are considered the risks of cardiac arythmy with methadone as long as the racemate form is prescribed in Switzerland. Then the neurosciences bring their usual novelties in the field of the addictions, this year in relational neuroscience and in the relationship between trauma and addiction. At last a contribution bridges the notion of low threshold treatment with the psychodynamic approach.
7,8-Dihydro-8-oxoguanine (8oxoG) is a major mutagenic base lesion formed when reactive oxygen species react with guanine in DNA. The human 8oxoG DNA glycosylase (hOgg1) recognizes and initiates repair of 8oxoG. hOgg1 is acknowledged as a bifunctional DNA glycosylase catalyzing removal of the damaged base followed by cleavage of the backbone of the intermediate abasic DNA (AP lyase/-elimination). When acting on 8oxoG-containing DNA, these two steps in the hOgg1 catalysis are considered coupled, with Lys249 implicated as a key residue. However, several lines of evidence point to a concurrent and independent monofunctional hydrolysis of the N-glycosylic bond being the invivo relevant reaction mode of hOgg1. Here, we present biochemical and structural evidence for the monofunctional mode of hOgg1 by design of separation-of-function mutants. Asp268 is identified as the catalytic residue, while Lys249 appears critical for the specific recognition and final alignment of 8oxoG during the hydrolysis reaction.


Despite their relatively small brains, with only about 100,000 neurons, fruit flies show many complex behaviours. Understanding how these behaviours are generated will require a wiring diagram of the brain, and significant progress is being made towards this goal. One study has labelled 16,000 individual neurons and generated a coarse wiring diagram of the whole fly brain, identifying subnetworks that may carry out local information processing.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) indicates the averaged electrical activity of the neuronal populations on a large-scale level. It is widely utilized as a noninvasive brain monitoring tool in cognitive neuroscience as well as a diagnostic tool for epilepsy and sleep disorders in neurology. However, the underlying mechanism of EEG rhythm generation is still under the veil. Recently introduced polyimide-based microelectrode (PBM-array) for high resolution mouse EEG is one of the trials to answer the neurophysiological questions on EEG signals based on a rich genetic resource that the mouse model contains for the analysis of complex EEG generation process. This application of nanofabricated PBM-array to mouse skull is an efficient tool for collecting large-scale brain activity of transgenic mice and accommodates to identify the neural correlates to certain EEG rhythms in conjunction with behavior. However its ultra-thin thickness and bifurcated structure cause a trouble in handling and implantation of PBM-array. In the presented video, the preparation and surgery steps for the implantation of PBM-array on a mouse skull are described step by step. Handling and surgery tips to help researchers succeed in implantation are also provided.
Microglial dysfunction is associated with the pathogenesis and progression of a number of neurodegenerative disorders including HIV associated dementia (HAD). HIV promotion of an M1 antigen presenting cell (APC) - like microglial phenotype, through the promotion of CD40 activity, may impair endogenous mechanisms important for amyloid- beta (A) protein clearance. Further, a chronic pro-inflammatory cycle is established in this manner. CD45 is a protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor which negatively regulates CD40L-CD40-induced microglial M1 activation; an effect leading to the promotion of an M2 phenotype better suited to phagocytose and clear A. Moreover, this CD45 mediated activation state appears to dampen harmful cytokine production. As such, this property of microglial CD45 as a regulatory &quot;off switch&quot; for a CD40-promoted M1, APC-type microglia activation phenotype may represent a critical therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of neurodegeneration, as well as microglial dysfunction, found in patients with HAD.

Both theoretical and experimental research has indicated that the synaptic strength between neurons in a network needs to be properly fine-tuned and controlled by homeostatic mechanisms to ensure proper network function. One such mechanism that has been extensively characterized is synaptic homeostatic plasticity or global synaptic scaling. This mechanism refers to the bidirectional ability of all synapses impinging on a neuron to actively compensate for changes in the neuron's overall excitability. Here, using a combination of electrophysiological, two-photon glutamate uncaging and imaging methods, we show that mature individual synapses, independent of neighboring synapses, have the ability to autonomously sense their level of activity and actively compensate for it in a homeostatic-like fashion. This synapse-specific homeostatic plasticity, similar to global synaptic plasticity, requires the immediate early gene Arc. Together, our results document an extra level of regulation of synaptic function that bears important computational consequences on information storage in the brain.
The sense of smell begins with odorant molecules binding to membrane receptors on the cilia of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), thereby activating a G protein, G(olf), and the downstream effector enzyme, an adenylyl cyclase (ACIII). Recently, we have found in amphibian ORNs that an odorant-binding event has a low probability of activating sensory transduction at all; even when successful, the resulting unitary response apparently involves a single active G(olf)-ACIII molecular complex. This low amplification is in contrast to rod phototransduction in vision, the best-quantified G-protein signaling pathway, where each photoisomerized rhodopsin molecule is well known to produce substantial amplification by activating many G-protein, and hence effector-enzyme, molecules. We have now carried out similar experiments on mouse ORNs, which offer, additionally, the advantage of genetics. Indeed, we found the same low probability of transduction, based on the unitary olfactory response having a fairly constant amplitude and similar kinetics across different odorants and randomly encountered ORNs. Also, consistent with our picture, the unitary response of G(olf)(+/-) ORNs was similar to WT in amplitude, although their G(olf)-protein expression was only half of normal. Finally, from the action potential firing, we estimated that 19 odorant-binding events successfully triggering transduction in a WT mouse ORN will lead to signaling to the brain.
Target-derived neurotrophins use retrogradely transported Trk-signaling endosomes to promote survival and neuronal phenotype at the soma. Despite their critical role in neurotrophin signaling, the nature and molecular composition of these endosomes remain largely unknown, the result of an inability to specifically identify the retrograde signaling entity. Using EGF-bound nanoparticles and chimeric, EGF-binding TrkB receptors, we elucidate Trk-endosomal events involving their formation, processing, retrograde transport, and somal signaling in sympathetic neurons. By comparing retrograde endosomal signaling by Trk to the related but poorly neuromodulatory EGF-receptor, we find that Trk and EGF-receptor endosomes are formed and processed by distinct mechanisms. Surprisingly, Trk and EGF-receptors are both retrogradely transported to the soma in multivesicular bodies. However, only the Trk-multivesicular bodies rely on Pincher-dependent macroendocytosis and processing. Retrograde signaling through Pincher-generated Trk-multivesicular bodies is distinctively refractory to signal termination by lysosomal processing, resulting in sustained somal signaling and neuronal gene expression.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is caused by mutations in dystrophin and the subsequent disruption of the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DAPC). Utrophin is a dystrophin homolog expressed at high levels in developing muscle that is an attractive target for DMD therapy. Here we show that the extracellular matrix protein biglycan regulates utrophin expression in immature muscle and that recombinant human biglycan (rhBGN) increases utrophin expression in cultured myotubes. Systemically delivered rhBGN up-regulates utrophin at the sarcolemma and reduces muscle pathology in the mdx mouse model of DMD. RhBGN treatment also improves muscle function as judged by reduced susceptibility to eccentric contraction-induced injury. Utrophin is required for the rhBGN therapeutic effect. Several lines of evidence indicate that biglycan acts by recruiting utrophin protein to the muscle membrane. RhBGN is well tolerated in animals dosed for as long as 3 months. We propose that rhBGN could be a therapy for DMD.
Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P), a lysophospholipid, has gained relevance to multiple sclerosis through the discovery of FTY720 (fingolimod), recently approved as an oral treatment for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. Its mechanism of action is thought to be immunological through an active phosphorylated metabolite, FTY720-P, that resembles S1P and alters lymphocyte trafficking through receptor subtype S1P(1). However, previously reported expression and in vitro studies of S1P receptors suggested that direct CNS effects of FTY720 might theoretically occur through receptor modulation on neurons and glia. To identify CNS cells functionally contributing to FTY720 activity, genetic approaches were combined with cellular and molecular analyses. These studies relied on the functional assessment, based on clinical score, of conditional null mouse mutants lacking S1P(1) in CNS cell lineages and challenged by experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis. All conditional null mutants displayed WT lymphocyte trafficking that responded normally to FTY720. In marked contrast, EAE was attenuated and FTY720 efficacy was lost in CNS mutants lacking S1P(1) on GFAP-expressing astrocytes but not on neurons. In situ hybridization studies confirmed that astrocyte loss of S1P(1) was the key alteration in functionally affected mutants. Reductions in EAE clinical scores were paralleled by reductions in demyelination, axonal loss, and astrogliosis. Receptor rescue and pharmacological experiments supported the loss of S1P(1) on astrocytes through functional antagonism by FTY720-P as a primary FTY720 mechanism. These data identify nonimmunological CNS mechanisms of FTY720 efficacy and implicate S1P signaling pathways within the CNS as targets for multiple sclerosis therapies.
Percutaneous exposure to the chemical warfare nerve agent VX was evaluated in African green monkeys (n=9). Doses of VX (7.5-100 g/kg) were applied to the skin for 60 min and residual agent was quantified (before decontamination) to estimate the absorbed dose. Monkeys were evaluated for the presence or absence of clinical signs of toxicity and blood was sampled periodically (30 min--12 weeks) following exposure to measure the degree of circulating acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition. Monkeys were also evaluated for behavioral changes from VX exposure using a serial probe recognition (SPR) task. The lowest observable adverse effect level (LOAEL) for the production of major clinical signs was determined to be 42.22 g/kg (absorbed dose estimate=17.36 g/kg) and the LOAEL for AChE inhibition was 13.33 g/kg (absorbed dose estimate=6.53 g/kg). Behavioral performance was unaffected at doses that, while producing substantial AChE inhibition, did not produce clinical signs. VX represents a substantial threat as a contact hazard and these results complement previous studies using the percutaneous route of exposure with VX and extend the findings to a non-human primate species.
Environmental exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals is receiving increasing attention, with particular regard to distinct periods of development where neuroendocrine circuitries are critical for shaping the mammalian brain. Atrazine (ATZ), a widely used herbicide, has been reported to affect steroid hormones and interfere with pathways critical for sex-specific physiological and behavioral development. Aim of the present study was to evaluate effects of perinatal exposure to environmentally relevant subtoxic doses of ATZ, on neurobehavioral development in mice and investigate possible alterations in steroid hormone metabolism. Neurobehavioral development of female and male mice delivered from CD1 dams, and daily exposed from Gestational Day 14 until Postnatal Day 21 (PND 21) to 1 or 100 g/kg bw ATZ, was investigated. Specifically, locomotor and exploratory activity, social interactions and cognitive performance were evaluated at PND 16, 31 and 60, respectively. Moreover, general toxicity clinical signs, testicular parameters, rate of testosterone metabolism and aromatase activity in F1 male liver were analyzed at adulthood. Changes in exploratory profile and in affiliative/investigative behavior were observed, revealing a feminization of behavioral profile in ATZ-exposed males. Alteration in learning performance at adulthood was also evident. A limited decreased sperm count and concentration, as well as some slight impairment in hepatic testosterone metabolism and in aromatase activity (slightly but not significantly decreased) were observed in both low and high dose exposed animals. In conclusion developmental exposure to non-toxic, environmentally relevant doses of ATZ can produce subtle functional alterations, detectable in juvenile rodents by a detailed behavioral analysis. Behavioral disturbances appeared mainly related with neurodevelopmental disorder affecting the social domain and the emotional/affective repertoire, although further research is needed to elucidate the mechanism through which the effects are induced.

Three new caged neurotransmitters were synthesized built around the 2-(ortho-nitrophenyl)propyl (NPP) caging chromophore. The NPP-caged L-glutamate (Glu) and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) derivatives, which have an extended -electron system bearing two carboxylates or phosphates were highly soluble (&gt;50 mM) and hydrolytically stable at physiological pH. Uncaging GABA with ultraviolet light blocked network oscillations in layer 1 of the neocortex of a living mouse. Two-photon photolysis of caged Glu at single spine heads evoked changes in membrane voltage that were identical to synaptic stimulations. The implications of solubility complexities for the further development of the NPP scaffold for neurotransmitter uncaging are discussed in the context of other recent developments in this area.
A novel growth hormone secretagogues type 1a (GHS1a) receptors antagonist (2R)-N'-[3,5- bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-2-[(8aR)-hexahydropyrrolo[1,2-a]pyrazin-2(1H)-yl]-2-(3- pyridinyl)ethanohydrazide (GSK1614343) was functionally characterised in rat pituitary adenoma cell line, RC-4B/C endogenously expressing GHS1a receptors. The antagonism profile of GSK1614343 was compared with that of 6-[(4-fluorophenyl)oxy]-2-methyl-3-{[(3S)-1-(1-methylethyl)-3- piperidinyl]methyl}-4(3H)-quinazolinone (YIL-781) another ghrelin receptor antagonist recently published. The activity of both compounds was also evaluated at rat recombinant GHS1a receptors. The characterization of the two antagonists was performed by intracellular calcium mobilization measurements by using fluorometric imaging plate reader (FLIPR) technology and inositol phosphate (IP) turnover measurements by [3H]-IP accumulation assay. RC-4B/C and U2-OS cells transiently transduced with rat GHS1a receptors virus were used. In RC-4B/C cells, GSK1614343 and YIL-781, depressed the ghrelin maximal response in FLIPR assay as result of hemi-equilibria phenomenon. When using the [3H]-IP accumulation assay both compounds behaved as competitive antagonist with pKB values of 8.03 for GSK1614343 and 7.54 for YIL-781. In rat recombinant receptor, GSK1614343 and YIL-781 inhibited the calcium response induced by ghrelin with pIC50 values of 7.90 and 8.27, respectively. GSK1614343 and YIL-781 did not show intrinsic activity in both endogenously expressed and recombinant rat GHS1a receptors. The new ghrelin receptor antagonist GSK1614343 is a potent competitive antagonist in rat pituitary RC-4B/C cells endogenously expressing GHS1a receptors when equilibrium conditions between ligand and receptor are reached in the test assay. GSK1614343 represents a useful tool to investigate the physiological relevance of the ghrelin system in rat models.
Co-administration of caffeine profoundly enhances the acute toxicity of 3,4 methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) in rats. The aim of this study was to determine the ability of caffeine to impact upon MDMA-induced dopamine release in superfused brain tissue slices as a contributing factor to this drug interaction. MDMA (100 and 300M) induced a dose-dependent increase in dopamine release in striatal and hypothalamic tissue slices preloaded with [(3)H] dopamine (1M). Caffeine (100M) also induced dopamine release in the striatum and hypothalamus, albeit to a much lesser extent than MDMA. When striatal tissue slices were superfused with MDMA (30M) in combination with caffeine (30M), caffeine enhanced MDMA-induced dopamine release, provoking a greater response than that obtained following either caffeine or MDMA applications alone. The synergistic effects in the striatum were not observed in hypothalamic slices. As adenosine A(1) receptors are, one of the main pharmacological targets of caffeine, which are known to play an important role in the regulation of dopamine release, their role in the modulation of MDMA-induced dopamine release was investigated. 1M 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), a specific A(1) antagonist, like caffeine, enhanced MDMA-induced dopamine release from striatal slices while 1M 2,chloro-N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA), a selective adenosine A(1) receptor agonist, attenuated this. Treatment with either SCH 58261, a selective A(2A) receptor antagonist, or rolipram, a selective PDE-4 inhibitor, failed to reproduce a caffeine-like effect on MDMA-induced dopamine release. These results suggest that caffeine regulates MDMA-induced dopamine release in striatal tissue slices, via inhibition of adenosine A(1) receptors.

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family ligands (GFLs) are potent survival factors for dopaminergic neurons and motoneurons with therapeutic potential for Parkinson's disease. Soluble GFLs bind to a ligand-specific glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored coreceptor (GDNF family receptor ) and signal through the receptor tyrosine kinase RET. In this paper, we show that all immobilized matrix-bound GFLs, except persephin, use a fundamentally different receptor. They interact with syndecan-3, a transmembrane heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycan, by binding to its HS chains with high affinity. GFL-syndecan-3 interaction mediates both cell spreading and neurite outgrowth with the involvement of Src kinase activation. GDNF promotes migration of cortical neurons in a syndecan-3-dependent manner, and in agreement, mice lacking syndecan-3 or GDNF have a reduced number of cortical -aminobutyric acid-releasing neurons, suggesting a central role for the two molecules in cortical development. Collectively, syndecan-3 may directly transduce GFL signals or serve as a coreceptor, presenting GFLs to the signaling receptor RET.
Zona occludens (ZO) proteins are molecular scaffolds localized to cell junctions, which regulate epithelial integrity in mammals. Using newly generated null alleles, we demonstrate that polychaetoid (pyd), the unique Drosophila melanogaster ZO homologue, regulates accumulation of adherens junction-localized receptors, such as Notch, although it is dispensable for epithelial polarization. Pyd positively regulates Notch signaling during sensory organ development but acts negatively on Notch to restrict the ovary germline stem cell niche. In both contexts, we identify a core antagonistic interaction between Pyd and the WW domain E3 ubiquitin ligase Su(dx). Pyd binds Su(dx) directly, in part through a noncanonical WW-binding motif. Pyd also restricts epithelial wing cell numbers to control adult wing shape, a function associated with the FERM protein Expanded and independent of Su(dx). As both Su(dx) and Expanded regulate trafficking, we propose that a conserved role of ZO proteins is to coordinate receptor trafficking and signaling with junctional organization.
Using identical stimuli and methods, we assessed the effects of flankers on three different tasks, orientation discrimination, contrast discrimination, and detection, in central, peripheral, and amblyopic vision. The goal was to understand the factors that limit performance of a task in the presence of flankers in each of these visual systems. The results demonstrate that: (1) For unflanked targets, the losses in peripheral and amblyopic vision (relative to the normal fovea) are ordered, with the loss of unflanked contrast discrimination thresholds considerably smaller than those for either detection or orientation discrimination. (2) For flanked targets, in normal foveal vision and anisometropic amblyopia, the critical distance is more or less proportional to the target size, whereas in peripheral and strabismic amblyopic vision, the critical distance shows much less (or no) dependence on target size. (3) For the normal fovea, and anisometropic amblyopia, when the target is large (&gt;0.2 deg) the amount of threshold elevation induced by flankers is low, increasing when the target is very small. On the other hand, for the periphery and the amblyopic eyes of most strabismic amblyopes, the elevation is large over the range of sizes tested. (4) In peripheral and strabismic amblyopic vision, remote flankers elevate orientation discrimination and contrast discrimination thresholds but not detection thresholds. Our results show clearly that the effects of flanks depend on both the task and the type of visual system. We conclude that in normal foveal vision and anisometropic amblyopia, the effects of flankers largely reflects a reduction in visibility and may be explained by masking. On the other hand, in peripheral vision and strabismic amblyopia, the effects of flankers on orientation discrimination and to a lesser extent contrast discrimination cannot be explained by simple masking and are due to crowding.
In vivo imaging of adenosine function has become feasible with the specific A(1) adenosine receptor ligand [(18)F]CPFPX and positron emission tomography (PET). It is, however, still an open question whether [(18)F]CPFPX is displaceable by endogenous adenosine, which would allow to detect activity-dependent adenosine release in vivo. We used the tritiated analog of [(18)F]CPFPX, [(3)H]CPFPX, to quantify A(1) adenosine receptors (A(1)AR) in grey matter tissue homogenates of four human brains and A(1)AR transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells, respectively. Saturation binding experiments in the presence of a stable GTP analog revealed a dissociation constant (K(D)) of 2.40.5nM. The unselective endogenous A(1)AR agonist adenosine and the antagonist caffeine displaced specific [(3)H]CPFPX binding completely at high doses. Concentrations sufficient to inhibit 50% of binding (IC(50)) were 6.92.7M for adenosine and 14815.4M for caffeine. Respective inhibition constants (K(i)) were 2.80.9M and 61.411.2M.The present report supports the possibility of studying acute effects of adenosine and caffeine in vivo with [(18)F]CPFPX and PET. Pathophysiological conditions like hypoxia which increase endogenous adenosine concentrations several folds might interfere with in vivo [(18)F]CPFPX binding. Caffeine intake previous to the investigation should be considered as a confounding factor regarding the determination of receptor densities with [(18)F]CPFPX and PET.
This study reported the role of orthography in semantic activation processes of Chinese single-character words. Eighteen native Chinese speaking adults were recruited to take part in a Stroop experiment consisting of one-character color words and pseudowords which were orthographically similar to these color words. Classic behavioral Stroop effects, namely longer reaction times for incongruent conditions than for congruent conditions, were demonstrated for color words and pseudowords. A clear N450 was also observed in the two incongruent conditions. The participants were also asked to perform a visual judgment task immediately following the Stroop experiment. Results from the visual judgment task showed that participants could distinguish color words and pseudowords well (with a mean accuracy rate over 90 percent). Taken together, these findings support the direct orthography-semantic route in Chinese one-character words.
Recent study shows that NT69L, an analog of neurotensin (NT) (8-13), reduces ethanol consumption and preference in mice through modulation of neurotensin receptor subtype one. The current study showed that NT69L significantly decreased ethanol-induced increase of dopamine and glutamate levels in striatum of mouse. These data suggest that NT69L prevents ethanol consumption through the modulation of both dopaminergic and glutamatergic systems implicated in ethanol addiction. NT agonists may provide novel treatment for alcohol addiction.
Several pieces of evidence suggest that academic examinations fulfill the classical requirement of a psychological stressor. Academic examinations represent a stressful challenge to many students, but studies on examination-dependent corticosteroid response, a sensitive physiological indicator of a stress response, are inconsistent. In addition, several studies showed that music can decrease cortisol and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels, and other studies have found that music also may enhance a variety of cognitive functions, such as attention, learning, communication and memory. The present study investigated cortisol response in saliva of Thai adolescents taking academic examinations and analyzed the differences of the stress response between musician and control subjects. Also, we observed whether the academic examination-dependent corticosteroid response affected learning and memory in the test subjects, which comprised 30 musician and 30 control students, age ranging from 15 to 17 years. Mathematical examinations were used as the stressor. Pre- and post-academic examination saliva cortisol levels were measured including self-estimated stress levels. Results showed that the pre-academic examination saliva cortisol concentrations of the musician group are significantly lower than those of the control group, whereas there is no difference in the stress inventory scores. Interestingly, among students with grade point average (GPA) of &gt;3.50, pre-academic examination cortisol levels are significantly lower in the musician compared with control group. This study suggests that under academic examination-induced stress condition, music training can reduce saliva cortisol level in Thai adolescents.

The mouse has emerged as a uniquely valuable species for studying the molecular and genetic basis of complex behaviors and modeling neuropsychiatric disease states. While valid and reliable preclinical assays for reward-related behaviors are critical to understanding addiction-related processes, and various behavioral procedures have been developed and characterized in rats and primates, there have been relatively few studies using operant-based addiction-relevant behavioral paradigms in the mouse. Here we describe the performance of the C57BL/6J inbred mouse strain on three major reward-related paradigms, and replicate the same procedures in two other commonly used inbred strains (DBA/2J, BALB/cJ). We examined Pavlovian-instrumental transfer (PIT) by measuring the ability of an auditory cue associated with food reward to promote an instrumental (lever press) response. In a separate experiment, we assessed the acquisition and extinction of a simple stimulus-reward instrumental behavior on a touch screen based task. Reinstatement of this behavior was then examined following either continuous exposure to cues (conditioned reinforcers, CRs) associated with reward, brief reward and CR exposure, or brief reward exposure followed by continuous CR exposure. The third paradigm examined sensitivity of an instrumental (lever press) response to devaluation of food reward (a probe for outcome insensitive, habitual behavior) by repeated pairing with malaise. Results showed that C57BL/6J mice displayed robust PIT, as well as clear extinction and reinstatement, but were insensitive to reinforcer devaluation. DBA/2J mice showed good PIT and (rewarded) reinstatement, but were slow to extinguish and did not show reinforcer devaluation or significant CR-reinstatement. BALB/cJ mice also displayed good PIT, extinction and reinstatement, and retained instrumental responding following devaluation, but, unlike the other strains, demonstrated reduced Pavlovian approach behavior (food magazine head entries). Overall, these assays provide robust paradigms for future studies using the mouse to elucidate the neural, molecular and genetic factors underpinning reward-related behaviors relevant to addiction research.
Conversion of the soluble, nontoxic amyloid -protein (A) into an aggregated, toxic form rich in -sheets is a key step in the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been suggested that A induces changes in neuronal membrane fluidity as a result of its interactions with membrane components such as cholesterol, phospholipids, and gangliosides. Gangliosides are known to bind A. A complex of GM1 and A, termed &quot;GA&quot;, has been identified in AD brains. Abnormal ganglioside metabolism also may occur in AD brains. We have reported an increase of Chol-1 antigens, GQ1b and GT1a, in the brain of transgenic mouse AD model. GQ1b and GT1a exhibit high affinities to As. The presence of Chol-1 gangliosides represents evidence for genesis of cholinergic neurons in AD brains. We evaluated the effects of GM1 and A1-40 on mouse neuroepithelial cells. Treatment of these cells simultaneously with GM1 and A1-40 caused a significant reduction of cell number, suggesting that A1-40 and GM1 cooperatively exert a cytotoxic effect on neuroepithelial cells. An understanding of the mechanism on the interaction of GM1 and As in AD may contribute to the development of new neuroregenerative therapies for this disorder.
The phases of many circadian rhythms differ between diurnal and nocturnal species. However, rhythms within the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which contains the central circadian pacemaker, are very similar, suggesting that the mechanisms underlying phase preference lie downstream of the SCN. Rhythms in Fos expression in the ventral subparaventricular zone (vSPVZ), a major target of the SCN, differ substantially between diurnal Nile grass rats and nocturnal lab rats, raising the possibility that the vSPVZ modulates the effects of SCN signals at its targets. To understand better how and where the SCN and vSPVZ communicate circadian signals within the grass rat brain, we mapped their projections using the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA). Adult female grass rats received unilateral BDA injections directed at the SCN or vSPVZ and their brains were perfusion-fixed several days later. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the distribution patterns of SCN and vSPVZ efferents were very similar. Labeled fibers originating in each region were heavily concentrated in the medial preoptic area, paraventricular thalamic nucleus, the subparaventricular zone, and the hypothalamic paraventricular and dorsomedial nuclei. BDA-labeled fibers from the SCN and vSPVZ formed appositions with orexin neurons and gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons, two cell populations whose rhythms in Fos expression track temporally reversed patterns of locomotor and reproductive behavior, respectively, in diurnal and nocturnal rodents. These data demonstrate that projections of the SCN and vSPVZ are highly conserved in diurnal and nocturnal rodents, and the vSPVZ projections may enable it to modulate the responsiveness of target cells to signals from the SCN.
This is the first study to assess the effects of mother-infant separation on regional metabolic capacity in the preweanling rat brain. Mother-infant separation is generally known to be stressful for rat pups. Holtzman adolescent rats show a depressive-like behavioral phenotype after maternal separation during the preweanling period. However, information is lacking on the effects of maternal separation on the brains of rat pups. We addressed this issue by mapping the brains of preweanling Holtzman rat pups using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry, which reflects long-term changes in brain metabolic capacity, following two weeks of repeated, prolonged maternal separation, and compared this to both early handled and non-handled pups. Quantitative image analysis revealed that maternal separation reduced cytochrome oxidase activity in the medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens shell. Maternal separation reduced prefrontal cytochrome oxidase to a greater degree in female pups than in males. Early handling reduced cytochrome oxidase activity in the posterior parietal cortex, ventral tegmental area, and subiculum, but increased cytochrome oxidase activity in the lateral frontal cortex. The sex-dependent effects of early handling on cytochrome oxidase activity were limited to the medial prefrontal cortex. Regardless of separation group, females had greater cytochrome oxidase activity in the habenula and ventral tegmental area compared to males. These findings suggest that early life mother-infant separation results in dysfunction of prefrontal and mesolimbic regions in the preweanling rat brain that may contribute to behavioral changes later in life.
The subunit composition of -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptors (AMPARs) is an important determinant of AMPAR biophysical properties and trafficking. To date, AMPAR subunit composition has been quantitatively evaluated only for the hippocampus, where different experimental approaches have yielded different results. Here, we used quantitative co-immunoprecipitation to characterize GluA1-3 associations in the adult rat nucleus accumbens, dorsal striatum, prefrontal cortex, and hippocampus, and blue native electrophoresis (BNE) to study GluA1-3 assembly state. In all brain regions, co-immunoprecipitation experiments showed that ~90% of GluA1 was associated with GluA2 or GluA3 (most was GluA1A2). All regions contained a small number of GluA1A3 receptors. Homomeric GluA1 receptors may also exist. More than half of the GluA2 (53%-65% depending on the region) was not associated with GluA1. However, this represents an over-estimate of the percent of GluA2 present in GluA2A3 receptors, based on BNE results demonstrating that the majority of GluA2 exists as dimers, rather than functional tetrameric receptors. Relatively more GluA1 was present in tetramers. Together with other findings, our results suggest a dominant role for GluA1A2 receptors in all brain regions examined. They also help explain why different results for hippocampal AMPAR subunit composition were obtained using co-immunoprecipitation, which assesses the total cellular pool of AMPARs including partially assembled AMPARs in intracellular compartments, and electrophysiological approaches, which can selectively assess tetrameric (functional) AMPARs on the cell surface.
We have recently established the socially monogamous prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) as an animal model with which to investigate the involvement of mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) in the amphetamine (AMPH)-induced impairment of social behavior. As the majority of our work, to date, has focused on males, and sex differences are commonly reported in the behavioral and neurobiological responses to AMPH, the current study was designed to examine the behavioral and neurobiological effects of AMPH treatment in female prairie voles. We used a conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm to determine a dose-response curve for the behavioral effects of AMPH in female prairie voles, and found that conditioning with low to intermediate (0.2 and 1.0 mg/kg), but not very low (0.1 mg/kg), doses of AMPH induced a CPP. We also found that exposure to a behaviorally relevant dose of AMPH (1.0 mg/kg) induced an increase in DA concentration in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and caudate putamen but not the medial prefrontal cortex or ventral tegmental area (VTA). Finally, repeated AMPH exposure (1.0 mg/kg once per day for 3 consecutive days; an injection paradigm that has been recently shown to alter DA receptor expression and impair social bonding in male prairie voles) increased D1, but not D2, receptor mRNA in the NAcc, and decreased D2 receptor mRNA and D2-like receptor binding in the VTA. Together, these data indicate that AMPH alters mesocorticolimbic DA neurotransmission in a region- and receptor-specific manner, which, in turn, could have profound consequences on social behavior in female prairie voles.


The third paper by Camillo Golgi on his new method was on the olfactory bulb. This paper has never been translated into English, but is of special interest both for its pioneering description of olfactory bulb cells and for containing the first illustration by Golgi of cells stained with his new method. A translation into English is provided in this paper, together with commentaries on the significant points in his descriptions. These results are placed in the perspective of Cajal's subsequent first publication on the olfactory bulb and brief mention of the work of other early histologists. This perspective allows one to see more clearly Golgi's fundamental contributions to the olfactory bulb in particular and to the description of the neuronal architecture of the brain in general.
Contrary to Golgi's &quot;reticular&quot; theory of nervous structure, it is clear that the synapse rules over communication among nerve cells. Spreading depression, however, does not follow synaptic pathways. It sweeps across gray matter like a political revolution, ignoring structural boundaries and carefully established regulatory mechanisms. Neurons form alliances with their usually subordinate partners, the astrocytes, to cause a perturbation of function that strains resources necessary for recovery. Innocent bystanders, the blood vessels, are obliged to try to ameliorate the disturbance but may not be able to respond optimally in the chaotic environment. Under extreme circumstances, a purge of some of the instigators may ensue. This anarchic picture of interactions among the elements of nervous tissue does little to rescue the reticular theory that was one of Golgi's most important intellectual offerings. Nevertheless, it reminds us that the behavior of populations of nerve cells need not necessarily be limited by the pathways dictated by synaptic junctions. Spreading depression is a multifactorial phenomenon, in which intense depolarization of neurons and/or astrocytes leads to perturbations that include release of K(+), release of glutamate, increase in intracellular Ca(++), release of ATP and local anoxia, as well as vascular changes. This process plays a role in migraine and contributes to the damage produced by brain anoxia, trauma, stroke, and subarachnoid hemorrhage. It may provide clues to new treatments for the damaged brain.
An overview of current concepts on neuroinflammation and on the dialogue between neurons and non-neuronal cells in three important infections of the central nervous systems (rabies, cerebral malaria, and human African trypanosomiasis or sleeping sickness) is here presented. Large numbers of cases affected by these diseases are currently reported. In the context of an issue dedicated to Camillo Golgi, historical notes on seminal discoveries on these diseases are also presented. Neuroinflammation is currently closely associated with pathogenetic mechanisms of chronic neurodegenerative diseases. Neuroinflammatory signaling in brain infections is instead relatively neglected in the neuroscience community, despite the fact that the above infections provide paradigmatic examples of alterations of the intercellular crosstalk between neurons and non-neuronal cells. In rabies, strategies of immune evasion of the host lead to silencing neuroinflammatory signaling. In the intravascular pathology which characterizes cerebral malaria, leukocytes and Plasmodium do not enter the brain parenchyma. In sleeping sickness, leukocytes and African trypanosomes invade the brain parenchyma at an advanced stage of infection. Both the latter pathologies leave open many questions on the targeting of neuronal functions and on the pathogenetic role of non-neuronal cells, and in particular astrocytes and microglia, in these diseases. All three infections are hallmarked by very severe clinical pictures and relative sparing of neuronal structure. Multidisciplinary approaches and a concerted action of the neuroscience community are needed to shed light on intercellular crosstalk in these dreadful brain diseases. Such effort could also lead to new knowledge on non-neuronal mechanisms which determine neuronal death or survival.
The name of Camillo Golgi is inextricably associated, in the mind of most neuroscientists, with the theory that nerve cells communicate with one another by means of an intricate network of anastomosing axonal branches contained in the neuropil intervening between cell bodies in the gray matter of the brain and spinal cord. Examination, however, of Golgi's drawings in the papers published in the decade intervening between publication of his method (1873) and the beginning of his studies on malaria (1885) shows that axonal arborization in the cerebellar cortex and olfactory bulb are depicted as independent of one other. This is in striking contrast with the drawings included by Golgi in his 1906 Nobel lecture where the entire granular layer of the cerebellar cortex is occupied by a network of branching and anastomosing nerve processes. Thus, Golgi in his original papers on the cerebellum represents nerve cells as discrete units and only later in life merges axonal arborizations in the context of a lecture in defense of the reticular theory.
The black reaction allowed Golgi to describe with amazing detail the morphology of glial cells as well as their proximal location and intimate connections with neurons and blood vessels. Based on this location, Golgi hypothesized that glial cells were functional units in the nervous system and were not merely a structural support medium. Relatively recent advances have confirmed the importance of glial cells in nervous system function and disease. The occurrence of gliosis is considered the hallmark of damaged tissue. Gliosis can differentially influence disease development and it is a prevailing characteristic of temporal lobe epilepsy. Its presence in the epileptic hippocampi might contribute to hyperexcitability, the development of aberrant neurogenic changes and inflammatory processes related to seizures. Considering the accumulating data regarding the pathological role of glial cells in epilepsy, novel therapeutic approaches that target glial cells are being explored. Such therapeutic approaches directed to glial cells present a novel perspective for the management of refractory pathologies.
Giuseppe Moruzzi was born one century ago; he was an outstanding Italian neurophysiologist, who was particularly famous for his contributions to the study of the mechanisms underlying the control of the sleep-waking cycle in mammals. In 1990, Rita Levi-Montalcini, Moruzzi's great friend and admirer, used the occasion of an invitation by the University of Parma, where Moruzzi graduated in medicine in 1933, to celebrate Moruzzi's scientific achievements. She wished to pay a tribute to Moruzzi's human and ethical qualities by portraying him as a &quot;perfect model&quot; for the young generation wishing to pursue scientific research. The transcription of &quot;Rita's&quot; tribute to Moruzzi links two of the greatest figures of Italian neuroscience and also provides a lively account of how the personal histories of two promising young scientists intertwined with the great and tragic events of world history in the past century.
With the growing realization in the 1930s that the brain played a crucial role in regulating the secretions of the pituitary gland, neuroendocrinology as we now know it developed from two rather separate directions. One approach relied heavily on morphological techniques to define neurosecretion; a novel, but for many years flawed model that was originally developed to explain the presence of gland-like cells in the diencephalon. During its first 20 years neurosecretion, as a concept, made no significant contribution to our understanding of how the pituitary was controlled. Then, following the identification by Sanford Palay and Wolfgang Bargmann of a continuous neurosecretory pathway from the hypothalamus to the neural lobe, neurosecretion became incorporated into a more broadly based concept of pituitary function, particularly regarding the neural lobe. The second approach integrated structural and functional methods to investigate neural regulation of the pituitary. This work eventually explained how the pituitary was controlled by the brain. It led directly to our understanding of the control of vasopressin and oxytocin release by neuroendocrine terminals in the neural lobe, the neurohumoral control of the pars distalis, and eventually to a detailed description of the neural networks that control pituitary function. As increasingly sophisticated morphological, neurophysiological, and eventually molecular biological techniques were applied to the problem, the original notion of the diencephalic gland and neurosecretion became unsustainable. The gland-nerve cells of the 1930s became the neurosecretory cells of the 1940s and 1950s, and then finally neuroendocrine neurons in the 1960s. From then on neuroendocrinology developed into the more unified discipline we know today. The chronology of these two approaches will be examined here using examples from research that occurred approximately between 1920 and 1965. The goal is not to give a comprehensive history of pituitary function or neuroendocrinology. Instead, the focus will be to compare the rationales and effectiveness of two contrasting experimental approaches: predominantly structural analyses as opposed to more integrated approaches.
The concepts underlying the connectivity of neurons and the dynamics of interaction required to explain information processing have undergone significant change over the past century. A re-examination of the evolution of the modern view in historical context reveals that rules for connectivity have changed in a manner that might be expected from critical analysis enabled by technical advance. A retrospective examination of some germane issues that moved Camillo Golgi to question the widely held dogma of his era reveals network principles that could not have been recognized a century ago. The currently evolving rules of cellular discontinuity and interaction have proven sufficiently complex to justify the arguments of critical skepticism that sustain scientific progress.
In 1875 Camillo Golgi published his classical description of the olfactory bulb, which contained the first images of neurons visualized with the &quot;black reaction&quot;. This new staining method opened the way for structural investigations of the nervous tissue, that culminated in the extraordinary neuroanatomical work of Ramn y Cajal and the formulation of the neuron doctrine. Later developments in neurochemical techniques have revealed an astonishing diversity of neural circuits at the molecular level. This essay reflects on the physiological importance of the molecular heterogeneity of synaptic connections. Dendrodendritic circuits of the olfactory bulb will serve as a case for illustrating the relation between molecular composition and functional properties. Specifically, I will consider how the differential expression of GABA(A) receptor subtypes shapes dendrodendritic inhibition and influences olfactory bulb network activities. A concept emerging from recent investigations is that the molecular diversity of GABAergic systems supports neural circuit operations under an extensive range of behavior-dependent network states. Considering the great molecular diversity of synaptic connections, it is useful to reflect on the importance of high-resolution immunohistochemical analyses as a tool for investigating the structural and functional architecture of neural circuits.
Neurite outgrowth is a fundamental process in the differentiation of neurons. The first, seminal study documenting the generation of &quot;appendages&quot; (now known as filopodia and lamellipodia) on the &quot;cones d'accroissement,&quot; the specialized growth cones at the tips of neurites, was reported by Cajal still in the XIXth century, investigating chicken neurons embryos stained by the Golgi's reazione nera. Since then, studies have continued using, in addition to brain tissues, powerful in vitro models, i.e. primary cultures of pyramidal neurons from the hippocampus and neurosecretory cell lines, in particular PC12 cells. These studies have documented that neuronal neurites, upon sprouting from the cell body, give rise to both axons and dendrites. The specificity of these differentiated neurites depends on the diffusion barrier established at the initial segment of the axon and on the specialized domains, spines and presynaptic boutons, assembled around complexes of scaffold proteins. The two main, coordinate mechanisms that support neurite outgrowth are (a) the rearrangement of the cytoskeleton and (b) the expansion of the plasma membrane due to the exo/endocytosis of specific vesicles, distinct from those filled with neurotransmitters (clear and dense-core vesicles). The latter process is the main task of this review. In axons the surface-expanding exocytoses are concentrated at the growth cones; in dendrites they may be more distributed along the shaft. At least two types of exocytic vesicles appear to be involved, the enlargeosomes, positive for VAMP4, during early phases of development, and Ti-VAMP-positive vesicles later on. Outgrowth studies, that are now intensely pursued, have already yielded results of great importance in brain cell biology and function, and are playing an increasing role in pathology and medicine.
The Camillo Golgi's school of Histology and General Pathology in Pavia played an important role in the development of medical-biological studies in Italy in the period after Unification of the state. Founded around 1880 when Golgi (1843-1926) began to wield power at the University of Pavia, the school soon became famous for the distinctive morphological basis of its studies. Many of its staff members made important discoveries and won international acclaim. The school however went into decline after 1910 because of its rigid adherence to the morphological approach that had characterized its golden years at a time when the international scientific world was developing other fundamental methodological criteria for medical-biological studies.
The mechanisms underlying the production of thoughts by exceedingly complex cellular networks that construct the human brain constitute the most challenging problem of natural sciences. Our understanding of the brain function is very much shaped by the neuronal doctrine that assumes that neuronal networks represent the only substrate for cognition. These neuronal networks however are embedded into much larger and probably more complex network formed by neuroglia. The latter, although being electrically silent, employ many different mechanisms for intercellular signalling. It appears that astrocytes can control synaptic networks and in such a capacity they may represent an integral component of the computational power of the brain rather than being just brain &quot;connective tissue&quot;. The fundamental question of whether neuroglia is involved in cognition and information processing remains, however, open. Indeed, a remarkable increase in the number of glial cells that distinguishes the human brain can be simply a result of exceedingly high specialisation of the neuronal networks, which delegated all matters of survival and maintenance to the neuroglia. At the same time potential power of analogue processing offered by internally connected glial networks may represent the alternative mechanism involved in cognition.
ATP accomplishes important roles in brain, where it functions as neurotransmitter or co-transmitter, being stored and released either as single mediator or together with other neuromodulators. In the last years, the purinergic system has emerged as the most relevant mechanism for intercellular signalling in the nervous system, affecting communication between many types of neurons and all types of glia. In this review, we will focus on recently reported data which describe the role of ATP in bidirectional signalling between neurons and different populations of glial cells, in both peripheral and central system.

In recognition of the impact that a powerful new anatomical tool, such as the Golgi method, can have, this essay highlights the enormous influence that biocytin-filling has had on modern neuroscience. This method has allowed neurones that have been recorded intracellularly, 'whole-cell' or juxta-cellularly, to be identified anatomically, forming a vital link between functional and structural studies. It has been applied throughout the nervous system and has become a fundamental component of our technical armoury. A comprehensive survey of the applications to which the biocytin-filling approach has been put, would fill a large volume. This essay therefore focuses on one area, neocortical microcircuitry and the ways in which combining physiology and anatomy have revealed rules that help us explain its previously indecipherable variability and complexity.
The majority of research on reactive oxygen species (ROS) has focused on their cellular toxicities. Stem cells generally have been thought to maintain low levels of ROS as a protection against these processes. However, recent studies suggest that ROS can also play roles as second messengers, activating normal cellular processes. Here, we investigated ROS function in primary brain-derived neural progenitors. Somewhat surprisingly, we found that proliferative, self-renewing multipotent neural progenitors with the phenotypic characteristics of neural stem cells (NSC) maintained a high ROS status and were highly responsive to ROS stimulation. ROS-mediated enhancements in self-renewal and neurogenesis were dependent on PI3K/Akt signaling. Pharmacological or genetic manipulations that diminished cellular ROS levels also interfered with normal NSC and/or multipotent progenitor function both in vitro and in vivo. This study has identified a redox-mediated regulatory mechanism of NSC function that may have significant implications for brain injury, disease, and repair.
Prior to the onset of a saccade or a reach, attention is directed to the goal of the upcoming movement. However, it remains unknown whether attentional resources are shared across effectors for simultaneous eye and hand movements. Using a 4-AFC shape discrimination task, we investigated attentional allocation during the planning of a saccade alone, reach alone, or combined saccade and reach to one of five peripheral locations. Target discrimination was better when the probe appeared at the goal of the impending movement than when it appeared elsewhere. However, discrimination performance at the movement goal was not better for combined eye-hand movements compared to either effector alone, suggesting a shared limited attentional resource rather than separate pools of effector-specific attention. To test which effector dominates in guiding attention, we then separated eye and hand movement goals in two conditions: (1) cued reach/fixed saccade--subjects made saccades to the same peripheral location throughout the block, while the reach goal was cued and (2) cued saccade/fixed reach--subjects made reaches to the same location, while the saccade goal was cued. For both conditions, discrimination performance was consistently better at the eye goal than the hand goal. This indicates that shared attentional resources are guided predominantly by the eye during the planning of eye and hand movements.
Arctic ground squirrels (Urocitellus parryii, AGS) are unique in their ability to hibernate with a core body temperature near or below freezing. These animals also resist ischemic injury to the brain in vivo and oxygen-glucose deprivation in vitro. These unique qualities provided the impetus to isolate AGS neurons to examine inherent neuronal characteristics that could account for the capacity of AGS neurons to resist injury and cell death caused by ischemia and extremely cold temperatures. Identifying proteins or gene targets that allow for the distinctive properties of these cells could aid in the discovery of effective therapies for a number of ischemic indications and for the study of cold tolerance. Adult AGS hippocampus contains neural stem cells that continue to proliferate, allowing for easy expansion of these stem cells in culture. We describe here methods by which researchers can utilize these stem cells and differentiated neurons for any number of purposes. By closely following these steps the AGS neural stem cells can be expanded through two passages or more and then differentiated to a culture high in TUJ1-positive neurons (~50%) without utilizing toxic chemicals to minimize the number of dividing cells. Ischemia induces neurogenesis and neurogenesis which proceeds via MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt survival signaling pathways contributes to ischemia resistance in vivo and in vitro (Kelleher-Anderson, Drew et al., in preparation). Further characterization of these unique neural cells can advance on many fronts, using some or all of these methods.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau and phospho-tau levels have been associated with certain tau gene variants and low CSF amyloid- (A) levels in Alzheimer disease (AD), constituting potential biomarkers of molecular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration. We aimed to assess whether such CSF-genetic endophenotypes are also present in Parkinson disease (PD). CSF tau, phospho-tau and A levels were obtained from 38 PD patients (19 with dementia) using specific ELISA techniques. All cases were genotyped for a series of tau gene polymorphisms (rs1880753, rs1880756, rs1800547, rs1467967, rs242557, rs2471738 and rs7521). The A-allele rs242557 polymorphism was the only tau gene variant significantly associated with higher CSF tau and phospho-tau levels, under both dominant and dose-response model. This association depended on the presence of dementia, and was only observed in individuals with low (&lt;500pg/mL) CSF A levels. Such genetic-CSF endophenotypes are probably a reflection of the presence of AD-like molecular changes in part of PD patients in the setting of dementia.
Both hemispheric bias and sex differences exist in striatal-mediated behaviors and pathologies. The extent to which these dimorphisms can be attributed to an underlying neuroanatomical difference is unclear. We therefore quantified neuron soma size and density in the dorsal striatum (CPu) as well as the core (AcbC) and shell (AcbS) subregions of the nucleus accumbens to determine whether these anatomical measurements differ by region, hemisphere, or sex in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Neuron soma size was larger in the CPu than the AcbC or AcbS. Neuron density was greatest in the AcbS, intermediate in the AcbC, and least dense in the CPu. CPu neuron density was greater in the left in comparison to the right hemisphere. No attribute was sexually dimorphic. These results provide the first evidence that hemispheric bias in the striatum and striatal-mediated behaviors can be attributed to a lateralization in neuronal density within the CPu. In contrast, sexual dimorphisms appear mediated by factors other than gross anatomical differences.
The mammalian pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains a population of neural oscillators capable of sustaining cell-autonomous rhythms in gene expression and electrical firing. A critical question for understanding pacemaker function is how SCN oscillators are organized into a coherent tissue capable of coordinating circadian rhythms in behavior and physiology. Here we undertake a comprehensive analysis of oscillatory function across the SCN of the adult PER2::LUC mouse by developing a novel approach involving multi-position bioluminescence imaging and unbiased computational analyses. We demonstrate that there is phase heterogeneity across all three dimensions of the SCN that is intrinsically regulated and extrinsically modulated by light in a region-specific manner. By investigating the mechanistic bases of SCN phase heterogeneity, we show for the first time that phase differences are not systematically related to regional differences in period, waveform, amplitude, or brightness. Furthermore, phase differences are not related to regional differences in the expression of arginine vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, two key neuropeptides characterizing functionally distinct subdivisions of the SCN. The consistency of SCN spatiotemporal organization across individuals and across planes of section suggests that the precise phasing of oscillators is a robust feature of the pacemaker important for its function.
The HIV-1 protein, Tat has been implicated in AIDS pathogenesis however, the amount of circulating Tat is believed to be very low and its quantification has been difficult. We performed the quantification of Tat released from infected cells and taken up by neurons using high performance capillary electrophoresis. This is the first report to successfully measure the amount of Tat in neurons and places Tat as a key player involved in HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders.
O-methylguanine DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation has been identified as a potential prognostic marker for glioblastoma patients. The relationship between the exact site of promoter methylation and its effect on gene silencing, and the patient's subsequent response to therapy, is still being defined. The aim of this study was to comprehensively characterize cytosine-guanine (CpG) dinucleotide methylation across the entire MGMT promoter and to correlate individual CpG site methylation patterns to mRNA expression, protein expression, and progression-free survival. To best identify the specific MGMT promoter region most predictive of gene silencing and response to therapy, we determined the methylation status of all 97 CpG sites in the MGMT promoter in tumor samples from 70 GBM patients using quantitative bisulfite sequencing. We next identified the CpG site specific and regional methylation patterns most predictive of gene silencing and improved progression-free survival. Using this data, we propose a new classification scheme utilizing methylation data from across the entire promoter and show that an analysis based on this approach, which we call 3R classification, is predictive of progression-free survival (HR =5.23, 95% CI [2.089-13.097], p&lt;0.0001). To adapt this approach to the clinical setting, we used a methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MS-MLPA) test based on the 3R classification and show that this test is both feasible in the clinical setting and predictive of progression free survival (HR =3.076, 95% CI [1.301-7.27], p=0.007). We discuss the potential advantages of a test based on this promoter-wide analysis and compare it to the commonly used methylation-specific PCR test. Further prospective validation of these two methods in a large independent patient cohort will be needed to confirm the added value of promoter wide analysis of MGMT methylation in the clinical setting.

Low blood levels of B vitamins have been implicated in age-associated cognitive impairment. The present study investigated the association between genetic variation in folate metabolism and age-related cognitive decline in the ninth decade of life. Both the 677C&gt;T (rs1801133) polymorphism and the scarcely-studied 1298A&gt;C (rs1801131) polymorphism of the MTHFR gene were assessed in relation to cognitive change over 8 years in older community-dwelling individuals. MTHFR genotype was determined in 476 participants of the Lothian Birth Cohort 1921, whose intelligence was measured in childhood in the Scottish Mental Survey of 1932. Cognitive performance on the domains of verbal memory, abstract reasoning, and verbal fluency was assessed at mean age 79 (n = 476), and again at mean ages of 83 (n = 275) and 87 (n = 180). Using linear mixed models, the MTHFR 677C&gt;T and 1298A&gt;C variants were not associated with the rate of cognitive change between 79 and 87 years, neither in the total sample, nor in a subsample of individuals with erythrocyte folate levels below the median. APOE E4 allele carrier status did not interact with MTHFR genotype in affecting change in cognitive performance over 8 years. No significant combined effect of the two polymorphisms was found. In conclusion, MTHFR 677C&gt;T and 1298A&gt;C polymorphisms were not associated with individual change in cognitive functioning in the ninth decade of life. Although polymorphisms in the MTHFR gene may cause disturbances in folate metabolism, they do not appear to be accompanied by changes in cognitive functioning in old age.
Individuals make choices and prioritize goals using complex processes that assign value to rewards and associated stimuli. During Pavlovian learning, previously neutral stimuli that predict rewards can acquire motivational properties, becoming attractive and desirable incentive stimuli. However, whether a cue acts solely as a predictor of reward, or also serves as an incentive stimulus, differs between individuals. Thus, individuals vary in the degree to which cues bias choice and potentially promote maladaptive behaviour. Here we use rats that differ in the incentive motivational properties they attribute to food cues to probe the role of the neurotransmitter dopamine in stimulus-reward learning. We show that intact dopamine transmission is not required for all forms of learning in which reward cues become effective predictors. Rather, dopamine acts selectively in a form of stimulus-reward learning in which incentive salience is assigned to reward cues. In individuals with a propensity for this form of learning, reward cues come to powerfully motivate and control behaviour. This work provides insight into the neurobiology of a form of stimulus-reward learning that confers increased susceptibility to disorders of impulse control.
DYT1 dystonia is caused by an autosomal dominant mutation that leads to a glutamic acid deletion in torsinA (TA), a member of the AAA+ ATPase superfamily. In this study, we identified a novel-binding partner of TA, the subunit 4 (CSN4) of CSN signalosome. TA binds CSN4 and the synaptic regulator snapin in neuroblastoma cells and in brain synaptosomes. CSN4 and TA are required for the stability of both snapin and the synaptotagmin-specific endocytic adaptor stonin 2, as downregulation of CSN4 or TA reduces the levels of both proteins. Snapin is phosphorylated by the CSN-associated kinase protein kinase D (PKD) and its expression is decreased upon PKD inhibition. In contrast, the stability of stonin 2 is regulated by neddylation, another CSN-associated activity. Overexpression of the pathological TA mutant (E-TA) reduces stonin 2 expression, causing the accumulation of the calcium sensor synaptotagmin 1 on the cell surface. Retrieval of surface-stranded synaptotagmin 1 is restored by overexpression of stonin 2 in E-TA-expressing cells, suggesting that the DYT1 mutation compromises the role of TA in protein stabilisation and synaptic vesicle recycling.
Many forms of learning, including songbird vocal learning, rely on the brain's ability to use pre-motor variation and sensory feedback to guide behavior toward a specific target or goal. In the vocal control system of zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) the pre-motor mechanisms of vocal variation are thought to be vested primarily in a neural pathway that includes the basal ganglia. A second circuit that includes avian analogues of mammalian pre-motor and motor cortex (the vocal motor pathway) generates the patterned structure of learned adult song. Here, we tested the ability of the basal ganglia pathway to generate pre-motor vocal variation within the spectral and temporal dimensions of zebra finch song structure. In adult birds, ablation of the basal ganglia pathway significantly reduced the spectral and temporal dispersion of individual song syllables, with the exception of syllable pitch, where the reduction was not statistically significant when compared against surgical controls. We found a similar pattern of results using longitudinal comparisons (juvenile vs adult) to isolate the contribution of the basal ganglia pathway to spectral dispersion in populations of developing song syllables--variation in syllable pitch was significantly smaller than in all other measured spectral features. The results indicate that pre-motor variation generated by the basal ganglia pathway may be sufficient to adjust vocal output toward highly acoustically dispersed targets of imitation, but suggest that complete acquisition of the pronounced variation in syllable pitch that characterizes adult song will necessitate a gradual developmental interaction between the basal ganglia and vocal motor pathways.
The neurobiological underpinnings of mood and anxiety disorders have been linked to the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a region important in processing the rewarding and emotional salience of stimuli. Using chronic social defeat stress, an animal model of mood and anxiety disorders, we investigated whether alterations in synaptic plasticity are responsible for the long-lasting behavioral symptoms induced by this form of stress. We hypothesized that chronic social defeat stress alters synaptic strength or connectivity of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in the NAc to induce social avoidance. To test this, we analyzed the synaptic profile of MSNs via confocal imaging of Lucifer-yellow-filled cells, ultrastructural analysis of the postsynaptic density, and electrophysiological recordings of miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) in mice after social defeat. We found that NAc MSNs have more stubby spine structures with smaller postsynaptic densities and an increase in the frequency of mEPSCs after social defeat. In parallel to these structural changes, we observed significant increases in IB kinase (IKK) in the NAc after social defeat, a molecular pathway that has been shown to regulate neuronal morphology. Indeed, we find using viral-mediated gene transfer of dominant-negative and constitutively active IKK mutants that activation of IKK signaling pathways during social defeat is both necessary and sufficient to induce synaptic alterations and behavioral effects of the stress. These studies establish a causal role for IKK in regulating stress-induced adaptive plasticity and may present a novel target for drug development in the treatment of mood and anxiety disorders in humans.
The central amygdala (Ce), particularly its medial sector (CeM), is the main output station of the amygdala for conditioned fear responses. However, there is uncertainty regarding the nature of CeM control over conditioned fear. The present study aimed to clarify this question using unit recordings in rats. Fear conditioning caused most CeM neurons to increase their conditioned stimulus (CS) responsiveness. The next day, CeM cells responded similarly during the recall test, but these responses disappeared as extinction of conditioned fear progressed. In contrast, the CS elicited no significant average change in central lateral (CeL) firing rates during fear conditioning and a small but significant reduction during the recall test. Yet, cell-by-cell analyses disclosed large but heterogeneous CS-evoked responses in CeL. By the end of fear conditioning, roughly equal proportions of CeL cells exhibited excitatory (CeL(+)) or inhibitory (CeL(-)) CS-evoked responses (10%). The next day, the proportion of CeL(-) cells tripled with no change in the incidence of CeL(+) cells, suggesting that conditioning leads to overnight synaptic plasticity in an inhibitory input to CeL(-) cells. As in CeM, extinction training caused the disappearance of CS-evoked activity in CeL. Overall, these findings suggest that conditioned freezing depends on increased CeM responses to the CS. The large increase in the incidence of CeL(-) but not CeL(+) cells from conditioning to recall leads us to propose a model of fear conditioning involving the potentiation of an extrinsic inhibitory input (from the amygdala or elsewhere) to CeL, ultimately leading to disinhibition of CeM neurons.
Acute challenges with psychostimulants such as amphetamine affect impulsive behavior in both animals and humans. With regard to amphetamine, it is important to unravel how this drug affects impulsivity since it is not only a widely abused recreational drug but also regularly prescribed to ameliorate maladaptive impulsivity. Therefore, we studied the effects of amphetamine in two rat models of impulsivity, the five-choice serial reaction time task and the delayed-reward task, providing measures of inhibitory control and impulsive choice, respectively. We focused on the role of opioid receptor activation in amphetamine-induced impulsivity as there is ample evidence indicating an important role for endogenous opioids in several behavioral and neurochemical effects of amphetamine. Results showed that amphetamine-induced inhibitory control deficits were dose-dependently attenuated by the preferential -opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, but not by the selective -opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole or -opioid receptor antagonist nor-BNI (nor-binaltorphimine dihydrochloride). In contrast, naloxone did not affect amphetamine-induced improvements in impulsive decision making. Naloxone also completely prevented inhibitory control deficits induced by GBR 12909 [1-(2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy] ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine dihydrochloride], a selective dopamine transporter inhibitor. Intracranial infusions of naloxone, the selective -opioid receptor antagonist CTAP (H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2)), morphine, and the selective -opioid receptor agonist DAMGO ([D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin acetate salt) revealed that -opioid receptor activation in the shell rather than the core subregion of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) modulates inhibitory control and subserves the effect of amphetamine thereon. Together, these results indicate an important role for NAc shell -opioid receptors in the regulation of inhibitory control, probably via an interaction between these receptors and the mesolimbic dopamine system.
Recently, there has been an increased interest on the neural mechanisms underlying perceptual decision making. However, the effect of neuronal adaptation in this context has not yet been studied. We begin our study by investigating how adaptation can bias perceptual decisions. We considered behavioral data from an experiment on high-level adaptation-related aftereffects in a perceptual decision task with ambiguous stimuli on humans. To understand the driving force behind the perceptual decision process, a biologically inspired cortical network model was used. Two theoretical scenarios arose for explaining the perceptual switch from the category of the adaptor stimulus to the opposite, nonadapted one. One is noise-driven transition due to the probabilistic spike times of neurons and the other is adaptation-driven transition due to afterhyperpolarization currents. With increasing levels of neural adaptation, the system shifts from a noise-driven to an adaptation-driven modus. The behavioral results show that the underlying model is not just a bistable model, as usual in the decision-making modeling literature, but that neuronal adaptation is high and therefore the working point of the model is in the oscillatory regime. Using the same model parameters, we studied the effect of neural adaptation in a perceptual decision-making task where the same ambiguous stimulus was presented with and without a preceding adaptor stimulus. We find that for different levels of sensory evidence favoring one of the two interpretations of the ambiguous stimulus, higher levels of neural adaptation lead to quicker decisions contributing to a speed-accuracy trade off.
Tonic dopamine (DA) signaling is widely regarded as playing a central role in effort-based decision making and in the motivational control of instrumental performance. The current study used microdialysis to monitor changes in extracellular DA levels across subregions of the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum of rats as they lever pressed for food reward on a probabilistic schedule of reinforcement, a procedure that ensured they would experience variation in the amount of effort needed to earn rewards across tests. Each rat was given three tests. Rats were hungry for the first and last test, but were sated on food before the middle test, allowing us to assess the effects of a downshift in motivational state on task performance and conditioning-induced DA efflux. During hungry tests, DA levels rose in both the shell and core of the accumbens and, to a lesser degree, in both the medial and lateral divisions of the dorsal striatum. Interestingly, changes in DA efflux across hungry tests in the accumbens core were negatively correlated with changes in the effort required to obtain rewards. We also found that--across regions--the DA response to instrumental conditioning was attenuated when rats were sated before testing. Furthermore, the effect of satiety on DA efflux in the accumbens shell was positively correlated with its effect on task performance. Together, the results indicate that tonic DA contributes to the control of instrumental performance by conveying information about the costs and benefits of responding to different striatal subregions.
Schizophrenia may involve hypofunction of NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated signaling, and alterations in parvalbumin-positive fast-spiking (FS) GABA neurons that may cause abnormal gamma oscillations. It was recently hypothesized that prefrontal cortex (PFC) FS neuron activity is highly dependent on NMDAR activation and that, consequently, FS neuron dysfunction in schizophrenia is secondary to NMDAR hypofunction. However, NMDARs are abundant in synapses onto PFC pyramidal neurons; thus, a key question is whether FS neuron or pyramidal cell activation is more dependent on NMDARs. We examined the AMPAR and NMDAR contribution to synaptic activation of FS neurons and pyramidal cells in the PFC of adult mice. In FS neurons, EPSCs had fast decay and weak NMDAR contribution, whereas in pyramidal cells, EPSCs were significantly prolonged by NMDAR-mediated currents. Moreover, the AMPAR/NMDAR EPSC ratio was higher in FS cells. NMDAR antagonists decreased EPSPs and EPSP-spike coupling more strongly in pyramidal cells than in FS neurons, showing that FS neuron activation is less NMDAR dependent than pyramidal cell excitation. The precise EPSP-spike coupling produced by fast-decaying EPSCs in FS cells may be important for network mechanisms of gamma oscillations based on feedback inhibition. To test this possibility, we used simulations in a computational network of reciprocally connected FS neurons and pyramidal cells and found that brief AMPAR-mediated FS neuron activation is crucial to synchronize, via feedback inhibition, pyramidal cells in the gamma frequency band. Our results raise interesting questions about the mechanisms that might link NMDAR hypofunction to alterations of FS neurons in schizophrenia.
Bacteria artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice expressing the reporter protein enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of the D1 and D2 dopamine receptor promoters (Drd1-EGFP and Drd2-EGFP) have been widely used to study striatal function and have contributed to our understanding of the physiological and pathological functions of the basal ganglia. These tools were produced and promptly made available to address questions in a cell-specific manner that has transformed the way we frame hypotheses in neuroscience. However, these mice have not been fully characterized until now. We found that Drd2-EGFP mice display an 40% increase in membrane expression of the dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) and a twofold increase in D2R mRNA levels in the striatum when compared with wild-type and Drd1-EGFP mice. D2R overexpression was accompanied by behavioral hypersensitivity to D2R-like agonists, as well as enhanced electrophysiological responses to D2R activation in midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Dopamine (DA) transients evoked by stimulation in the nucleus accumbens showed slower clearance in Drd2-EGFP mice, and cocaine actions on DA clearance were impaired in these mice. Thus, it was not surprising to find that Drd2-EGFP mice were hyperactive when exposed to a novel environment and locomotion was suppressed by acute cocaine administration. All together, this study demonstrates that Drd2-EGFP mice overexpress D2R and have altered dopaminergic signaling that fundamentally differentiates them from wild-type and Drd1-EGFP mice.
The repertoire of neural activity patterns that a cortical network can produce constrains the ability of the network to transfer and process information. Here, we measured activity patterns obtained from multisite local field potential recordings in cortex cultures, urethane-anesthetized rats, and awake macaque monkeys. First, we quantified the information capacity of the pattern repertoire of ongoing and stimulus-evoked activity using Shannon entropy. Next, we quantified the efficacy of information transmission between stimulus and response using mutual information. By systematically changing the ratio of excitation/inhibition (E/I) in vitro and in a network model, we discovered that both information capacity and information transmission are maximized at a particular intermediate E/I, at which ongoing activity emerges as neuronal avalanches. Next, we used our in vitro and model results to correctly predict in vivo information capacity and interactions between neuronal groups during ongoing activity. Close agreement between our experiments and model suggest that neuronal avalanches and peak information capacity arise because of criticality and are general properties of cortical networks with balanced E/I.
Ablation of the distal end of the short arm of chromosome 1 [1p36 deletion syndrome (1p36DS)] is one of the most commonly occurring terminal deletion syndromes in humans, occurring in 1 in 5000 newborns. Subjects with 1p36DS manifest a wide range of clinical features including growth delay, congenital heart defects, and craniofacial dysmorphism. In addition, individuals with 1p36DS often exhibit some form of neurological abnormality and are typically cognitively impaired. Although there is significant variability with regard to the extent of the deletion, several genes have been mapped to region 1p36 that are known to regulate neuronal function. One such gene--KCNAB2--encodes the potassium channel auxiliary subunit Kv2, which has been previously shown to modulate voltage-gated potassium currents in heterologous expression systems. Here, we present experiments characterizing mice in which the ortholog of KCNAB2 was deleted. We find that deletion of Kcnab2 in mice leads to deficits in associative learning and memory. In addition, using whole-cell current-clamp, we find that deletion of Kcnab2 leads to a reduction in the slow afterhyperpolarization following a burst of action potentials and a concomitant increase in neuronal excitability in projection neurons in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala. Our results suggest that loss of Kv2 likely contributes to the cognitive and neurological impairments observed in 1p36DS patients.

Vesicular -aminobutyric acid transporter, an integral membrane protein, mediates -aminobutyric acid uptake into synaptic vesicles. Investigation of its expression in the rat periaqueductal gray matter using light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical techniques documents immunoreactivity in numerous puncta in all periaqueductal gray columns, with slightly denser labeling on the outer edge of the dorsolateral portion and least dense labeling in the rostral-dorsomedial portion. Electron microscopic observations show immunoreactivity over synaptic vesicles of terminals exhibiting the standard features of inhibitory synapses. Unlabeled axon terminals making symmetric synapses are also commonly observed. These data suggest the following: (i) the -aminobutyric acid uptake is slightly greater in the dorsolateral and less intense in the rostral-dorsomedial portion and (ii) the possible existence of an additional inhibitory amino acid transporter.
Human memory is limited in the number of items held in one's mind--a limit known as &quot;Miller's magic number&quot;. We study the emergence of such limits as a result of the statistics of large bitvectors used to represent items in memory, given two postulates: i) the Sparse Distributed Memory; and ii) chunking through averaging. Potential implications for theoretical neuroscience are discussed.
Women are more susceptible to a variety of autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), multiple sclerosis (MS), primary biliary cirrhosis, rheumatoid arthritis and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. This increased susceptibility in females compared to males is also present in animal models of autoimmune diseases such as spontaneous SLE in (NZBxNZW)F1 and NZM.2328 mice, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in SJL mice, thyroiditis, Sjogren's syndrome in MRL/Mp-lpr/lpr mice and diabetes in non-obese diabetic mice. Indeed, being female confers a greater risk of developing these diseases than any single genetic or environmental risk factor discovered to date. Understanding how the state of being female so profoundly affects autoimmune disease susceptibility would accomplish two major goals. First, it would lead to an insight into the major pathways of disease pathogenesis and, secondly, it would likely lead to novel treatments which would disrupt such pathways.



The epigenetic modification of chromatin structure and its effect on complex neuronal processes like learning and memory is an emerging field in neuroscience. However, little is known about the &quot;writers&quot; of the neuronal epigenome and how they lay down the basis for proper cognition. Here, we have dissected the neuronal function of the Drosophila euchromatin histone methyltransferase (EHMT), a member of a conserved protein family that methylates histone 3 at lysine 9 (H3K9). EHMT is widely expressed in the nervous system and other tissues, yet EHMT mutant flies are viable. Neurodevelopmental and behavioral analyses identified EHMT as a regulator of peripheral dendrite development, larval locomotor behavior, non-associative learning, and courtship memory. The requirement for EHMT in memory was mapped to 7B-Gal4 positive cells, which are, in adult brains, predominantly mushroom body neurons. Moreover, memory was restored by EHMT re-expression during adulthood, indicating that cognitive defects are reversible in EHMT mutants. To uncover the underlying molecular mechanisms, we generated genome-wide H3K9 dimethylation profiles by ChIP-seq. Loss of H3K9 dimethylation in EHMT mutants occurs at 5% of the euchromatic genome and is enriched at the 5' and 3' ends of distinct classes of genes that control neuronal and behavioral processes that are corrupted in EHMT mutants. Our study identifies Drosophila EHMT as a key regulator of cognition that orchestrates an epigenetic program featuring classic learning and memory genes. Our findings are relevant to the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying Kleefstra Syndrome, a severe form of intellectual disability caused by mutations in human EHMT1, and have potential therapeutic implications. Our work thus provides novel insights into the epigenetic control of cognition in health and disease.
Cocaine addiction remains without an effective pharmacotherapy and is characterized by an inability of addicts to inhibit relapse to drug use. Vulnerability to relapse arises from an enduring impairment in cognitive control of motivated behavior, manifested in part by dysregulated synaptic potentiation and extracellular glutamate homeostasis in the projection from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens. Here we show in rats trained to self-administer cocaine that the enduring cocaine-induced changes in synaptic potentiation and glutamate homeostasis are mechanistically linked through group II metabotropic glutamate receptor signaling. The enduring cocaine-induced changes in measures of cortico-accumbens synaptic and glial transmission were restored to predrug parameters for at least 2 wk after discontinuing chronic treatment with the cystine prodrug, N-acetylcysteine. N-acetylcysteine produced these changes by inducing an enduring restoration of nonsynaptic glutamatergic tone onto metabotropic glutamate receptors. The long-lasting pharmacological restoration of cocaine-induced glutamatergic adaptations by chronic N-acetylcysteine also caused enduring inhibition of cocaine-seeking in an animal model of relapse. These data mechanistically link nonsynaptic glutamate to cocaine-induced adaptations in excitatory transmission and demonstrate a mechanism to chronically restore prefrontal to accumbens transmission and thereby inhibit relapse in an animal model.
Biological activity of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) depends on both adhesion and activation of intra-cellular signaling. Based on in vitro experiments with truncated extra-cellular domains, several models describing homophilic NCAM trans- and cis-interactions have been proposed. However, cis-dimerization in living cells has not been shown directly and the role of the cytoplasmic part in NCAM dimerization is poorly understood. Here, we used the bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET(2)) technique to directly demonstrate that full-length NCAM cis-homodimerizes in living cells. Based on BRET(2)50 values we suggest that the intra-cellular part of NCAM inhibits cis-dimerization, an effect mainly dependent on the palmitoylation sites.

A mouse and human brain-enriched micro-RNA-146a (miRNA-146a) is known to be important in modulating the innate immune response and inflammatory signaling in certain immunological and brain cell types. In this study we examined miRNA-146a levels in early-, moderate- and late-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) neocortex and hippocampus, in several human primary brain and retinal cell lines, and in 5 different transgenic mouse models of AD including Tg2576, TgCRND8, PSAPP, 3xTg-AD and 5xFAD. Inducible expression of miRNA-146a was found to be significantly up-regulated in a primary co-culture of human neuronal-glial (HNG) cells stressed using interleukin1-beta (IL-1), and this up-regulation was quenched using specific NF-B inhibitors including curcumin. Expression of miRNA-146a correlated with senile plaque density and synaptic pathology in Tg2576 and in 5xFAD transgenic mouse models used in the study of this common neurodegenerative disorder.
Tourette syndrome (TS) is a neuropsychiatric disorder with the cardinal symptoms of motor and vocal tics. The onset occurs during childhood; many patients experience a subsequent reduction of tic frequency and severity suggesting that the pathways involved play a significant developmental role. Research has mainly focused on the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuit, but clinical symptoms and recent neuroimaging studies suggest the involvement of limbic structures as well. We acquired diffusion-weighted data at 1.5 T in fifteen adult patients fulfilling the DSM-IV-TR criteria for TS and in a healthy control group. Based on the Harvard-Oxford subcortical structural atlas we investigated the microstructure of grey matter nuclei such as the nucleus accumbens, the amygdala, the putamen, the pallidum and the thalamus. The basal ganglia and the thalamus show in the direct comparison between patients and control subjects no significant differences in the diffusion indices. However, within the Tourette group the correlation coefficients between diffusion parameters and measures of tic severity indicate that the individual microstructure of the basal ganglia has an influence on the individual clinical phenotype. The microstructure assessment of the amygdala and nucleus accumbens in TS revealed a significant difference for the left nucleus accumbens and the right amygdala. Our findings suggest two pathophysiologic patterns in TS. One pattern could indicate altered connectivity based on the correlation between the increased mean and axial diffusivity in the basal ganglia and tic severity. The other pattern is characterized by the increase in radial diffusivity in the amygdala and the correlation between radial diffusivity in the nucleus accumbens and tic measures indicating potentially altered myelination.
Aluminum (Al) is a neurotoxic agent that accumulates in the substantia nigra of patients affected by Parkinson's disease and in other cerebral areas of different neurodegenerative pathologies. Al has been associated with neuronal and glial dysfunctions, and neuronal changes have been suggested to affect several neurotransmitter systems including the dopaminergic system. The present study was designed to evaluate by means of immunohistochemistry using antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH; the rate-limiting enzyme of dopamine synthesis) the effects of chronic Al exposure (0, 3%) in drinking water during 4 months in adulthood or since intra-uterine age in the substantia nigra. Our results show a significant decrease in the number of cells labeled by the antibody against TH in rats treated with Al compared to controls. The TH-immunoreactive decrease following Al treatment is accentuated in the rat group treated since intrauterine age. In both treated groups, Al exposure induced a significant decrease of locomotor performance. Interestingly, as for TH-immunoreactivity, the decreased locomotor activity was also accentuated in the group treated since intrauterine age. The Al-induced TH alterations may be one of the causes of aluminum-induced neurotoxicity.
The ability to achieve object constancy under dynamic environmental conditions perhaps reaches its apogee in the primate visual system. The remainder of this chapter will focus on the neural and perceptual mechanisms of visual object perception in human and non-human primate brains, with an emphasis on the role of attention in the designation of visual objects that have particular relevance for reward-based behavior.
As discussed later in this chapter, the initial peripheral representation of spatial form in touch is isomorphic, as individual receptors on the skin have small localized receptive fields. While these point sensors indicate the strength of a stimulus at a particular location on the skin, they do not individually convey salient information about features of the stimuli (e.g., whether the point is part of a spider creeping up your arm). It is possible that the central representation is also isomorphic. However, if this were the case, then even minor changes in the position, orientation, or size of the stimulus would require the activation of a different set of central neurons for perception of the object to occuressentially requiring a unique complement of cells to represent each and every possible version of every tactile stimulus. This is clearly not reasonable since it would require an infinite set of stored representations of every object for perception to occur. A more realistic alternative is to transform the sensory input into a central representation that maintains perceptual constancy of object size, orientation, and position. Understanding how the brain transforms the sensory inputs into an invariant representation is a major thrust of contemporary neurophysiological research and in our opinion is key to deciphering the neural bases of sensation, reward, and behavior (Phillips et al. 1988).
Perfume qualities are described in musical metaphors not solely because of the aesthetic relationship between perfume and music but because there are so few specific words dedicated to olfactory experience. Anthropologists have found that in all known languages, there are fewer words that refer explicitly to our experience of smells than there are for any other sensation (Classen, Howes, and Synnott 1994). In English, aromatic, fragrant, pungent, redolent, and stinky exhaust the list of adjectives that specifically describe olfactory stimuli and nothing else. More common terms used to describe odors, like floral or fruity, are references to the odor-producing objects (flowers and fruits), not the odors themselves. We also borrow terms from other senses; chocolate smells sweet, grass smells green, and so on (Herz 2005, 2008). Various possibilities explain why our sense of smell and language are so disconnected. First, unlike other sensory systems, olfactory information does not need to be integrated in the thalamus prior to processing in the cortex, and it is argued that the thalamus has relevance for language. Second, a large body of evidence indicates that the majority of olfactory processing occurs in the right hemisphere of the brain, whereas language processing is known to be dominated by the left hemisphere (see Royet and Plailly 2004, for review). It has also been suggested that odors are hard to name because of competition between odor and language processing for cognitive resources that share the same neural substrates (Lorig 1999). This latter theory is supported by a magnetoen-cephalographic study which showed that the presence of an odor altered the semantic processing of words and degraded word encoding, but did not influence nonsemantic processing (Walla et al. 2003).
This monograph constitutes a singular and bold initiative toward a synthesis of sensation and reward. Although these topics have developed in parallel, this may be largely a historical accident. On the other hand, the complexity of each domain may be so great that an extensive separate research on sensation and reward was necessary before an attempted synthesis could be initiated (see chapter by Marks in this volume). In any event, the current state of affairs does not yet permit an overarching specification of lines of integration between these topics. Thus, while introductory chapters are often concerned with such matters, the Preface by Jay Gottfried adequately sets the rationale for and context of this volume. Accordingly, this introductory chapter has another goal, which is to deal with both very old and very new aspects of one of the issues specified in the Preface: the ability to predict and anticipate reward. The very old issue concerns the long-established, but rarely discussed, exclusion of learning, memory, and related cognitive processes from primary sensory cortical fields in audition, somesthesis, and vision. The very new topic concerns recent surprising findings about the effects of reward level on associative plasticity in the primary auditory cortex. So, in one sense, this chapter serves as a set of proximal bookends for the contents of this monograph.
In recent years, there has been a resurgence of interest in the topic for several reasons. One is the development of more sophisticated and nuanced models of recognition according to which perception is taken to be a multi-stage interactive process; on such accounts, the distinction between perceptual disorders and agnosia is seen not as dichotomous but rather as a process in which sensory inputs give rise to progressively more elaborated representations in which different types of information (e.g., shape, color, location) may be emphasized (Heinke and Humphreys 2003; Ellis and Young 1988). Second, in light of the increasingly complex and interactive models of recognition, the heuristic value of data from patients with agnosia has proven to be substantial. As illustrated by the influential contributions of Farah (2004), Riddoch and Humphreys (1987), and others, data from agnosic subjects may serve to indicate the fault lines in the process of recognition and offer important constraints for accounts based on animal work, modeling, and studies of normal subjects.
In what follows, we first sketch some current thinking on the evolution of some of the brain structures that deal with reward, with emphasis on those that likely appeared at three times during the history of animals (Figure 4.1): with early vertebrates, with early mammals, and during primate evolution. Next we use clues from laboratory research, mainly from studies of rats and rhesus monkeys, to paint a picture of structure-function relationships in each of these three clades. We recognize the hazards of this approach. Rats and rhesus monkeys are crown species, each with a long, separate evolutionary history and a complex suite of adaptations and specializations. The preferred way to understand the role of structures in early vertebrates or early mammals would involve the study of a diversity of animals in each group, selected according to the principles of evolutionary biology. Although a limited amount of such research is available, the literature from comparative psychology has not yet reached a point where we can use the preferred approach effectively. Accordingly, we use what hints come from rat and monkey research, in the context of comparative neuroanatomy, to explore what we have inherited from various ancestors. In doing so, we assume that structure-function relationships do not change haphazardly during evolution. Our approach will perhaps seem most peculiar when we use insights gained from the study of macaque monkeys and humans to explore the function of dopamine neurons and the basal ganglia in Section 4.3: What Can Vertebrate Brains Do With Reward? We adopt this approach because the original work was based on monkey research, and because we believe that the principles discerned from that research apply to other vertebrates as well. Our assumption is that such principles are highly conserved, although future work on a broad array of vertebrates is needed to confirm that view.
Synthesizing coverage of sensation and reward into a comprehensive systems overview, Neurobiology of Sensation and Reward presents a cutting-edge and multidisciplinary approach to the interplay of sensory and reward processing in the brain. While over the past 70 years these areas have drifted apart, this book makes a case for reuniting sensation and reward by highlighting the important links and interface between the two. Emphasizing the role of reward in reinforcing behaviors, the book begins with an exploration of the history, ecology, and evolution of sensation and reward. Progressing through the five senses, contributors explore how the brain extracts information from sensory cues. The chapter authors examine how different animal species predict rewards, thereby integrating sensation and reward in learning, focusing on effects in anatomy, physiology, and behavior. Features Synthesizes cutting-edge research by leading investigators in the neurobiology of sensation and reward. Introduces sensation and reward from a multidisciplinary perspective that includes biology, ecology, evolution, and the history of neuroscience. Presents critical links between basic and clinical neuroscience through the latest behavioral and pathological findings in humans with behavioral and cognitive impairments in sensation and reward processing. Explores non-human and human brains, and the very human rewards of art, perfume, and music. Discusses how the processing of sensory rewards benefits from the presence of a brain. Drawing on empirical research, contributors build on the themes of the book to present insights into the human sensory rewards of perfume, art, and music, setting the scene for further cross-disciplinary collaborations that bridge the neurobiological interface between sensation and reward.
How can the brain regulate food intake, given that preferences seem to be under the simultaneous control of different distal and proximal events? One possibility is that a brain circuit exists that has the ability to respond to all behaviorally relevant distal and proximal cues. We will argue that the mammalian midbrain dopamine system is one such candidate circuit, given its prominent role in food reward processing and its ability to detect and respond not only to proximal cues such as palatable tastes but also to distal cues that acquire predictive power through learning. In addition, and consistent with the preponderant role played by postingestive factors in food intake, we will also review recent evidence showing that the detection of nutrient processing from its absorption in the gut is sufficient to activate the mesolimbic dopamine system in the absence of gustatory or flavor stimulation. We will explore some of the implications of these findings and the many related questions that remain unanswered.
Studies of neurological patients can be particularly useful in testing whether putative component processes are, in fact, distinct (by showing, for example, that one process is impaired, and another spared, after brain damage). Furthermore, when such work is carried out in patients with defined brain injuries, inferences can be drawn about the brain substrates of the process in question. Thus, a neurological approach provides a useful window on decision making. This chapter will review work on the brain substrates of value-based decision making from this perspective, concentrating particularly on component process approaches. As we shall see, at least some of this work has addressed how value relates to choice objects in the world, and as such can be framed as a linkage of sensation and reward. Experimental studies of patients with focal brain injury aimed at delineating the neuroanatomical substrates of decision making will be the primary focus, but I will also touch on work examining the neurochemical modulation of choice. As mentioned, this basic science research also offers an interesting perspective on the mechanisms underlying the everyday difficulties of patients with dysfunction of systems important to decision and reward processing. I will return to this at the end of the chapter.
In the present analysis, reinforcement is the term used to describe any process that promotes learning: a change in behavior as the result of experience. The event (or stimulus) that initiates the process is called the reinforcer. Since both the reinforcer and its behavioral effects are observable and can be fully described, this can be taken as an operational definition. However, this definition is uninformative with respect to the processes that underlie the behavioral effects of reinforcement and tends to obscure the fact that there are several such effects, all of which result in behavioral change. This chapter discusses evidence for the existence and independent function of three reinforcement processes.
Like many scientific terms, the meaning of reward has not stayed fixed since the time of Thorndike either. Indeed, for several decades, under the umbrella of a behaviorist movement that eschewed the use of subjectivist and mentalist terms, the term reward, with its hedonistic connotations of pleasure, gave way to reinforcement. Reinforcement clearly refers to effects on behavior, to the strengthening of responses, without implying any particular underlying mental process, indeed, without implying any particular process at all. In recent decades, however, the use of the term reward has become increasingly widespread, as various scientific paradigms seek to better understand reward and its mechanisms. The more we know about reward, and about the mental-behavioral processes and neural mechanisms underlying it, the more elaborate and nuanced its definition and meaning.
Taste stimuli are unique in the world of recognizable objects, in that they are perceived only after being selected and engulfed (Figure 6.1). The physical sources of your current visual, auditory, somatosensory, and olfactory percepts are essentially externalyou see whats in front of your face, hear whats within earshot, feel whats within reach, and smell bits of external objects carried to you in the airstream (it is usually possible to determine from whence it was dealt once it has been smelt)but a stimulus activates the gustatory system only after it has been purposefully removed from view. Organisms make a deliberate decision to have a taste experience, choosing an external object in their environment for consumption and experiencing the taste percept only after sending that object down the path toward digestion.
In this chapter, I explore these issues in aesthetics through the lens of cognitive neuroscience. The term aesthetics is used broadly here, to encompass the perception, production, and response to art, but also to include the responses to objects and scenes that evoke a response that could be considered aesthetic. The nature of this response is something to which I shall return later in this chapter. I start by reviewing recent comments on the relationship of art and the brain made by visual neuroscientists. I then describe a framework that might guide research in neuroaesthetics. Following that, I review empirical work conducted thus far. Finally, I suggest how progress could be made in this nascent field. At the outset, I should be clear about limits to defining art (Carroll 2000). Some philosophers have claimed that defining art with necessary and sufficient conditions is not possible (Weitz 1956). In response to such claims, recent theoreticians have defined art by its social and institutional (Dickie 1969) or its historical context (Danto 1964). Cognitive neuroscientists are unlikely to address sociological or historical conceptions of art. They are likely to sidestep definitional issues and focus on accepted examples of artwork or properties of these works as probes for experiments.
An olfactory enthusiast might plausibly go so far as to state that all biological subsystems are essentially a spin-off of the chemical detector apparatus. Since Buck and Axel first identified a large multigene family of G-protein-coupled receptor genes on rat olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) (Buck and Axel 1991), it has become apparent that the G-protein-coupled conformation of the olfactory receptor shares much in common with receptors that bind a great many other critical biological ligands, including neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, tastants, light, hormones, growth factors, chemokines, cell adhesion molecules, and chemotactic peptides (Dryer 2000; Fredriksson et al. 2003). Laurence Dryer (2000) has nicely captured the idea that olfaction is a virtual microcosm of the human nervous system:
This chapter will focus on cortical aspects of sound processing in primates. However, due to the incomplete nature of primate literature, conclusions based on data from other species will be discussed. Insights from other mammalian species (i.e., cats, ferrets, rats) will be used to shape hypotheses. It is worth noting that important species differences exist in the auditory system, even within primates. For example, many species of Old and New World monkeys (e.g., macaques, capuchins) prefer silence over music (McDermott and Hauser 2007) (also see Chapter 19 in this volume). Another example is that language comprehension is something at which humans uniquely excel. However, as the specialized anatomy is not well understood, we will not review the pathways dedicated to language processing and production in humans.
The ability to predict when and where a reward will occur enables humans and other animals to initiate behavioral responses prospectively in order to maximize the probability of obtaining that reward. Reward predictions can take a number of distinct forms depending on the nature of the associative relationship underpinning them (Balleine et al. 2008; and see Chapters 13 and 15 in this volume). The simplest form of reward prediction is one based on an associative Pavlovian relationship between arbitrary stimuli and rewards, acquired following experience of repeated contingent pairing of the stimulus with the reward. Subsequent presentation of the stimulus elicits a predictive representation of the reward, by virtue of the learned stimulus-reward association. This form of prediction is purely passive: it signals when a reward might be expected to occur and elicits Pavlovian conditioned reflexes, but does not inform about the specific behavioral actions that should be initiated in order to obtain it. By contrast, other forms of reward prediction are grounded in learned instrumental associations between stimuli, responses, and rewards, thereby informing about the specific behavioral responses that, when performed by the animal, lead to a greater probability of obtaining that reward. Instrumental reward predictions can be either goal directed (based on response-outcome associations and therefore sensitive to the incentive value of the outcome), or habitual (based on stimulus-response associations and hence insensitive to changes in outcome value) (Balleine and Dickinson 1998). In this chapter, we will review evidence for the presence of multiple types of predictive reward signal in the brain. We will also outline some of the candidate computational mechanisms that might be responsible for the acquisition of these different forms of reward predictions and evaluate evidence for the presence of such mechanisms in the brain.
Why do humans take pleasure from sequences of tones? This question has perplexed many scientists and philosophers over the years. The great science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke (1953) went so far as to suggest that an alien race would be puzzled and astonished by the amount of time we spend listening to sounds that have no apparent purpose or utility. Yet, humans consistently rank music among the top ten things that bring pleasure, usually above such things as money, food, or art (Dub and LeBel 2003). So why do temporally organized pitch sequences as found in music bring such pleasure? In the present chapter, we outline some of the critical mechanisms that make music both rewarding and motivating, and attempt to link these factors to recent neuroscientific insights into the networks that mediate reward.
Recent analyses of goal-directed action have not only pointed to the importance of the learning processes through which actions and their consequences are encoded, but have also emphasized the performance factors that influence choice between actions and action initiation more generally (Dickinson and Balleine 2002; Hasselmo 2005; Balleine and Ostlund 2007). It is important to understand why this is the case. Although the value of actingor not actingcan often appear to be obvious enough from an adaptive perspective, in fact the information that can be derived from the action-outcome association is not sufficient to determine a course of action; knowing that an action results in a particular outcome does not entail whether that action should be performed or not. Although it might appear adaptive to perform food-related actions more frequently when food deprived and less frequently when replete, this need not necessarily occur and often doesnt, something well documented in cases of eating disorders (Davis et al. 2004; Morrison and Berthoud 2007). In fact, what determines whether a specific action will be both selected and subsequently initiated is not just the identity but also the evaluation of the outcome associated with the selected action. In order to decide on a course of action, therefore, both the consequences and the value of the consequences of various alternative actions need to be specified. Therefore, establishing the determinants of a course of action, whether in psychological or neural terms, requires an account of (i) the learning processes through which action-outcome associations are encoded and (ii) the motivational and emotional processes that establish the value of the consequences or outcomes of actions. In this chapter both of these processes will be described further although, because there have been a number of recent reviews of the learning processes underlying goal-directed action (Balleine, Delgado, and Hikosaka 2007; Balleine, Liljeholm, and Ostlund 2009; Balleine and Ostlund 2007; Yin, Ostlund, and Balleine 2008; Balleine and ODoherty 2010), I will mainly focus on evidence relating to the behavioral and neural bases of incentive learning, i.e., the process by which we and other animals assign value to the consequences or goals of goal-directed actions. To provide the basis for the presentation of current research on this issue I will focus first on evaluative conditioning, which constitutes the motivational basis of affective processes generally, and then turn to animal models of goal-directed action to describe how this basic evaluative process is elaborated into an incentive learning process in the service of this capacity. I will then take up the issue of the neural bases of incentive learning and describe some recent research on this issue in the final section.
More recently the orbitofrontal cortex has been shown to be critical to signaling of outcome expectanciessignals concerning the characteristics, features, and specific value of particular outcomes that are predicted by cues (and perhaps responses; though see Ostlund and Balleine 2007b) in the environment (Schoenbaum and Roesch 2005). Here we will argue that this function provides a better explanation for the role of the orbitofrontal cortex in adaptive behavior than either of the established hypotheses. First, we will review data from reversal learning tasks, showing that orbitofrontal cortex is critical for changing behavior in the face of unexpected outcomes. Then, we will provide a brief overview of the two dominant hypotheses, followed by data that directly contradict both accounts. Thereafter, we will review more recent evidence that orbitofrontal cortex is critical to signaling information about expected outcomes. As we will show, these signals are prominent in the neural activity and BOLD response in orbitofrontal cortex, and their role in guiding behavior is evident in deficits caused by orbitofrontal damage in a variety of behavioral settings in which outcomes must be used to guide normal behavior, even when contingencies are not changing. We will suggest that these same signals are also necessary for the detection of prediction errors when contingencies are changing, thereby facilitating changes in associative representations in other brain areas and, ultimately, behavior. Finally, we will also suggest that expectancy signals in orbitofrontal cortex might also impact early sensory regions, optimizing behavior through context-dependent firing and recall of environmental cues predicting future reward.
The ability to predict and evaluate reward value, and use that information to develop and execute an action plan efficiently, requires: first, integration of incoming sensory information with reward value, expectation, and memory; second, the incorporation of that information with cognition to develop the plan; and finally, the motor control to execute it. However, the BG are traditionally considered to process information in parallel and segregated functional streams consisting of reward (limbic), associative (cognitive), and motor control circuits (Alexander and Crutcher 1990). Moreover, microcircuits within each region are thought to mediate different aspects of each function (Middleton and Strick 2002). Nonetheless, expressed behaviors are the result of a combination of complex information processing that involves all of frontal cortex. Indeed, appropriate responses to environmental stimuli require continual updating and learning to adjust behaviors according to new data. This requires coordination between sensory, limbic, cognitive, and motor systems. While the anatomical pathways are generally topographic from cortex through BG circuits, a large body of growing evidence supports a dual processing system. Thus, information is not only processed in parallel streams, but also through integrative mechanisms through which information can be transferred between functional circuits (Bar-Gad et al. 2000; Belin and Everitt 2008; Bevan, Clarke, and Bolam 1997; Draganski et al. 2008; Haber et al. 2006; Haber, Fudge, and McFarland 2000; Kolomiets et al. 2001; McFarland and Haber 2002b; Mena-Segovia et al. 2005; Percheron and Filion 1991). This chapter will first discuss the place of the reward circuit in the BG; second, how the sensory systems interface within this circuit; and third, the anatomical basis for integrating the reward circuit with cognition and motor control systems.
Although glutamate has a staggering array of functions, none of the top-selling CNS drugs is indicated directly for rectifying dysfunction at the glutamate synapse. Currently, three prescription drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)memantine, ketamine, and D-cycloserinehave implications for diseases of glutamate or glutamate-related pathology. Many workshop participants agreed that the lack of glutamate biomarkers is the largest obstacle to increasing glutamate-specific drug development. In spite of this problem, scientific progress is close to a tipping point that will yield novel glutamate biomarkers as long as concerted efforts are undertaken by academic, government, and industry researchers, as well as by health policy makers. The stakes, in their view, are too great to disregard.
Huntingtons disease (HD) is a devastating neurological disorder caused by mutations in the human gene encoding the huntingtin protein, htt. Since the identification of the HD gene nearly 15 years ago, there has been enormous progress in understanding the molecular features of HD pathology at the cellular level, as well the development of a plethora of HD models in the mouse and other experimental organisms. These studies have led to the beginnings of a systematic process of target selection and validation in the service of formulating rational strategies for pharmaceutical development of HD therapeutics (see Chapter 4, this volume). Some of these targets have matured to the point of being the subjects of directed translational research programs in academia, biotechnology, and pharma organizations. This chapter will describe some of the features that have made the identification of treatments for HD a challenge and how the field is moving forward in the face of such challenges. In particular, we will focus on the activities of the CHDI Foundation, Inc. to bring disease-modifying treatments to the clinic.
Ever since its original description by George Huntington in 1872, Huntingtons disease (HD) has been known as one of the most devastating inherited neurodegenerative disorders afflicting the human brain. Currently in the United States, there are about 30,000 patients with HD and another 150,000 people who are at a genetic risk of developing the disease. HD is characterized by the clinical triad of late-onset motor disturbances (i.e., chorea and dystonia), psychiatric deficits (i.e., depression, irritability, and psychosis), and cognitive decline (Bates et al., 2002). The majority of HD patients experience onset of symptoms around the age of 40 (adult-onset HD), and the disease relentlessly progresses until the patients death, which usually occurs within 1020 years after disease onset. A small subset of HD patients experience the onset of symptoms before age 20 (juvenile HD), and these patients exhibit slightly different clinical features in that they tend to have more dystonia than chorea, as well as a higher incidence of epilepsy. Although the onset of HD is currently defined by the onset of motor deficits, recent studies using more sensitive motor studies, as well as cognitive studies, indicate that clinical manifestations of HD may occur years to decades before the onset of motor symptoms, and such deficits may correspond to the early and progressive cortical and striatal atrophy seen in presymptomatic HD patients (Aylward et al., 2004; Rosas et al., 2005, 2006).
In 1872, physician George Huntington reported a familial form of chorea noted previously on Long Island by his father and grandfather, also physicians. More than a century later his comments about the disease now carrying his name, Huntingtons disease (HD), remain a clear description of its major clinical features (Huntington, 1872; reprinted in Huntington, 2003). Huntington described chorea in general as the dancing propensities of those  affected, in whom there seems to exist some hidden power, something that is playing tricks, as it were, upon the will. The familial form started as an ordinary chorea might begin, by the irregular and spasmodic action of certain muscles as of the face, arms, etc. These movements gradually increase when muscles hitherto unaffected take on the spasmodic action. The disease, he further noted, seems to obey certain fixed laws. It is confined to  a few families, is attended generally by all the symptoms of common chorea, hardly ever manifesting itself until adult or middle life, and then coming on gradually but surely, increasing by degrees, and often occupying years in its development, until the hapless sufferer is but a quivering wreck of his former self. The tendency to insanity, Huntington observed, progresses so that the mind becomes more or less impaired, in many amounting to insanity while in others, mind and body both gradually fail until death relieves them of their sufferings. The inheritance pattern was also clear to Huntington: When either or both the parents have shown manifestations  one or more of the offspring almost invariably suffer from the disease  but if by any chance these children go through a life without it, the thread is broken. Finally, he noted the relentless, fatal course: I have never known a recovery  it seems at least to be one of the incurables. Commenting later on Huntingtons description, Sir William Osler noted that there are few instances in which a disease has been more accurately, more graphically, and more briefly described (Stevenson, 1934).
The therapeutic potential of intracellularly expressed, recombinant, or single-chain fragment variable (scFv) antibodies (intrabodies) is being explored for several diseases, including cancer, HIV, and neurodegenerative disorders. Intrabodies can bind and inactivate toxic intracellular proteins, prevent misfolding, promote degradation, and block aberrant proteinprotein interactions with extreme molecular specificity. Neurodegenerative disorders are particularly attractive candidates for these reagents because many of these diseases involve protein misfolding, oligomerization, and aggregation [1]. In particular, intrabodies have shown efficacy in blocking the toxicity of the amyloidogenic protein fragment A in cell culture and mouse models of Alzheimers disease (AD), paving the way for clinical trials of these reagents in brain disorders [2]. In addition to their therapeutic potential, intrabodies are also useful molecular tools to identify the pathogenic epitopes in toxic proteins, which can be targets for other types of therapy. In this chapter, we will review the strategies that have been used to develop intrabodies specific for the huntingtin (htt) protein, and describe their testing in models of Huntingtons disease (HD) and their development as potential therapeutic agents for clinical use in HD.
During the past several decades, pharmaceutical safety and efficacy have improved considerably with the elucidation of mechanisms of drug action in the disease context and a better understanding of the desired drug target profiles. The ability to fine-tune the target profile of many drugs has led to the premise that the optimal basis for the development of a safe and effective drug is the targeting of a single gene product. In the omics era of biology, the ability to rapidly identify and characterize the druggable genome in its entirety has created the opportunity to broadly test the validity of this premise. However, the torrent of potential drug targets resulting from this approach presents a new set of challenges, particularly the development of a robust and efficient target validation process. Such a process must be capable of screening a sizeable number of putative targets and identifying the best candidates for the lengthy, uncertain, and expensive process of drug development. An effective target validation process depends on biological models or systems that exhibit the known properties of the disease and respond to intervention in a manner predictive of clinical outcome. Pre-existing benchmarks or gold standard treatments known to be effective in the clinic can be used to confirm the effectiveness of a target validation process by showing that the process is capable of discovering the benchmarks. The challenge is much greater for diseases without existing therapeutics. The absence of clinically successful benchmarks introduces significant uncertainty into all upstream drug discovery processes, as their validity cannot be confirmed. This is the difficult situation faced by therapeutic development for Huntingtons disease (HD) and arguably for all neurodegenerative diseases. This chapter will describe the approaches adopted by the CHDI Foundationan organization that is dedicated to the singular mission of developing HD therapeuticsto manage these limitations while moving forward with HD drug discovery and development (see also Chapter 8, this volume). The chapter is divided into four sections. In the first section, we briefly review the challenges inherent in target validation for HD. In the second, we present our current target validation processes and their deployment for the existing list of potential targets. In the third, we discuss the operational bottlenecks and scientific challenges in the target validation process, as well as several methods for meeting these challenges. In the last section, we discuss our longer-term goal of developing new approaches to improve our current processes. The ultimate validity of our target validation processes can only be demonstrated by the development of an effective drug for HD.
In 1993, the genetic mutation responsible for Huntingtons disease (HD) was identified. Considered a milestone in human genomics, this discovery has led to nearly two decades of remarkable progress that has greatly increased our knowledge of HD, and documented an unexpectedly large and diverse range of biochemical and genetic perturbations that seem to result directly from the expression of the mutant huntingtin gene. Neurobiology of Huntingtons Disease: Applications to Drug Discovery presents a thorough review of the issues surrounding drug discovery and development for the treatment of this paradigmatic neurodegenerative disease. Drawing on the expertise of key researchers in the field, the book discusses the basic neurobiology of Huntingtons disease and how its monogenic nature confers enormous practical advantages for translational research, including the creation of robust experimental tools, models, and assays to facilitate discovery and validation of molecular targets and drug candidates for HD. Written to support future basic research as well as drug development efforts, this volume: Covers the latest research approaches in genetics, genomics, and proteomics, including high-throughput and high-content screening. Highlights advances in the discovery and development of new drug therapies for neurodegenerative disorders. Examines the practical realities of preclinical testing, clinical testing strategies, and, ultimately, clinical usage. While the development of effective drug treatments for Huntingtons disease continues to be tremendously challenging, a highly interactive and cooperative community of researchers and clinical investigators now brings us to the threshold of potential breakthroughs in the quest for therapeutic agents. The impressive array of drug discovery resources outlined in the text holds much promise for treating this devastating disease, providing hope to long-suffering Huntingtons disease patients and their families.
Successful treatment of a neurodegenerative disorder depends on three interdependent factors: (1) the right treatment candidates; (2) the ability to detect the therapeutic effects in an appropriate clinical population; and (3) clinically meaningful treatment effects. Each contribution is necessary but insufficient by itself to realize therapeutic gains and ultimately clinical benefits. These issues are illustrated for hepatolenticular degeneration, or Wilsons disease, which in 1911 was first recognized by Samuel Alexander Kinnier Wilson as a disorder that was familial, progressive, fatal, and associated with softening of the lenticular nucleus (pallidum and putamen) and cirrhosis.(1) Hepatolenticular degeneration was linked in 1913 to an accumulation of hepatic copper(2) and hypothesized in 1921 to be inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.(3) However, chelating therapy was not developed and reasoned to be an effective experimental treatment until 19481958. Coincidentally, the copper-binding protein ceruloplasmin was found to be deficient in individuals who inherited two copies of the gene responsible for Wilsons disease. Experimental decoppering treatments would eventually be found to slow and even reverse neurological and hepatic deterioration in clinically affected individuals.(46) In the case of Wilsons disease, the right treatment emerged from an incremental knowledge base and the rational understanding that copper accumulated in vital organs could be removed or prevented by effective and reasonably safe treatments. The therapeutic effects of decoppering therapy (2,3-dimercaptopropanol or British anti-Lewisite and later penicillamine) were of such large magnitude and relatively small variance that benefits could be detected in just a few patients without placebo controls.4 The clinical meaningfulness of penicillamine therapy became clear by 1968 when this intervention was demonstrated to prevent the onset of clinical features in premanifest individuals who had deficient ceruloplasmin, increased hepatic copper, and were presumed to carry the homozygotic genetic defect accounting for Wilsons disease.(6) Again, the treatment effects were sufficiently strong and uniform as to be convincing without placebo controls. As may occur with disease-modifying therapies, treatment may result in initial clinical worsening (as can be the case with penicillamine(7)) before clinical improvement. Improvements in therapy would later ensue in the form of trientine and zinc treatments.(8),(9) Although success in the experimental therapeutics of Wilsons disease seemed in retrospect to come in quantum scientific leaps, therapeutic benefits accrued slowly but steadily through incremental gains in clinical research. Interestingly, a molecular understanding of the genetic defects underlying Wilsons disease only followed the development of successful treatment.(10) The clinical and hereditary aspects of Huntingtons disease (HD) were first described by George Huntington in 1872. It took nearly a century to unravel the relatively selective pattern of neuronal loss and gliosis and the associated neurochemical abnormalities that characterized the neurodegeneration of HD. In the 1980s and 1990s, studies of large and multiple families and the development and application of molecular genetic techniques led eventually to identification of the gene responsible for HD.(11) In the past two decades, a remarkable and collaborative scientific inquiry has elucidated the key relationship of genetic dosage (CAG repeat length) to clinical features (age at onset), identified the mutant huntingtin protein, provided insights into the mechanisms underlying neuronal degeneration, and enabled the development of genetic animal models. The ability to detect premanifest HD in individuals who have inherited the mutant gene and its expanded CAG repeat has provided the opportunity to develop preventive therapies aimed at postponing or preventing the onset of illness.
Huntingtons disease (HD) is a devastating neurological disorder for which we currently have no effective treatments. Although patients are typically treated with drugs that can modify symptoms, none of these current drug regimens are thought to modify the onset, progress, or ultimate fatality of HD. A major step forward in terms of understanding the mechanism underlying HD and thus toward developing rational approaches to drug development occurred in 1993 with the cloning of the HD gene (Willard, 1993). From a drug development perspective, one great outcome of this advancement was to create the ability to express the mutant HD gene in cell-based and transgenic models that can experimentally recapitulate aspects of HD pathology (see Chapters 5, 6, and 7, this volume). Such assays are invaluable tools for characterizing pathogenic mechanisms and discovering targets and small molecule modifiers of toxicity mediated by mutant Htt expression. The identification of the protein also allows us to determine its interacting partners and thereby place the pathogenesis of the disease in a proteomic context. However, despite early enthusiasm suggesting that the discovery of the precise genetic cause of HD could provide a fast track to an effective treatment, disease-modifying small molecule interventions for HD remain to be fully developed. Target discovery and target validation are key early steps in the drug discovery process (see Chapter 4, this volume). There are a number of approaches to target discovery that include nomination and testing of candidate targets based on consideration of biological and molecular features of specific diseases. Candidate targets can also be inferred from genetic modifier screens in model organisms such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila (see Chapter 6, this volume). More recently, high-throughput RNA interference (RNAi) screening in cell-based models of disease has provided an opportunity to use unbiased genome-wide screens to identify potential targets capable of modifying in vitro models of disease phenotypes (Cronin et al., 2009; Krishnan et al., 2008; Luo et al., 2009). Candidate genes identified through RNAi-mediated phenotypes can be further validated in higher content models, such as crossing transgenic HD mice with a strain that bears a genetic modification of a candidate target. Another powerful method for target identification is the use of protein interaction studies. This chapter will focus on the role of protein interactions in HD and specifically on how knowledge of protein interaction networks can inform target discovery and validation processes for HD drug development.
The discovery in 1993 of the gene responsible for Huntingtons disease (HD) represented a crucial turning point in the HD research field. At the time of the discovery, no one could predict that HD would belong to a large class of inherited neurological diseases all caused by the same type of genetic mutation (i.e., polyglutamine [polyQ] expansion) or that the mechanistic basis of HD (i.e., protein misfolding) would emerge as a common theme linking together all the major neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimers disease (AD), Parkinsons disease (PD), and the prion diseases. The study of how the mutant HD gene product, an unusually large 3,144 amino acid protein (huntingtin [htt]) with few recognizable motifs or obvious functional domains that results in the degeneration and death of neurons in the striatum and cortex, has been an enormous undertaking. Indeed, a PubMed search using the term huntingtin yields 1,124 hits at the time of writing this chapter. Suffice it to say that dozens of theories of pathogenesis have been proposed and studied. The goal of this chapter will be to present some of the most enduring lines of investigation, with an emphasis on the latest developments, and to highlight emerging notions likely to drive basic research on HD in the future. HD displays the genetic feature of anticipation, defined as earlier disease onset and more rapid disease progression in successive generations of a pedigree segregating the disease gene. This feature was an important clue for discovery of the causal mutation, as a trinucleotide repeat expansion encoding an elongated glutamine tract in the htt protein was determined to be responsible for HD in 1993, and a relationship between the length of the expanded glutamine tract and the severity of the HD phenotype was uncovered at that time [1]. HD is one of nine inherited neurodegenerative disorders caused by CAG trinucleotide repeats that expand to produce disease by encoding elongated polyQ tracts in their respective protein products. Included in this CAG/polyQ repeat disease class are spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA), dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA), and six forms of spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA1, SCA2, SCA3, SCA6, SCA7, and SCA17) [2]. Based on work done on all these disorders, investigators have learned that once glutamine tracts exceed the mid-30s, the polyQ tract adopts a novel conformation that is pathogenic. An antipolyQ antibody (1C2) can specifically detect this structural transformation, as it will only bind to disease-length polyQ tracts from patients with different polyQ diseases [3]. The transition of polyQ-expanded proteins into this misfolded conformer is the crux of the molecular pathology in these disorders. Once in this conformation, however, it is unclear how polyQ tract expansions mediate the patterns of neuronal cell loss seen in each disease, as most of the polyQ disease gene products show overlapping patterns of expression within the central nervous system (CNS) but restricted pathology. In the case of HD, molecular explanations for disease pathogenesis must account for the selective vulnerability of the medium spiny neurons of the striatum and certain neuron subsets in the cortex.
During the past decade, Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans genetics have emerged as powerful approaches for the study of cellular responses to neurodegenerative disease proteins. Such studies have provided new strategies and rationales for the development of neuroprotective drugs, such as the pharmacological manipulation of longevity modulator networks. This chapter will describe how and why these model systems may be used as efficient translational research tools for Huntingtons disease (HD) in the discovery and development of neuroprotective drugs. Neurodegenerative diseases, including HD, constitute a large and clinically heterogeneous group of brain illnesses for which there are currently no neuroprotective drugs available. Although important methodologies have been developed by academic and industrial researchers to find therapies for these diseases, notably chemical screening tools, the large majority of the molecules so far evaluated in clinical trials have failed to show significant efficacy. In rodent models, the administration of neurotoxins may reproduce some features of the human diseases (von Bohlen Und Halbach, 2005), and this approach has been used extensively to search for new treatments with some success, such as the use of levodopa for symptomatic treatment of Parkinsons disease, although with significant side effects (Tse, 2006). However, neuroprotective treatments able to benefit large numbers of patients with minimal side effects have not yet been developed. Thus, to date research in the field of neurodegenerative disease pathogenesis has given limited benefit to patients, and drug discovery and development remain major challenges for industrial and preindustrial research and need to be improved. Drug development is an expensive and time-consuming process that works as a pipeline, with the proof of success being conclusive clinical trials. Although there is a need to improve clinical trial design to evaluate the effects of neuroprotective drugs, improvement may also be needed at the entry points of the pipeline and at critical points along the preclinical discovery process (Hung and Schwarzschild, 2007). With the advent of physiological genomics and network biology, the concepts and paradigms used to study neurodegenerative diseases are rapidly evolving (Feany, 2000; Lim et al., 2006b). Implementing these concepts and paradigms early into the drug development process may strongly enhance the translational infrastructure used to tackle neurodegenerative diseases. The aim of this chapter is to emphasize how and why invertebrate biology may allow new rationale(s) for drug discovery and development to be exploited for the development of new drugs for HD, notably in view of developing neuroprotective and preventive medicines. HD is a dominantly inherited disease caused by expanded polyglutamines (polyQs) in the huntingtin (htt) protein (Figure 6.1) and is clinically characterized by cortical and striatal degeneration accompanied by motor, cognitive, and neuropsychiatric symptoms (Walker, 2007). The toxic effects of polyQ-expanded htt forms and genetic modifiers of cytotoxicity are being studied in several cell systems and in model organisms, including yeast, nematodes, flies, and rodents (Levine et al., 2004; Rubinsztein, 2002; Sipione and Cattaneo, 2001). Thus, a large amount of knowledge is being accumulated on the roles of normal htt and the effects of polyQ-expanded htt at the neuronal cell level. There are also great efforts being made to collect detailed clinical data in a normalized manner (e.g., see http://www.euro-hd.net) and to characterize large cohorts of HD patients and presymptomatic individuals. Thus, HD has become a model disease to define the best ways to fight neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration in the brain and to improve drug discovery, which may foster the identification of a cure for this disease and perhaps other degenerative diseases.
Since the isolation of the gene and mutation that cause Huntingtons disease (HD) more than a decade ago, there has been optimism that this knowledge would lead to the rapid discovery of therapeutic agents for this fatal and incurable disease [1]. In fact, considerable effort has been invested in HD drug discovery, predominantly in academic environments but also in the biopharmaceutical industry to some certain extent. Historically, however, interest in HD research and development in large pharmaceutical firms has been limited by the relatively small size of the HD patient population (~30,000 affected persons in United States), which has led to the perception that the market size for HD might be too small to justify the investment of substantial resources necessary to bring a new drug to clinical trials. However, there is a growing appreciation for the actual market size of first in class drugs for otherwise unaddressable diseases, as well as for the idea that HD may prove to be a paradigmatic disease for other, much more prevalent neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimers disease and Parkinsons disease [2]. One hurdle in drug discovery for most neurodegenerative disorders is their incompletely understood, multigenic, and multifactorial etiology. Thus, animal models of these diseases may often recapitulate only some aspects of such diseases and rarely reproduce the full pathophysiology of the human diseases [3], [4]. In contrast, HD is caused by a well-defined mutation in a single autosomal gene that has a dominant and fully penetrant phenotype. This simplicity in the genetics of HD has allowed the creation of a variety of cells cultures and transgenic animal models for HD in which there can be greater confidence that these models do capture important aspects of human disease initiation and progression [5]. This chapter will focus on the development and implementation of high-throughput and high-content in vitro assays for the discovery of HD therapeutics. High-throughput screening (HTS) of small molecules allows the rapid interrogation of the effects of thousands to hundreds of thousands of small molecules in a variety of in vitro and cell-based assays, whereas high-content screening (HCS) approaches may sacrifice some of these high-throughput capabilities in return for great biological and phenotypic complexity in the assay endpoints used. Why do we need such high-throughput and high-content methods? Simply because we do not currently have sufficient knowledge of the molecular targets and pathways that may be therapeutic for HD nor do we know how to design a priori custom small molecule compounds that will be guaranteed to have the desired effect on such biological targets. Hence rapid testing of many tens of thousands or more drug molecule candidates in HD models offers the potential for systematized serendipity, that we will encounter effective compounds in such discovery campaigns that will prove to be clinically relevant, using controllable and predictable in vitro screening processes. Active compounds emerging from HTS and HCS screenstermed hitsare the templates on which eventually drug leads are developed through further combinatorial and medicinal chemistry efforts Figure 5.1. Such efforts in the field have identified a number of hits that are being pursued as drug leads (see Chapters 8 and 12, this volume). In the following sections we will describe different strategies and approaches in the design and implementation of HTS and HCS screens for HD, and will also discuss the development of prioritization schemes for potential drug leads identified, future screening approaches, and the use of these compounds for gaining new insights into mechanisms underlying HD.
The goal of this chapter is to describe strategies for the development of RNA- and DNA-based therapies for Huntingtons disease (HD). RNA-based therapies use endogenous cellular mechanisms for the suppression of gene expression and have the potential for exquisite sequence selectivity of target genes. DNA-based therapies, notably those based on antisense technologies, are not as flexible in target selectivity but can be more stable than those derived from RNA-based silencing. Both approaches are currently being aggressively pursued with promising results in preclinical studies. HD is a particularly attractive target for DNA- and RNA-based therapies as it is an autosomal dominant disease resulting from mutation on one allele. Thus, in concept, eliminating expression of the mutant huntingtin allele would entirely prevent the neuronal pathology that it would otherwise cause. Because the mutant huntingtin messenger RNA (mRNA) transcript would be selectively targeted, the normal transcript would remain unaffected and able to mediate the normal functions of huntingtin that may be critical for neural development and function.
The ultimate therapeutic goal for Huntingtons disease (HD) is to develop disease-modifying therapies able to (1) delay or prevent clinical illness in those who are at genetic risk; and (2) slow the progression and permit some recovery in those who have manifest clinical illness. Rapidly advancing basic and translational research has identified numerous potential targets for neuroprotection. Some targets may be generically neuroprotective and relevant for a variety of neurological insults, whereas others may be more selective for HD. None yet stand out sufficiently to enable concentrating efforts on just a few of these, with the exception of the huntingtin protein itself, which does not have a conventional pharmacology with which to work. Each potential target for HD is approached by multiple strategies, primarily small molecules but also by RNA interference, antisense, gene therapy, or cellular therapy. These strategies start with families of compounds or biologicals. Medicinal chemistry, pharmacology, and biological assays winnow these families down by ordering them in terms of potency, favorable pharmacological properties, toxicity, teratogenicity, off-target effects, bioavailability, central nervous system (CNS) penetration, and so on. However, as helpful as in silico, in vitro, and in vivo models are, they provide only an incomplete understanding of target and treatment properties and disease modifying potential. Indeed, for neurological disease, there is much more history with compounds working in cellular and in animal models and subsequently not working in human disease than there is of models successfully predicting effective therapies (e.g., in stroke or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis [ALS]). There may be more hope for HD because of its dominant genetic nature and the greater relevance of the models. In the end, target validation and prioritization, as well as discerning the potential risks and benefits of individual compounds, will have to come from clinical experiments in human subjects, particularly those with premanifest or manifest HD. However, the capacity to conduct clinical trials is not close to keeping up with the numbers of compounds for which there are already some rationale and likelihood of safety and tolerabilityand the gap is quickly widening. There are many reasons for this gap, and these mostly come down to limited resources of time, effort, money, investigators, and subjects. At-risk and affected individuals inexorably progressing toward clinical disease or through increasing disability provide an underlying urgency not only to do more testing of potential therapies but also to improve the process. In this context, the development and use of biomarkers in clinical trials for HD will have profound potential to increase the rate and accuracy with which treatments and by implication their targets, can be assessed. Thus, there is a great need for the development of biomarkers for HD which are useful in early- and late-phase clinical trials. Although finding a dose range for a treatment in HD patients and testing for safety and tolerability are straightforward, it can be difficult to find signals that indicate that the desired pharmacological activity is occurring and is optimal, or that compare one agent with another. A further difficulty has been the lack of clinical or other outcome measures able to provide preliminary evidence of efficacy for neuroprotection that would help in the prioritization of compounds for large Phase III studies. Indeed, without such signals it is also very difficult to stop development of a compound short of its failure in a large-scale study. Moreover, in premanifest HD, there may be no clinical measures to provide useful assessment of efficacy. In manifest HD, clinical symptoms progress slowly and are extremely variable, and their modulation does not intrinsically correspond to disease modification. Thus, although modulation of symptoms may point to a symptomatic benefit, improving symptoms does not necessarily predict slowing the disease process. For example, haloperidol can suppress chorea yet hasten death by worsening dysphagia. Biomarkers that can indicate whether a potential disease-modifying therapy interacts with its target or affects disease processes (state) or progression in smaller, shorter early-phase trials are urgently needed to help decision making about therapeutic development, such that not every candidate has to be tested in large futility or Phase III studies. Biomarkers able to provide supportive or even primary evidence for efficacy would also facilitate late-phase trials. Indeed, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Neuroscience Blueprint has made biomarker development for neurodegenerative diseases a high priority (http://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov). However, although biomarker research is being embraced, there remains some confusion about biomarkers. This chapter will provide a framework for considering the development, assessment, and use of different types of biomarkers that could facilitate the development of neuroprotective therapies for HD.
At the request of the Alzheimers Association, the Institute of Medicines (IOMs) Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders planned and hosted a 2-hour public workshop at the 2010 International Conference on Alzheimers Disease (ICAD). Held in Honolulu, HI, on July 12, 2010, the session was designed to explore future opportunities to leverage the Alzheimers Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), with particular focus on the second phase of the ADNI project, ADNI 2. Panelists from industry, academia, and government examined the key elements of success of the research partnerships established as a result of ADNI, and contemplated the establishment of future multisector efforts to explore central nervous system developmental and neurodegenerative disorders. This report is limited to a review of workshop speaker presentations and commentary by panelists.
Biologically based differences between the sexes impact human development and behavior in both obvious and subtle ways. Sex differences are also apparent across the spectrum of health and disease, impacting not only individual health, but also public health, biomedical research, and healthcare delivery. Researchers have begun to elucidate these differences and their potential impact in areas such as pain and pain perception, infection, longevity, disease incidence and course, and cellular response and inflammation. Studies have shown, for example, that males and females can have markedly different responses to certain medications; in some cases these unexpected differences have led to the recall of products from the market (GAO, 2001). In the current era of translational research and personalized medicine, it is increasingly important to take sex differences into account, so that the potential effects of products and therapies can be more fully understood.
The Board on Children, Youth, and Families (BCYF) of the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council (NRC) has organized a series of planning meetings, workshops, and consensus studies over the past decade that address different facets of adolescent health and development (see www.bocyf.org). One focus of this work involves threats to adolescent health and well-being that inhere in young peoples inclination to engage in risky and reckless behavior. The board has found considerable evidence that the greatest contributors to morbidity and mortality in adolescence are not disease and illness, but instead such behaviors as unsafe driving; experimentation with alcohol, tobacco, and illicit drugs; involvement in crime; and unsafe sex. Although significant progress has occurred in the study of adolescent risk-taking, the board observed that findings from this body of work had not been integrated across disciplines (e.g., neuroscience, psychology, sociology, public health) or risk domains (e.g., substance use, sexual risk-taking, delinquency). The board further thought that prevention and health promotion efforts would be informed by a systematic examination of current theory and research on adolescent risk-taking that drew on contributions from multiple disciplines and that focused on different risk behaviors. The first of the three workshops convened by the Committee on the Science of Adolescence focused on the prevalence and nature of adolescent risk-taking and on the potential contributions of the neural, biological, intellectual, and socioemotional developments characteristic of adolescence. The second workshop examined interpersonal, institutional, and contextual influences on adolescent risk behavior. The final workshop integrated lessons learned from the previous two workshops, combining the prior emphases on individual and contextual influences and examining the potential implications of this work for policy and practice.
In most cells, the major intracellular redox buffer is glutathione (GSH) and its disulfide-oxidized (GSSG) form. The GSH/GSSG system maintains the intracellular redox balance and the essential thiol status of proteins by thiol disulfide exchange. Topoisomerases are thiol proteins and are a target of thiol-reactive substances. In this study, the inhibitory effect of physiological concentration of GSH and GSSG on topoisomerase II activity in vitro was investigated. GSH (0-10 mM) inhibited topoisomerase II in a concentration-dependent manner while GSSG (1-100 M) had no significant effect. These findings suggest that the GSH/GSSG system could have a potential in vivo role in regulating topoisomerase II activity.
Hyperphosphorylated -synuclein is considered an important event in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease but its function remains elusive. In this study we provide evidence that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression was unaffected by overexpression of wild-type and phospho-mimic mutant -synuclein (S129D) in dopaminergic MN9D cells. However, -synuclein overexpression evidently inhibited TH phosphorylation at Ser40 and dopamine synthesis, while -synuclein (S129D) mutant enhanced TH phosphorylation and dopamine synthesis. This phospho-mimic mutant prevented wild-type -synuclein cytotoxicity to MN9D cells, which might be due to aggregation of mutant -synuclein in the cytoplasm and nuclei. These results demonstrated that phosphorylation at Ser129 was involved in the regulation of TH activity, as well as in eliminating the neurotoxicity of wild-type -synuclein overexpression in MN9D cells.

Contextual conditioning in rats is typically quantified using freezing time or startle amplitude. In this study, we combined both anxiety measures in one procedure and systematically examined the effect of training with 0, 5, 10 or 15 unpaired tone-shock (0.8 mA - 250 ms) presentations on the expression of contextual conditioning in a chronic protocol with two training and testing days. Such a chronic procedure may be valuable as a chronic anxiety model. Training with 5, 10 or 15 explicitly unpaired shocks resulted in significant contextual freezing. There was no significant increase in freezing time from post-test 1 to post-test 2 and there were no differences between the three shocked groups, implying that the different numbers of shocks did not affect the degree of contextual freezing, probably because the ceiling freezing value had already been reached. Surprisingly, we observed no potentiated startle in the conditioned context. To summarize, our protocol produced consistent contextual freezing over two testing days.
Victims of minor traumatic brain injury (mTBI), who show no clear morphological brain defects, frequently manifest cognitive, behavioral and emotional difficulties that can be long-lasting. In this paper we present a modified weight drop model used to deliver a closed head minimal traumatic brain injury to mice, which closely mimics real-life injuries and the symptoms observed in mTBI patients. Our choice of impact force does not produce structural damage to the brain and its surrounding tissue (as examined by MRI), any skull fracture, no edema and no evident damage to the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Moreover, our mTBI mice show no abnormal behavior on recovering from the weight drop, or any change in other brain functions such as reflexes, balance, exploration, strength, locomotor activity and swim speed. Since our mTBI model does not produce neurological, motor or sensory damage to the mice, it allows the direct evaluation of mTBI sequelae on the mice behavior and cognitive abilities. Using a variety of cognitive and behavioral tests (Morris water maze, staircase test, passive avoidance test, water T-maze, hot palate, elevated plus maze and forced swimming test) we assessed the short- and long-term sequelae induced by our model. Our results indicate that our closed head mTBI cause profound and long-lasting, irreversible learning and memory impairments, accompanied by a depressive-like behavior in mice that are evident even 90 days post injury. Our results indicate that the closed head mTBI model presented here may be useful in the development of novel therapeutic approaches, such as neuroprotective agents, for mTBI.

The use of intravascular hypothermia in the treatment of hemorrhagic stroke is currently still being researched. The exact therapeutic properties and effect of hypothermia on the natural progression of the disease are not known, and a only small number of papers has been published with results from these studies. Mild hypothermia at 34C was induced in six patients with hemorrhagic stroke in the first 48 h after presentation, using an intravascular catheter placed in the inferior vena cava. The hypothermia was induced and maintained for 24 h followed by gradual rewarming. Another 18 patients with hemorrhagic stroke but not receiving hypothermia were then taken as the control group, and all patients were treated with standard stroke management. The patients were then followed up using the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) for 6 months and 1 year. There was a statistically significant improvement at 6 months and 1 year follow-up using the mRS score in the hypothermia group, indicating a possible beneficial effect of early therapeutic hypothermia in the management of acute hemorrhagic stroke. However, a larger study is needed in order to confirm our finding.
Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) subsequent to intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) or subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is associated with high mortality and morbidity. The use of fibrinolytic agents to treat this condition has previously been reported in small clinical trials with limited numbers of patients. Variability regarding inclusion criteria, method of administration and outcome have made it difficult to draw firm conclusions regarding the efficacy of antifibrinolytic therapy. Nine patients with CT-diagnosed IVH were treated with Alteplase intrathecally for 3 to 5 days according to the CT-verified clearance of IVH. After the treatment period, a repeat CT scan was performed to evaluate treatment effect.In this safety study, we achieved rapid removal of IVH compared to retrospective controls, without incidents of re-bleeding, with only 33% permanent shunt placements and a neurological outcome of GOS of 4-5 in 44% of the patients. Based on the above results, the treatment protocol was considered safe and highly effective. A prospective randomized national multicenter trial has been initiated in order to evaluate the efficacy of this novel method also in terms of outcome and shunt dependency.
The aim of the study was to determine the prognostic value of a high augmentation index, which was a surrogate marker of arterial stiffness in patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. The outcome was divided into two groups in which the following data were collected in a computer running SphygmoCor CvMS software version 8.2. Logistic regression analysis was carried out among significant variables to identify an independent predictor of 6-month outcome and mortality. Sixty patients were recruited into the study. Admission Glasgow Coma Scale score (OR, 0.7; 95% CI, 0.450-0.971; P=0.035), total white cell count (OR, 1.2; 95% CI, 1.028-1.453; P=0.023) and hematoma volume (OR, 1.1; 95% CI, 1.024-1.204; P=0.011) were found to be statistically significant for identifying poor 6-month outcome in multivariate analysis. Factors independently associated with mortality were a high augmentation index (OR, 8.6; 95% CI, 1.794-40.940; P=0.007) and midline shift (OR, 7.5; 95% CI, 1.809-31.004; P=0.005). Admission Glasgow Coma Scale score, total white cell count and hematoma volume were significant predictors for poor 6-month outcome, and a high augmentation index and midline shift were predictors for 6-month mortality in this study.

In this review, the current role of intracranial angioplasty and intra-arterial vasodilators for post-hemorrhagic vasospasm is described with an emphasis on the rationale for its use and the supporting data from published scientific and clinical studies. Current clinical indications and specific techniques are highlighted. Special attention is given to the evolution of these techniques over time. A discussion of acute and chronic complications, short and long-term treatment results, device specific trends and controversies are outlined.

Ischemic neuronal damage is a common feature of occlusive strokes, hemorrhagic strokes, and traumatic brain injury. In addition, ischemia can be an anticipated or unanticipated complication of a variety of surgical procedures. Most therapeutic strategies for managing ischemic injury seek to re-establish blood flow, suppress neural metabolism, and/or limit specific cellular injury cascades. An alternative therapeutic approach is to enhance the delivery of metabolic substrates to ischemic tissue. This strategy is typified by efforts to increase tissue oxygenation by elevating the levels of circulating oxygen. Our studies are examining a complementary approach in which the delivery of metabolic substrates is enhanced by facilitating the diffusion of oxygen and glucose from the vasculature into neural tissue during ischemia. This is achieved by increasing the diffusivity of small molecules in aqueous solutions, such as plasma and interstitial fluid. The carotenoid compound, trans-sodium crocetinate (TSC) is capable of increasing oxygen and glucose diffusivity, and our studies demonstrate that TSC increases cerebral tissue oxygenation in the penumbra of a focal ischemic event. In addition, TSC treatment reduces the volume of cerebral infarction in rodent models of both permanent and temporary focal ischemia. This strategy of &quot;metabolic reflow&quot; thus blunts the metabolic challenge in partially-perfused tissue and reduces ischemic neural injury.

The central role of Endothelin (ET) in the development of cerebral vasospasm (CVS) after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is supported by several investigations. These investigations provided, furthermore, that changes of the ET-receptor expression and function in the wall of the cerebral arteries are a considerable factor for the development of CVS. The biological activity of ET-1 is mediated by two receptor subtypes, named ET(A) and ET(B). Under physiological conditions the dominant vasocontractile effect of ET-1 is mediated by ET(A)-receptors on smooth muscle cells (SMC), which is attenuated by an ET(B)-receptor dependent release of nitric oxide (NO) from endothelial cells (EC). In the physiological cerebrovasculature ECs express exclusively ET(B)- and SMCs only ET(A)-receptors. In case of CVS an increased expression of the ET(B)-receptor could be detected in cerebral vessels. However, the loss of the vasodilative and the missing of a vasocontractile ET(B)-receptor mediated effect was demonstrated. Therefore, any ET(B)-receptor mediated vasoactivity seems to be lost in case of CVS and the biological impact of the increased expression remains unclear so far. The ET(A)-receptor expression seems to be not increased during the development of CVS. Therefore, the proven increase of the ET-dependent vasocontractility seems to be rather by the loss of the ET(B)-receptor mediated effect than by an increased ET(A)-receptor activity. In spite of the more significant changes of the ET(B)-receptor expression the pathophysiological effect of ET, namely the vasoconstriction, seems to be exclusively mediated by the ET(A)-receptor. Therefore, tailored approaches for the treatment of CVS remain to be ET(A)-receptor selective antagonists.

The design of intraoperative suites require significant inputs from the neurosurgeons. Prior consideration of specific surgical objectives before investment of capital resources will enable to surgeon to yield maximum value from the project. We describe the setup of the integrated neurosurgical centre at our institution which comprises of a hybrid high field MRI suite, an OR's consisting of a multi-slice CT scanner and iso-C 3D respectively. The iCT and ioMRI OR's carry ICG angiography capabilities. These ORs are linked to also the Novalis radiosurgery suites and outpatient clinics and offices to facilitate pre-surgical review, planning as well as treatment plans on a common interface via the BRAINSUITE net.Design considerations include right sit-ing of imaging equipment as well as a focus of ergonomics and design features to maximize workflow. Whenever possible, standard neurosurgical instrumentation is utilized. With widespread availability of technology, neuro-imaging in the operating room may become more prevalent. The surgeon is the lead individual in the team with regards to planning and designing the ORs to accommodate the new imaging equipment.

From its inception intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging (ioMRI) was envisioned to have significant applications in neurosurgery in general and pediatrics specifically. Over the last 9 years we have noted a dramatic shift in our ioMRI usage from intracranial tumors to cerebrospinal fluid management and complex cysts. Here we present seven selected cases to illustrate lessons learned from our operative experience within the GE Signa SP/I open-configuration &quot;double-doughnut&quot; MRI. These cases including a ganglioglioma, ependymoma, and pilocytic astrocytoma tumor resection, as well as arachnoid cysts, complex cyst, and microabscess drainage reflect our current use of ioMRI in pediatric neurosurgical cases. Namely that ioMRI is optimal for (1) resection of small tumors with poorly differentiated tumor margins, (2) large tumors with mass effect, and (3) shunt or catheter placement requiring either extreme accuracy or intraoperative confirmation of catheter placement. We also comment on the legitimate limitations of this technology in certain operations. Additionally emphasized are cases in which ioMRI imaging drives operative decision making, highlighting the unique and unequaled abilities of this technology for a subset of pediatric neurosurgical cases.
The initial attempts at intraoperative image guidance and imaging dates back to early 1980s. Since then Neuronavigation and intraoperative imaging technologies were developed in parallel. This works aims at summarizing the developments and giving an insider's view into the beginning stage of these technologies. The successes and obstacles encountered in the first few decades are relayed from the angle of one of the initial developers.


Complex partial seizures (CPS) are a form of localization-related seizures associated with serious comorbidities and risks. CPS can be difficult to treat and may remain refractory to treatment with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Refractory CPS (rCPS) can be hazardous because of the potential for severe dysfunction and bodily harm, sometimes with fatal consequences. Control of seizure activity is critical to the clinical management of CPS. Vigabatrin is a unique AED approved in both Europe and the United States as adjunctive therapy for adult patients with rCPS who have responded inadequately to several alternative treatments. This review focuses on appropriately controlled studies of vigabatrin conducted in Europe. Several double-blind studies randomized those with rCPS to treatment with vigabatrin vs placebo, and two evaluated durability of response to long-term, open-label vigabatrin. Endpoints included seizure frequency, treatment satisfaction, and adverse events (AEs). Efficacy outcomes demonstrated that vigabatrin add-on therapy significantly reduced the frequency of seizures. Long-term studies indicated durability of response and tolerability of vigabatrin therapy for up to several years. Treatment satisfaction data indicated a preference for vigabatrin vs placebo for both physicians and study participants. Vigabatrin was well-tolerated with generally mild AEs considered common to AEDs. Vision effects were not formally monitored in these studies. In European trials, vigabatrin was efficacious as adjunctive therapy for rCPS.
Discovered more than three decades ago, vigabatrin is approved in more than 50 countries as adjunctive therapy for adult patients with refractory complex partial seizures who have responded inadequately to several alternative treatments and as monotherapy for pediatric patients aged 1 month to 2 years with infantile spasms. Contrary to a fairly common misperception, the compound's mechanism of action is very well-characterized in animal models and cell cultures. -Aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic synapses comprise approximately 30% of all synapses within the central nervous system, and therein underlies the primary mode of synaptic inhibition. Vigabatrin was rationally designed to have a specific effect on brain chemistry by inhibiting the GABA-degrading enzyme, GABA transaminase, resulting in a widespread increase in GABA concentrations in the brain. The increase in GABA functions as a brake on the excitatory processes that can initiate seizure activity. Despite the short half-life of vigabatrin in the body (5-7 h) and its relatively low concentration in cerebrospinal fluid (10% of the concentration observed in plasma), it has the profound effect of increasing GABA concentration in the brain for more than a week after a single dose in humans. This effect persists steadily over years of vigabatrin administration and results in significant and persistent decreases in seizure activity. Vigabatrin can be effective with once-daily dosing. Because of its specificity, vigabatrin has helped researchers explore the specific mechanisms within the brain that underlie seizure activity.







Sensing the luminal contents is a prerequisite to activate appropriate gastrointestinal functions. A major task of the duodenal epithelium is to resist the repeated challenges of hydrochloric acid expelled from the stomach. Although extensive research in this field, the complete mechanisms providing this defence remain to be revealed. The duodenal epithelium exports bicarbonate into a submillimetre-thick mucus gel on top of the mucosal surface. Despite the very low pH of the luminal contents, the duodenal mucus-bicarbonate barrier provides a means of maintaining a virtually neutral pH at the epithelial surface. Instead of pH, CO generated by the mixing of acid and bicarbonate at levels not found elsewhere in the body serves as the mediator for sensing the luminal acid. Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) catalyse the reversible hydration of CO and are heavily expressed in the duodenal segment. Accumulating data support the key function of CAs in sensing luminal acid and CO. Recent advances demonstrate that the presence of CA II in upper villus plays a crucial role in enterocyte intracellular acidification preceding the secretory increase in response to luminal acid. However, CAs only have a minor role in the bicarbonate supply destined for duodenal bicarbonate secretion into the lumen. The purpose of this review is to summarize the current knowledge of how intraluminal acid is sensed by the duodenal mucosa, with a focus on the role of CAs.
Recent research has shown that avid action video game players (VGPs) outperform non-video game players (NVGPs) on a variety of attentional and perceptual tasks. However, it remains unknown exactly why and how such differences arise; while some prior research has demonstrated that VGPs' improvements stem from enhanced basic perceptual processes, other work indicates that they can stem from enhanced attentional control. The current experiment used a change-detection task to explore whether top-down strategies can contribute to VGPs' improved abilities. Participants viewed alternating presentations of an image and a modified version of the image and were tasked with detecting and localizing the changed element. Consistent with prior claims of enhanced perceptual abilities, VGPs were able to detect the changes while requiring less exposure to the change than NVGPs. Further analyses revealed this improved change detection performance may result from altered strategy use; VGPs employed broader search patterns when scanning scenes for potential changes. These results complement prior demonstrations of VGPs' enhanced bottom-up perceptual benefits by providing new evidence of VGPs' potentially enhanced top-down strategic benefits.

This study compared general weight concerns (Drive for Thinness, Body Dissatisfaction, and Cognitive Restraint) and smoking-specific weight concerns among adult African American and Caucasian women and men smokers enrolled in a smoking cessation clinical trial. Participants were 119 African Americans (73 female) and 182 Caucasians (90 female). Results revealed that general weight concerns were higher in Caucasians versus African Americans, and in women compared with men but there were no race by sex interactions. Drive for Thinness and Body Dissatisfaction was higher in women compared with men, and Cognitive Restraint was highest in Caucasian women. Finally, smoking-specific weight concerns were higher in Caucasian women than both Caucasian and African American men, with African American women intermediate. Results indicate that while Caucasian women preparing to quit smoking exhibited the highest levels of concern about weight, smoking-specific weight concerns, and certain sub-components of general weight concerns were also prevalent among African Americans and Caucasians. Future research is needed to elucidate how race and sex differences in weight concerns may impact smoking cessation.
Recently, we demonstrated that the central ghrelin signalling system, involving the ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1A), is important for alcohol reinforcement. Ghrelin targets a key mesolimbic circuit involved in natural as well as drug-induced reinforcement, that includes a dopamine projection from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens. The aim of the present study was to determine whether it is possible to suppress ghrelin's effects on this mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway can be suppressed, by interrupting afferent inputs to the VTA dopaminergic cells, as shown previously for cholinergic afferents. Thus, the effects of pharmacological suppression of glutamatergic, orexin A and opioid neurotransmitter systems on ghrelin-induced activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system were investigated. We found in the present study that ghrelin-induced locomotor stimulation was attenuated by VTA administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonist (AP5) but not by VTA administration of an orexin A receptor antagonist (SB334867) or by peripheral administration of an opioid receptor antagonist (naltrexone). Intra-VTA administration of AP5 also suppressed the ghrelin-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. Finally the effects of peripheral ghrelin on locomotor stimulation and accumbal dopamine release were blocked by intra-VTA administration of a GHS-R1A antagonist (BIM28163), indicating that GHS-R1A signalling within the VTA is required for the ghrelin-induced activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system. Given the clinical knowledge that hyperghrelinemia is associated with addictive behaviours (such as compulsive overeating and alcohol use disorder) our finding highlights a potential therapeutic strategy involving glutamatergic control of ghrelin action at the level of the mesolimbic dopamine system.
Social relationships strongly affect alcohol drinking in humans. Traditional laboratory rodents do not exhibit social affiliations with specific peers, and cannot adequately model how such relationships impact drinking. The prairie vole is a socially monogamous rodent used to study social bonds. The present study tested the prairie vole as a potential model for the effects of social affiliations on alcohol drinking. Same-sex adult sibling prairie voles were paired for five days, and then either separated into individual cages, or housed in pairs. Starting at the time of separation, the voles received unlimited access to alcohol in a two-bottle choice test versus water. Pair-housed siblings exhibited higher preference for alcohol, but not saccharin, than singly housed voles. There was a significant correlation between the amount of alcohol consumed by each member of a pair when they were housed together (r = 0.79), but not when housed apart (r = 0.20). Following automated analysis of circadian patterns of fluid consumption indicating peak fluid intake before and after the dark phase, a limited access two-hour two-bottle choice procedure was established. Drinking in this procedure resulted in physiologically relevant blood ethanol concentrations and increased Fos immunoreactivity in perioculomotor urocortin containing neurons (but not in nucleus accumbens or central nucleus of the amygdala). The high ethanol preference and sensitivity to social manipulation indicate that prairie voles can serve to model social influences on excessive drinking.
Elevated dopamine levels are believed to contribute to the rewarding sensation of ethanol (EtOH), and previous research has shown that strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors in the nucleus accumbens (nAc) are involved in regulating dopamine release and in mediating the reinforcing effects of EtOH. Furthermore, the osmoregulator taurine, which is released from astrocytes treated with EtOH, can act as an endogenous ligand for the glycine receptor, and increase extracellular dopamine levels. The aim of this study was to address if EtOH-induced swelling of astrocytes could contribute to elevated dopamine levels by increasing the extracellular concentration of taurine. Cell swelling was estimated by optical sectioning of fluorescently labeled astrocytes in primary cultures from rat, and showed that EtOH (25-150 mM) increased astrocyte cell volumes in a concentration- and ion-dependent manner. The EtOH-induced cell swelling was inhibited in cultures treated with the Na(+) /K(+) /2Cl cotransporter blocker furosemide (1 mM), Na(+) /K(+) -ATPase inhibitor ouabain (0.1 mM), potassium channel inhibitor BaCl (50 M) and in cultures containing low extracellular sodium concentration (3 mM). In vivo microdialysis performed in the nAc of awake and freely moving rats showed that local treatment with EtOH enhanced the concentrations of dopamine and taurine in the microdialysate, while glycine and -alanine levels were not significantly modulated. EtOH-induced dopamine release was antagonized by local treatment with the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine (20 M) or furosemide (100 M or 1 mM). Furosemide also prevented EtOH-induced taurine release in the nAc. In conclusion, our data suggest that extracellular concentrations of dopamine and taurine are interconnected and that swelling of astrocytes contributes to the acute rewarding sensation of EtOH.
Amphetamine, and other stimulants, readily induces behavioral sensitization, an effect hypothesized to reflect neurobiological changes that may underlie certain aspects of drug addiction. Apart from the effects on the dopamine system, previous studies have also shown that amphetamine interacts with other neurotransmitters, including the endogenous opioid system. The unselective opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (NTX) modulates amphetamine-induced effects in both laboratory animals and humans. To further examine this interaction, the aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of NTX on the expression of locomotor sensitization and conditioned locomotor response in animals previously conditioned with amphetamine. Sensitization was induced by repeated administration of amphetamine (2 mg/kg) for 10 consecutive days. After a 10-day drug-free period, the rats were administered NTX (3 mg/kg) 30 minutes prior to the administration of a challenge dose of either amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) (test for drug-induced sensitization) or saline (test for conditioned locomotor response). NTX had no effect on acute amphetamine-induced locomotor activity or on general locomotor activity in animals without a history of amphetamine conditioning. However, animals previously conditioned with amphetamine showed a sensitized locomotor response to the amphetamine challenge following the 10-day drug-free period. This sensitized response was significantly inhibited by NTX pre-treatment. In addition, NTX pre-treatment blocked the conditioned locomotor response when the amphetamine-conditioned animals were placed in the previously amphetamine-paired context. This study showed that NTX attenuates drug- and cue-induced locomotor behavior in amphetamine-conditioned animals, supporting recent clinical findings that indicated a potential role of NTX as a treatment for amphetamine dependence.






Clonidine has been used off-label in children and adolescents with attention deficit and hyperactivity disorders (ADHD) with or without comorbidities. Clonidine extended-release was recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for ADHD in children. This review evaluates the efficacy and safety of clonidine extended-release and clonidine in children and adolescents with ADHD. A search of the Medline database and clinical trials register from 1996-2011 yielded ten clinical trials for critical evaluation of efficacy and safety. Eight of the ten trials reviewed were double-blinded and placebo-controlled. Nine of the ten trials utilized multiple outcome measures. Both clonidine extended-release and clonidine, as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy, were reported to be efficacious in treating ADHD symptoms in children and adolescents with or without comorbid disorders in nine of the ten clinical trials. One study showed clonidine to be ineffective in improving performance of a single task, at a specific point in time, in a small number of subjects. All of the studies that evaluated safety reported clonidine and clonidine extended-release to be well tolerated. The side effects of clonidine included somnolence, fatigue, headache, bradycardia, hypotension, and clinically insignificant electrocardiographic changes. However, there are historical anecdotal reports of serious cardiac side effects, including death in cases with other risk factors. None of the studies compared clonidine extended-release with clonidine in subjects with ADHD. Therefore, it is not clear whether clonidine extended-release is advantageous over clonidine, with regard to either efficacy or safety. It is equally unclear whether clonidine or clonidine extended-release is more efficacious in treating ADHD in subjects with comorbid disorders than in those without comorbidities. All the studies reviewed had limitations in their designs and methods. Clonidine and clonidine extended-release could be efficacious and safe for the treatment of ADHD both as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy with stimulant medications in selected patients. There is a need for clinical trials to determine the long-term efficacy and safety of treatment with clonidine and clonidine extended-release in patients with ADHD.
Developments in visual neuroscience and neural-network modeling indicate the existence of separate pathways for the processing of form and surface attributes of a visual object. In line with prior theoretical proposals, it is assumed that the processing of form can be explicit or conscious only as or after the surface property such as color is filled in. In conjunction with extant psychophysical findings, these developments point to interesting distinctions between nonconscious and conscious processing of these attributes, specifically in relation to distinguishable temporal dynamics. At nonconscious levels form processing proceeds faster than surface processing, whereas in contrast, at conscious levels form processing proceeds slower than surface processing. I mplications of separate form and surface processing for current and future psychophysical and neuroscientific research, particularly that relating cortical oscillations to conjunctions of surface and form features, and for cognitive science and philosophy of mind and consciousness are discussed.
Psychological and neuroscience approaches have promoted much progress in elucidating the cognitive and neural mechanisms that underlie phenomenal visual awareness during the last decades. In this article, we provide an overview of the latest research investigating important phenomena in conscious and unconscious vision. We identify general principles to characterize conscious and unconscious visual perception, which may serve as important building blocks for a unified model to explain the plethora of findings. We argue that in particular the integration of principles from both conscious and unconscious vision is advantageous and provides critical constraints for developing adequate theoretical models. Based on the principles identified in our review, we outline essential components of a unified model of conscious and unconscious visual perception. We propose that awareness refers to consolidated visual representations, which are accessible to the entire brain and therefore globally available. However, visual awareness not only depends on consolidation within the visual system, but is additionally the result of a post-sensory gating process, which is mediated by higher-level cognitive control mechanisms. We further propose that amplification of visual representations by attentional sensitization is not exclusive to the domain of conscious perception, but also applies to visual stimuli, which remain unconscious. Conscious and unconscious processing modes are highly interdependent with influences in both directions. We therefore argue that exactly this interdependence renders a unified model of conscious and unconscious visual perception valuable. Computational modeling jointly with focused experimental research could lead to a better understanding of the plethora of empirical phenomena in consciousness research.
In the past few decades, behavioral and cognitive science have demonstrated that many human behaviors can be captured by low-dimensional observations and models, even though the neuromuscular systems possess orders of magnitude more potential degrees of freedom than are found in a specific behavior. We suggest that this difference, due to a separation in the time scales of the dynamics guiding neural processes and the overall behavioral expression, is a key point in understanding the implementation of cognitive processes in general. In this paper we use Structured Flows on Manifolds (SFM) to understand the organization of behavioral dynamics possessing this property. Next, we discuss how this form of behavioral dynamics can be distributed across a network, such as those recruited in the brain for particular cognitive functions. Finally, we provide an example of an SFM style functional architecture of handwriting, motivated by studies in human movement sciences, that demonstrates hierarchical sequencing of behavioral processes.
Distinct populations of kainate-type ionotropic glutamate receptors (KARs), located at various cell types and subcellular compartments and utilizing diverse downstream signaling mechanisms, represent an intricate system with large capacity for modulatory effects ranging from synapse-specific changes to alterations in the excitability of large neuronal ensembles. However, the way the diverse functions ascribed for KARs are utilized under different physiological and pathological conditions to regulate activity at the level of neuronal networks is still largely unclear. Here, we address the data regarding functions of KARs in the regulation of network activity in the hippocampus, with a main focus on their roles during early postnatal development. We further discuss the evidence suggesting that KAR mediated signaling during the immature type network activity is involved in the formation and maturation of glutamatergic synapses.
Kainate receptors (KARs) mediate postsynaptic responses in CA3 pyramidal cells and CA1 interneurones in the hippocampus. In CA1 pyramidal cells knockout studies have inidcated the presence of functional GluR6-containing KARs, however in this region they made no ionotropic contribution to the synaptic responses. In the meantime, a metabotropic function was reported for presynaptic KARs modulating transmitter release in CA1. We examined the possibility that KARs in CA1 pyramidal cells have a metabotropic function. Kainate is known to inhibit a slow afterhyperpolarization current that regulates excitability in hippocampus and can be modulated by a number of G protein coupled receptors. We showed that KARs activation reduces slow afterhyperpolarization current in CA1 pyramidal cells via metabotropic action and elucidated the transduction mechanism(s) underlying this action.
