Parkinson's disease (PD) and multiple system atrophy (MSA) are characterized pathologically by inclusions in the brain containing alpha-synuclein, which is phosphorylated at serine 129. alpha-Synuclein is present not only in the brain but also in platelets; platelets have previously been used to study mitochondrial function in PD. We undertook to determine whether alpha-synuclein extracted from platelets of patients with PD and MSA is phosphorylated at serine 129 and could be used as a peripheral marker of these disorders. Immunoblots indicated that platelet alpha-synuclein is not phosphorylated at serine 129 in PD and MSA.
Protease M/neurosin is a serine protease expressed by oligodendrocytes (OLGs) in the central nervous system (CNS). To investigate the role of protease M/neurosin during experimental demyelination and remyelination, mice were fed cuprizone (bis-cyclohexanon oxaldihydrazone). Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis and immunohistochemistry revealed that the expressions of protease M/neurosin mRNA and protein were rapidly reduced in demyelination, whereas the expression of protease M/neurosin was increased in pi form of glutathione-S-transferases (GST-pi)-positive OLGs during remyelination. Cultured primary OLGs displayed a strong correlation between protease M/neurosin and myelin basic protein (MBP). After tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and IFN-gamma stimulation, these proteins showed colocalization in the oligodendroglial process. The suppression of protease M/neurosin using RNAi reduced the level of MBP mRNA in cultured OLGs. In contrast, the reduced level of protease M/neurosin was not associated with oligodendroglial cell death or differentiation in cultured OLGs. This study identifies that protease M/neurosin in OLGs is closely associated with the expression of the MBP and the PLP gene. Our data emphasize that the maintenance of myelination is an important function of protease M/neurosin in OLGs, suggesting its relation to the oligodendroglial response to myelin disorders.
X chromosome inactivation in mammalian females occurs early in embryonic development and renders most genes on the inactive X chromosome transcriptionally silenced. As a consequence, females will display an X chromosomal parent-of-origin mosaiscism with regard to which parental allele that is expressed. Some genes, however, escape inactivation and will therefore be expressed from both alleles. In this study, we have investigated if the X-linked MAO-A gene has bi- or mono-allelic expression. This information would indicate whether or not MAO-A gene dosage could potentially explain the observed gender differences that show functional connections to the serotonin system, such as aggression, and impulsiveness. To investigate the X inactivation status of MAO-A we have used primary clonal cell cultures, on which allelic expression was assessed with RFLP analysis. Our results show that the MAO-A gene has mono-allelic expression in these cells. This could have important implications for understanding traits that display gender differences.
Obesity has been proposed to be a result of an imbalance in the physiological system that controls and maintains the body energy homeostasis. Several G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are involved in the regulation of energy homeostasis. To investigate the importance of GPCR12, mice deficient of this receptor (GPCR12 KO) were studied regarding metabolism. Expression of GPCR12 was found primarily in the limbic and sensory systems, indicating its possible involvement in motivation, emotion together with various autonomic functions, and sensory information processing. GPCR12 KO mice were found to have higher body weight, body fat mass, lower respiratory exchange ratio (RER), hepatic steatosis, and were dyslipidemic. Neither food intake nor energy in faeces was affected in the GPCR12 KO mice. However, lower energy expenditure was found in the GPCR12 KO mice, which may explain the obesity. In conclusion, GPCR12 is considered important for the energy balance since GPCR12 KO mice develop obesity and have lower energy expenditure. This may be important for future drugs that target this receptor.
Animals must balance investments in different physiological activities to allow them to maximize fitness in the environments they inhabit. These adjustments among reproduction, growth and survival are mandated because of the competing high costs of each process. Seasonally breeding rodents generally bias their investments towards reproduction when environmental conditions are benign, but shift these investments towards processes that promote survival, including immune activity, when environmental conditions deteriorate. Because survival probability of non-tropical small mammals is generally low in winter, under certain circumstances, these animals may not allocate resources to survival mechanisms in an effort to produce as many offspring as possible in the face of increased probability of death. Such 'terminal investments' have been described in passerines, but there are few examples of such phenomena in small mammals. Here, we show that male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) challenged with lipopolysaccharide (a component of gram-negative bacteria that activates the immune system) induced a small, but significant, retardation of seasonal regression of the reproductive system relative to saline-injected hamsters. This delayed reproductive regression likely reflects a strategy to maintain reproductive function when survival prospects are compromised by infection.
Ca(2+) binding to synaptotagmin 1 triggers fast exocytosis of synaptic vesicles that have been primed for release by SNARE-complex assembly. Besides synaptotagmin 1, fast Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis requires complexins. Synaptotagmin 1 and complexins both bind to assembled SNARE complexes, but it is unclear how their functions are coupled. Here we propose that complexin binding activates SNARE complexes into a metastable state and that Ca(2+) binding to synaptotagmin 1 triggers fast exocytosis by displacing complexin from metastable SNARE complexes. Specifically, we demonstrate that, biochemically, synaptotagmin 1 competes with complexin for SNARE-complex binding, thereby dislodging complexin from SNARE complexes in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Physiologically, increasing the local concentration of complexin selectively impairs fast Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis but retains other forms of SNARE-dependent fusion. The hypothesis that Ca(2+)-induced displacement of complexins from SNARE complexes triggers fast exocytosis accounts for the loss-of-function and gain-of-function phenotypes of complexins and provides a molecular explanation for the high speed and synchronicity of fast Ca(2+)-triggered neurotransmitter release.
Alzheimer disease is characterized by the accumulation of aggregated amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the brain. The physiological mechanisms and factors that predispose to Abeta aggregation and deposition are not well understood. In this report, we show that calcium can predispose to Abeta aggregation and fibril formation. Calcium increased the aggregation of early forming protofibrillar structures and markedly increased conversion of protofibrils to mature amyloid fibrils. This occurred at levels 20-fold below the calcium concentration in the extracellular space of the brain, the site at which amyloid plaque deposition occurs. In the absence of calcium, protofibrils can remain stable in vitro for several days. Using this approach, we directly compared the neurotoxicity of protofibrils and mature amyloid fibrils and demonstrate that both species are inherently toxic to neurons in culture. Thus, calcium may be an important predisposing factor for Abeta aggregation and toxicity. The high extracellular concentration of calcium in the brain, together with impaired intraneuronal calcium regulation in the aging brain and Alzheimer disease, may play an important role in the onset of amyloid-related pathology.
The zwitterionic phospho-forms phosphoethanolamine and phosphocholine are recognized as influential and important substituents of pathogen cell surfaces. PilE, the major pilin subunit protein of the type IV pilus (Tfp) colonization factor of Neisseria gonorrhoeae undergoes unique, post-translational modifications with these moieties. These phospho-form modifications have been shown to be O-linked alternately to a specific, conserved serine residue of PilE. However, the enzymes and precursors involved in their addition are unknown, and the full spectrum of PilE post-translational modifications has yet to be defined. Here, an intact protein-based mass spectrometric approach was integrated with bioinformatics and reverse genetics to address these matters. Specifically we show that a protein limited in its distribution to pathogenic Neisseria species and structurally related to enzymes implicated in phosphoethanolamine modification of lipopolysaccharide is necessary for PilE covalent modification with phosphoethanolamine and phosphocholine. These findings strongly suggest that protein phospho-form modification is mechanistically similar to processes underlying analogous modifications of prokaryotic saccharolipid glycans. We also show that PilE undergoes multisite and hierarchical phospho-form modifications and that the stoichiometries of site occupancy can be influenced by PilE primary structure and the abundance of the pilin-like protein PilV. Together, these findings have important implications for the structure and antigenicity of PilE.
How features are attributed to objects is one of the most puzzling issues in the neurosciences. A deeply entrenched view is that features are perceived at the locations where they are presented. Here, we show that features in motion displays can be systematically attributed from one location to another although the elements possessing the features are invisible. Furthermore, features can be integrated across locations. Feature mislocalizations are usually treated as errors and limits of the visual system. On the contrary, we show that the nonretinotopic feature attributions, reported herein, follow rules of grouping precisely suggesting that they reflect a fundamental computational strategy and not errors of visual processing.
A robust finding in the human neurosciences is the observation of a left hemisphere specialization for processing spoken language. Previous studies suggest that this auditory specialization and brain asymmetry derive from a primate ancestor. Most of these studies focus on the genus Macaca and all demonstrate a left hemisphere bias. Due to the narrow taxonomic scope, however, we lack a sense of the distribution of this asymmetry among primates. Further, although the left hemisphere bias appears mediated by conspecific calls, other possibilities exist including familiarity, emotional relevance and more general acoustic properties of the signal. To broaden the taxonomic scope and test the specificity of the apparent hemisphere bias, we conducted an experiment on vervets (Cercopithecus aethiops)-a different genus of old world monkeys and implemented the relevant acoustic controls. Using the same head orienting procedure tested with macaques, results show a strong left ear/right hemisphere bias for conspecific vocalizations (both familiar and unfamiliar), but no asymmetry for other primate vocalizations or non-biological sounds. These results suggest that although auditory asymmetries for processing species-specific vocalizations are a common feature of the primate brain, the direction of this asymmetry may be relatively plastic. This finding raises significant questions for how ontogenetic and evolutionary forces have impacted on primate brain evolution.
Sleep is a vital, evolutionarily conserved phenomenon, whose function is unclear. Although mounting evidence supports a role for sleep in the consolidation of memories, until now, a molecular connection between sleep, plasticity, and memory formation has been difficult to demonstrate. We establish Drosophila as a model to investigate this relation and demonstrate that the intensity and/or complexity of prior social experience stably modifies sleep need and architecture. Furthermore, this experience-dependent plasticity in sleep need is subserved by the dopaminergic and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate signaling pathways and a particular subset of 17 long-term memory genes.

Clinical and laboratory studies have suggested that amphetamine treatment when paired with rehabilitation results in improved recovery of function after stroke or traumatic brain injury. In the present study, we investigated whether new anatomical pathways developed in association with improved motor function after brain damage and amphetamine treatment linked with rehabilitation. Following a unilateral sensorimotor cortex lesion in the adult rat, amphetamine (2 mg/kg) was administered in conjunction with physiotherapy sessions on postoperative days two and five. Physiotherapy was continued twice daily for the first 3 weeks after injury, and then once daily until week six. Performance on skilled forelimb reaching and ladder rung walking was used to assess motor improvement. Our results show that animals with sensorimotor cortical lesions receiving amphetamine treatment linked with rehabilitation had significant improvement in both tasks. Neuroanatomical tracing of efferent pathways from the opposite, non-damaged cortex resulted in the novel finding that amphetamine treatment linked with rehabilitation, significantly increased axonal growth in the deafferented basilar pontine nuclei. These results support the notion that pharmacological interventions paired with rehabilitation can enhance neuronal plasticity and thereby improve functional recovery after CNS injury.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter that is synthesized by two isoforms of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), GAD65 and GAD67. Using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical techniques in hamsters, we investigated the postnatal development of GAD isoforms within the lateral superior olive (LSO) where GABAergic neurons form part of a descending efferent projection to the cochlea. In the neonatal hamster LSO, GAD67 immunoreactivity, GAD67 transcript labeling, and intense GABA immunostaining are at low levels. However, robust GAD65 mRNA expression is found throughout the LSO during the early postnatal period. The neonatal GABAergic expression patterns are in stark contrast to the adult where the LSO has robust GAD67 mRNA expression and weak GAD65 mRNA expression. Cells exhibiting intense GABA immunolabeling were also found in the same LSO locations as robust GAD67 mRNA expression and intense GAD67 immunoreactivity. Additionally, GAD67-positive cells in the LSO were retrogradely labeled from the cochlea confirming that these cells are a part of the lateral olivocochlear system. The late onset of GAD67 expression and intense GABA immunoreactivity in LSO neurons are consistent with the relatively late maturation of the lateral olivocochlear neurons inferred from previous studies. During development, these data lead us to conclude that the GABAergic portion of the lateral olivocochlear system is distinguished by preferential GAD67 expression, intense GABA immunoreactivity, and relatively late postnatal onset.
Noradrenergic and GABAergic systems in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) are activated during hypoglycemia and initiate part of the compensatory counterregulatory response. Norepinephrine (NE) terminals innervating the VMH originate in glucosensing hindbrain areas, but whether NE activity in the VMH is under local control or in the hindbrain is unclear. To elucidate the role of neurons intrinsic to the VMH on NE release in the VMH during hypoglycemia, ibotenic acid (IBO), an NMDA receptor agonist that selectively destroys cell bodies, was used. In a 2 x 2 factorial study, IBO (3-5 microg/0.5 microL) or vehicle was stereotaxically administered into the VMH of male Sprague-Dawley rats. One week later, NE concentration in the VMH was measured by microdialysis during insulin-induced hypoglycemia (2.0 U/kg) or euglycemia (saline control). Baseline levels of NE were not statistically different (p=0.10) in IBO-treated compared with vehicle-treated rats (13.3+/-2.8 nM vs. 7.9+/-1.1 nM). The initial increase in interstitial NE concentration during hypoglycemia in control rats was absent in IBO-treated rats (p&lt;0.01). In IBO-treated hypoglycemic rats, NE concentrations increased after 45 min to a similar level observed in control rats during the first 20 min of hypoglycemia. These results are consistent with the suggestion that local neurons in the VMH respond to hypoglycemia and modify NE activation in the VMH during hypoglycemia.
Recent behavioral studies suggest that children with poor language abilities have difficulty with attentional filtering, or noise exclusion. However, as behavioral performance represents the summed activity of multiple stages of processing, the temporal locus of the filtering deficit remains unclear. Here, we used an event-related potential (ERP) paradigm to compare the earliest mechanisms of selective auditory attention in 12 children with specific language impairment (SLI) and 12 matched control children. Participants were cued to attend selectively to one of two simultaneously presented narrative stories. The stories differed in location (left/right speaker), narration voice (male/female), and content. ERPs were recorded to linguistic and nonlinguistic probe stimuli embedded in the attended and unattended story. By 100 ms, typically developing children showed an amplification of the sensorineural response to attended as compared to unattended stimuli. In contrast, children with SLI showed no evidence of sensorineural modulation with attention, despite behavioral performance indicating that they were performing the task as directed. These data are the first to show that SLI children have marked and specific deficits in the neural mechanisms of attention and, further, localize the timing of the attentional deficit to the earliest stages of sensory processing. Deficits in the effects of selective attention on early sensorineural processing may give rise to the diverse set of sensory and linguistic impairments in SLI children.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) exhibits strong neurotrophic activities on motoneurons both in vitro and in vivo. We examined survival-promoting effects of an adenoviral vector encoding human HGF (AxCAhHGF) on injured adult rat motoneurons after peripheral nerve avulsion. The production of HGF in COS1 cells infected with AxCAhHGF and its bioactivity were confirmed by ELISA, Western blot and Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cell scatter assay. The facial nerve or the seventh cervical segment (C7) ventral and dorsal roots of 3-month-old Fischer 344 male rats were then avulsed and removed from the stylomastoid or vertebral foramen, respectively, and AxCAhHGF, AxCALacZ (adenovirus encoding beta-galactosidase gene) or phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) was inoculated in the lesioned foramen. Treatment with AxCAhHGF after avulsion significantly prevented the loss of injured facial and C7 ventral motoneurons as compared to AxCALacZ or PBS treatment and ameliorated choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in these neurons. These results indicate that HGF may prevent the degeneration of motoneurons in adult humans with motoneuron injury and motor neuron diseases.
Our investigation concerns the connection between the telencephalon and the startle response, mediated by reticulospinal neurons. Before surgery fish respond to the startle stimulus in 95% of the trials and 66% of the time with complete full turns. Following telencephalon removal fish respond in only 50% of the trials but make complete full turns only 7% of the time. There is no significant change found in control fish. This suggests a modulatory role of the telencephalon in regards to startle behavior.
Genetic factors influence stressor-provoked monoamine changes associated with anxiety and depression, but such effects might be moderated by early life experiences. To assess the contribution of maternal influences in determining adult brain monoamine responses to a stressor, strains of mice that were either stressor-reactive or -resilient (BALB/cByJ and C57BL/6ByJ, respectively) were assessed as a function of whether they were raising their biological offspring or those of the other strain. As adults, offspring were assessed with respect to stressor-provoked plasma corticosterone elevations and monoamine variations within discrete stressor-sensitive brain regions. BALB/cByJ mice demonstrated poorer maternal behaviors than C57BL/6ByJ dams, irrespective of the pups being raised. In response to a noise stressor, BALB/cByJ mice exhibited higher plasma corticosterone levels and elevated monoamine turnover in several limbic and hypothalamic sites. The stressor-provoked corticosterone increase in BALB/cByJ mice was diminished among males (but not females) raised by a C57BL/6ByJ dam. Moreover, increased prefrontal cortical dopamine utilization was attenuated among BALB/cByJ mice raised by a C57BL/6ByJ dam. These effects were asymmetrical as a C57BL/6ByJ mice raised by a BALB/cByJ dam did not exhibit increased stressor reactivity. It appears that stressors influence multiple neurochemical systems that have been implicated in anxiety and affective disorders. Although monoamine variations were largely determined by genetic factors, maternal influences contributed to stressor-elicited neurochemical changes in some regions, particularly dopamine activation within the prefrontal cortex.
Stimulation of a site on the brain's left hemisphere prompts the creepy feeling that somebody is close by. The strange sensation that somebody is nearby when no one is actually present has been described by psychiatric and neurological patients, as well as by healthy subjects, but it is not understood how the illusion is triggered by the brain. Here we describe the repeated induction of this sensation in a patient who was undergoing presurgical evaluation for epilepsy treatment, as a result of focal electrical stimulation of the left temporoparietal junction: the illusory person closely 'shadowed' changes in the patient's body position and posture. These perceptions may have been due to a disturbance in the multisensory processing of body and self at the temporoparietal junction.
Songbird auditory neurons must encode the dynamics of natural sounds at many volumes. We investigated how neural coding depends on the distribution of stimulus intensities. Using reverse-correlation, we modeled responses to amplitude-modulated sounds as the output of a linear filter and a nonlinear gain function, then asked how filters and nonlinearities depend on the stimulus mean and variance. Filter shape depended strongly on mean amplitude (volume): at low mean, most neurons integrated sound over many milliseconds, while at high mean, neurons responded more to local changes in amplitude. Increasing the variance (contrast) of amplitude modulations had less effect on filter shape but decreased the gain of firing in most cells. Both filter and gain changes occurred rapidly after a change in statistics, suggesting that they represent nonlinearities in processing. These changes may permit neurons to signal effectively over a wider dynamic range and are reminiscent of findings in other sensory systems.
Activation of postsynaptic alpha-calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (alphaCaMKII) by calcium influx is a prerequisite for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) at most excitatory synapses in the hippocampus and cortex. Here we show that postsynaptic LTP is unaffected at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses in the cerebellum of alphaCaMKII(-/-) mice. In contrast, a long-term depression (LTD) protocol resulted in only transient depression in juvenile alphaCaMKII(-/-) mutants and in robust potentiation in adult mutants. This suggests that the function of alphaCaMKII in parallel fiber-Purkinje cell plasticity is opposite to its function at excitatory hippocampal and cortical synapses. Furthermore, alphaCaMKII(-/-) mice showed impaired gain-increase adaptation of both the vestibular ocular reflex and optokinetic reflex. Since Purkinje cells are the only cells in the cerebellum that express alphaCaMKII, our data suggest that an impairment of parallel fiber LTD, while leaving LTP intact, is sufficient to disrupt this form of cerebellar learning.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are arguably two of the most widely discussed cellular plasticity mechanisms for learning and memory. However, the extent to which they are required for behavioral plasticity and learning is not clear. In this issue of Neuron, Boyden et al. use mice lacking CaMKIV and Hansel et al. use mice lacking alphaCaMKII to assess the contribution of LTD to cerebellar learning.
In this issue of Neuron, Granseth et al. re-examine the mechanism of endocytosis at hippocampal synapses using a new optical reporter, sypHy. They conclude that only a single slow mode of endocytosis operates at this synapse and that retrieval after physiological stimuli is largely, if not solely, dominated by the clathrin-mediated pathway. These conclusions dispute previous assertions that &quot;kiss-and-run&quot; is a major mechanism of vesicle recycling at hippocampal synapses.
GABAA receptors mediate the majority of fast synaptic inhibition in the brain. The accumulation of these ligand-gated ion channels at synaptic sites is a prerequisite for neuronal inhibition, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remain obscure. To further understand these processes, we have examined the cellular origins of synaptic GABAA receptors. To do so, we have created fluorescent GABAA receptors that are capable of binding -bungarotoxin (Bgt), facilitating the visualization of receptor endocytosis, exocytosis and delivery to synaptic sites. Imaging with Bgt in hippocampal neurons revealed that GABAA receptor endocytosis occurred exclusively at extrasynaptic sites, consistent with the preferential colocalization of extrasynaptic receptors with the AP2 adaptin. Receptor insertion into the plasma membrane was also predominantly extrasynaptic, and pulse-chase analysis revealed that these newly inserted receptors were then able to access directly synaptic sites. Therefore, our results demonstrate that synaptic GABAA receptors are directly recruited from their extrasynaptic counterparts. Moreover, they illustrate a dynamic mechanism for neurons to modulate GABAA receptor number at inhibitory synapses by controlling the stability of extrasynaptic receptors.
Dysfunction within the striatal direct and indirect projecting systems arises after 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced dopamine depletion, highlighting the central regulatory function of dopamine in motor systems. However, the striatal 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) innervation remains intact after 6-OHDA lesions, suggesting that the 5-HT system may contribute to the lesion-induced dysfunction, or alternatively, it may adapt and compensate for the dopamine deficit. Neonatal 6-OHDA lesions actually give rise to a 5-HT axonal hyperinnervation within the dorsal striatum, further reinforcing the idea that the 5-HT system plays a central role in striatal function after dopamine depletion. Here we show that neonatal but not adult 6-OHDA lesions result in a novel coupling of 5-HT2 receptors to the ERK1/2/MAP Kinase pathway, a signaling cascade known to regulate neuronal plasticity. Chloroamphetamine-induced 5-HT release or direct stimulation of striatal 5-HT2 receptors via the 5-HT2 agonist DOI, produced robust ERK1/2 phosphorylation throughout the dorsal striatum of neonatal lesioned animals, a response not observed within the intact striatum. Pretreatment with the select 5-HT2 receptor antagonist Ketanserin blocked DOI-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation. This drug-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation was subsequently shown to be restricted to direct pathway striatal neurons. Our data show that adaptation of direct pathway neurons after neonatal 6-OHDA lesions involves coupling of 5-HT2 receptors to the ERK1/2/MAP Kinase cascade, a pathway not typically active in these neurons. Because dopamine-mediated signaling is redundant after 6-OHDA lesions, 5-HT-mediated stimulation of the ERK1/2/MAP Kinase pathway may provide an alternative signaling route allowing the regulation of neuronal gene expression and neuronal plasticity in the absence of dopamine.
Orofacial injury activates two distinct regions in the spinal trigeminal complex, the subnuclei interpolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vc) transition zone and the laminated Vc, or medullary dorsal horn (MDH). Studies suggest that the Vi/Vc transition zone plays an important role in processing orofacial deep input. To test this hypothesis, we employed a double-tracing strategy to compare central projections of primary afferent neurons that innervate the masseter muscle and the overlying skin. Different tracers were injected either centrally (Fluoro-Gold: ventral Vi/Vc, or MDH) or peripherally (wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase or cholera toxin B: masseter or overlying skin) in the same rat. Trigeminal ganglion tissue sections were processed for single or double immunohistochemistry. The double labeling of ganglion neurons indicates their site of peripheral and central innervations. A population of small to medium-sized neurons was doubly labeled after injections of the tracers into the masseter-Vi/Vc, masseter-MDH, or the skin-MDH. However, only a few double-labeled neurons were occasionally observed after injections of the tracers into the skin-Vi/Vc. Injection of an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, AP-5, into the Vi/Vc and MDH attenuated masseter inflammatory hyperalgesia. In contrast, hyperalgesia after inflammation of the skin overlying the masseter was attenuated by injection of AP-5 into the MDH but not Vi/Vc. These results indicate that while both masseter and cutaneous inputs project to the MDH, masseter afferents provide an additional input to the Vi/Vc. These findings provide further evidence to support a role of the trigeminal transition zone in response to orofacial deep injury.
Active behavior, such as exploring a novel environment, induces the expression of the immediate-early gene Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeletal associated protein, or Arg 3.1) in many brain regions, including the hippocampus, neocortex, and striatum. Arc messenger ribonucleic acid and protein are localized in activated dendrites, and Arc protein is required for the maintenance of long-term potentiation and memory consolidation. Although previous evidence suggests that Arc is expressed in neurons, there is no direct demonstration that only neurons can express Arc. Furthermore, there is no characterization of the main neuronal types that express Arc. The data reported here show that behavior- or seizure-induced Arc expression in the hippocampus, primary somatosensory cortex, and dorsal striatum of rats colocalizes only with neuronal (NeuN-positive) and not with glial (GFAP-positive) cells. Furthermore, Arc was found exclusively in non-GABAergic alpha-CaMKII-positive hippocampal and neocortical neurons of rats that had explored a novel environment. Some GAD65/67-positive neurons in these regions were observed to express Arc, but only after a very strong stimulus (electroconvulsive seizure). In the dorsal striatum, spatial exploration induced Arc only in GABAergic and alpha-CaMKII-positive neurons. Combined, these results show that although a very strong stimulus (seizure) can induce Arc in a variety of neurons, behavior induces Arc in the CaMKII-positive principal neurons of the hippocampus, neocortex, and dorsal striatum. These results, coupled with recent in vitro findings of interactions between Arc and CaMKII, are consistent with the hypothesis that Arc and CaMKII act as plasticity partners to promote functional and/or structural synaptic modifications that accompany learning.
Neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) respond best to oriented gratings of optimal size within their receptive field (RF) and are suppressed by larger gratings involving the nonclassical RF surround. A V1 neuron's optimal stimulus size is larger at lower stimulus contrast. A central question in visual neuroscience is what circuits generate the size tuning of V1 cells. We recently demonstrated that V1 horizontal connections integrate signals within a region of the RF center corresponding to the V1 neuron's optimal stimulus size at low contrast; extrastriate feedback connections to V1, instead, are longer range and can integrate signals from the most distant regions of the V1 cell's RF surround. Here, we have determined the contribution of geniculocortical feedforward and corticogeniculate feedback connections to the size-tuning of macaque V1 and lateral geniculate (LGN) neurons, respectively. Specifically, we have quantitatively compared the visuotopic extent of geniculate feedforward afferents to V1 with the size of the RF center and surround of neurons in the V1 input layers and the visuotopic extent of V1 feedback connections to the LGN with the RF size of cells in V1 layer 6, where these connections originate. We find geniculate feedforward connections to provide visuotopic information to V1 that is spatially coextensive with the V1 neuron's optimal stimulus size measured with high-contrast gratings. V1 feedback connections restrict their influence to an LGN region visuotopically coextensive with the size of the minimum response field (or classical RF) of V1 layer 6 cells and commensurate with the LGN region from which they receive feedforward connections.
The sound localization abilities of three rhesus monkeys were tested under head-restrained and head-unrestrained conditions. Operant conditioning and the magnetic search coil technique were used to measure eye and head movements to sound sources. Whereas the results support previous findings that monkeys localize sounds very poorly with their heads restrained, the data also reveal for the first time that monkeys localize sounds much more accurately and with less variability when their heads are allowed to move. Control experiments using acoustic stimuli known to produce spatial auditory illusions such as summing localization confirmed that the monkeys based their orienting on localizing the sound sources and not on remembering spatial locations that resulted in rewards. Overall, the importance of using ecologically valid behaviors for studies of sensory processes is confirmed, and the potential of the rhesus monkey, the model closest to human, for studies of spatial auditory function, is established.
Iron is essential for a variety of cellular functions, but its levels and bioavailability must be tightly regulated because of its toxic redox activity. A number of transporters, binding proteins, reductases, and ferroxidases help maintain iron homeostasis to prevent cell damage. The multi-copper ferroxidase ceruloplasmin (Cp) converts toxic ferrous iron to its nontoxic ferric form and is required for iron efflux from cells. Absence of this enzyme in humans leads to iron accumulation and neurodegeneration in the CNS. Here we report on the changes that occur in the cerebellum of Cp null (Cp-/-) mice with aging. We show that iron accumulation, which is reflected in increased ferritin expression, occurs mainly in astrocytes by 24 months in Cp-/- mice and is accompanied by a significant loss of these cells. In contrast, Purkinje neurons and the large neurons in the deep nuclei of Cp-/- mice do not accumulate iron but express high levels of the iron importer divalent metal transporter 1, suggesting that these cells may be iron deprived. This is also accompanied by a significant reduction in the number of Purkinje neurons. These data suggest that astrocytes play a central role in the acquisition of iron from the circulation and that two different mechanisms underlie the loss of astrocytes and neurons in Cp-/- mice. These findings provide a better understanding of the degenerative changes seen in humans with aceruloplasminemia and have implications for normal aging and neurodegenerative diseases in which iron accumulation occurs.
Axonal damage is a major morphological alteration in the CNS of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). However, the underlying mechanism for the axonal damage associated with MS/EAE and its contribution to the clinical symptoms remain unclear. The expression of a fusion protein, named &quot;Wallerian degeneration slow&quot; (Wld(S)), can protect axons from degeneration, likely through a beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-dependent mechanism. In this study, we find that, when induced with EAE, Wld(S) mice showed a modest attenuation of behavioral deficits and axon loss, suggesting that EAE-associated axon damage may occur by a mechanism similar to Wallerian degeneration. Furthermore, nicotinamide (NAm), an NAD biosynthesis precursor, profoundly prevents the degeneration of demyelinated axons and improves the behavioral deficits in EAE models. Finally, we demonstrate that delayed NAm treatment is also beneficial to EAE models, pointing to the therapeutic potential of NAm as a protective agent for EAE and perhaps MS patients.
Microarray analysis of oligodendrocyte lineage cells purified by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) from 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP)-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) transgenic mice revealed Sox17 (SRY-box containing gene 17) gene expression to be coordinately regulated with that of four myelin genes during postnatal development. In CNP-EGFP-positive (CNP-EGFP+) cells, Sox17 mRNA and protein levels transiently increased between postnatal days 2 and 15, with white matter O4+ preoligodendrocytes expressing greater Sox17 levels than Nkx2.2+ (NK2 transcription factor related, locus 2) NG2+, or GalC+ (galactocerebroside) cells. In spinal cord, Sox17 protein expression was undetectable in the primary motor neuron domain between embryonic days 12.5 and 15.5 but was evident in Nkx2.2+ and CC1+ cells. In cultured oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), Sox17 levels were maximal in O4+ cells and peaked during the phenotypic conversion from bipolar to multipolar. Parallel increases in Sox17 and p27 occurred before MBP protein expression, and Sox17 upregulation was prevented by conditions inhibiting differentiation. Sox17 downregulation with small interfering RNAs increased OPC proliferation and decreased lineage progression after mitogen withdrawal, whereas Sox17 overexpression in the presence of mitogen had opposite effects. Sox17 overexpression enhanced myelin gene expression in OPCs and directly stimulated MBP gene promoter activity. These findings support important roles for Sox17 in controlling both oligodendrocyte progenitor cell cycle exit and differentiation.
Neurotrophic factor delivery to sites of spinal cord injury (SCI) promotes axon growth into but not beyond lesion sites. We tested the hypothesis that sustained growth factor gradients beyond regions of SCI will promote significant axonal bridging into and beyond lesions. Adult rats underwent C3 lesions to transect ascending dorsal column sensory axons, and autologous bone marrow stromal cells were grafted into the lesion to provide a cellular bridge for growth into the injured region. Concurrently, lentiviral vectors expressing neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) or green fluorescent protein (GFP) (controls) were injected into the host cord rostral to the lesion to promote axon extension beyond the graft/lesion. Four weeks later, NT-3 gradients beyond the lesion were detectable by ELISA in animals that received NT-3-expressing lentiviral vectors, with highest average NT-3 levels located near the rostral vector injection site. Significantly more ascending sensory axons extended into tissue rostral to the lesion site in animals injected with NT-3 vectors compared with GFP vectors, but only if the zone of NT-3 vector transduction extended continuously from the injection site to the graft; any &quot;gap&quot; in NT-3 expression from the graft to rostral tissue resulted in axon bridging failure. Despite axon bridging beyond the lesion, regenerating axons did not continue to grow over very long distances, even in the presence of a continuing growth factor gradient beyond the lesion. These findings indicate that a localized and continuous gradient of NT-3 can achieve axonal bridging beyond the glial scar, but growth for longer distances is not sustainable simply with a trophic stimulus.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is a proinflammatory cytokine, acting through the TNF-R1 and TNF-R2 receptors. The two receptors have been proposed to mediate distinct TNF-alpha effects in the CNS, TNF-R1 contributing to neuronal damage and TNF-R2 being neuroprotective. Whether TNF-alpha and its receptors play any role for neurogenesis in the adult brain is unclear. Here we used mouse models with loss of TNF-R1 and TNF-R2 function to establish whether signaling through these receptors could influence hippocampal neurogenesis in vivo under basal conditions, as well as after status epilepticus (SE), which is associated with inflammation and elevated TNF-alpha levels. Notably, in the intact brain, the number of new, mature hippocampal neurons was elevated in TNF-R1(-/-) and TNF-R1/R2(-/-) mice, whereas no significant changes were detected in TNF-R2(-/-) mice. Also after SE, the TNF-R1(-/-) and TNF-R1/R2(-/-) mice produced more new neurons. In contrast, the TNF-R2(-/-) mice showed reduced SE-induced neurogenesis. Cell proliferation in the dentate subgranular zone was elevated in TNF-R1(-/-) and TNF-R1/R2(-/-) mice both under basal conditions and after SE. The TNF-R2(-/-) mice either showed no change or minor decrease of cell proliferation. TNF-R1 and TNF-R2 receptors were expressed by hippocampal progenitors, as assessed with reverse transcription-PCR on sorted or cultured cells and immunocytochemistry on cultures. Our data reveal differential actions of TNF-R1 and TNF-R2 signaling in adult hippocampal neurogenesis and identify for the first time TNF-R1 as a negative regulator of neural progenitor proliferation in both the intact and pathological brain.
Classical experiments on spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) use a protocol based on pairs of presynaptic and postsynaptic spikes repeated at a given frequency to induce synaptic potentiation or depression. Therefore, standard STDP models have expressed the weight change as a function of pairs of presynaptic and postsynaptic spike. Unfortunately, those paired-based STDP models cannot account for the dependence on the repetition frequency of the pairs of spike. Moreover, those STDP models cannot reproduce recent triplet and quadruplet experiments. Here, we examine a triplet rule (i.e., a rule which considers sets of three spikes, i.e., two pre and one post or one pre and two post) and compare it to classical pair-based STDP learning rules. With such a triplet rule, it is possible to fit experimental data from visual cortical slices as well as from hippocampal cultures. Moreover, when assuming stochastic spike trains, the triplet learning rule can be mapped to a Bienenstock-Cooper-Munro learning rule.
Lesion and functional imaging studies in humans have suggested that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC), and intraparietal sulcus (IPS) are involved in orienting attention. A functional magnetic resonance imaging study supplemented by a behavioral experiment examined the effects of 5 Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) conditioning to the right and left DLPFC on reaction times and synaptic activity as indexed by changes in the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal during a cued choice reaction time task. Orienting precues were either correct (valid) or incorrect (invalid) with respect to the subsequent move cue. The effects of real and sham rTMS were compared for each site of stimulation. Invalid trials showed a significant increase in response times and increases in the BOLD signal in right frontal and parietal regions when compared with valid trials. Conditioning left DLPFC with rTMS led to decreased BOLD signal during performance of this reorienting task in areas including left VLPFC and left IPS. Comparing invalid to valid trials after right DLPFC conditioning revealed decreased BOLD signal in right VLPFC. Data from the behavioral study showed that right DLPFC rTMS selectively increases response times in invalid trials. This effect was only present in the first 10 min after rTMS conditioning. No effect was found in either validly or invalidly cued trials with left DLPFC conditioning. These results suggest that 5 Hz rTMS over right DLPFC exerts remote effects on the activity of areas that functionally interact with the DLPFC during attentional processes, particularly when the reorienting of attention is more demanding as in invalid trials.
Songbirds and humans both rely critically on hearing for learning and maintaining accurate vocalizations. Evidence strongly indicates that auditory feedback contributes in real time to human speech, but similar contributions of feedback to birdsong remain unclear. Here, we assessed real-time influences of auditory feedback on Bengalese finch song using a computerized system to detect targeted syllables as they were being sung and to disrupt feedback transiently at short and precisely controlled latencies. Altered feedback elicited changes within tens of milliseconds to both syllable sequencing and timing in ongoing song. These vocal disruptions were larger when feedback was altered at segments of song with variable sequence transitions than at stereotyped sequences. As in humans, these effects depended on the feedback delay relative to ongoing song, with the most disruptive delays approximating the average syllable duration. These results extend the parallels between speech and birdsong with respect to a moment-by-moment reliance on auditory feedback. Moreover, they demonstrate that song premotor circuitry is sensitive to auditory feedback during singing and suggest that feedback may contribute in real time to the control and calibration of song.
Autism is a pervasive developmental disorder appearing before the age of 3, where communication and social interactions are impaired. It also entails stereotypic behavior or restricted interests. Although this disorder was first described in 1943, little is still known about its etiology and that of related developmental disorders. Work with human patients has provided many data on neuropathological and cognitive symptoms, but our understanding of the functional defects at the cellular level and how they come about remains sketchy. To improve this situation, autism research is in need of valid animal models. However, despite a strong hereditary component, attempts to identify genes have generally failed, suggesting that many different genes are involved. As a high proportion of patients suffering from the Fragile X Syndrome show many autistic symptoms, a mouse model of this disorder could potentially also serve as a model for autism. The Fmr1 KO mouse is a valid model of the Fragile X Syndrome and many data on behavioral and sensory-motor characteristics of this model have been gathered. We present here an assessment of autistic features in this candidate model. We conclude that Fmr1 KO mice display several autistic-like features, but more work is needed to validate this model.
Empathy is the ability to experience and understand what others feel without confusion between oneself and others. Knowing what someone else is feeling plays a fundamental role in interpersonal interactions. In this paper, we articulate evidence from social psychology and cognitive neuroscience, and argue that empathy involves both emotion sharing (bottom-up information processing) and executive control to regulate and modulate this experience (top-down information processing), underpinned by specific and interacting neural systems. Furthermore, awareness of a distinction between the experiences of the self and others constitutes a crucial aspect of empathy. We discuss data from recent behavioral and functional neuroimaging studies with an emphasis on the perception of pain in others, and highlight the role of different neural mechanisms that underpin the experience of empathy, including emotion sharing, perspective taking, and emotion regulation.
Growing up in poverty is associated with reduced cognitive achievement as measured by standardized intelligence tests, but little is known about the underlying neurocognitive systems responsible for this effect. We administered a battery of tasks designed to tax-specific neurocognitive systems to healthy low and middle SES children screened for medical history and matched for age, gender and ethnicity. Higher SES was associated with better performance on the tasks, as expected, but the SES disparity was significantly nonuniform across neurocognitive systems. Pronounced differences were found in Left perisylvian/Language and Medial temporal/Memory systems, along with significant differences in Lateral/Prefrontal/Working memory and Anterior cingulate/Cognitive control and smaller, nonsignificant differences in Occipitotemporal/Pattern vision and Parietal/Spatial cognition.
Observation of another's action can selectively facilitate the brain's motor circuits for making the same action . A &quot;mirror-matching mechanism&quot; might map observed actions onto the observer's own motor representations . Crucially, this view suggests that the brain represents others' actions like one's own. However, this hypothesis has been difficult to test because the experience of one's own body differs from that of others' bodies with respect to viewpoint, morphological features, familiarity, and the hallmark feature of kinaesthetic experience. We used an established method for manipulating the sense of body ownership (&quot;rubber-hand illusion&quot;) to compare effects of observing actions that either were or were not illusorily attributed to the subject's own body. We show that observing another's actions facilitated the motor system, whereas observing identical actions, which were illusorily attributed to the subject's own body, showed the opposite pattern. Thus, motor facilitation strongly depends on the agent to whom the observed action is attributed. This result contradicts previous concepts of equivalence between one's own actions and actions of others and suggests that social differentiation, not equivalence, is characteristic of the human action system.
How do we understand the actions of other individuals if we can only hear them? Auditory mirror neurons respond both while monkeys perform hand or mouth actions and while they listen to sounds of similar actions . This system might be critical for auditory action understanding and language evolution . Preliminary evidence suggests that a similar system may exist in humans . Using fMRI, we searched for brain areas that respond both during motor execution and when individuals listened to the sound of an action made by the same effector. We show that a left hemispheric temporo-parieto-premotor circuit is activated in both cases, providing evidence for a human auditory mirror system. In the left premotor cortex, a somatotopic pattern of activation was also observed: A dorsal cluster was more involved during listening and execution of hand actions, and a ventral cluster was more involved during listening and execution of mouth actions. Most of this system appears to be multimodal because it also responds to the sight of similar actions. Finally, individuals who scored higher on an empathy scale activated this system more strongly, adding evidence for a possible link between the motor mirror system and empathy.
Descartes drove a wedge between human cognition and biology. Cognitive neuroscience is beginning to bridge the gap, and the application of mirror neuron theory to a range of problems in psychology has demonstrated the possibility of developing an understanding that spans from neural anatomy to language and empathy.
Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is becoming available in South Africa. Demand will exceed supply; thus, difficult decisions will have to be made in allocating ART. The majority of those treated for HIV are likely to be in cities, because health infrastructure and personnel are concentrated in urban centers. We predict the epidemiological impact of drug allocation strategies (DAS) by using a spatially explicit model that links urban and rural epidemics. We parameterize our model by using data from the KwaZulu-Natal province in South Africa. We model the South African government's treatment plan from 2004-2008, and we predict the consequences of one DAS that allocates drugs only to Durban and of two DAS that allocate drugs to both urban and rural areas. All three strategies would treat 500,000 people by 2008. Not surprisingly, the Durban-only DAS would prevent the greatest number of infections (an additional 15,000 infections by 2008). However, it may have been expected that this DAS would generate the highest levels of transmitted resistance, because it concentrates ART in one location. Paradoxically, we found that this DAS would generate the lowest levels of transmitted resistance. Concentrating treatment in Durban would also avert the greatest number of AIDS-related deaths. We discuss the difference between using the principle of treatment equity versus using the principle of utilitarianism/efficiency to allocate ART. Decisions about allocating scarce drugs should consider treatment equity as well as epidemiological consequences. Notably, a Durban-only DAS would lead to new disparities in healthcare between urban and rural areas in KwaZulu-Natal.


Ocular dominance plasticity is enhanced by sleep and reduced by sleep deprivation or when all neural activity in the sleeping visual cortex is reversibly inhibited. These latter findings demonstrate that the mechanisms responsible for the effects of sleep on cortical plasticity are activity dependent. To better isolate this activity dependent mechanism, we investigated the role of postsynaptic activity by inactivating the sleeping visual cortex after a period of monocular deprivation with the gamma-amino-n-butyric acid agonist muscimol. Microelectrode recordings showed that ocular dominance plasticity was significantly reduced in cortices reversibly silenced during sleep compared with cortices infused with vehicle only. These findings demonstrate that postsynaptic activity during sleep is required for the consolidation of experience-dependent cortical plasticity.
The current study examined whether a postretrieval drug memory could be disrupted by the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol, administered following reactivation in a cocaine-mediated conditioned place preference paradigm. Following cocaine conditioning, rats were given a test of conditioned place preference, followed immediately by intraperitoneal administration of propranolol or saline. Rats that received propranolol following the preference test showed no preference for the cocaine-paired floor during a subsequent test, while vehicle-treated rats continued to express a preference for the cocaine-paired floor. These deficits in behavior were specific to retrieval of the cocaine-mediated memory, suggesting that postretrieval propranolol induced an impairment of drug-seeking behavior that is consistent with the disruption of a reconsolidation phase following retrieval.
We investigated sleep-wake (S-W) architecture and sleep regulation in the ferret: a phylogenetically primitive mammal increasingly used in neurobiological studies. Twenty-four hour S-W baseline data were collected in eight adult ferrets. Seven ferrets were then sleep deprived for 6h at the beginning of the light period. Like other placental mammals, ferrets exhibited the main vigilance states of wakefulness, rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep and non-REM (NREM) sleep. Interestingly, the amount of REM sleep in the ferret was considerably higher (24.01+/-1.61% of total recording time) than typically reported in placental mammals. Ferret sleep was homeostatically regulated as sleep deprivation produced a significant increase in NREM EEG delta power during the recovery period. Therefore, ferret sleep in most respects is comparable to sleep in other placental mammals. However, the large amount of REM sleep in this phylogenetically more ancient species suggests that REM sleep may have been present in greater amounts in early stages of mammalian evolution.
Hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is associated with premature birth, and injury during term birth. Many infants experiencing HI later show disruptions of language, with research suggesting that rapid auditory processing (RAP) deficits (i.e., impairment in the ability to discriminate rapidly changing acoustic signals), play a causal role in language problems. We recently bridged these lines of research by showing RAP deficits in rats with unilateral-HI injury induced on postnatal days 1, 7, or 10 (P1, P7, or P10. While robust RAP deficits were found in HI animals, it was suggested that our within-age sample size did not provide sufficient power to detect age-at-injury differences within the pooled HI group. The current study sought to examine differences in neuropathology and behavior following unilateral-HI injury on P1 versus P7 in rats. Ages chosen for HI induction reflect differential stages of neurodevelopmental maturity, and subsequent regional differences in vulnerability to reduced blood flow/oxygen (modeling age-related differences in premature/term HI injury). Results showed that during the juvenile period, both P1 and P7 HI groups exhibited significant RAP deficits, but deficits in the P1 HI group resolved with repeated testing (compared to shams), while P7 HI animals showed lasting deficits in RAP and spatial learning/memory through adulthood. The current findings are in accord with evidence that HI injury during different stages of developmental maturity (age-at-injury) leads to differential neuropathologies, and provide the novel observation that in rats, P1 versus P7 induced pathologies are associated with different patterns of auditory processing and learning/memory deficits across the lifespan.
Several studies have suggested that acetaldehyde, the first product of ethanol metabolism, is involved in the locomotor stimulant effects of ethanol in mice, although it has never been formally tested whether acetaldehyde injected directly into the brain of mice has stimulant properties. Recently, it was also shown in rats that both ethanol and acetaldehyde can induce opposite locomotor effects according to the route of administration. Whereas peripheral administrations of ethanol and acetaldehyde induced locomotor depressant effects, their infusions directly into the brain produced locomotor stimulation. The aim of the present study was to characterize in mice the locomotor effects of ethanol and acetaldehyde injected either peripherally by the intraperitoneal route or centrally into the brain ventricles. Additionally, the effects of ethanol and acetaldehyde were compared in two strains of mice known for their differential sensitivity to the locomotor effects of ethanol, namely Swiss and C57BL/6J mice. Ethanol induced a biphasic effect on locomotor activity in Swiss mice, with stimulant effects at low to moderate doses and depressant effects at higher doses. Such a profile of effects was observed whatever the route of administration, peripheral or central. In C57BL/6J mice, ethanol only induced monophasic depressant effects. In this mouse strain, no evidence of the stimulant effects of ethanol was found after either an i.p. or an i.c.v. administration of ethanol. In contrast to ethanol, acetaldehyde yielded only depressant effects in both strains of mice after both peripheral and central administrations. These results indicate that the route of administration does not alter the locomotor effects of ethanol and acetaldehyde in mice. Additionally, the present study shows that the stimulant properties of acetaldehyde, even after direct infusion into the brain, are not as obvious as previously speculated.
A common assumption about the corpus callosum transection (CCX) is that it only affects behaviors heavily relying on interhemispheric communication. However, cerebral laterality is ubiquitous across motor and perceptual, cognitive and emotional domains, and the corpus callosum is important for its establishment. Several recent studies showed that the partial denervation of the sensorimotor isocortex through CCX derepressed neural growth processes that were sensitive to motor demand (experience-dependent neural plasticity). We investigated whether the facilitatory effects of CCX on cortical neural plasticity, shaped by differential housing, extended beyond the motor domain. Adult rats were housed in enriched (EE), standard (SE) or impoverished environments (IE) for 10 weeks, that is, 2 weeks before they underwent CCX or sham surgery, and, then, 8 weeks throughout the experiments. After they recovered from surgery, the behavioral performance of rats was tested using open-field, spontaneous alternation in the T-maze, paw preference, Morris water maze, and tone fear conditioning. The results indicated that the effects of CCX and housing on open-field behavior were independent, with CCX increasing the time spent in the center of the field at the beginning of the observation (i.e., emotionality), and EE and IE increasing rearing (emotionality) and reducing teeth-chattering (habituation), respectively. CCX reduced the frequency of spontaneous alternation, denoting spatial working memory deficits, while housing did not influence this performance. Neither CCX, nor housing significantly affected paw preference lateralization, although CCX was associated with a leftward bias in paw preference. In the Morris water maze, housing had effects on spatial acquisition, while CCX reduced activity, without interfering with spatial memory. CCX did not influence tone fear conditioning, but context fear conditioning seemed to benefit from EE. We conclude that CCX in adult rats has subtle, but specific behavioral effects pertaining to emotionality, spatial working memory, and, possibly, aversively motivated exploration, and these effects are either independent or only peripherally interact with the effects of housing.
In this study, we investigated the impact of intracerebral delivery of chemotherapy on functional recovery from focal cortical tissue displacement, characteristic of brain tumors. Unilateral focal brain compression was induced by epidural implantation of an inverted hemisphere-shaped bead over the sensorimotor cortex. Microinjections of a total of 1mg chemoagent fluorouracil or the same volume of saline were made into the compressed cortex. Behavioral tests of forelimb sensorimotor function were conducted during 4 weeks' observation. Rats subjected to any of the three types of lesions, saline microinjection plus cortical compression, chemoagent microinjection alone, or chemoagent microinjection combined with cortical compression, demonstrated significant behavioral deficits in several sensorimotor tasks, compared with saline-microinjected control animals. In placing tests, behavioral deficits elicited by each single treatment were worsened by combined treatment with chemoagent microinjection and focal cortical compression. Concurrently, local delivery of chemoagent into the compressed cortex induced increased cortical tissue loss, necrosis and apoptosis. These data indicate that local chemotherapy exacerbates compression-induced neurological impairment, and a model of controlled focal cortical compression may provide a valuable means to improve anti-cancer therapeutic designs with reduced deterioration of brain function.
This study analysed the long-term consequences of an asphyctic event at birth on maternal behaviour and emotionality in rats. Pregnant Wistar rats were delivered by Caesarean section and the pups, still in the uterus horns, were placed into a water bath at 37 degrees C for periods of 0 (Caesarean delivery, CD) or 20 min (asphyxia, CD+20). Control subjects were born by vaginal delivery (VD). Subsequently, pups were given to surrogate mothers, weaned at 21 days, and mated at adulthood. After giving birth, differences in maternal competence and behavioural arousal were assessed observing: (i) maternal behaviour after reunion with the pups following a 3h separation, on postpartum day (PPD) 4; (ii) behaviour in an elevated plus-maze test, on postpartum day 7; and (iii) performance in a fear conditioning test, in which subjects learned to associate a conditional stimulus with an aversive unconditioned stimulus (postpartum days 7-8). Results indicate that subjects in the CD+20 group showed a deficit in maternal care, taking a longer time to retrieve the whole litter and often failing to retrieve all pups. Both CD and CD+20 groups showed higher behavioural activity in the plus-maze. In addition, when tested in the fear conditioning paradigm, the CD+20 group showed a lower latency to perform freezing behaviour in the auditory cue trial. The changes in behavioural arousal described suggest that the dopaminergic system may be a potential neurochemical target for an early hypoxic insult and indicate maternal behaviour as a useful endpoint to study the effects of early birth insult on brain function.

Both genetic and environmental factors have been associated with an increased risk for schizophrenia. These factors are not mutually exclusive; a single gene can be a genetic factor (due to a mutation in the gene sequence) and a target of a physiological response to an environmental stimulus, both with the common endpoint of altered expression of the gene. Regulator of G-protein signaling 4 (RGS4) has been implicated as such a gene from three lines of evidence. First, a subset of genetic studies revealed an association between schizophrenia and non-functional polymorphisms in the RGS4 gene. Second, across the cortical mantle the expression of RGS4 mRNA is decreased in a diagnosis-specific manner in subjects with schizophrenia. Third, neurobiological studies demonstrate that RGS4 is highly responsive to environmental stimuli and capable of modulating the function of G-protein coupled neurotransmitter receptors implicated in schizophrenia. RGS4 is an example of a molecule that may underlie increased vulnerability through either genetic or non-genetic mechanisms, which we suggest may be typical of other genes in a complex, polygenic disorder such as schizophrenia.



We have discovered a novel, potent, and selective triazafluorenone series of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1) antagonists with efficacy in various rat pain models. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles of these triazafluorenone analogs revealed that brain/plasma ratios of these mGluR1 antagonists were important to achieve efficacy in neuropathic pain models. This correlation could be used to guide our in vivo SAR (structure-activity relationship) modification. For example, compound 4a has a brain/plasma ratio of 0.34, demonstrating only moderate efficacy in neuropathic pain models. On the other hand, antagonist 4b with a brain/plasma ratio of 2.70 was fully efficacious in neuropathic pain models.
We defined the cellular mechanisms for genesis, migration, and differentiation of the initial population of olfactory bulb (OB) interneurons. This cohort of early generated cells, many of which become postmitotic on embryonic day (E) 14.5, differentiates into a wide range of mature OB interneurons by postnatal day (P) 21, and a substantial number remains in the OB at P60. Their precursors autonomously acquire a distinct identity defined by their position in the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE). The progeny migrate selectively to the OB rudiment in a pathway that presages the rostral migratory stream. After arriving in the OB rudiment, these early generated cells acquire cellular and molecular hallmarks of OB interneurons. Other precursors--including those from the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) and OB--fail to generate neuroblasts with similar migratory capacity when transplanted to the LGE. The positional identity and migratory specificity of the LGE precursors is rigidly established between E12.5 and E14.5. Thus, the pioneering population of OB interneurons is generated from spatially and temporally determined LGE precursors whose progeny uniquely recognize a distinct migratory trajectory.
All animals exist in intimate associations with microorganisms that play important roles in the hosts' normal development and tissue physiology. In vertebrates, the most populous and complex community of microbes resides in the digestive tract. Here, we describe the establishment of the gut microbiota and its role in digestive tract differentiation in the zebrafish model vertebrate, Danio rerio. We find that in the absence of the microbiota, the gut epithelium is arrested in aspects of its differentiation, as revealed by the lack of brush border intestinal alkaline phosphatase activity, the maintenance of immature patterns of glycan expression and a paucity of goblet and enteroendocrine cells. In addition, germ-free intestines fail to take up protein macromolecules in the distal intestine and exhibit faster motility. Reintroduction of a complex microbiota at later stages of development or mono-association of germ-free larvae with individual constituents of the microbiota reverses all of these germ-free phenotypes. Exposure of germ-free zebrafish to heat-killed preparations of the microbiota or bacterial lipopolysaccharide is sufficient to restore alkaline phosphatase activity but not mature patterns of Gal alpha1,3Gal containing glycans, indicating that the host perceives and responds to its associated microbiota by at least two distinct pathways.

Apoptotic cells in atheroma lesions may contribute to plaque development and instability. Oxysterols constitute the major toxic component in oxLDL and are present in mixed forms in human atheroma lesions. However, the cellular effects of oxysterols have been mostly studied individually. In the present study, we investigated the cytotoxic effects of 7beta-hydroxycholesterol (7betaOH), 7-ketocholesterol (7keto), 25-hydroxycholesterol (25OH), and 27-hydroxycholesterol (27OH) on U937 monocytic cells, both individually and in atheroma-relevant mixtures mimicking the oxysterol composition reported in human atheroma lesions. Apoptosis and necrosis were studied by examining cell morphology, phosphatidylserine exposure, caspase activation, and the terminal dUTP nick end-labeling technique. Cellular reactive oxygen species and total amount of reduced thiols were measured by using fluorescence probes and 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid), respectively. We found that 7betaOH and 7keto induced caspase activation, ROS production, cellular thiol depletion, permeabilization of lysosomal and mitochondrial membranes, and cell death. 25OH and 27OH did not cause any of the above alterations, whereas 7betaOH and 7keto exerted synergistic toxic effects. Although single 25OH or 27OH exhibited quenching effects on both 7betaOH- and 7keto-induced cell death, the combination of all four oxysterols in atheroma-relevant proportions was proapoptotic. Our findings indicate that the major oxysterols accumulated in human atheroma are proapoptotic and may contribute to atherosclerotic lesion development.
Embryonic development requires generating cell types at the right place (spatial patterning) and the right time (temporal patterning). Drosophila neuroblasts undergo stem cell-like divisions to generate an ordered sequence of neuronal progeny, making them an attractive system to study temporal patterning. Embryonic neuroblasts sequentially express Hunchback, Krppel, Pdm1/Pdm2 (Pdm), and Castor (Cas) transcription factors. Hunchback and Krppel specify early-born temporal identity, but the role of Pdm and Cas in specifying temporal identity has never been addressed. Here we show that Pdm and Cas regulate late-born motor neuron identity within the NB7-1 lineage: Pdm specifies fourth-born U4 motor neuron identity, while Pdm/Cas together specify fifth-born U5 motor neuron identity. We conclude that Pdm and Cas specify late-born neuronal identity; that Pdm and Cas act combinatorially to specify a temporal identity distinct from either protein alone, and that Cas repression of pdm expression regulates the generation of neuronal diversity.
Variation in major histocompatibility complex genes on chromosome 6p21.3, specifically the human leukocyte antigen HLA-DR2 or DRB1*1501-DQB1*0602 extended haplotype, confers risk for multiple sclerosis (MS). Previous studies of DRB1 variation and both MS susceptibility and phenotypic expression have lacked statistical power to detect modest genotypic influences, and have demonstrated conflicting results. Results derived from analyses of 1339 MS families indicate DRB1 variation influences MS susceptibility in a complex manner. DRB1*15 was strongly associated in families (P=7.8x10(-31)), and a dominant DRB1*15 dose effect was confirmed (OR=7.5, 95% CI=4.4-13.0, P&lt;0.0001). A modest dose effect was also detected for DRB1*03; however, in contrast to DRB1*15, this risk was recessive (OR=1.8, 95% CI=1.1-2.9, P=0.03). Strong evidence for under-transmission of DRB1*14 (P=5.7x10(-6)) even after accounting for DRB1*15 (P=0.03) was present, confirming a protective effect. In addition, a high risk DRB1*15 genotype bearing DRB1*08 was identified (OR=7.7, 95% CI=4.1-14.4, P&lt;0.0001), providing additional evidence for trans DRB1 allelic interactions in MS. Further, a significant DRB1*15 association observed in primary progressive MS families (P=0.0004), similar to relapsing-remitting MS families, suggests that DRB1-related mechanisms are contributing to both phenotypes. In contrast, results obtained from 2201 MS cases argue convincingly that DRB1*15 genotypes do not modulate age of onset, or significantly influence disease severity measured using expanded disease disability score and disease duration. These results contribute substantially to our understanding of the DRB1 locus and MS, and underscore the importance of using large sample sizes to detect modest genetic effects, particularly in studies of genotype-phenotype relationships.
Mutations in the human Crumbs homologue-1 (CRB1) gene cause retinal diseases including Leber's congenital amaurosis (LCA) and retinitis pigmentosa type 12. The CRB1 transmembrane protein localizes at a subapical region (SAR) above intercellular adherens junctions between photoreceptor and Mller glia (MG) cells. We demonstrate that the Crb1-/- phenotype, as shown in Crb1-/- mice, is accelerated and intensified in primary retina cultures. Immuno-electron microscopy showed strong Crb1 immunoreactivity at the SAR in MG cells but barely in photoreceptor cells, whereas Crb2, Crb3, Patj, Pals1 and Mupp1 were present in both cell types. Human CRB1, introduced in MG cells in Crb1-/- primary retinas, was targeted to the SAR. RNA interference-induced silencing of the Crb1-interacting-protein Pals1 (protein associated with Lin7; Mpp5) in MG cells resulted in loss of Crb1, Crb2, Mupp1 and Veli3 protein localization and partial loss of Crb3. We conclude that Pals1 is required for correct localization of Crb family members and its interactors at the SAR of polarized MG cells.
Dimerization is a common property of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR). While the formation of GPCR dimers/oligomers has been reported to play important roles in regulating receptor expression, ligand binding, and second messenger activation, less is known about how and where GPCR dimerization occurs. The present study was performed to identify the precise cellular compartment in which class A GPCR dimer/oligomer biogenesis occurs. We addressed this issue using confocal microscopy and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) to monitor GPCR proximity within discrete intracellular compartments of intact living cells. Time-lapse confocal imaging was used to follow CFP- and YFP-tagged serotonin 5-HT2C receptors during biosynthesis in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), trafficking through the Golgi apparatus and subsequent expression on the plasma membrane. Real-time monitoring of FRET between CFP- and YFP-tagged 5-HT2C receptors was performed by acceptor photobleaching within discrete regions of the ER, Golgi, and plasma membrane. The FRET signal was dependent on the ratio of CFP- to YFP-tagged 5-HT2C receptors expressed in each region and was independent of receptor expression level, as predicted for proteins in a non-random, clustered distribution. FRET efficiencies measured in the ER, Golgi, and plasma membrane were similar. These experiments provide direct evidence for homodimerization/oligomerization of class A GPCR in the ER and Golgi of intact living cells, and suggest that dimer/oligomer formation is a naturally occurring step in 5-HT2C receptor maturation and processing.
The influence of regions, other than the hinge, on the susceptibility of human IgA1 to cleavage by diverse bacterial IgA1 proteases, was examined using IgA1 mutants bearing amino acid deletions, substitutions, and domain swaps. IgA1 lacking the tailpiece retained its susceptibility to cleavage by all of the IgA1 proteases. The domain swap molecule alpha1alpha2gamma3, in which the CH3 domain of IgA1 was exchanged for that of human IgG1, was resistant to cleavage with the type 1 and 2 serine IgA1 proteases of Neisseria meningitidis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and Haemophilus influenzae, but remained sensitive to cleavage with the metallo-IgA1 proteases of Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus oralis, Streptococcus sanguis, and Streptococcus mitis. Substitution of the IgA1 Calpha3 domain motif Pro440 -Phe443 into the corresponding position in the Cgamma3 domain of alpha1alpha2gamma3 resulted now in sensitivity to the type 2 IgA1 protease of N. meningitidis, indicating the possible requirement of these amino acids for sensitivity to this protease. For the H. influenzae type 2 protease, resistance of an IgA1 mutant in which the CH3 domain residues 399-409 were exchanged with those from IgG1, but sensitivity of mutant HuBovalpha3 in which the Calpha3 domain of bovine IgA replaces that of human IgA1, suggests that CH3 domain residues Glu403, Gln406, and Thr409 influence sensitivity to this enzyme. Hence, unlike the situation with the metallo-IgA1 proteases of Streptococcus spp., the sensitivity of human IgA1 to cleavage with the serine IgA1 proteases of Neisseria and Haemophilus involves their binding to different sites specifically in the CH3 domain.

General anesthetics abolish behavioral responsiveness in all animals, and in humans this is accompanied by loss of consciousness. Whether similar target mechanisms and behavioral endpoints exist across species remains controversial, although model organisms have been successfully used to study mechanisms of anesthesia. In Drosophila, a number of key mutants have been characterized as hypersensitive or resistant to general anesthetics by behavioral assays. In order to investigate general anesthesia in the Drosophila brain, local field potential (LFP) recordings were made during incremental exposures to isoflurane in wild-type and mutant flies. As in higher animals, general anesthesia in flies was found to involve a succession of distinct endpoints. At low doses, isoflurane uncoupled brain activity from ongoing movement, followed by a sudden attenuation in neural correlates of perception. Average LFP activity in the brain was more gradually attenuated with higher doses, followed by loss of movement behavior. Among mutants, a strong correspondence was found between behavioral and LFP sensitivities, thereby suggesting that LFP phenotypes are proximal to the anesthetic's mechanism of action. Finally, genetic and pharmacological analysis revealed that anesthetic sensitivities in the fly brain are, like other arousal states, influenced by dopaminergic activity. These results suggest that volatile anesthetics such as isoflurane may target the same processes that sustain wakefulness and attention in the brain. LFP correlates of general anesthesia in Drosophila provide a powerful new approach to uncovering the nature of these processes.
Recent technological advances now allow for simultaneous recording of large populations of anatomically distributed neurons in behaving animals. The free software package described here was designed to help neurophysiologists process and view recorded data in an efficient and user-friendly manner. This package consists of several well-integrated applications, including NeuroScope (http://neuroscope.sourceforce.net), an advanced viewer for electrophysiological and behavioral data with limited editing capabilities, Klusters (http://klusters.sourceforge.net), a graphical cluster cutting application for manual and semi-automatic spike sorting, NDManager (GPL,see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html), an experimental parameter and data processing manager. All of these programs are distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL, see ), which gives its users legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the software. Also included are extensive user manuals and sample data, as well as source code and documentation.
Despite the widespread use of chronic brain implants in experimental and clinical settings, the effects of these long-term procedures on brain metabolism and receptor expression remain largely unknown. Under the hypothesis that intracerebral microdialysis transiently alters tissue metabolism, we performed a series of 18FDG microPET scans prior to and following surgical implantation of microdialysis cannulae. Parallel microPET measures using the competitive dopamine (DA) D2 receptor antagonist, 11C-raclopride, provided an assay of DA stability in these same animals. 18FDG scans were performed prior to microdialysis cannulation and again at 2, 12, 24, 48, 120, 168, 360 and 500 h (0.2, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 7, 15 and 25 days). Separate animals received a sham surgery and the control group had no surgical intervention. For the first 24 h (scans at 2, 12 and 24 h post-surgery) uptake was reduced in both hemispheres. However, by 48 h, contralateral uptake had returned to pre-surgical levels. The striking finding was that from 48 to 500 h, the microdialysis cannulation produced widespread ipsilateral reductions in 18FDG uptake that encompassed the entire hemisphere. Despite the extent and persistence of these reductions, 11C-raclopride binding and ECF DA concentrations remained stable.
We describe a new device with which microdialysis can be combined with bipolar local field potential (LFP) recordings. The device consists of a microdialysis probe with two ultra-thin electrical wires located within its tip. The device can be used to monitor LFPs with differential recording methods before, during, and after local application of drugs by reverse microdialysis, while concomitantly sampling biochemical constituents from the area of recording.
Being able to discriminate between neurons and non-neuronal cells such as glia and tracheal cells has been a major problem in insect neuroscience, because glia-specific antisera are available for only a small number of species such as Drosophila melanogaster and Manduca sexta. Especially developmental or comparative studies often require an estimate of neuron numbers. Since neuronal and glial cell bodies are in many cases indiscernible in situ, a method to distinguish neurons from non-neuronal cells that works in any given species is wanting. Another application is cell culturing. Cultured cells usually change their outward shape dramatically after being isolated so that it is frequently impossible to tell neurons and glia apart. Here, we present a simple method that uses a commercially available antiserum directed against horseradish peroxidase, which specifically stains neurons but no other cell type in every insect species investigated. Counterstaining with DAPI, a fluorescent chromophore that binds to double-stranded DNA in the nuclei of all cells, yields the total number of cells in a given sample. Thus, double labeled cells can be identified as neurons, cells that carry only DAPI staining are non-neuronal.
Current techniques used to quantify axons often rely upon manual quantification or potentially expensive commercially available programs for automated quantification. We describe a computerized method for the detection and quantification of axons in the rat CNS using readily available free software. Feature J, a java-based plug-in to the imaging software NIH Image J, faithfully detects linear structures such as axons in confocal or bright-field images using a Hessian-based algorithm. We validated the method by comparing values obtained by manual and automated analyses of axons induced to grow in response to neurotrophin over-expression in the rat spinal cord. We also demonstrated that the program can be used to quantify neurotrophin-induced growth of lesioned serotonergic axons in the rat cortex, where manual measurement would be impractical due to dense axonal growth. The use of this software suite provided faster and less biased quantification of labeled axons in comparison to manual measurements at no cost.
A number of investigators are using the quantitative no-net-flux microdialysis technique to monitor basal neurotransmitter dynamics in discrete brain regions of behaving animals. The predictive validity of the probe extraction fraction (Ed) for quantifying decreases in the rate of dopamine (DA) clearance from the extracellular space is well documented. It was recently suggested, however, that Ed may be insensitive to increases in DA clearance. Here we report that the Ed for DA in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) of the behaving mouse is increased following pharmacological inactivation of kappa-opioid receptors, a treatment previously shown to augment DA uptake. The Ed obtained in control mice and those that received the long-acting kappa-opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI), satisfied the requirement that the mean values of each were lower than the mean value in vitro for the same probes immersed in well-stirred artificial cerebrospinal fluid. The Ed was increased in the NAc of nor-BNI-treated mice as compared to saline-treated control animals. The corresponding increase in the DA uptake rate was quantified by using the Ed values to calculate a change in the apparent clearance rate constant. Nor-BNI treatment did not alter the apparent extracellular dopamine concentration represented by the point of no-net-flux indicating that the rates of DA uptake and release were both increased.
The single tone extraction method (STEM) is a well developed algorithm for estimating the frequency, amplitude, and phase of one periodic signal or a single tone in complex temporal signals. This method is useful in neuroscience research since it provides an efficient simple means to remove line frequency noise present in many types of signal measurements. However, the method encounters problems when the signal contains transients such as a stimulus artifact which distort the estimation of power line parameters. Here we report a modification of STEM that overcomes this limitation. In this new method we call recursive artifact windowed (RAW)-STEM, the line frequency noise is removed for each single epoch by estimating the three parameters (frequency, amplitude and phase) of each line frequency after windowing the time period containing an interfering transient and iteratively applying the STEM. In a simulation study we evaluated its performance for electrophysiological data with a stimulus artifact and demonstrated advantages of the RAW-STEM over the classic STEM. The RAW-STEM is able to efficiently extract the 60 Hz parameter, requiring less than five iterations, with a precision of 0.007-2% depending on the parameters. It does not suffer from the problem of ringing following the stimulus artifact or distortion of electrophysiological signals. It is fast enough to be used for single trial analyses in electrophysiological studies. The RAW-STEM may be widely useful for the removal of periodic noise since it can be applied even when there are multiple interfering transients in the recording.
Operant behavioral researches require precise control of experimental devices for delivering stimuli and monitoring behavioral responses. The author developed a software solution named SuperState for controlling hardware devices and running reinforcement schedules. The Microsoft Windows compatible software was written by use of an object-oriented programming language Borland Delphi 5.0, which has simplified the programming of the application. SuperState is a stand-alone easy-to-use green software, without the need for the experimenter to master any scripting languages. It features: (1) control of multiple operant cages running independent reinforcement schedules; (2) enough cage devices (16 digital inputs and 16 digital outputs for each cage) suitable for the need of most operant behavioral equipments; (3) control of most standard ISA-type digital interface cards including Med-Associates Super-port cards and a PCI-type card AC6412, and highly expandable to support other PCI-type interface cards; (4) high-resolution device control (1ms); (5) a built-in real-time cumulative recorder; (6) extensive data analyzing including event recorder, cumulative recorder, block analyzing; the summarized results can be transferred easily to Microsoft Excel spreadsheets through the Clipboard.
We demonstrated recently that increasing the levels of cAMP allows opioids to modulate GABAergic synaptic transmission between the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS) and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV). Using a combination of electrophysiological, immunohistochemical and biochemical approaches, we provide evidence that vagal afferent fibres dampen cAMP levels within the vagal brainstem circuits via tonic activation of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from identified neurons of the rat DMV. Following chronic vagal deafferentation, the opioid agonist methionine-enkephalin (ME) inhibited the amplitude of evoked IPSC (eIPSC) in 32 of 33 neurons, without exogenous enhancement of cAMP levels. The ME-induced inhibition was prevented by the group II mGluR-selective agonist APDC. Following perfusion with the group II mGluR-selective antagonist EGLU, ME inhibited eIPSC amplitude in brainstem slices of control rats. Immunohistochemical experiments revealed that, following vagal deafferentation, mu-opioid receptors were colocalized on GABAergic profiles apposing DMV neurons; the number of colocalized profiles was significantly decreased by pretreatment with APDC. Radioimmunoassay and Western blot analysis showed that cAMP and phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein (pCREB) levels in the dorsal vagal complex were increased following vagal deafferentation. Our data show that by tonically dampening the levels of cAMP within the GABAergic synaptic contacts, activated group II mGluRs prevent the modulation of this synapse by endogenous opioids. These data suggest that the plasticity, hence the response, of central circuits controlling the vagal motor outflow to visceral organs is modulated and finely tuned by vagal afferent fibres.
Cytokines are emerging as important in developmental processes. They may induce alterations in normal gene expression patterns, activate angiotensinogen transcription, or alter expression of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). To determine whether prenatal exposure to interleukin-6 (IL-6) influences gene expression of the intrarenal RAS and contributes to renal dysfunction and hypertension in adulthood, we exposed female rats to IL-6 early (EIL-6 females) and late (LIL-6 females) in pregnancy and analysed blood pressure in the offspring at 5-20 weeks of age. Renal fluid and electrolyte excretion was assessed in clearance experiments, mRNA expression by real-time PCR, and protein levels by Western blot. Systolic pressure was increased at 5 weeks in IL-6 females and at 11 weeks in males. Circulatory RAS levels were increased in all IL-6 females, but angiotensin-1-converting enzyme (ACE) activity was increased only in LIL-6 females. LIL-6 males and IL-6 females showed decreased urinary flow rate and urinary sodium and potassium excretion. Dopamine excretion was decreased IL-6 females. In adult renal cortex, renin expression was increased in all IL-6 females, but angiotensinogen mRNA was increased only in LIL-6 females; AT(1) receptor (AT(1)-R) mRNA and protein levels were increased in LIL-6 females, whereas AT(2) receptor (AT(2)-R) levels were decreased in LIL-6 females and EIL-6 males. In adult renal medulla, AT(1)-R protein levels were increased in LIL-6 females, and AT(2)-R mRNA and protein levels were decreased in EIL-6 males and LIL-6 females. Prenatal IL-6 exposure may cause hypertension by altering the renal and circulatory RAS and renal fluid and electrolyte excretion, especially in females.
Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD) is a rare X-linked leukodystrophy caused by proteolipid protein 1 (PLP1) gene mutations. Previous studies indicated that proteolipid proteins (PLPs) with disease-associated mutations are misfolded and trapped in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) during transportation to the cell surface, which eventually leads to oligodendrocyte cell death in PMD. Here we report a PMD patient with a very mild phenotype carrying a novel mutation (485G--&gt;T) in exon 4 of the PLP1 gene that causes a Trp(162)Leu substitution in the protein. We also investigated intracellular trafficking of this mutant PLP in COS-7 cells. Transiently transfected mutant PLP(W162L) fused to an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) or a short peptide tag was not carried to the plasma membrane. However, in contrast to previous studies, this mutant PLP was not retained in the ER, indicating an escape of the newly translated protein from the quality control machinery. We also found that the mutant PLP accumulated in the nuclear envelope (NE) in a time-dependent manner. This mutant PLP, with its distribution outside the ER and a very mild phenotype, supports the idea that accumulation of misfolded mutant protein in the ER causes the severe phenotype of PMD.
We reexamined tyrosine-kinase receptor EphA7 RNA signal in embryonic chicken forebrain, to clarify its topographic relationships with early regionalization processes, such as establishment of prosomeric boundaries. After neurulation, uniform alar expression appears across prospective prosomeres prosomere 1, prosomere 2 and prosomere 3 (prethalamus, thalamus and pretectum). This pattern soon changes by differential downregulation at or in between some of the prosomeric boundaries in an individual pattern for each limit, and by expansion of expression into the rostral midbrain. The secondary distribution highlights various transversal and longitudinal domains, notably the zona limitans intrathalamica and the pretectum limits, as well as two longitudinal bands in the basal plate, termed paramedian and parabasal. Strong expression of EphA7 appears at the mammillary pouch and a supramammillary tegmental arch from stage Hamburger and Hamilton stages 14-15 onwards. At the end of the developmental period examined, expression of EphA7 in the ventricular zone decreases generally (with some exceptions) and novel expression domains start to appear in the mantle layer, initiating a third phase of differential expression. Thus, while the expression of EphA7 does not show a fixed functional or topographic relationship to prosomeric boundaries, sequential transcription changes during chicken development are consistent with a differential involvement of the diverse interprosomeric boundaries, as well as dorsoventral patterning organizers, in the regulation of EphA7 expression.
The normal function of the cellular prion protein, PrP(c), remains largely unknown. Recently, PrP(c) has been implicated in the regulation of neuronal survival and was shown to confer neuroprotection in the brain. To pursue investigation of the role of PrP(c) in the CNS, we used the facial nerve section, a well-established experimental model of motoneuronal stress. Nerve sections were performed in 2- and 7-day-old newborn mice and in 2 month-old adult mice expressing different levels of PrP(c). We observed no differences in motoneuronal death triggered by facial nerve section between Prnp-/- and wild-type mice, whether in neonatal or adult mice. By contrast, overexpression of PrP(c) in Tga20 newborn mice was correlated with a better survival of motoneurons in the few days following axotomy. The protection was, however transient since motoneuron number in lesioned facial nuclei of Tga20 mice became identical to that of wild-type mice 7 days and 14 days following the lesion when performed in 2- and 7-day-old mice respectively. In Tga20 adult mice, no protection was observed 2 months after the lesion, a time with a significant degree of motoneuron death in adult control mice. These results, while providing further evidence that PrP(c) is endowed with neuroprotective capacity in vivo, also suggest that PrP(c) does not play a physiological role in the regulation of motoneuronal survival.
Brief bursts of fast high-frequency action potentials are a signature characteristic of CA3 and CA1 pyramidal neurons. Understanding the factors determining burst and single spiking is potentially significant for sensory representation, synaptic plasticity and epileptogenesis. A variety of models suggest distinct functional roles for burst discharge, and for specific characteristics of the burst in neural coding. However, little in vivo data demonstrate how often and under what conditions CA3 and CA1 actually exhibit burst and single spike discharges. The present study examined burst discharge and single spiking of CA3 and CA1 neurons across distinct behavioral states (awake-immobility and maze-running) in rats. In both CA3 and CA1 spike bursts accounted for less than 20% of all spike events. CA3 neurons exhibited more spikes per burst, greater spike frequency, larger amplitude spikes and more spike amplitude attenuation than CA1 neurons. A major finding of the present study is that the propensity of CA1 neurons to burst was affected by behavioral state, while the propensity of CA3 to burst was not. CA1 neurons exhibited fewer bursts during maze running compared with awake-immobility. In contrast, there were no differences in burst discharge of CA3 neurons. Neurons in both subregions exhibited smaller spike amplitude, fewer spikes per burst, longer inter-spike intervals and greater spike amplitude attenuation within a burst during awake-immobility compared with maze running. These findings demonstrate that the CA1 network is under greater behavioral state-dependent regulation than CA3. The present findings should inform both theoretic and computational models of CA3 and CA1 function.
Taste bud cells undergo continual turnover even in adulthood, and their average lifespan has been estimated as approximately 10 days. However, it is not clear whether this figure can be applied to all the different cell types contained in a taste bud. Here, we describe the age and life cycle of taste bud cells in rat circumvallate papillae, and indicate that the lifespan is heterogeneous, ranging from 2 days to over 3 weeks. Taste bud cells were incorporated from the basal proliferative layer in 1-2 days after birth. After incorporation, approximately half of the cells were eliminated within 2-3 days, and the remaining half were maintained with gradual decrease, suggesting that there are at least two types of cells; short-lived cells and long-lived cells. Moreover, above 10% of the incorporated cells were maintained at 3 weeks. In order to gain information about the relationship between the cell functions and the cell age, we carried out double-labeling experiments using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and each of two markers for in situ hybridization: mammalian achaete-scute homolog 1 (Mash1) and phospholipase C beta 2 (PLCbeta2) as markers of early differentiation and functional taste signaling, respectively. Mash1 expression began immediately after the incorporation and reached a maximum at 5-6 days after birth. Fewer but distinct Mash1-positive cells were still observed after 3 weeks. PLCbeta2 expression was observed from day 5, reached a maximum at day 12, and continued over 3 weeks. Taken together, a taste bud contains both short-lived and long-lived cells: the short-lived cells are eliminated in a time course similar to the surrounding epithelial cells, and the long-lived cells including taste receptor cells have a lifespan longer than the previous estimation.
We have recently shown that exogenous neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) acts antagonistically to nerve growth factor (NGF) in regulation of nociceptor phenotype in intact neurons and suppresses thermal hyperalgesia and expression of molecules complicit in this behavioral response induced by chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve. The present study examines whether there is a global influence of NT-3 in mitigating alterations in peptide and NGF receptor expression; molecules believed to also contribute to CCI-associated pain. Thus, the influence of NT-3 on phenotypic changes in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in rats coincident with CCI was examined using in situ hybridization. Seven days following injury, the incidence of expression of the neuropeptides galanin and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) was increased in L5 sensory neurons ipsilateral to the injury from 12% to 60% and 16% to 37% respectively, in addition to an increased level of expression. In contrast, there was no consistent significant change in tropomyosin-related kinase A (trkA) expression following CCI. Intrathecal infusion of NT-3 globally mitigated both the increased incidence and elevated levels of galanin messenger RNA (mRNA) expression observed following CCI, reducing the former from 60% to 39%. NT-3 infusion resulted in a limited reduction in the incidence and level of neuronal PACAP in medium to large size, but not small size, DRG neurons. NT-3 had no significant net effect on CCI-induced alterations in trkA mRNA expression.
The amygdala has emerged as an important forebrain modulator of arousal. Acetylcholine plays a role in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness, particularly rapid eye movement sleep (REM). The major cholinergic input to the amygdala comes from the basal forebrain, a region primarily linked to wakefulness. We examined sleep and the encephalogram for 8 h following bilateral microinjections into the central nucleus of the amygdala (CNA) of the cholinergic agonist, carbachol (CARB(L): 0.3 microg; CARB(H): 3.0 microg), the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, neostigmine (NEO(L): 0.3 microg; NEO(H): 3.0 microg), the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine (SCO(L): 0.3 microg; SCO(H): 1.0 microg), the nicotinic antagonist, mecamylamine (MEC(L): 0.3 microg; MEC(H): 1.0 microg) and saline (SAL, 0.2 microl) alone. Both doses of CARB and NEO significantly reduced REM, but did not significantly alter non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREM). Both doses of SCO significantly increased NREM, and SCO(H) also produced an initial increase in REM followed by a significant decrease. CARB(H) and NEO(H) decreased REM electroencephalogram (EEG) power in the 5.5-10 Hz band, and NEO(L) and NEO(H) decreased NREM EEG power in the 0.5-5.0 Hz band. CARB(L) decreased waking EEG power in the 0.5-5.0 Hz band, and NEO(H) decreased waking EEG power in the 5.0-10.0 Hz band. Both doses of SCO significantly increased waking EEG power in the 5.5-10.0 Hz band. Compared with SAL, MEC did not significantly alter sleep or EEG power. The reduction of REM by CARB and NEO and the alteration of sleep by SCO indicate that cholinergic regulation of the amygdala is involved in the control of arousal in rodents. In contrast, CARB microinjections into CNA increase REM in cats, though the reasons for the species difference are not known. The results are discussed in the context of anatomical inputs and species differences in the cholinergic regulation of CNA.

Aldosterone-sensitive neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) become activated during sodium depletion and could be key neural elements regulating sodium intake. The afferent inputs to these neurons have not yet been defined, but one source may be neurons in the area postrema, a neighboring circumventricular organ that innervates the NTS and exerts a powerful inhibitory influence on sodium appetite [Contreras RJ, Stetson PW (1981) Changes in salt intake after lesions of the area postrema and the nucleus of the solitary tract in rats. Brain Res 211:355-366]. After an anterograde axonal tracer was injected into the area postrema in rats, sections through the NTS were immunolabeled for the enzyme 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (HSD2), a marker for aldosterone-sensitive neurons, and examined by confocal microscopy. We found that some of the aldosterone-sensitive neurons received close appositions from processes originating in the area postrema, suggesting that input to the HSD2 neurons could be involved in the inhibition of sodium appetite by this site. Axonal varicosities originating from the area postrema also made close appositions with other neurons in the medial NTS, including the neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons in the dorsomedial NTS. Besides these projections, a dense field of neurotensinergic axon terminals overlapped the distribution of the HSD2 neurons. Neurotensin-immunoreactive axon terminals were identified in close apposition to the dendrites and cell bodies of some HSD2 neurons, as well as unlabeled neurons lying in the same zone within the medial NTS. A local microcircuit involving the area postrema, HSD2 neurons, and neurotensinergic neurons may play a major role in the regulation of sodium appetite.
Heme oxygenase is a rate-limiting enzyme that degrades heme, a pro-oxidant, into carbon monoxide, iron, and bilirubin. Heme oxygenase has two active isoforms: heme oxygenase-1 and heme oxygenase-2. Heme oxygenase-1 can be induced by various insults. Several investigators have postulated that it has cytoprotective activities, although its role in the nervous system is not fully understood, especially considering that normally heme oxygenase-2 accounts for the vast majority of heme oxygenase activity in the brain. Here, the basal effect of heme oxygenase-1 was investigated in acute glutamatergic excitotoxicity to test the hypothesis that N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced acute toxicity in brain is attenuated by heme oxygenase-1. N-methyl-D-aspartate was unilaterally injected into the striatum of wildtype and heme oxygenase-1 knockout mice. After 48 h, brains were harvested, sectioned, and stained with Cresyl Violet to measure the lesion size. Lesion volume was significantly (P&lt;0.05) greater in brains of heme oxygenase-1 knockout mice (15.2+/-3.1 mm(3); n=10) than in those of wildtype mice (6.2+/-1.5 mm(3); n=11). In addition, Western blot analysis indicated no detectable differences between wildtype and heme oxygenase-1 knockout mouse brains in the levels of the glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors studied. To test whether heme oxygenase-1 could specifically protect neurons, mouse primary neuronal cell cultures of wildtype and heme oxygenase-1 knockout mice were treated with or without N-methyl-D-aspartate. Cell viability of the heme oxygenase-1 knockout neurons was significantly less than that of wildtype neurons at each of the N-methyl-D-aspartate concentrations tested (12.8+/-1.3%, 16.0+/-1.4%, and 18.4+/-1.8% at 30, 100, and 300 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate, respectively). These results indicate that heme oxygenase-1 provides neuroprotection against acute excitotoxicity and suggest that potential intervention that can increase heme oxygenase-1 activity within the brain should be considered as a therapeutic target in acute and potentially chronic neurological disorders.
Cochlear inner hair cells (IHCs) release neurotransmitter onto afferent auditory nerve fibers in response to sound stimulation. Normal development and function of inner hair cells require the expression of alpha subunit 1.3 forming L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel (Ca(V)1.3). Here, we used immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to study the synaptic organization and expression of large conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium channels in IHCs of mice lacking the Ca(V)1.3 Ca(2+) channel (Ca(V)1.3(-/-)). Despite the near complete block of evoked afferent synaptic transmission, hair cell ribbon synapses were formed and remained preserved for at least 4 weeks after birth. Moreover, these &quot;silent&quot; afferent synapses held major components of the synaptic machinery such as Bassoon, Piccolo, and CSP. Hence, the block of exocytosis might be solely attributed to the lack of Ca(2+) influx through Ca(V)1.3 channels. Later on, Ca(V)1.3 deficient IHCs subsequently lost their afferent synapses. This was probably due to a secondary degeneration of the postsynaptic spiral ganglion neurons. In line with a prolonged efferent synaptic transmission onto Ca(V)1.3 deficient IHCs, which normally ceases around onset of hearing, we found juxtaposed immunoreactive spots of efferent presynaptic synaptophysin and postsynaptic (IHCs) small conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium channels (SK channels) up to six weeks after birth. Finally, we show a substantial reduction of mRNA for the alpha subunit of the large conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium channel (BK) in the apical cochlea, suggesting a reduced transcription of its gene in Ca(V)1.3 deficient IHCs. Ca(V)1.3 deficient IHCs lacked the apical spot-like immunoreactivity of clustered BK channels, which normally contribute to the temporal precision of hair cell afferent synaptic transmission. In summary, these data indicate that the Ca(V)1.3 channels are crucially involved in regulation of the expression of BK and SK channels. Ca(V)1.3 channels seem not to be essential for ribbon synapse formation, but are required for the maintenance of ribbon synapses and spiral ganglion neurons.
Conflicting results have been reported concerning the toxicity of cerebrospinal fluid from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS-CSF) when added to neuronal cultures. The possible toxic factor(s) and the exact mode of action (e.g. requirement of glial cells) have not been identified so far. Glutamate is a potential candidate for this toxic effect, since antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptors have been shown to attenuate ALS-CSF toxicity. We studied the effects of ALS-CSF on mixed and motoneuron-enriched chick embryonic spinal cord cultures. We found a toxic action of ALS-CSF in both culture types which could not be attenuated by 5 kDa-filtration or 15 min 90 degrees C heating. Nevertheless, the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) group I antagonist 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid, but also the group I agonist (s)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) exerted protective effects against ALS-CSF toxicity. In this experimental setting, DHPG may functionally act via a receptor blockade due to sustained activation. No protective effect was seen with the mGluR group III inhibitor (RS)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (CPPG). Addition of DHPG did not increase the protective action of the AMPA inhibitor 6-chloro-4-hydroxyquinoline-2-carboxylic acid (6-CKU). Addition of l-glutamate did not mimic these toxic ALS-CSF effects in motoneuron-enriched cultures. Our experiments demonstrate that ALS-CSF toxicity is mediated by a small heat-resistant molecule which may act directly on neurons. Since blockade of group I mGluRs exerts a protective effect, the possibility of targeting these mGluRs pharmacologically in motoneuron disease should be kept in mind.
Mismatches between dopamine innervation and dopamine D1 receptor (D1) distribution have previously been demonstrated in the intercalated cell masses of the rat amygdala. Here the distribution of enkephalin and beta-endorphin immunoreactive (IR) nerve terminals with respect to their mu-opioid receptors is examined in the intercalated cell masses, along with a further immunohistochemical analysis of the dopamine/D1 mismatches. A similar analysis is also made within the extended amygdala. A spatial mismatch in distribution patterns was found between the mu-opioid receptor-1 immunoreactivity and enkephalin IR in the main intercalated island of the amygdala. Discrete cell patches of dopamine D1 receptor and mu-opioid receptor-1 IR were also identified in a distinct region of the extended amygdala, the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure, medial division (IPACM), which displayed sparse tyrosine hydroxylase or enkephalin/beta-endorphin IR nerve terminals. Furthermore, distinct regions of the main intercalated island that showed dopamine/D1 receptor matches (the rostral and rostrolateral parts) were associated with strong dopamine and cyclic AMP regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa-IR in several D1 IR neuronal cell bodies and dendrites, whereas this was not the case for the dopamine/D1 mismatch areas (the rostromedial and caudal parts) of the main intercalated island. The lack of correlation between the terminal/receptor distribution patterns suggests a role for volume transmission for mu-opioid receptor- and dopamine D1 receptor-mediated transmission in distinct regions of the amygdala and extended amygdala. This may have implications for amygdaloid function, where slow long lasting responses may develop as a result of volume transmission operating in opioid peptide and dopaminergic communication.
Effects of chronic estrogen treatment on the survival rate of newly integrated interneurons were studied in the olfactory bulb of adult (250-300 g) female rats. Ovariectomized rats received 17-beta estradiol dissolved in sesame oil (i.p., 100 microg/100 g body weight [b.w.]) during six consecutive days, and on day 6 they were also injected with the mitotic marker 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU, i.p., 50 mg/kg b.w.) in every 2 hours during 8 hours. After 21 days of survival animals were killed and the density of BrdU-immunoreactive cells was analyzed in the granule cell and glomerular layer both in the main and accessory olfactory bulb. A significant decrease was found in the density of BrdU-labeled cells in both layers examined in the accessory olfactory bulb of ovariectomized and estradiol-treated rats when compared with those of ovariectomized and vehicle-treated animals. In the main olfactory bulb, in contrast, no difference was observed in the density of BrdU-immunoreactive cells in either of the two layers. Our results suggest that cells destined to the glomerular and granule cell layers react in the same way to chronic estrogen treatment, and the effect of estradiol is region specific, at least, within the olfactory bulb. 17-Beta estradiol reduces the density of newly generated cells in the accessory olfactory bulb, an area involved in the perception of pheromones, thus having a role in regulating sexual behavior, while the rate of integration and survival of newly born cells in the first relay station of the main olfactory pathway, i.e. the main olfactory bulb, remains unchanged.
The tridecapeptide neurotensin has been demonstrated to modulate neurotransmission in a number of brain regions. There is evidence that neurotensin receptors exist in globus pallidus presynaptically and postsynaptically. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were used to investigate the modulatory effects of neurotensin on glutamate and GABA transmission in this basal ganglia nucleus in rats. Neurotensin at 1 microM significantly increased the frequency of glutamate receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. In contrast, neurotensin had no effect on GABA(A) receptor-mediated miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The presynaptic facilitation of neurotensin on glutamatergic transmission could be mimicked by the C-terminal fragment, neurotensin (8-13), but not by the N-terminal fragment, neurotensin (1-8). The selective neurotensin type-1 receptor antagonist, SR48692 {2-[(1-(7-chloro-4-quinolinyl)-5-2(2,6-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrazol-3-yl)carbonylamino]-tricyclo(3.3.1.1.(3.7))-decan-2-carboxylic acid}, blocked this facilitatory effect of neurotensin, and which itself had no effect on miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. The specific phospholipase C inhibitor, U73122 {1-[6-[[17beta-3-methoyyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl]amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione}, significantly inhibit neurotensin-induced facilitation on glutamate release. Taken together with the reported postsynaptic depolarization of neurotensin in globus pallidus, it is suggested that neurotensin excites the globus pallidus neurons by multiple mechanisms which may provide a rationale for further investigations into its involvement in motor disorders originating from the basal ganglia.
Clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic agent important for the treatment of schizophrenia, has marked inhibitory effects on sympathetic outflow to the thermoregulatory cutaneous circulation. In rabbits clozapine reverses ear pinna vasoconstriction induced either by administration of MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, ecstasy) or by exposing the animal to a cold environment. In rats, both these procedures are known to increase sympathetic activation of interscapular brown adipose tissue (iBAT) thermogenesis, important for heat production in the rat. In the present study in conscious rats we determined whether clozapine reduces iBAT thermogenesis induced by MDMA and by exposure to cold. We designed our study so that we could also determine effects of clozapine on the acute (stress-induced) increases in iBAT thermogenesis initiated by the process of s.c. injection. MDMA increased iBAT temperature (+1.7+/-0.2 degrees C after 90 min, P&lt;0.01, n=14 measurements from seven rats each studied on two occasions). Clozapine acutely reversed the MDMA-elicited increase in iBAT temperature (-1.3+/-0.2 degrees C 60 min after clozapine treatment following MDMA versus +0.3+/-0.2 degrees C for 60 min after vehicle treatment following MDMA, P&lt;0.01, n=7). Clozapine also reduced stress-induced increases in iBAT temperature, as well as increases elicited by exposing rats to a cold (5 degrees C) environment. Results, taken together with our previous findings, suggest that MDMA activates the sympathetic thermoregulatory outputs (including the output to iBAT) that defend body temperature against cold exposure and that increase body temperature in response to environmental stress. Clozapine's marked inhibition of iBAT thermogenesis may provide a clue to its marked tendency to cause obesity when used to treat humans with mental disorders including schizophrenia. Our demonstration in rats that clozapine decreases sympathetically-mediated increases in iBAT temperature elicited by MDMA adds to the likelihood that clozapine and clozapine-like agents might be therapeutically effective in life threatening hyperthermia induced by MDMA in humans.
The hypothalamic infundibular area is located outside the blood-brain barrier and includes, the ventromedial arcuate nucleus (vmARC) sensing circulating substances, and the median eminence (ME) where neurohormones are released into the hypothalamo-hypophysial vasculature. This integrated functional unit, pivotal in endocrine control, adjusts neuroendocrine output to feedback information. Despite a differing physiology in males and females, this functional unit has not appeared differently organized between sexes. Using immunocytochemistry, we describe here for the first time in adult rats, a conspicuous sex-difference in its axonal wiring by intrinsic glutamatergic neurons containing the neuropeptides neurokinin B (NKB) and dynorphin. In the male, NKB neurons send axons to capillary vessels of the vmARC and of the ME (only where gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) axons terminate). Electron microscopy revealed that NKB axons target the barrier of tanycytes around fenestrated capillary vessels (in addition to GnRH axons), suggesting a control of regional bidirectional permeability. In the female, NKB neurons send axons to the neuropile of the vmARC, suggesting a direct control of its sensor neurons. The other projections of NKB neurons, studied by surgical isolation of the ARC-ME complex and confocal microscopy, are not sexually dimorphic and target both integrative and neuroendocrine centers controlling reproduction and metabolism, suggesting a broad influence over endocrine function. These observations demonstrate that the mechanisms subserving hypothalamic permeability and sensitivity to feedback information are sexually dimorphic, making the infundibular area a privileged site of generation of the male-to-female differences in the adult pattern of pulsatile hormonal secretions.
The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway has been implicated in diverse cellular functions. ERK and its activating kinase, mitogen-activated/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MEK), are downstream of cell surface receptors known to be up-regulated in many malignant gliomas. We sought to investigate the role of ERK in glioma cell migration, proliferation and differentiation using the rat-derived C6 glioma cell line and the MEK inhibitor, U0126. Treatment of C6 cells with U0126 caused a significant concentration-dependent reduction in cell proliferation and migration and also induced expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein, a marker of astrocytic differentiation. These results suggest that the ERK pathway regulates glioma cell proliferation, migration and differentiation.
The combination effects of minocycline (MC), a second-generation tetracycline compound and pyruvate (PY), a glycolysis end metabolite with antioxidant activity were investigated in the rat striatum following an excitotoxic insult. Striatal injection of quinolinic acid (QUIN) resulted in marked inflammation characterized by microgliosis, astrogliosis and enhanced expressions of pro-inflammatory enzymes inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2. Inflammatory responses were attenuated with administration of either MC or PY, however, the combination of both compounds was significantly more effective in reducing inflammation relative to MC or PY applied alone. Immunohistochemical analysis at 7 days post-intrastriatal QUIN injection showed extensive oxidative stress evident as lipid peroxidation, oxidative DNA damage and reactive oxygen species formation which was partially decreased by each agent applied separately but markedly inhibited with the combination of the two compounds. In addition, combination treatments significantly reduced neuronal loss in QUIN-injected striatum compared with the agents applied separately. Furthermore, long-term combination treatment decreased striatal lesions and inflammation after QUIN injection. These results demonstrate that MC and PY confer a considerably enhanced anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective efficacy when applied together and suggest this combinatorial procedure as a novel therapeutic strategy in neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington's disease which exhibit excitotoxic insults.
Neuronal proteins have been traditionally viewed as being derived solely from the soma; however, accumulating evidence indicates that dendritic and axonal sites are capable of a more autonomous role in terms of new protein synthesis. Such extra-somal translation allows for more rapid, on-demand regulation of neuronal structure and function than would otherwise be possible. While mechanisms of dendritic RNA transport have been elucidated, it remains unclear how RNA is trafficked into the axon for this purpose. Primary afferent neurons of the dorsal root (DRG) and trigeminal (TG) ganglia have among the longest axons in the neuraxis and such axonal protein synthesis would be advantageous, given the greater time involved for protein trafficking to occur via axonal transport. Therefore, we hypothesized that these primary sensory neurons might express proteins involved in RNA transport. Rat DRG and TG neurons expressed staufen (stau) 1 and 2 (detected at the mRNA level) and stau2 and fragile x mental retardation protein (FMRP; detected at the protein level). Stau2 mRNA was also detected in human TG neurons. Stau2 and FMRP protein were localized to the sciatic nerve and dorsal roots by immunohistochemistry and to dorsal roots by Western blot. Stau2 and FMRP immunoreactivities colocalized with transient receptor potential channel type 1 immunoreactivity in sensory axons of the sciatic nerve and dorsal root, suggesting that these proteins are being transported into the peripheral and central terminals of nociceptive sensory axons. Based on these findings, we propose that stau2 and FMRP proteins are attractive candidates to subserve RNA transport in sensory neurons, linking somal transcriptional events to axonal translation.
Secondary hyperalgesia in the monoarthritic rat is accompanied by a decrease in nociceptive activation of spinal neurons expressing GABA(B) receptors and by the opposite effect in the cells expressing neurokinin 1 (NK1)-receptors. In order to ascertain the relative role of each receptor, the effects of intrathecal administration of SP-saporin (SP-SAP), baclofen or both were evaluated, using a model of secondary hyperalgesia that consists of mechanical stimulation of the hindlimb skin close to an inflamed joint. Four days after the induction of monoarthritis by intraarticular injection of Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA), a cannula was implanted at T(13)-L(1) level and 10 microl of saline or SP-SAP (10(-6) M) were intrathecally (i.t.) injected. Fourteen days after CFA-injection, half of the animals from each group received i.t. injections of 10 microl saline and the remainder were injected with the same volume of baclofen (1 microg). Ten minutes later, the animals were behaviorally evaluated by the von Frey test or submitted to noxious mechanical stimulation to analyze c-fos expression. The von Frey thresholds increased after the treatments, but more pronouncedly after baclofen or SP-SAP plus baclofen. In segments L(2)-L(3), the spinal area that receives input from the stimulated skin close to the inflamed joint, the numbers of Fos-immunoreactive neurons were reduced after the three treatments both in the superficial and deep dorsal horn. In segments T(13)-L(1), the numbers of Fos-immunoreactive neurons were significantly reduced after treatment with SP-SAP plus baclofen in both dorsal horn regions, and in the deep dorsal horn after baclofen treatment. We conclude that both GABA(B) and NK1 receptors of spinal dorsal horn neurons participate in secondary hyperalgesia in the monoarthritic rat, although the decrease in GABA inhibition appears to play a more important role than the increase in SP-mediated effects.
The lack of environmental olfactory stimulation produced by sensory deprivation causes significant changes in the deprived olfactory bulb. Olfactory transmission in the main olfactory bulb (MOB) is strongly modulated by centrifugal systems. The present report examines the effects of unilateral deprivation on the noradrenergic and cholinergic centrifugal systems innervating the MOB. The morphology, distribution, and density of positive axons were studied in the MOBs of control and deprived rats, using dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH)-immunohistochemistry and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry in serial sections. Catecholamine content was compared among the different groups of MOBs (control, contralateral, and ipsilateral to the deprivation) using high-performance liquid chromatography analysis. Sensory deprivation revealed that the noradrenergic system developed adaptive plastic changes after olfactory deprivation, including important modifications in its fiber density and distribution, while no differences in cholinergic innervation were observed under the same conditions. The noradrenergic system underwent an important alteration in the glomerular layer, in which some glomeruli showed a dense noradrenergic innervation that was not detected in control animals. The DBH-positive glomeruli with the highest noradrenergic fiber density were compared with AChE-stained sections and it was observed that the strongly noradrenergic-innervated glomeruli were always atypical glomeruli (characterized by their strong degree of cholinergic innervation). In addition to the morphological findings, our biochemical data revealed that olfactory deprivation caused a decrease in the content of dopamine and its metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the ipsilateral MOB in comparison to the contralateral and control MOBs, together with an increase in noradrenaline levels in both the ipsilateral and contralateral MOBs. Our results show that regulation of the noradrenergic centrifugal system in the MOB depends on environmental olfactory stimulation and that it is highly reactive to sensory deprivation. By contrast, the cholinergic system is fairly stable and does not exhibit clear changes after the loss of sensory inputs.
The central patterning mechanism of neuronal circuits is an important issue in developmental neuroscience. We report here the role of a peripheral whisker pattern for the patterning of the trigeminal projection at the brainstem and thalamus in the mouse somatosensory system. The whisker pattern was manipulated by infecting the embryonic epidermis with adenovirus harboring Shh. The ectopic expression of Shh led to the induction of extra whiskers and displacement of whiskers, where these whiskers were histologically normal. The altered whisker pattern was isomorphically represented in the brainstem (barrelette: subnuclei principalis and subnuclei interpolaris), thalamus (barreloid) and cortex (barrel) as revealed by cytochrome oxidase staining. The barrelette-like pattern of the parvalbumin became discernible by immunostaining at P7 in subnuclei principalis and at P4 in subnuclei interpolaris in normal mice. These are the barrelette neurons projecting to the thalamus and the local circuit within the barrelette. The barrelette-like parvalbumin pattern also exhibits the altered whisker pattern induced by the adenovirus harboring Shh. These results highlight the role the peripheral whisker pattern for the central patterning of the brainstem, thalamus, and cortex in the mouse somatosensory system.
Neurotransmitters are among the many cues that may guide developing axons toward appropriate targets in the developing nervous system. We have previously shown in the mollusk Lymnaea stagnalis that dopamine, released from an identified pre-synaptic cell, differentially affects growth cone behavior of its target and non-target cells in vitro. Here, we describe a group of non-target cells that also produce an inhibitory electrophysiological response to applied dopamine. We first determined, using pharmacological blockers, which receptors mediate this physiological response. We demonstrated that the dopaminergic electrophysiological responses of non-target cells were sensitive to a D2 receptor antagonist, as are known target cell responses. However, the non-target cell receptors were linked to different G-proteins and intracellular signaling pathways than the target cell receptors. Despite the presence of a D2-like receptor at the soma, the growth cone collapse of these non-target cells was mediated by D1-like receptors. This study shows that different dopamine receptor sub-types mediated the inhibitory physiological and growth cone responses of an identified cell type. We therefore not only provide further evidence that D2- and D1-like receptors can be present on the same neuron in invertebrates, but also show that these receptors are likely involved in very different cellular functions.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic-nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels conduct a monovalent cationic current, I(h), which contributes to the electrophysiological properties of neurons and regulates thalamic oscillations in circuits containing the glutamatergic ventrobasal complex (VB) and GABAergic reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN). Four distinct HCN channel isoforms (HCN1-4) have been identified, and mRNAs and proteins for HCN channels have been detected in the RTN and VB, with HCN2 and HCN4 being the predominant isoforms. RTN and VB neurons have distinct electrophysiological properties, and those differences may reflect variable compartmental distribution of HCN channels. Whole cell patch clamp recordings from thalamic neurons in brain slices obtained from C57/Bl6 mice demonstrate that I(h) is much smaller in RTN than in VB neurons although the time constants for I(h) current activation are very similar. To study the compartmental distribution of the underlying channels, we performed qualitative and quantitative examination of HCN2 and HCN4 expression using fluorescent immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy. HCN2-immunoreactivity (IR) on the somata of RTN neurons was approximately 10-fold less than that seen in VB neurons while HCN4-IR was detected on the somata of RTN and VB neurons to an equal degree. HCN2-IR in RTN and VB did not overlap with synaptophysin-IR, but strongly colocalized with cortactin-IR, indicating that HCN2 was not present in axon terminals but was present in dendritic spines. Although HCN2-IR in spines was more pronounced in VB than in RTN, the ratio of spinous to somatic expression in RTN was dramatically higher than that in VB, strongly suggesting that HCN2-IR in RTN is principally located in sites distal to the soma. In contrast, HCN4-IR did not colocalize with either synaptophysin or cortactin. The colocalization of HCN2-IR with HCN4-IR was greater in VB than in RTN. The results suggest that the distinct compartmental distribution of HCN2 channels in RTN and VB neurons contributes to the profound differences in the I(h)-dependent properties of these cells.
Intrauterine inflammation is a major risk for offspring neurodevelopmental brain damage and may result in cognitive limitations and poor cognitive and perceptual outcomes. In the present study we tested the possibility that prenatal exposure to a high level of inflammatory factors may increase the risk for neurodegeneration in aging. The effect of systemic maternal inflammation (MI), induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on offspring brain aging, was examined in 8 month old (adult) and 20 month old (aged) offspring mice. A significant effect of age was found in the distance and velocity of exploration in the open field in both groups. In addition, MI aged offspring covered longer distances and enter frequently to the center of the field compared with the aged control group. Although only little difference was found in the aged MI offspring compared with the control offspring, the overall profile of behavior of these mice differs from that of the control group, as detected by clustering analysis. The expression of the death-associated protein FAS-ligand and the amount of apoptotic cell death were examined in the brains of aged offspring. Similar levels of FAS-ligand expression and parallel density of apoptotic cells were detected in the brains of aged mice of control and MI groups. Altogether, moderate systemic MI was not found to increase the risk for cell death in the aged offspring; limited effect was found in mice profile of behavior.
The glycine receptors and neurosteroids in spinal cord are both implicated in nociceptive signal processing. However, the modulatory effects of neurosteroid pregnanolone (5beta-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one) on native glycine receptors remain unclear. In the present study, we examined the effects of pregnanolone and its three isomers on glycine receptors by using whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Our results showed that pregnanolone reversibly inhibited the amplitude of glycine-induced current mediated by native glycine receptors and recombinant alpha1-, alpha2-, alpha3- and alpha1beta-glycine receptors. In cultured spinal dorsal horn neurons of rats, pregnanolone inhibited the glycine-induced current in dose-dependent manner, with an antagonist concentration inducing half-maximal response of 1.0+/-0.3 microM. The inhibitory effect of pregnanolone on glycine-induced current was voltage-independent and pregnanolone shifted the concentration-response curve for glycine-induced current rightward in a parallel manner without altering the maximal value and Hill coefficient. The isomer of pregnanolone, allopregnanolone (5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one) slightly enhanced glycine-induced current, whereas iso-pregnanolone (5beta-pregnan-3beta-ol-20-one) and iso-allopregnanolone (5alpha-pregnan-3beta-ol-20-one) did not affect the glycine-induced current significantly in cultured spinal dorsal horn neurons. Thus, our results suggest that the inhibitory effect of pregnanolone on glycine-induced current is of a competitive type and depends on the stereo structure of pregnanolone. Furthermore, pregnanolone decreased the amplitude and frequency of the glycinergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents. Through modulating the glycinergic inhibitory neurotransmission, pregnanolone may affect the nociceptive sensory processing under physiological and pathological conditions.
This study investigated the involvement of estrogen receptors alpha and beta in estradiol-induced enhancement of hippocampal neurogenesis in the adult female rat. Subtype selective estrogen receptor agonists, propyl-pyrazole triol (estrogen receptor alpha agonist) and diarylpropionitrile (estrogen receptor beta agonist) were examined for each receptor's contribution, individual and cooperative, for estradiol-enhanced hippocampal cell proliferation. Estradiol increases hippocampal cell proliferation within 4 h [Ormerod BK, Lee TT, Galea LA (2003) Estradiol initially enhances but subsequently suppresses (via adrenal steroids) granule cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of adult female rats. J Neurobiol 55:247-260]. Therefore, animals received s.c. injections of estradiol (10 microg), propyl-pyrazole triol and diarylpropionitrile alone (1.25, 2.5, 5.0 mg/0.1 ml dimethylsulfoxide) or in combination (2.5 mg propyl-pyrazole triol+2.5 mg diarylpropionitrile/0.1 ml dimethylsulfoxide) and 4 h later received an i.p. injection of the cell synthesis marker, bromodeoxyuridine (200 mg/kg). Diarylpropionitrile enhanced cell proliferation at all three administered doses (1.25 mg, P&lt;0.008; 2.5 mg, P&lt;0.003; 5 mg, P&lt;0.005), whereas propyl-pyrazole triol significantly increased cell proliferation (P&lt;0.0002) only at the dose of 2.5 mg. Our results demonstrate both estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta are individually involved in estradiol-enhanced cell proliferation. Furthermore both estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta mRNA was found co-localized with Ki-67 expression in the hippocampus albeit at low levels, indicating a potential direct influence of each receptor subtype on progenitor cells and their progeny. Dual receptor activation resulted in reduced levels of cell proliferation, supporting previous studies suggesting that estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta may modulate each other's activity. Our results also suggest that a component of estrogen receptor-regulated cell proliferation may take place through alternative ligand and/or cell-signaling mechanisms.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus uniquely projects to the midline thalamic paraventricular nucleus. To characterize this projection, patch clamp techniques applied in acute rat brain slice preparations examined responses of anterior thalamic paraventricular nucleus neurons to focal suprachiasmatic nucleus stimulation. Whole cell recordings from slices obtained during daytime (n=40) revealed neurons with a mean membrane potential of -66+/-1.2 mV, input conductance of 1.5+/-0.1 nS and state-dependent tonic or burst firing patterns. Electrical stimulation (one or four pulses) in suprachiasmatic nucleus elicited monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (mean latency of 12.6+/-0.6 ms; n=12), featuring both AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate-glutamate receptor-mediated components, and monosynaptic bicuculline-sensitive inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (mean latency of 16.6+/-0.6 ms; n=7) reversing polarity at -72+/-2.6 mV, close to the chloride equilibrium potential. Glutamate microstimulation of suprachiasmatic nucleus also elicited transient increases in spontaneous excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic currents in anterior thalamic paraventricular neurons. Recordings from rats under reverse light/dark conditions (n=22) yielded essentially similar responses to electrical stimulation. At depolarized membrane potentials, suprachiasmatic nucleus-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials triggered single action potentials, while evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials elicited a silent period in ongoing tonic firing. By contrast, after manual adjustment of membrane potentials to hyperpolarized levels, neuronal response to the same &quot;excitatory&quot; stimulus was a low threshold spike and superimposed burst firing, while responses to &quot;inhibitory&quot; stimuli paradoxically elicited excitatory rebound low threshold spikes and burst firing. These data support the existence of glutamatergic and GABAergic efferents from the suprachiasmatic nucleus to its target neurons. Additionally, in thalamic paraventricular nucleus neurons, responses to activation of their suprachiasmatic afferents may vary in accordance with their membrane potential-dependent intrinsic properties, a characteristic typical of thalamocortical neurons.
The piriform cortex (PC) is the largest region of the mammalian olfactory cortex with strong connections to other limbic structures, including the amygdala, hippocampus, and entorhinal cortex. In addition to its functional importance in the classification of olfactory stimuli, the PC has been implicated in the study of memory processing, spread of excitatory information, and the facilitation and propagation of seizures within the limbic system. Previous data from the kindling model of epilepsy indicated that alterations in GABAergic inhibition in the transition zone between the anterior and posterior PC, termed here central PC, are particularly involved in the processes underlying seizure propagation. In the present study we studied alterations in GABAergic neurons in different parts of the PC following seizures induced by kainate or pilocarpine in rats. GABA neurons were labeled either immunohistochemically for GABA or its synthesizing enzyme glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) or by in situ hybridization using antisense probes for GAD65 and GAD67 mRNAs. For comparison with the PC, labeled neurons were examined in the basolateral amygdala, substantia nigra pars reticulata, and the hippocampal formation. In the PC of controls, immunohistochemical labeling for GABA and GAD yielded consistently higher neuronal densities in most cell layers than labeling for GAD65 or GAD67 mRNAs, indicating a low basal activity of these neurons. Eight hours following kainate- or pilocarpine-induced seizures, severe neuronal damage was observed in the PC. Counting of GABA neurons in the PC demonstrated significant decreases in densities of neurons labeled for GABA or GAD proteins. However, a significantly increased density of neurons labeled for GAD65 and GAD67 mRNAs was determined in layer II of the central PC, indicating that a subpopulation of remaining neurons up-regulated the mRNAs for the GAD isoenzymes. One likely explanation for this finding is that remaining GABA neurons in layer II of the central PC maintain high levels of activity to control the increased excitability of the region. In line with previous studies, an up-regulation of GAD67 mRNA, but not GAD65 mRNA, was observed in dentate granule cells following seizures, whereas no indication of such up-regulation was determined for the other brain regions examined. The data substantiate the particular susceptibility of the central PC to seizure-induced plasticity and indicate that this brain region provides an interesting tool to study the regulation of GAD isoenzymes.
A deficiency of the dopaminergic transmission in the mesocortical system has been suggested to contribute to cognitive disturbances in Parkinson's disease. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine whether the long-term administration of a commonly used herbicide, paraquat, which has already been found to induce a slowly progressing degeneration of the nigrostriatal neurons, influences mesocortical dopaminergic neurons in rats. Paraquat at a dose of 10 mg/kg i.p. was injected either acutely or once a week for 4, 8, 12 and 24 weeks. Acute treatment with this pesticide increased the level of homovanillic acid (HVA) and HVA/dopamine ratio in the prefrontal cortex. After 8 weeks of administration paraquat increased the number of stereologically counted tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons and their staining intensity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which is a source of the mesocortical dopaminergic projection. At the same time, few TH-ir neurons appeared in different regions of the cerebral cortex: in the frontal, cingulate, retrosplenial and parietal cortices. Chronic paraquat administration did not influence the level of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex but increased the levels of its metabolites: 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (after 8-12 weeks), HVA (after 4 and 12 weeks) and HVA/dopamine ratio (4 weeks). After 24 weeks this pesticide reduced the number of TH-ir neurons in the VTA by 42% and of the Nissl-stained neurons by 26%, and induced shrinkage of this structure by ca. 25%. Moreover, TH-ir neurons in the cortex were no more visible after such a long period of administration and levels of dopamine metabolites returned to control values. The present results suggest that the long-term paraquat administration destroys dopaminergic neurons of the VTA. However, compensatory activation of the VTA neurons and cortex overcomes progressing degeneration and maintains cortical dopaminergic transmission.
Large dense core vesicles (approximately 100 nm) contain neuroactive peptides and other co-transmitters. Smaller dense core vesicles (approximately 80 nm) are known to contain components of the presynaptic active zone and thought to transport and deliver these components during developmental synaptogenesis. It is not known whether excitatory axons in area CA1 contain such dense core vesicles, and whether they contribute to synaptic plasticity of mature hippocampus. Serial section electron microscopy was used to identify dense core vesicles in presynaptic axons in s. radiatum of area CA1 in adult rat hippocampus. Comparisons were made among perfusion-fixed hippocampus and hippocampal slices that undergo synaptogenesis during recovery in vitro. Dense core vesicles occurred in 26.1+/-3.6% of axonal boutons in perfusion fixed hippocampus, and in only 17.6+/-4.5% of axonal boutons in hippocampal slices (P&lt;0.01). Most of the dense core vesicle positive boutons contained only one dense core vesicle, and no reconstructed axonal bouton had more than a total of 10 dense core vesicles in either condition. Overall the dense core vesicles had average diameters of 79+/-11 nm. These small dense core vesicles were usually located near nonsynaptic membranes and rarely occurred near the edge of a presynaptic active zone. Their size, low frequency, locations, and decrease following recuperative synaptogenesis in slices are novel findings that merit further study with respect to small dense core vesicle content and possible contributions to synapse assembly and plasticity in the mature hippocampus.
Stress initially causes adaptive changes in the brain and can lead to neurodegeneration if continuously present. Noxious brain conditions trigger the release of adenosine that can control brain function and neurodegeneration through inhibitory A(1) and facilitatory A(2A) receptors. We tested the effect of restraint stress on the density of adenosine receptors and their effect on the outcome of stress, focusing in a known affected region, the hippocampus. Sub-chronic restraint stress (6 h/day for 7 days) caused a parallel decrease of the density of A(1) receptors (15-20%) and an increase (near 250%) of A(2A) receptor density in rat hippocampal nerve terminals. This indicates that sub-chronic stress unbalances adenosine receptors, up-regulating A(2A) and down-regulating A(1) receptors. Sub-chronic stress did not cause hippocampal neurodegeneration but decreased the immunoreactivity (immunohistochemistry and Western blot) of a synaptic marker, synaptophysin. The blockade of A(2A) receptors with 7-(2-phenylethyl)-5-amino-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine (0.05 mg/kg, daily i.p. injection) attenuated the loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity observed in the hippocampus of rats subjected to sub-chronic restraint stress. This ability of A(2A) receptor antagonists to prevent the earliest stress-induced synaptic modifications provides a neurochemical and morphological correlate for the interest of A(2A) receptor antagonists to attenuate the burden of chronic stress.
There exists a spatial organization of receptive fields and a modular organization of the flexion withdrawal reflex system. However, the three dimensional location and organization of interneurons interposed in flexion reflex pathways has not been systematically examined. We determined the anatomical locations of spinal neurons involved in the hindlimb flexion withdrawal reflex using expression of the immediate early gene c-fos and the corresponding FOS protein. The flexion withdrawal reflex was evoked in decerebrate cats via stimulation of the tibial or superficial peroneal nerve. Animals that received stimulation had significantly larger numbers of cells expressing FOS-like immunoreactivity (42.7+/-2.3 cells/section, mean+/-standard error of the mean) than operated unstimulated controls (18.6+/-1.4 cells/section). Compared with controls, cells expressing FOS-like immunoreactivity were located predominantly on the ipsilateral side, in laminae IV-VI, at L6 and rostral L7 segments, and between 20% and 60% of the distance from the midline to the lateral border of the ventral gray matter. Labeled neurons resulting from tibial nerve stimulation were medial to neurons labeled following superficial peroneal nerve stimulation in laminae I-VI, but not VII. The mean mediolateral positions of labeled neurons from both nerves shifted medially as the transverse plane in which they were viewed was moved from rostral to caudal and as the coronal plane in which they were viewed was moved from dorsal to ventral. The mediolateral separation between populations of labeled cells was consistent with primary afferent projections and the location of reflex encoders. This topographical segregation corresponding to different afferent inputs is a possible anatomical substrate for a modular organization of the flexion withdrawal reflex system.
The distribution of protein arginine N-methyltransferase 3 (PRMT3) was investigated in the mouse brain using indirect immunofluorescence. PRMT3 was observed to be localized in the cell bodies and dendrites of neurons but not in the axons and glial cells, indicating that PRMT3 is involved in neuronal function. The distribution of the immunoreactive neurons in the brain was uneven, indicating that PRMT3 plays a role in specific neuronal systems such as the motor and limbic systems, as well as functions related to the cerebellum. The present ontogenetic analysis of PRMT1 and PRMT3 using Western blot methodology clearly revealed that PRMT3 develops during the perinatal stage and its expression is maintained even in adulthood. PRMT1, on the other hand, is expressed transiently during the early embryonic stage. These findings indicate that PRMT3 is related with neuronal function in both young and adult brains, while PRMT1 has roles in the immature brain, such as the formation of neural circuits.
Noradrenaline is thought to play modulatory roles in a number of physiological, behavioral, and cellular processes. Although many of these modulatory effects are mediated through alpha-1 adrenoceptors, basic knowledge of the cellular and subcellular distributions of these receptors is limited. We investigated the laminar distribution pattern of alpha-1 adrenoceptors in rat visual cortex, using immunohistochemistry at both light and electron microscopic levels. Affinity-purified anti-alpha-1 antibody was confirmed to react only with a single band of about 70-80 kDa in total proteins prepared from rat visual cortex. Alpha-1 adrenoceptors were widely distributed though all cortical layers, but relatively high in density in layers I, II/III, and V. Immunoreactivity was observed in both neuronal perikarya and processes including apical dendrites. In double-labeling experiments with anti-microtubule-associated protein 2, anti-neurofilament, anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein, anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase 65/67, anti-2-3-cyclic nucleotide 3-phosphodiesterase, and anti-tyrosine hydroxylase antibodies, alpha-1 adrenoceptors were found mainly in dendrites and somata of microtubule-associated protein 2-immunopositive neurons. About 20% of alpha-1 adrenoceptors were in GABAergic neurons. A small number of alpha-1 adrenoceptors were also distributed in axons of excitatory neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and noradrenergic fibers. Using an immunoelectron microscopic technique, numerous regions of alpha-1 adrenoceptor immunoreactivity were found in cell somata, on membranes of dendrites, and in postsynaptic regions. Moreover, a small number of immunoreaction products were also detected in axons and presynaptic sites. These findings provide the first quantitative evidence regarding the cellular and subcellular localization of alpha-1 adrenoceptor immunoreactivity in visual cortex. Moreover, the ultrastructural distribution of alpha-1 adrenoceptor immunoreactivity suggests that alpha-1 adrenoceptors are transported mainly into dendrites and that they exert effects at postsynaptic sites of neurons.
Reversible inactivation of the hippocampus by lidocaine or tetrodotoxin is used to investigate implications of this structure in memory processes. Crucial points related to such inactivation are the temporal and spatial extents of the blockade. We compared effects of intrahippocampal infusions of commonly-used doses of lidocaine (5 or 10 mug) or tetrodotoxin (5 or 10 ng) in rats at two post-infusion delays (5 or 30 min), using 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography to visualize local cerebral glucose metabolism, and beam-walking performance to assess motor coordination. In addition, memory retrieval was evaluated in a water maze after bilateral infusions of 10 mug lidocaine. A unilateral tetrodotoxin infusion induced dose- and time-dependent reductions of 2-deoxyglucose uptake in the vicinity of the infusion site (dorsal hippocampus: -29% to -67%) and in other ipsi- and contralateral brain regions (ventral hippocampus, lateral thalamus, cortical regions). The maximal effect was at 10 ng, at the delay of 30 min between the tetrodotoxin infusion and the 2-deoxyglucose injection. Uni- and bilateral infusions of tetrodotoxin induced dramatic motor coordination deficits. Conversely, lidocaine reduced 2-deoxyglucose uptake (-19%) in the dorsal hippocampus only at 10 mug, with weak extrahippocampal effects. Whether infused uni- or bilaterally and regardless of the dose, lidocaine did not alter motor coordination. When infused bilaterally, however, 10 microg of lidocaine impaired short-term retrieval of spatial information in a water maze. Because lidocaine i) induced a weak though significant functional blockade mainly restricted to the infusion site, ii) had no consequences on motor coordination and, nevertheless iii) altered short-term spatial memory retrieval, we conclude that acute intrahippocampal infusions of lidocaine may offer some advantages over tetrodotoxin at the doses used herein.
The juvenile brain's pronounced synaptic plasticity in response to early experience and learning events is related to the fact that the genetically pre-programmed molecular machinery mediating neuronal development and synapse formation, is activated throughout postnatal brain development and thereby can be recruited for learning and long-term memory formation. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry experiments revealed that tenascin-C, one candidate molecule which we suspect to be involved in neonatal learning, is expressed in the forebrain of domestic chicks around the sensitive period during which auditory filial imprinting takes place. The involvement of tenascin-C in this juvenile learning task was tested by injections of monoclonal antibodies directed to distinct domains of the tenascin-C molecule into the avian prefrontal cortex analog, the medio-rostral nidopallium/mesopallium (formerly termed medio-rostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale), a forebrain area which has been shown to be critically involved in auditory filial imprinting. Injections of monoclonal antibody Tn 68, which is directed against a cell-binding domain of the tenascin-C molecule, strongly reduced the imprinting rate, as opposed to injections of the monoclonal antibody Tn 578, which binds to a domain involved in neurite outgrowth. Double labeling immunohistochemistry revealed that tenascin-C is associated with neurons which express the Ca(2+)-binding protein parvalbumin, and displays a staining pattern highly reminiscent of perineuronal nets of the extracellular matrix. These results indicate that a distinct domain of tenascin-C is functionally involved in the juvenile learning process of filial imprinting and further suggest a critical role of a specific neuronal subpopulation.
Patterns of bimanual coordination in which homologous muscles are simultaneously active are more stable than those in which homologous muscles are engaged in an alternating fashion. This may be attributable to the stronger involvement of the dominant motor cortex in ipsilateral hand movements via interaction with the non-dominant motor system, known as neural crosstalk. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the neural representation of the interhemispheric interaction during bimanual mirror movements. Thirteen right-handed subjects completed four conditions: sequential finger tapping using the right and left index and middle fingers, bimanual mirror and parallel finger tapping. Auditory cues (3 Hz) were used to keep the tapping frequency constant. Task-related activation in the right primary motor cortex was significantly less prominent during mirror than unimanual left-handed movements. This was mirror- and non-dominant side-specific; parallel movements did not cause such a reduction, and the left primary motor cortex showed no such differential activation across the unimanual right, bimanual mirror, and bimanual parallel conditions. Reducing the contralateral innervation of the left hand may increase the fraction of the force command to the left hand coming from the left primary motor cortex, enhancing the neural crosstalk.
Heparan sulfate proteoglycans, which bear long chains of heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan, play significant roles during embryogenesis, including the formation of the CNS. However, their involvement in nerve regeneration has not yet been clarified. Here, we found that the mRNA expression of EXT2, one of the crucial enzymes for heparan sulfate-glycosaminoglycan synthesis, was markedly up-regulated in injured hypoglossal motor neurons after axotomy. In addition, immunohistochemical staining with an antibody specific for heparan sulfate-glycosaminoglycan chains demonstrated increased expression of heparan sulfate-glycosaminoglycan chains in the injured nucleus. Furthermore, the mRNA expressions of glypican-1 and syndecan-1, which are both well-known heparan sulfate proteoglycans, were prominently up-regulated in injured motor neurons. These results suggest that the biosynthesis of heparan sulfate chains promoted by EXT2 is activated in injured motor neurons, and that glypican-1 and syndecan-1 are potent candidates for heparan sulfate proteoglycans involved in peripheral nerve regeneration.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is an opioid-related peptide that stimulates corticosterone release after i.c.v. administration in non-stressed rats. We employed in situ hybridization histochemistry to investigate N/OFQ-stimulated activation of the HPA axis at the hypothalamic and pituitary level. We have demonstrated that N/OFQ-induced activation of the HPA axis is mediated via the central N/OFQ peptide receptor (NOP) using the recently described selective NOP antagonist [Nphe(1),Arg(14),Lys(15)]nociceptin/orphanin FQ-NH(2) (UFP-101). We found that, at 30 min post-i.c.v. injection, N/OFQ dose-dependently increased plasma adrenocorticotrophin hormone and corticosterone compared with the vehicle-injected controls. N/OFQ (1.0 microg) significantly increased CRF mRNA but not AVP mRNA within the parvocellular hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus compared with the control group, and significantly increased pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA in the anterior pituitary. While UFP-101 (1.0 microg) alone had no significant effect on plasma corticosterone concentration it blocked the effect of N/OFQ (1.0 microg) on plasma corticosterone levels when compared with N/OFQ administered alone. UFP-101 also blocked the N/OFQ-induced increase in CRF mRNA and POMC mRNA. These results demonstrate that centrally administered N/OFQ activates the HPA axis via up-regulation of CRF and POMC mRNA and stimulation of corticosterone release in rats. Further, we have demonstrated for the first time that the selective NOP receptor antagonist UFP-101 blocks these effects indicating that N/OFQ-induced HPA axis activation is mediated via central NOP receptors.
Previous work demonstrates that the cerebellum uses glycine as a fast inhibitory neurotransmitter [Ottersen OP, Davanger S, Storm-Mathisen J (1987) Glycine-like immunoreactivity in the cerebellum of rat and Senegalese baboon, Papio papio: a comparison with the distribution of GABA-like immunoreactivity and with [3H]glycine and [3H]GABA uptake. Exp Brain Res 66(1):211-221; Ottersen OP, Storm-Mathisen J, Somogyi P (1988) Colocalization of glycine-like and GABA-like immunoreactivities in Golgi cell terminals in the rat cerebellum: a postembedding light and electron microscopic study. Brain Res 450(1-2):342-353; Dieudonne S (1995) Glycinergic synaptic currents in Golgi cells of the rat cerebellum. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 92:1441-1445; Dumoulin A, Triller A, Dieudonne S (2001) IPSC kinetics at identified GABAergic and mixed GABAergic and glycinergic synapses onto cerebellar Golgi cells. J Neurosci 21(16):6045-6057; Dugue GP, Dumoulin A, Triller A, Dieudonne S (2005) Target-dependent use of coreleased inhibitory transmitters at central synapses. J Neurosci 25(28):6490-6498; Zeilhofer HU, Studler B, Arabadzisz D, Schweizer C, Ahmadi S, Layh B, Bosl MR, Fritschy JM (2005) Glycinergic neurons expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein in bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mice. J Comp Neurol 482(2):123-141]. In the rat cerebellum glycine is not released by itself but is released together with GABA by Lugaro cells onto Golgi cells [Dumoulin A, Triller A, Dieudonne S (2001) IPSC kinetics at identified GABAergic and mixed GABAergic and glycinergic synapses onto cerebellar Golgi cells. J Neurosci 21(16):6045-6057] and by Golgi cells onto unipolar brush and granule cells [Dugue GP, Dumoulin A, Triller A, Dieudonne S (2005) Target-dependent use of coreleased inhibitory transmitters at central synapses. J Neurosci 25(28):6490-6498]. Here we report, from immunolabeling evidence in Macaca cerebellum, that interneurons in the granular cell layer are glycine+ at a density of 120 cells/linear mm. Their morphology indicates that they include Golgi and Lugaro cell types with the majority containing both glycine and GABA or glutamic acid decarboxylase. These data are consistent with the proposal that, as in the rat cerebellum, these granular cell layer interneurons corelease glycine and GABA in the primate cerebellum. The patterns of labeling for glycine and GABA within Golgi and Lugaro cells also indicate that there are biochemical sub-types which are morphologically similar. Further, we find that glycine, GABA and glutamic acid decarboxylase identified candelabrum cells adjacent to the Purkinje cells which is the first time that this interneuron has been reported in primate cerebellar cortex. We propose that candelabrum cells, like the majority of Golgi and Lugaro cells, release both glycine and GABA.
In patients suffering from cerebrovascular diseases and traumatic brain damage, increases in serum levels of protein S100B are positively correlated with the severity of the insult. Since high concentrations of S100B have been shown to exert neurotoxic effects, the objective of this study was to characterize the regulatory mechanisms underlying control of S100B release from astrocytes. To that end, we analyzed the kinetics and amount of S100B release in correlation with regulation of S100B gene expression in an in vitro ischemia model. Astrocyte cultures were treated with combined oxygen, serum and glucose deprivation, serum and glucose deprivation or hypoxia alone for 6, 12 and 24 h, respectively. While oxygen, serum and glucose deprivation triggered the most rapid release of S100B, serum and glucose deprivation provoked comparable levels of released S100B at the later time points. In contrast to oxygen, serum and glucose deprivation and serum and glucose deprivation, hypoxia alone elicited only marginal increases in secreted S100B. Parallel analysis of extracellular lactate dehydrogenase and the number of viable cells revealed only moderate cell death in the cultures, indicating that S100B was actively secreted during in vitro ischemia. Interestingly, S100B mRNA expression was potently downregulated after 12 and 24 h of oxygen, serum and glucose deprivation, and prolonged oxygen, serum and glucose deprivation for 48 h was associated with a significant reduction of S100B release at later time intervals, whereas lactate dehydrogenase levels remained constant. Our data suggest that secretion of S100B during the glial response to metabolic injury is an early and active process.
Cell culture experiments indicated that activation of the retinoic acid signaling system is involved in axonal regeneration. This hypothesis was tested with sciatic nerve injury in the rat. Since the effect of retinoic acid is mediated via retinoic acid receptors and retinoid X receptors, we investigated mRNA and protein expression of these receptors during injury-induced degeneration and regeneration. Seven days after crush injury, transcript concentrations of all retinoic acid receptors and of retinoid X receptor alpha were significantly higher than in non-lesioned nerves. Protein levels of retinoic acid receptor alpha, retinoic acid receptor beta and retinoid X receptor alpha were upregulated 4, 7 and 14 days after injury. In degenerating nerves a significant increase of retinoic acid receptor alpha was detected 7 and 14 days, and of retinoic acid receptor beta 14 and 21 days after complete transection. Immunohistochemical staining of retinoid receptors revealed their expression in Schwann cells and macrophages. In addition, we observed that retinoic acid receptor alpha and retinoid X receptor alpha appeared in the cell nuclei of macrophages during the lesion-induced inflammatory reaction, and that retinoid X receptor alpha-staining co-localized with some regenerating axons. Experiments with Schwann cell primary cultures revealed an effect of retinoic acid on the expression of the neuregulin receptor ErbB3, suggesting that one function of retinoic acid consists in the regulation of neuroglial interactions after peripheral nerve injury.
The avian optic tectum has become a reliable model system to study the basic mechanisms that underlie the computation of visual stimuli. Many aspects of its cytoarchitecture, chemoarchitecture, connectivity and development are thoroughly characterized. However, knowledge about its monoaminergic innervation is still incomplete. As a prerequisite to understand a possible functional role of the monoaminergic neurotransmitters, the serotonergic, noradrenergic, and dopaminergic innervation of the optic tectum as well as the distribution of serotonin 2A receptors, the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein DARPP-32 and calbindin D-28K was studied in domestic chicks by immunohistochemical techniques. Serotonergic, noradrenergic, and tyrosine hydroxylase positive axons and axon terminals were present in all layers of the optic tectum. Generally, the highest densities of serotonergic, noradrenergic, and tyrosine hydroxylase positive fibers were found in the superficial tectal layers 1-8, whereas only moderate densities of serotonergic, noradrenergic, and tyrosine hydroxylase positive fibers became obvious in the deep tectal layers 9-15. Serotonergic fibers were particularly abundant in layers 4, 5a and 7 and serotonin 2A receptors in layer 13. Noradrenergic fibers were densest in layers 4 and 5a, whereas tyrosine hydroxylase positive fibers showed a slightly different distribution pattern with additional dense labeling in layer 7. As revealed by double-labeling immunohistochemistry, serotonergic fibers were closely related to the cell bodies of calbindin-positive horizontal cells in layer 5b and tyrosine hydroxylase positive fibers often contacted DARPP-32+ dendritic shafts in layers 9 and 10. These findings indicate that the catecholaminergic innervation of the optic tectum consists of a noradrenergic and a dopaminergic component and that the noradrenergic, serotonergic, and dopaminergic system may be potentially involved in the modulation of retinal input in the superficial layers of the optic tectum as well as in the modulation of tectal output via the deep tectal layers.
Preganglionic neurones in the lumbosacral spinal cord give rise to nerves providing the parasympathetic and sympathetic innervation of pelvic organs. These neurones are modulated by neurotransmitters released both from descending supra-spinal pathways and spinal interneurones. Though serotonin has been identified as exerting a significant influence on these neurones, few studies have investigated the circuitry through which it achieves this particularly in relation to sympathetic preganglionic neurones. Using a combination of neuronal tracing and multiple immunolabeling procedures, the current study has shown that pelvic preganglionic neurones receive a sparse, and probably non-synaptic, axosomatic/proximal dendritic input from serotonin-immunoreactive terminals. This was in marked contrast to dopamine beta hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminals, which made multiple contacts. However, the demonstration of both serotonin, and dopamine beta hydroxylase immunoreactive terminals on both parasympathetic and sympathetic preganglionic neurones provides evidence for direct modulation of these cells by both serotonin and norepinephrine. Serotonin-containing terminals displaying conventional synaptic morphology were often seen to contact unlabeled somata and dendritic processes in regions surrounding the labeled preganglionic cells. It is possible that these unlabeled structures represent interneurones that might allow the serotonin containing axons to exert an indirect influence on pelvic preganglionic neurones. Since many spinal interneurones employ GABA as a primary fast acting neurotransmitter we examined the relationship between terminals that were immunoreactive for serotonin or GABA and labeled pelvic preganglionic neurones. These studies were unable to demonstrate any direct connections between serotonin and GABA terminals within the intermediolateral or sacral parasympathetic nuclei. Colocalization of serotonin and GABA was very rare but terminals immunoreactive for each were occasionally seen to contact the same unlabeled processes in close proximity. These results suggest that in the rat, the serotonin modulation of pelvic preganglionic neurones may primarily involve indirect connections via local interneurones.
Estrogen is neuroprotective against ischemia in both in vivo and in vitro injury models. Because of the promising preclinical data on neuroprotection, the Women's Estrogen for Stroke Trial was initiated. The outcomes from this trial were, however, unsuccessful and questions emerged about the safety of chronic estrogen treatment in women. In contrast to the chronic estrogen treatment strategy, the present study aims to investigate: (1) the neuroprotective efficacy of single estrogen pretreatment/preconditioning; and (2) the existence of a similarity between estrogen- and ischemic preconditioning-induced neuroprotection against cerebral ischemia. The efficacy of estrogen was tested in an in vitro model of cerebral ischemia using hippocampal organotypic slice culture system. The hippocampal organotypic slice cultures were generated from female neonatal (9-11 days old) Sprague-Dawley rats. The slices were exposed to estradiol-17beta (0.5, 1, 5 nM) for various durations (1, 2 or 4 h) 48 h prior to ischemia (40 min of oxygen-glucose deprivation). For ischemic preconditioning, slices were exposed to sublethal oxygen-glucose deprivation (15 min), 48 h prior to lethal oxygen-glucose deprivation. Quantification of cell death in hippocampal CA1 region was conducted by using propidium iodide fluorescence staining technique. Results demonstrated that estrogen preconditioning significantly protects the hippocampal CA1 region against ischemia (P&lt;0.001) and mimicked ischemic preconditioning-induced neuroprotection. The propidium iodide fluorescence values of estrogen preconditioning, ischemic preconditioning and ischemia groups were 21+/-2 (mean+/-S.E.M.) (1 nM; 2 h; n=15), 18+/-2 (5 nM; 4 h; n=12), 32+/-3 (n=8), 65+/-3 (n=27), respectively. Further, estrogen preconditioning initiated a calcium-mediated signaling pathway leading to protection of CA1 neurons against ischemia. Future investigations in estrogen preconditioning may suggest new estrogen regimens that avoid potential side effects of chronic estrogen treatment for stroke patients.
Activation of the adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) at the time of reperfusion has been shown to reduce ischemia-reperfusion injury in peripheral tissues and spinal cord. In this study we show that treating mice with the A(2A)R agonist, 4-{3-[6-amino-9-(5-cyclopropylcarbamoyl-3,4-dihydroxy-tetrahydro-furan-2-yl)-9H-purin-2-yl]-prop-2-ynyl}-piperidine-1-carboxylic acid methyl ester for four days beginning before or just after the onset of reperfusion after compression-induced spinal cord injury rapidly (within 1 day) and persistently (&gt;42 days) reduces locomotor dysfunction and spinal cord demyelination. Protection is abolished in knockout/wild type bone marrow chimera mice selectively lacking the A(2A)R only on bone marrow-derived cells but retaining receptors on other tissues including blood vessels. Paradoxically, reduced spinal cord injury is also noted in A(2A)R -/- mice, and in wild type/knockout bone marrow chimera mice selectively lacking the A(2A)R on non-bone marrow-derived cells, or in mice treated with the A(2A) antagonist, 4-(2-[7-amino-2-[2-furyl][1,2,4]triazolo[2,3-a][1,3,5]triazin-5-yl-amino]ethyl)phenol. The greatest protection is seen in knockout/wild type bone marrow chimera mice treated with 4-{3-[6-amino-9-(5-cyclopropylcarbamoyl-3,4-dihydroxy-tetrahydro-furan-2-yl)-9H-purin-2-yl]-prop-2-ynyl}-piperidine-1-carboxylic acid methyl ester, i.e. by activating the A(2A)R in mice expressing the receptor only in bone marrow-derived cells. The data suggest that inflammatory bone marrow-derived cells are the primary targets of A(2A) agonist-mediated protection. We conclude that A(2A) agonists or other interventions that inhibit inflammation during and after spinal cord ischemia may be effective in reducing spinal cord injury in patients, but excessive or prolonged stimulation of the A(2A)R may be counterproductive. It may be possible to devise strategies to produce optimal spinal cord protection by exploiting temporal differences in A(2A)R-mediated responses.
Dopamine neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens plays a pivotal role in the reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse. Two interacting processes regulate nucleus accumbens dopamine overflow: release of dopamine from presynaptic terminals and the subsequent reuptake by dopamine transporters. Opioid neurotransmission, primarily through mu-opioid receptors has also been strongly implicated in drug reward. We have previously shown that mice lacking the mu-opioid receptor display decreased cocaine self-administration. In addition, we found decreased impulse activity of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and an increased GABAergic input to these neurons in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice. In the present study we investigated whether these changes in dopaminergic cell bodies are accompanied by altered dopamine dynamics at the terminal level. To that aim, we measured nucleus accumbens dopamine overflow using fast scan cyclic voltammetry. Our data demonstrate that in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice 1) the reuptake of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens is slower, and 2) the relative effect of cocaine and amphetamine on the reuptake of dopamine is smaller compared with wild type mice. These data provide a mechanism for the decreased reinforcing properties of cocaine observed in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice.
Most of the inflammatory effects of the cytokine interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) are mediated by induction of cyclooxygenase (COX)2 and the subsequent synthesis and release of prostaglandin E2. This transcription-dependent process takes 45-60 min, but IL-1beta, a well-characterized endogenous pyrogen also exerts faster neuronal actions in the preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus. Here, we have studied the fast (1-3 min) signaling by IL-1beta using whole-cell patch clamp recordings in preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus neurons. Exposure to IL-1beta (0.1-1 nM) hyperpolarized a subset ( approximately 20%) of preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus neurons, decreased their input resistance and reduced their firing rate. These effects were associated with an increased frequency of bicuculline-sensitive spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents and putative miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents, strongly suggesting a presynaptic mechanism of action. These effects require the type 1 interleukin 1 receptor (IL-1R1), and the adapter protein myeloid differentiation primary response protein (MyD88), since they were not observed in cultures obtained from IL-1R1 (-/-) or from MyD88 (-/-) mice. Ceramide, a second messenger of the IL-1R1-dependent fast signaling cascade, is produced by IL-1R1-MyD88-mediated activation of the neutral sphingomyelinase. C2-ceramide, its cell penetrating analog, also increased the frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents in a subset of cells. Both IL-1beta and ceramide reduced the delayed rectifier and the A-type K(+) currents in preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus neurons. The latter effect may account in part for the increased spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current frequency as suggested by experiments with the A-type K(+) channel blockers 4-aminopyridine. Taken together our data suggest that IL-1beta inhibits the activity of preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus neurons by increasing the presynaptic release of GABA.
In the present study the neuroprotective effects of agmatine against neuronal damage caused by glucocorticoids were examined in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Spectrophotometric measurements of lactate dehydrogenase activities, beta-tubulin III immunocytochemical staining, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate (dUTP) nick-end-labeling assay (TUNEL) labeling and caspase-3 assays were carried out to detect cell damage or possible involved mechanisms. Our results show that dexamethasone and corticosterone produced a concentration-dependent increase of lactate dehydrogenase release in 12-day hippocampal cultures. Addition of 100 microM agmatine into media prevented the glucocorticoid-induced increase of lactate dehydrogenase release, an effect also shared with the specific N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK801 and glucocorticoid receptor antagonists mifepristone and spironolactone. Arcaine, an analog of agmatine with similar structure as agmatine, also blocked glucocorticoid-induced increase of lactate dehydrogenase release. Spermine and putrescine, the endogenous polyamine and metabolic products of agmatine without the guanidino moiety of agmatine, have no appreciable effect on glucocorticoid-induced injuries, indicating a structural relevance for this neuroprotection. Immunocytochemical staining with beta-tubulin III confirmed the substantial neuronal injuries caused by glucocorticoids and the neuroprotective effects of agmatine against these neuronal injuries. TUNEL labeling demonstrated that agmatine significantly reduced TUNEL-positive cell numbers induced by exposure of cultured neurons to dexamethasone. Moreover, exposure of hippocampal neurons to dexamethasone significantly increased caspase-3 activity, which was inhibited by co-treatment with agmatine. Taken together, these results demonstrate that agmatine can protect cultured hippocampal neurons from glucocorticoid-induced neurotoxicity, through a possible blockade of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels or a potential anti-apoptotic property.
Many complex systems display self-organized critical states characterized by 1/f frequency scaling of power spectra. Global variables such as the electroencephalogram, scale as 1/f, which could be the sign of self-organized critical states in neuronal activity. By analyzing simultaneous recordings of global and neuronal activities, we confirm the 1/f scaling of global variables for selected frequency bands, but show that neuronal activity is not consistent with critical states. We propose a model of 1/f scaling which does not rely on critical states, and which is testable experimentally.
We observed robust coupling between the high- and low-frequency bands of ongoing electrical activity in the human brain. In particular, the phase of the low-frequency theta (4 to 8 hertz) rhythm modulates power in the high gamma (80 to 150 hertz) band of the electrocorticogram, with stronger modulation occurring at higher theta amplitudes. Furthermore, different behavioral tasks evoke distinct patterns of theta/high gamma coupling across the cortex. The results indicate that transient coupling between low- and high-frequency brain rhythms coordinates activity in distributed cortical areas, providing a mechanism for effective communication during cognitive processing in humans.
Alterations of molecules that mediate dopaminergic signal transduction have been found in schizophrenia, supporting the hypothesis of altered dopaminergic neurotransmission in this illness. To further explore this hypothesis, the authors measured transcript expression of three proteins involved in dopamine (DA) signaling in postmortem dorsolateral prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex of elderly schizophrenic subjects and a comparison group. The transcript encoding calcyon, a protein that potentiates crosstalk between D1 DA receptors and Gq/11-linked receptors, was increased in schizophrenic prefrontal and cingulate cortex by 25%. Transcript levels of spinophilin, a protein enriched in dendritic spines that modulates excitatory neurotransmission, were increased 22% in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex but were unchanged in anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia. Levels of DARPP-32 mRNA, a downstream effector of dopaminergic neurotransmission, were similar in both groups for both cortical groups. These alterations in spinophilin and calcyon mRNA levels in schizophrenic prefrontal and cingulate cortex provide further evidence of altered dopaminergic neurotransmission in this illness.


Induction of a focal freeze lesion to the skullcap of a 1-day-old rat pup leads to the formation of microgyria similar to those identified postmortem in human dyslexics. Rats with microgyria exhibit rapid auditory processing deficits similar to those seen in language-impaired (LI) children, and infants at risk for LI and these effects are particularly marked in juvenile as compared to adult subjects. In the current study, a startle response paradigm was used to investigate gap detection in juvenile and adult rats that received bilateral freezing lesions or sham surgery on postnatal day (P) 1, 3 or 5. Microgyria were confirmed in P1 and 3 lesion rats, but not in the P5 lesion group. We found a significant reduction in brain weight and neocortical volume in P1 and 3 lesioned brains relative to shams. Juvenile (P27-39) behavioral data indicated significant rapid auditory processing deficits in all three lesion groups as compared to sham subjects, while adult (P60+) data revealed a persistent disparity only between P1-lesioned rats and shams. Combined results suggest that generalized pathology affecting neocortical development is responsible for the presence of rapid auditory processing deficits, rather than factors specific to the formation of microgyria per se. Finally, results show that the window for the induction of rapid auditory processing deficits through disruption of neurodevelopment appears to extend beyond the endpoint for cortical neuronal migration, although, the persistent deficits exhibited by P1 lesion subjects suggest a secondary neurodevelopmental window at the time of cortical neuromigration representing a peak period of vulnerability.
The effects of selective dopamine (DA) depleting lesions with 6-hydroxydopamine microinjection into the SN, CPu, and NAS, as well as radiofrequency lesions of the CPu on the performance characteristics of rats trained on a single-valued 20-s peak-interval (PI) timing procedure or a double-valued 10-s and 60-s PI procedure were evaluated. A double dissociation in the performance of duration discriminations was found. Rats with CPu lesions were unable to exhibit temporal control of their behavior suggesting complete insensitivity to signal duration but were able to show discrimination of the relative reward value of a signal by differentially modifying their response rates appropriately. In contrast, rats with NAS lesions were able to exhibit temporal control of their behavior by differentially modifying their response rates as a function of signal duration(s), suggesting no impairment of sensitivity to signal duration, but were unable to show discrimination of the relative reward value of a signal.
The biosynthesis of norepinephrine occurs through a multi-enzymatic pathway that includes the enzyme dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH). Mice with a homozygous deletion of DBH (Dbh-/-) have a selective and complete absence of norepinephrine. The purpose of this study was to assess the expression of alpha-1, alpha-2 and beta adrenergic receptors (alpha1-AR, alpha2-AR and beta-AR) in the postnatal absence of norepinephrine by comparing noradrenergic receptors in Dbh-/- mice with those in Dbh heterozygotes (Dbh+/-), which have normal levels of norepinephrine throughout life. The densities of alpha1-AR, alpha2-AR and beta-AR were assayed with [3H]prazosin, [3H]RX21002 and [125I]-iodo-pindolol autoradiography, respectively. The alpha2-AR agonist high affinity state was examined with [125I]-para-iodoclonidine autoradiography and alpha2-AR functionality by alpha2-AR agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS autoradiography. The density of alpha1-AR in Dbh-/- mice was similar to Dbh+/- mice in most brain regions, with an up-regulation in the hippocampus. Modest decreases in alpha2-AR were found in septum, hippocampus and amygdala, but these were not reflected in alpha2-AR functionality. The density of beta-AR was up-regulated to varying degrees in many brain regions of Dbh-/- mice compared to the heterozygotes. These findings indicate that regulation of noradrenergic receptors by endogenous norepinephrine depends on receptor type and neuroanatomical region.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons projecting to the ventral striatum code for reward magnitude and probability during reward anticipation and then indicate the difference between actual and predicted outcome. It has been questioned whether such a common system for the prediction and evaluation of reward exists in humans. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging and a guessing task in two large cohorts, we are able to confirm ventral striatal responses coding both reward probability and magnitude during anticipation, permitting the local computation of expected value (EV). However, the ventral striatum only represented the gain-related part of EV (EV+). At reward delivery, the same area shows a reward probability and magnitude-dependent prediction error signal, best modeled as the difference between actual outcome and EV+. In contrast, loss-related expected value (EV-) and the associated prediction error was represented in the amygdala. Thus, the ventral striatum and the amygdala distinctively process the value of a prediction and subsequently compute a prediction error for gains and losses, respectively. Therefore, a homeostatic balance of both systems might be important for generating adequate expectations under uncertainty. Prevalence of either part might render expectations more positive or negative, which could contribute to the pathophysiology of mood disorders like major depression.
The actions of the neuropoietic cytokines are mediated by the gp130 receptor, which activates several signaling molecules including the transcription factor STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription), which, in turn, is subject to feedback inhibition by SOCS3 (suppressor of cytokine signaling). Activation of the gp130 receptor has been implicated in axonal growth particularly during regeneration, but the specific contribution of STAT3 is the subject of conflicting reports. Measurements of SOCS3 mRNA in rat dorsal root ganglia showed a significant induction in this inhibitory molecule after peripheral nerve injury. The functions of STAT3 and SOCS3 in adult rat primary sensory neurons were investigated in vitro through transduction of lentiviruses yielding a conditionally activated STAT3, native SOCS3, or a mutant SOCS3 with dominant-negative actions. The SOCS3 construct was effective in inhibiting tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 in a neuroblastoma cell line and in blocking nuclear accumulation of endogenous STAT3 or of the conditionally activated STAT3 chimera in primary sensory neurons. In such neurons, transduction and activation of STAT3 enhanced neurite growth, transduction with SOCS3 reduced neurite outgrowth, and transduction with mutant SOCS3 enhanced neurite growth, at least under basal conditions. In conclusion, STAT3 signaling is beneficial to axonal growth through activating transcription of unidentified genes, and SOCS3 is detrimental to axonal growth through inhibition of STAT3 and/or other transcription factors.
In fear extinction, an animal learns that a conditioned stimulus (CS) no longer predicts a noxious stimulus [unconditioned stimulus (UCS)] to which it had previously been associated, leading to inhibition of the conditioned response (CR). Extinction creates a new CS-noUCS memory trace, competing with the initial fear (CS-UCS) memory. Recall of extinction memory and, hence, CR inhibition at later CS encounters is facilitated by contextual stimuli present during extinction training. In line with theoretical predictions derived from animal studies, we show that, after extinction, a CS-evoked engagement of human ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) and hippocampus is context dependent, being expressed in an extinction, but not a conditioning, context. Likewise, a positive correlation between VMPFC and hippocampal activity is extinction context dependent. Thus, a VMPFC-hippocampal network provides for context-dependent recall of human extinction memory, consistent with a view that hippocampus confers context dependence on VMPFC.
Vanilloid receptor type 1 (TRPV1) is a ligand-gated nonselective cation channel that is considered to be an important integrator of various pain stimuli such as endogenous lipids, capsaicin, heat, and low pH. In addition to expression in primary afferents, TRPV1 is also expressed in the CNS. To test the hypothesis that the CNS plays a differential role in the effect of TRPV1 antagonists in various types of pain, the analgesic effects of two TRPV1 antagonists with similar in vitro potency but different CNS penetration were compared in vivo. Oral administration of either A-784168 (1-[3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl]-N-[4-(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)phenyl]-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-4-carboxamide) (good CNS penetration) or A-795614 (N-1H-indazol-4-yl-N'-[(1R)-5-piperidin-1-yl-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yl]urea) (poor CNS penetration) blocked capsaicin-induced acute pain with the same potency. In complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced chronic inflammatory pain, oral administration of either compound blocked thermal hyperalgesia with similar potency. Furthermore, intraplantar or intrathecal administration of A-784168 blocked CFA-induced thermal hyperalgesia, suggesting that both peripheral and CNS TRPV1 receptors may play a role in inflammatory thermal hyperalgesia. The effects of the two TRPV1 antagonists were further assessed in models presumably mediated by central sensitization, including CFA- and capsaicin-induced mechanical allodynia and osteoarthritic pain. In these models, the potency of the two compounds was similar after intrathecal administration. However, when administered orally, A-784168, with good CNS penetration, was much more potent than A-795614. Together, these results demonstrate that TRPV1 receptors in the CNS play an important role in pain mediated by central sensitization. In addition, these results demonstrate that significant CNS penetration is necessary for a TRPV1 antagonist to produce broad-spectrum analgesia.
We investigated the neural dynamics of sensorimotor transformations in the parietal reach region (PRR) of monkeys. To dissociate sensory from motor goal representations, we used a memory-guided anti-reach task. The monkeys had to reach either to a visually instructed, memorized peripheral target position (pro-reach) or to a diametrically opposed position (anti) while keeping central ocular fixation. Pro- and anti-reaches were randomly interleaved and indicated by a color instruction from the beginning of each trial. We analyzed spatiotemporal single-cell tuning and performed time-resolved population decoding to quantify the dynamic representation of the spatial visual cue, the reach goal, and the currently valid task rule (pro/anti mapping). Sensory information regarding the visual cue position was represented weakly during a short period of cue visibility. PRR predominantly encoded the reach goal from the end of the cue period on. The representation of the reach goal in the memory task evolves later for the anti- compared with pro-reaches, consistent with a 40-50 ms difference in reaction time between the two task rules. The task rule could be decoded before the appearance of the spatial cue, which indicates that abstract rule information is present in PRR that is independent of spatial cue or motor goal representations. Our findings support the hypothesis that PRR immediately translates current sensory information into reach movement plans, rather than storing the memorized cue location in the instructed-delay task. This finding indicates that PRR represents integrated knowledge on spatial sensory information combined with abstract behavioral rules to encode the desired movement goal.
How learning and memory is controlled at the neural circuit level is a fundamental question in neuroscience. However, molecular and cellular dissection of the neural circuits underlying learning and memory is extremely complicated in higher animals. Here, we report a simple neural circuit for learning behavior in Caenorhabditis elegans, where the calcium-activated phosphatase, calcineurin, acts as an essential modulator. The calcineurin mutant tax-6 showed defective feeding state-dependent learning behavior for temperature and salt. Surprisingly, defective associative learning between temperature and feeding state was caused by malfunctions of two pairs of directly connected interneurons, AIZ and RIA, in the mature nervous system. Monitoring temperature-evoked Ca2+ concentration changes in the AIZ-RIA neural pathway revealed that starvation, a conditioning factor, downregulated AIZ activity through calcineurin during associative learning between temperature and feeding state. Our results demonstrate the molecular and physiological mechanisms of a simple neural circuit for calcineurin-mediated associative learning behavior.
Sympathetic stimulation inhibits insulin secretion. alpha(2)-Adrenergic receptor is known to have a regulatory role in the sympathetic function. We investigated the changes in the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors in the brain stem and pancreatic islets using [(3)H]Yohimbine during pancreatic regeneration in weanling rats. Brain stem and pancreatic islets of experimental rats showed a significant decrease (p&lt;0.001) in norepinephrine (NE) content at 72 h after partial pancreatectomy. The epinephrine (EPI) content showed a significant decrease (p&lt;0.001) in pancreatic islets while it was not detected in brain stem at 72 h after partial pancreatectomy. Scatchard analysis of [(3)H]Yohimbine showed a significant decrease (p&lt;0.05) in B(max) and K(d) at 72 h after partial pancreatectomy in the brain stem. In the pancreatic islets, Scatchard analysis of [(3)H]Yohimbine showed a significant decrease (p&lt;0.001) in B(max) and K(d) (p&lt;0.05) at 72 h after partial pancreatectomy. The binding parameters reversed to near sham by 7 days after pancreatectomy both in brain stem and pancreatic islets. This shows that pancreatic insulin secretion is influenced by central nervous system inputs from the brain stem. In vitro studies with yohimbine showed that the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors are inhibitory to islet DNA synthesis and insulin secretion. Thus our results suggest that decreased alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors during pancreatic regeneration functionally regulate insulin secretion and pancreatic beta-cell proliferation in weanling rats.

Cisplatin is the most effective cytotoxic agent against many cancers. Its usage, however, is limited due to inefficient uptake by the target cells. A liposomal formulation of cisplatin is reported to partly overcome this limitation. Physicochemical characteristics of the liposome-cisplatin preparation, including its size, stability, encapsulation efficiency, and cytoplasmic internalization efficiency, play a significant role in an effective usage of liposomal formulations. We have used atomic force microscopy (AFM) to determine physicochemical characteristics of cisplatin-encapsulated liposomes, AFM and fluorescence microscopy to examine their cytoplasmic internalization, and Live/Dead assay to examine their cell toxicity. Nonencapsulated cisplatin is globular and 10-50 nm in size. AFM force-dissection and stiffness measurements show that cisplatin-encapsulated liposomes are significantly stiffer ( approximately 100%) and more stable than liposomes without encapsulated cisplatin. Cisplatin-encapsulated liposomes of approximately 250 nm diameter (nanoliposomes) are most efficiently internalized and induce cell toxicity in a time-dependent manner. Liposomes without cisplatin of similar dimensions, although internalized in the cell cytoplasm, do not induce cell toxicity.
The authors evaluated the caregiver time for 70 patients with ALS. The mean number of caregivers per patient was 2.0 (SD 1.3). Caregiver time increased with worsening of disability (p = 0.0001). The most time-consuming duties were housekeeping, feeding, and toileting. With worsening of patients' disability, families relied increasingly on paid caregivers. Caregiver time is a hidden cost of ALS care and is a major burden for caregivers.
In this study, the authors document the characteristics of South Asian (SA) cerebrovascular patients. A retrospective medical record review comparing SA (n = 99) and European-American (n = 106) patients was performed. SA patients were younger and had a greater prevalence of diabetes, but lower prevalences of hyperlipidemia and tobacco use. SA patients experienced a 75% lower risk of cardiogenic infarctions, but a threefold increased risk of intracranial atherothrombosis. Risk factor modifications and secondary prevention strategies may differ for SA patients.





Recent studies suggest that the toxicity of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mutant Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) arises from its selective recruitment to mitochondria. Here we demonstrate that each of 12 different familial ALS-mutant SOD1s with widely differing biophysical properties are associated with mitochondria of motoneuronal cells to a much greater extent than wild-type SOD1, and that this effect may depend on the oxidation of Cys residues. We demonstrate further that mutant SOD1 proteins associated with the mitochondria tend to form cross-linked oligomers and that their presence causes a shift in the redox state of these organelles and results in impairment of respiratory complexes. The observation that such a diverse set of mutant SOD1 proteins behave so similarly in mitochondria of motoneuronal cells and so differently from wild-type SOD1 suggests that this behavior may explain the toxicity of ALS-mutant SOD1 proteins, which causes motor neurons to die.
One of the most consistent behavioral changes that occurs with age in humans is the loss of sleep consolidation. This can be quite disruptive and yet little is known about its underlying basis. To better understand the effects of aging on sleep:wake cycles, we sought to study this problem in Drosophila melanogaster, a powerful system for research on aging and behavior. By assaying flies of different ages as well as monitoring individual flies constantly over the course of their lifetime, we found that the strength of sleep:wake cycles decreased and that sleep became more fragmented with age in Drosophila. These changes in sleep:wake cycles became faster or slower with manipulations of ambient temperature that decreased or increased lifespan, respectively, demonstrating that they are a function of physiological rather than chronological age. The effect of temperature on lifespan was not mediated by changes in overall activity level or sleep amount. Flies treated with the oxidative stress-producing reagent paraquat showed a breakdown of sleep:wake cycles similar to that seen with aging, leading us to propose that the accumulation of oxidative damage with age contributes to the changes in rhythm and sleep. Together, these findings establish Drosophila as a valuable model for studying age-associated sleep fragmentation and breakdown of rhythm strength, and indicate that these changes in sleep:wake cycles are an integral part of the physiological aging process.
Recent fMRI studies have identified brain systems underlying different components of working memory in healthy individuals. The aim of this study was to compare the functional integrity of these neural networks in terms of behavioural performance in patients with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder and healthy controls. In order to detect specific working memory deficits based on dysfunctions of underlying brain circuits we used the same verbal and visuospatial Sternberg item-recognition tasks as in previous neuroimaging studies. Clinical and performance data from matched groups consisting of 14 subjects each were statistically analyzed. Schizophrenic patients exhibited pronounced impairments of both verbal and visuospatial working memory, whereas verbal working memory performance was preserved in schizoaffective patients. The findings provide first evidence that dysfunction of a brain system subserving articulatory rehearsal could represent a biological marker which differentiates between schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder.
The neuropeptide galanin is widely expressed in limbic nuclei in the brain, and plays an important role in the regulation of homeostatic and affective behaviors, in part through its modulation of central monoamine pathways. Recent evidence suggests that galanin and its receptors may be involved in the efficacy of various modalities of antidepressant treatments. We have previously demonstrated that systemically active, non-peptide galanin receptor type-1/2 agonists exhibit antidepressant-like effects in the rat forced swim test. Here we evaluate a novel galanin receptor type-3 (GalR3) antagonist in preclinical tests of anxiety and depression. At multiple doses, the compound displayed no effects in the elevated plus maze in mice. By contrast, the compound decreased time spent immobile in the tail suspension test by mice. Additionally, the GalR3 drug decreased time spent immobile in the forced swim test in rats, similarly to the effects of desipramine, yet did not increase locomotor activity in an open field test. These combined data from two species indicate that GalR3 receptor antagonists may exhibit antidepressant-like effects.
We investigated whether changing the frame rate at which speech video clips were presented (6-30 frames per second, fps) would affect audiovisual temporal perception. Participants made unspeeded temporal order judgments (TOJs) regarding which signal (auditory or visual) was presented first for video clips presented at a range of different stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs) using the method of constant stimuli. Temporal discrimination accuracy was unaffected by changes in frame rate, while lower frame rate speech video clips required larger visual-speech leads for the point of subjective simultaneity (PSS) to be achieved than did higher frame rate video clips. The significant effect of frame rate on temporal perception demonstrated here has not been controlled for in previous studies of audiovisual synchrony perception using video stimuli and is potentially important given the rapid increase in the use of audiovisual videos in cognitive neuroscience research in recent years.
SNAP-25 is a synaptosomal protein of 25 kDa, a key component of synaptic vesicle-docking/fusion machinery, and plays a critical role in exocytosis and neurotransmitter release. We previously reported that SNAP-25 in the hippocampal CA1 region is involved in consolidation of contextual fear memory and water-maze spatial memory (Hou et al. European J Neuroscience, 20: 1593-1603, 2004). SNAP-25 is expressed not only in the CA1 region, but also in the CA3 region, and the SNAP-25 mRNA level in the CA3 region is higher than in the CA1 region. Here, we provide evidence that SNAP-25 in the CA3 region is also involved in learning/memory. Intra-CA3 infusion of SNAP-25 antisense oligonucleotide impaired both long-term contextual fear memory and water-maze spatial memory, with short-term memory intact. Furthermore, the SNAP-25 antisense oligonucleotide suppressed the long-term potentiation (LTP) of field excitatory post-synaptic potential (fEPSP) in the mossy-fiber pathway (DG-CA3 pathway), with no effect on paired-pulse facilitation of the fEPSP. These results are consistent with the notion that SNAP-25 in the hippocampal CA3 region is required for long-term memory formation.

We have investigated the motor changes in rats subjected to a moderate photochemical injury on mid-thoracic (T8) or high lumbar (L2) spinal cord segments. Fourteen days after surgery, L2 injured animals presented gross locomotor deficits (scored 10+/-2.8 in the BBB scale), decreased amplitude of motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) recorded on tibialis anterior (TA) and plantar (PL) muscles (24% and 6% of the preoperative mean values, respectively), reduced M wave amplitudes (75%, 62%), and also facilitated monosynaptic reflexes evidenced by an increase of the H/M amplitude ratio (158% and 563%). On the other hand, T8 injured animals had only slight deficits in locomotion (18+/-0.6 in the BBB scale), a minimal reduction in MEP amplitudes (78% and 71% in TA and PL muscles), normal M wave amplitudes, and a milder increase of the H/M ratio in the TA muscle (191%) but less pronounced in the PL muscle (172%). The percentage of spared tissue at the site of injury was similar in both experimental groups (L2: 79% and T8: 82%). Taken together, these results indicate that lumbar spinal injuries have more severe consequences on hindlimb motor output than injuries exerted on thoracic segments. The causes of this anatomical difference may be attributed to damage inflicted on the central pattern generator of locomotion resulting in dysfunction of lumbar motoneurons and altered spinal reflexes modulation.
The effects of a potent inhibitor of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), BW813U, on timing behavior in mature (6-10 months) and aged (26-30 months) male rats were assessed. Twenty rats were trained on a discrete trial 20-s peak-interval (PI) procedure. During baseline (non-drug) training, the time of the maximum response rate (peak time) for mature rats was approximately at the time of scheduled reinforcement, but peak time for aged rats was reliably later. A single administration of BW813U (100 mg/kg, ip) produced a long-lasting increase in peak time for both mature and aged rats that occurred gradually and was synergistic with age. These horizontal shifts in peak time indicate a change in the content of reference memory for the remembered time of reinforcement that is similar for both aging processes and BW813U administration. When a 5-s gap was imposed in the signal, PI-GAP procedure, control rats of both ages summed the signal durations before and after the gap, whereas rats given BW813U showed no retention of the signal duration prior to the gap. This loss of trial-specific temporal information suggests a drug-induced working memory dysfunction. Taken together, these results demonstrate that both working and reference memory for temporal information are sensitive to choline acetyltransferase inhibition in rats.
Behavioral and pharmacological challenges using methamphetamine (MAP-0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), haloperidol (HAL-0.12 mg/kg, i.p.), and sulfated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) were used to evaluate the effects of excitotoxic lesions of cholinergic cell bodies in the medial septal area and the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, radiofrequency lesions of the fimbria-fornix, and aspiration lesions of the frontal cortex on interval timing in rats trained on a 40-s peak-interval procedure. Results demonstrated that lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and frontal cortex selectively reduced the modulatory control of clock speed which is likely mediated by dopamine D(2) receptors located on cortico-striatal neurons.
Duration selectivity of auditory neurons plays an important role in sound recognition. Previous studies show that GABA-mediated duration selectivity of neurons in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (IC) of many animal species behave as band-, short-, long- and all-pass filters to sound duration. The present study examines the organization of duration selectivity of IC neurons of the big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, in relation to graded spatial distribution of GABA(A) receptors, which are mostly distributed in the dorsomedial region of the IC but are sparsely distributed in the ventrolateral region. Duration selectivity of IC neuron is studied before and during iontophoretic application of GABA and its antagonist, bicuculline. Bicuculline application decreases and GABA application increases duration selectivity of IC neurons. Bicuculline application produces more pronounced broadening of the duration tuning curves of neurons at upper IC than at deeper IC but the opposite is observed during GABA application. The best duration of IC neurons progressively lengthens and duration selectivity decreases with recording depth both before and during drug application. As such, low best frequency neurons at upper IC have shorter best duration and sharper duration selectivity than high best frequency neurons in the deeper IC have. These data suggest that duration selectivity of IC neurons systematically varies with GABA(A) receptor distribution gradient within the IC.
RGS2, one of the small members of the regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) family, is highly expressed in brain and regulates G(i/o) as well as G(q)-coupled receptor pathways. RGS2 modulates anxiety, aggression, and blood pressure in mice, suggesting that RGS2 regulates synaptic circuits underlying animal physiology and behavior. How RGS2 in brain influences synaptic activity is unknown. We therefore analyzed the synaptic function of RGS2 in hippocampal neurons by comparing electrophysiological recordings from RGS2 knockout and wild-type mice. Our study provides a general mechanism of the action of the RGS family containing RGS2 by demonstrating that RGS2 increases synaptic vesicle release by downregulating the G(i/o)-mediated presynaptic Ca(2+) channel inhibition and therefore provides an explanation of how regulation of RGS2 expression can modulate the function of neuronal circuits underlying behavior.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) containing tau are a hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). NFT burden correlates with cognitive decline and neurodegeneration in AD. However, little is known about mechanisms that protect against tau-induced neurodegeneration. We used a cross species functional genomic approach to analyze gene expression in multiple brain regions in mouse, in parallel with validation in Drosophila, to identify tau modifiers, including the highly conserved protein puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase (PSA/Npepps). PSA protected against tau-induced neurodegeneration in vivo, whereas PSA loss of function exacerbated neurodegeneration. We further show that human PSA directly proteolyzes tau in vitro. These data highlight the utility of using both evolutionarily distant species for genetic screening and functional assessment to identify modifiers of neurodegeneration. Further investigation is warranted in defining the role of PSA and other genes identified here as potential therapeutic targets in tauopathy.
The brain contains more than 100 billion neurons that communicate with each other via axons for the formation of complex neural networks. The structural mapping of such networks during health and disease states is essential for understanding brain function. However, our understanding of brain structural connectivity is surprisingly limited, due in part to the lack of noninvasive methodologies to study axonal anatomy. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a recently developed MRI technique that can measure macroscopic axonal organization in nervous system tissues. In this article, the principles of DTI methodologies are explained, and several applications introduced, including visualization of axonal tracts in myelin and axonal injuries as well as human brain and mouse embryonic development. The strengths and limitations of DTI and key areas for future research and development are also discussed.
Monte Carlo (MC) simulations are often at the heart of the testing procedure in biomedical optics. One of the critical points in MC simulations is to define the new photon direction after each scattering event. One of the most popular solutions is to use the Henyey-Greenstein phase function or some linear combinations of it. In this note, we demonstrate that randomly generating the angle defining the new direction of a photon after a collision, by means of the Henyey-Greenstein phase function, is not equivalent to generating the cosine of this angle, as is classically done. In practice, it is demonstrated that for a nearly isotropic medium (asymmetry parameter g approximately 0) this discrepancy is not large, however for an anisotropic medium as is typically found in vivo (e.g. g = 0.98) the two methods give completely different results.
In order to maintain a coherent, unified percept of the external environment, the brain must continuously combine information encoded by our different sensory systems. Contemporary models suggest that multisensory integration produces a weighted average of sensory estimates, where the contribution of each system to the ultimate multisensory percept is governed by the relative reliability of the information it provides (maximum-likelihood estimation). In the present study, we investigate interactions between auditory and visual rate perception, where observers are required to make judgments in one modality while ignoring conflicting rate information presented in the other. We show a gradual transition between partial cue integration and complete cue segregation with increasing inter-modal discrepancy that is inconsistent with mandatory implementation of maximum-likelihood estimation. To explain these findings, we implement a simple Bayesian model of integration that is also able to predict observer performance with novel stimuli. The model assumes that the brain takes into account prior knowledge about the correspondence between auditory and visual rate signals, when determining the degree of integration to implement. This provides a strategy for balancing the benefits accrued by integrating sensory estimates arising from a common source, against the costs of conflating information relating to independent objects or events.
The release of glutamate from astrocytes activates synchronous slow inward currents (SICs) in hippocampal pyramidal neurons, which are mediated by the NMDA receptor and represent a nonsynaptic mechanism to promote the synchronization of neuronal activity. Two recent studies demonstrate that SICs generate neuronal paroxysmal depolarizations resembling those typical of interictal epileptiform activity and proposed that there could be an astrocytic basis of epilepsy (Kang et al., 2005; Tian et al., 2005). We tested this hypothesis using two in vitro models of epileptiform activity in hippocampal slices. Removal of extracellular Mg2+ and application of picrotoxin or perfusion with 0.5 mM Mg2+ and 8.5 mM K+-containing saline result mainly in neuronal ictal- and interictal-like epileptiform activity, respectively. Although both models trigger epileptiform activity, astrocytic Ca2+ oscillations were increased only after slice perfusion with 0 mM Mg2+ and picrotoxin. The activation of astrocytic Ca2+ signaling correlates with an increased frequency of SICs, and, when paired neurons were within 100 microm of one another with synchronous neuronal Ca2+ elevations, the generation of synchronous neuronal depolarizations and action potential discharges. TTX blocked both ictal- and interictal-like epileptiform activity without affecting SICs or SIC-mediated neuronal synchronization. In contrast, NMDA receptor antagonists, which block SICs, did not prevent the generation of either ictal- or interictal-like events. Based on this clear-cut pharmacology, our data demonstrate that nonsynaptic glutamate release from astrocytes is not necessary for the generation of epileptiform activity in vitro, although we cannot exclude the possibility that it may modulate the strength of the ictal (seizure)-like event.
Rats achieve remarkable texture discriminations by sweeping their facial whiskers along surfaces. This work explores how neurons at two levels of the sensory pathway, trigeminal ganglion and barrel cortex, carry information about such stimuli. We identified two biologically plausible coding mechanisms, spike counts and patterns, and used &quot;mutual information&quot; to quantify how reliably neurons in anesthetized rats reported texture when &quot;decoded&quot; according to these candidate mechanisms. For discriminations between surfaces of different coarseness, spike counts could be decoded reliably and rapidly (within 30 ms after stimulus onset in cortex). Information increased as responses were considered as spike patterns with progressively finer temporal precision. At highest temporal resolution (spike sequences across six bins of 4 ms), the quantity of &quot;information&quot; in patterns rose 150% for ganglion neurons and 110% for cortical neurons above that in spike counts. In some cases, patterns permitted discriminations not supported by spike counts alone.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), a 41 amino acid peptide, mediates endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stress. Whereas the CRF1 receptor appears to contribute to anxiety associated with stress, the role of the CRF2 receptor remains unclear and may depend on drug dose, brain location, or testing environment. Results involving treatments with selective CRF2 receptor agonists or antagonists and the behavior of CRF2 receptor knock-out mice suggest both anxiogenic and anxiolytic effects of CRF2 receptor activation. The present study tested the hypothesis that the effect of CRF2 receptor activation on anxiety depends on the stress level of the animal. The selective CRF2 receptor agonist urocortin 2 was infused into the lateral septum of mice under low- or high-stress (30 min of immobilization) testing conditions, and then behavior in the light-dark box, open-field, and novel-object tests was assessed. In the low-stress environment, 240 pmol of septal urocortin 2 increased anxiety, but lower doses (0.48, 4.8, and 48 pmol) did not have consistent effects. However, in the high-stress condition, 48 pmol of septal urocortin 2 significantly increased anxiety compared with control in wild-type but not CRF2 receptor knock-out mice in the light-dark box. Septal administration of the relatively selective CRF2 antagonist astressin-2B, but not the CRF1-selective antagonist antalarmin, blocked the anxiogenic effects of urocortin 2. Urocortin 2 infusion into the medial septum or lateral ventricle did not affect anxiety measures. These results indicate that the effect of septal CRF2 receptor activation on anxiety is dependent on stress level.


The KiSS-1 gene encodes kisspeptin, the endogenous ligand of the G-protein-coupled receptor GPR54. Recent data indicate that the KiSS-1/GPR54 system is critical for the regulation of reproduction and is required for puberty onset. In seasonal breeders, reproduction is tightly controlled by photoperiod (i.e., day length). The Syrian hamster is a seasonal model in which reproductive activity is promoted by long summer days (LD) and inhibited by short winter days (SD). Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we show that KiSS-1 is expressed in the arcuate nucleus of LD hamsters. Importantly, the KiSS-1 mRNA level was lower in SD animals but not in SD-refractory animals, which spontaneously reactivated their sexual activity after several months in SD. These changes of expression are not secondary to the photoperiodic variations of gonadal steroids. In contrast, melatonin appears to be necessary for these seasonal changes because pineal-gland ablation prevented the SD-induced downregulation of KiSS-1 expression. Remarkably, a chronic administration of kisspeptin-10 restored the testicular activity of SD hamsters despite persisting photoinhibitory conditions. Overall, these findings are consistent with a role of KiSS-1/GPR54 in the seasonal control of reproduction. We propose that photoperiod, via melatonin, modulates KiSS-1 signaling to drive the reproductive axis.
The proboscis is an important head appendage in insects that has primarily been thought to process gustatory information during food intake. Indeed, in Drosophila and other insects in which they have been identified, most gustatory receptors are expressed in proboscis neurons. Our previous characterization of the expression of AgOR7, a highly conserved odorant receptor (OR) of the Afrotropical malaria vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae in the labellum at the tip of the proboscis was suggestive of a potential olfactory function in this mosquito appendage. To test this hypothesis, we used electrophysiological recording and neuronal tracing, and carried out a molecular characterization of candidate OR expression in the labellum of A. gambiae. These studies have uncovered a set of labial olfactory responses to a small spectrum of human-related odorants, such as isovaleric acid, butylamine, and several ketones and oxocarboxylic acids. Molecular analyses indicated that at least 24 conventional OR genes are expressed throughout the proboscis. Furthermore, to more fully examine AgOR expression within this tissue, we characterized the AgOR profile within a single labial olfactory sensillum. This study provides compelling data to support the hypothesis that a cryptic set of olfactory neurons that respond to a small set of odorants are present in the mouth parts of hematophagous mosquitoes. This result is consistent with an important role for the labellum in the close-range discrimination of bloodmeal hosts that directly impacts the ability of A. gambiae to transmit malaria and other diseases.
The aquaporin-4 (AQP4) pool in the perivascular astrocyte membranes has been shown to be critically involved in the formation and dissolution of brain edema. Cerebral edema is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in stroke. It is therefore essential to know whether the perivascular pool of AQP4 is up- or down-regulated after an ischemic insult, because such changes would determine the time course of edema formation. Here we demonstrate by quantitative immunogold cytochemistry that the ischemic striatum and neocortex show distinct patterns of AQP4 expression in the reperfusion phase after 90 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion. The striatal core displays a loss of perivascular AQP4 at 24 hr of reperfusion with no sign of subsequent recovery. The most affected part of the cortex also exhibits loss of perivascular AQP4. This loss is of magnitude similar to that of the striatal core, but it shows a partial recovery toward 72 hr of reperfusion. By freeze fracture we show that the loss of perivascular AQP4 is associated with the disappearance of the square lattices of particles that normally are distinct features of the perivascular astrocyte membrane. The cortical border zone differs from the central part of the ischemic lesion by showing no loss of perivascular AQP4 at 24 hr of reperfusion but rather a slight increase. These data indicate that the size of the AQP4 pool that controls the exchange of fluid between brain and blood during edema formation and dissolution is subject to large and region-specific changes in the reperfusion phase.
This 3-week-long series of collaborative laboratory exercises explores how to use a cultured cell system (PC12 cells) to study signaling pathways involved in cellular differentiation. The laboratory would be useful in a neurobiology or cell biology course for advanced undergraduate students. The background and details for performing the lab are provided along with suggestions for assessing student performance and understanding.

Synaptotagmin acts as the Ca(2+) sensor for neuronal exocytosis. The cytosolic domain of human synaptotagmin 1 is composed of tandem C2 domains: C2A and C2B. These C2 domains modulate the interaction of synaptotagmin with the phospholipid bilayer of the presynaptic terminus and effector proteins such as the SNARE complex. Human synaptotagmin C2A-C2B has been expressed as a glutathione-S-transferase fusion protein in Escherichia coli. The purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of this protein are reported here. The crystals diffract to 2.7 A and belong to the orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 82.37, b = 86.31, c = 140.2 A. From self-rotation function analysis, there are two molecules in the asymmetric unit. The structure determination of the protein using this data is ongoing.
Intracranial enterogenous cyst is an uncommon entity. We report a case of enterogenous cyst of the posterior fossa situated posterolateral to the brain stem and extending into the left CP angle cistern. Patient had spontaneous regression and recurrence of the cyst. Clinical features and radiological findings are described. Near total excision of the cyst was carried out through the retro mastoid route. Patient made a good postoperative recovery.


In 1906, Golgi and Ramn y Cajal shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine &quot;in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system&quot;. However, it was an unusual occasion in the history of Nobel Prize award because their views on the structure of the nervous system were not only different but even opposite, creating the &quot;storm center of histological controversy&quot;. Furthermore, the new staining method Cajal had employed to study the nervous system was developed by Golgi, creating an irony of discovery. In 1873, Golgi revolutionized the histological study of the nervous system by developing a new staining method, &quot;la reazione nera&quot; or black reaction, which allowed good visualization of axons, dendrites and glia. But because his stain was so selective, staining only about 3 percent of neurons, he was unable to see clearly how the neuronal processes ended as they approached other neurons. Consequently, he embraced the popular belief that neuronal processes physically fuse with each other--the &quot;reticular theory&quot;. On the other hand, Cajal was incidentally introduced to the Golgi stain 14 years after its discovery and immediately realized its beauty. He found that better results could be produced by staining more intensely and cutting thicker sections. He further observed that the Golgi stain worked best on non-myelinated axons. The search for brains containing non-myelinated axons led him to study birds and very young mammals, including embryos. Cajal obtained fascinating results by modifying the Golgi stain and by studying avian and young mammalian brains. From those studies, Cajal was able to infer that axons and dendrites ended freely and did not physically anastomose. Therefore, he strongly advocated the &quot;neuron theory&quot;. Golgi seemed to be too headstrong and too conservative to relinquish his belief that neurons constitute a network which reacts as a whole. On the other hand, Cajal's hard work using the Golgi stain led to new understanding on the structure and function of the nervous system, and earned him &quot;the founder of modern neuroscience&quot;. This centennial occasion may be further impressed by Cajal's comment on the shared Nobel Prize that &quot;what a cruel irony of fate of pair, like Siamese twins united by the shoulders, scientific adversaries of such contrasting character!&quot;.






Several decades after Michotte's work was published, it continues to inspire current research in perception, cognition, and beyond. In this special issue we pay tribute to this heritage with a collection of empirical and theoretical papers on amodal completion and the perception of causality, two areas of research within which Michotte's work and ideas have had a lasting influence. As a background to better understand the remaining papers, we briefly sketch Michotte's life and work and the scope (in breadth and in depth) of his impact. We then review Michotte's seminal contributions to the areas covered in this special issue, some of the major research discoveries and themes in the intervening decades, and the major open questions and challenges we are still facing. We also include a sneak preview of the papers in this special issue, noting how they relate to Michotte's work and to each other. This review shows both how much influence Michotte has had on contemporary perception and cognition research, and how much important work remains to be done. We hope that the papers in this special issue will serve both to celebrate Michotte's heritage in this respect, and to inspire other investigators to continue the projects he began.
The purpose of this study was to examine the association of smoking and nicotine dependence with psychiatric morbidity, controlling for the potential confounding effect of smoking on the relationship between the use of other substances and psychiatric morbidity. A sample of 290 adults were interviewed at a primary health centre (patients, 58%; patients' relatives, 34%; staff, 8%) to inquire about their tobacco, caffeine, alcohol, and illegal drug consumption. Psychiatric morbidity, defined by a score &gt;6 on the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-28), showed a strong direct association with nicotine dependence. The use of illegal drugs, but not of alcohol, was also strongly associated with psychiatric morbidity, after controlling for smoking. Both smoking and high nicotine dependence were also associated with use of caffeine, alcohol, cannabis and cocaine. High nicotine dependence may be considered as an expression of individual psychopathologic vulnerability. Tobacco may have a central facilitating role in the use of caffeine, alcohol, and illegal drug.
Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) and -non-preferring (sNP) rats are one of the pairs of rat lines selectively bred for high and low alcohol preference and consumption, respectively, under the homecage, continuous two-bottle choice regimen. sP rats meet most of the fundamental criteria for an animal model of alcoholism, in that they voluntarily consume sufficient amounts of alcohol to achieve significant blood alcohol levels and produce psychopharmacological effects, including anxiolysis and motor stimulation. sP rats are also willing to 'work' (such as lever-pressing) for alcohol. Chronic alcohol drinking in sP rats results in the development of tolerance to a given effect of alcohol (specifically, motor incoordination) and relapse-like drinking (the alcohol deprivation effect). Conversely, sNP rats avoid alcohol virtually completely; their avoidance for alcohol being resistant even to an environmental manipulation such as long-term exposure to alcohol plus sucrose. sP and sNP rats have been characterized for different phenotypes, possibly associated to their different alcohol preference and consumption. In comparison with sNP rats, alcohol-naive sP rats displayed (1) more anxiety-related behaviors; (2) higher initial sensitivity to the locomotor stimulating and sedative/hypnotic effects of alcohol; and (3) lower sensitivity to the aversive effects of alcohol. The present paper reviews the data collected to date on alcohol drinking behavior and other alcohol-related behaviors in sP and sNP rats. The behavioral profile of sP rats is also compared with that of other lines of selectively bred alcohol-preferring rats and the heterogeneity resulting from this comparison is discussed in terms of different animal models for the different forms of alcoholism.
Since 1996, nearly 100 genes have been studied for their effects related to ethanol in mice using genetic modifications including gene deletion, gene overexpression, gene knock-in, and occasionally by studying existing mutants. Nearly all such studies have concentrated on genes expressed in brain, and the targeted genes range widely in their function, including most of the principal neurotransmitter systems, several neurohormones, and a number of signaling molecules. We review 141 published reports of effects (or lack thereof) of 93 genes on responses to ethanol. While most studies have focused on ethanol self-administration and reward, and/or sedative effects, other responses studied include locomotor stimulation, anxiolytic effects, and neuroadaptation (tolerance, sensitization, withdrawal). About 1/4 of the engineered mutations increase self-administration, 1/3 decrease it, and about 40% have no significant effect. In many cases, the effects on self-administration are rather modest and/or depend on the specific experimental procedures. In some cases, genes in the background strains on which the mutant is placed are important for results. Not surprisingly, review of the systems affected further supports roles for serotonin, gamma-aminobutyric acid, opioids and dopamine, all of which have long been foci of alcohol research. Novel modulatory effects of protein kinase C and G protein-activated inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels are also suggested. Some newer research with cannabinoid systems is promising, and has led to ongoing clinical trials.

Vascular dementia (VaD), incorporating cognitive dysfunction with vascular disease, ranks as the second leading cause of dementia in the United States, yet no effective treatment is currently available. The challenge of defining the pathological substrates of VaD is complicated by the heterogeneous nature of cerebrovascular disease and coexistence of other pathologies, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) types of lesion. The use of rodent models of ischemic stroke may help to elucidate the type of lesions that are responsible for cognitive impairment in humans. Endovascular middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion in rats is considered to be a convenient and reliable model of human cerebral ischemia. Both sensorimotor and cognitive dysfunction can be induced in the rat endovascular MCA occlusion model, yet sensorimotor deficits induced by endovascular MCA occlusion may improve with time, whereas data presented in this review suggest that in rats this model can result in a progressive course of cognitive impairment that is consistent with the clinical progression of VaD. Thus far, experimental studies using this model have demonstrated a direct interaction of cerebral ischemic damage and AD-type neuropathologies in the primary ischemic area. Further, coincident to the progressive decline of cognitive function, a delayed neurodegeneration in a remote area, distal to the primary ischemic area, the hippocampus, has been demonstrated in a rat endovascular MCA occlusion model. We argue that this model could be employed to study VaD and provide insight into some of the pathophysiological mechanisms of VaD.
In part due to their genetic uniformity and stable characteristics, inbred rodents or their F1 progeny are frequently used to study brain aging. However, it is recognized that focus on a single genotype could lead to generalizations about brain aging that might not apply to the species as a whole, or to the human population. As a potential alternative to uniform genotypes, genetically heterogeneous (HET) mice, produced by a four-way cross, were tested in the current study to determine if they exhibit age-related declines in cognitive and psychomotor function similar to other rodent models of brain aging. Young (4months) and older (23months) CB6F1C3D2F1 mice were administered a variety of tests for cognitive, psychomotor, and sensory/reflexive capacities. Spontaneous locomotion, rearing, and ability to turn in an alley all decreased with age, as did behavioral measures sensitive to muscle strength, balance, and motor coordination. Although no effect of age was found for either startle response amplitude or reaction time to shock stimuli, the old mice reacted with less force to low intensity auditory stimuli. When tested on a spatial swim maze task, the old mice learned less efficiently, exhibited poorer retention after a 66-h delay, and demonstrated greater difficulty learning a new spatial location. In addition, the older mice were less able to learn the platform location when it was identified by a local visual cue. Because there was a significant correlation between spatial and cued discrimination performance in the old mice, it is possible that age-related spatial maze learning deficits could involve visual or motor impairments. Variation among individuals increased with age for most tests of psychomotor function, as well as for spatial swim performance, suggesting that four-way cross mice may be appropriate models of individualized brain aging. However, the analysis of spatial maze learning deficits in older CB6F1C3D2F1 mice may have limited applicability in the study of brain aging, because of a confounding with visually cued performance deficits.
Two tests often used in aging research, the elevated path test and the Morris water maze test, were examined for their application to the study of brain aging in a large sample of C57BL/6JNia mice. Specifically, these studies assessed: (1) sensitivity to age and the degree of interrelatedness among different behavioral measures derived from these tests, (2) the effect of age on variation in the measurements, and (3) the reliability of individual differences in performance on the tests. Both tests detected age-related deficits in group performance that occurred independently of each other. However, analysis of data obtained on the Morris water maze test revealed three relatively independent components of cognitive performance. Performance in initial acquisition of spatial learning in the Morris maze was not highly correlated with performance during reversal learning (when mice were required to learn a new spatial location), whereas performance in both of those phases was independent of spatial performance assessed during a single probe trial administered at the end of acquisition training. Moreover, impaired performance during initial acquisition could be detected at an earlier age than impairments in reversal learning. There were modest but significant age-related increases in the variance of both elevated path test scores and in several measures of learning in the Morris maze test. Analysis of test scores of mice across repeated testing sessions confirmed reliability of the measurements obtained for cognitive and psychomotor function. Power calculations confirmed that there are sufficiently large age-related differences in elevated path test performance, relative to within age variability, to render this test useful for studies into the ability of an intervention to prevent or reverse age-related deficits in psychomotor performance. Power calculations indicated a need for larger sample sizes for detection of intervention effects on cognitive components of the Morris water maze test, at least when implemented at the ages tested in this study. Variability among old mice in both tests, including each of the various independent measures in the Morris maze, may be useful for elucidating the biological bases of different aspects of dysfunctional brain aging.
Inserting a guiding catheter into a tortuous artery for neurointerventional procedures can be difficult. In our technique, the carotid artery is manually compressed to stabilize and/or straighten the inserted wire before advancing the guiding catheter. Although this technique is not risk-free and care must be taken to avoid vascular injury by excessive compression, it is useful for the insertion of a guiding catheter into the carotid artery.


Alcohol exposure largely affects 3 populations: fetuses, adolescents, and adults. These 3 developmental stages are inextricably intertwined such that elevated alcohol exposure at any time increases the probability of exposure at the others. This circular interdependency is called the alcoholism generator. Furthermore, exposure to large amounts of alcohol at these 3 times can cause cognitive dysfunction, largely through mechanisms of alcohol-induced perturbations in neurogenesis and synaptogenesis. Breaking this cycle is key to reducing problem alcohol drinking and the associated sequelae.
While Dale's principle of &quot;one neuron, one neurotransmitter&quot; has undergone revisions to incorporate evidence of the corelease of atypical neurotransmitters such as neuropeptides, the corelease of classical neurotransmitters has only recently been realized. Surprisingly, numerous studies now indicate that the corelease of neurotransmitters in the mammalian central nervous system is not an obscure and rare phenomenon but is widespread and involves most classical neurotransmitters systems. However, the suggestion that glutamate can be coreleased with dopamine (DA) has remained controversial. Furthermore, glutamate-DA cotransmission has not yet been seriously considered in the context of the neurocircuitry of addiction. If glutamate is in fact coreleased with DA as some evidence now suggests, this may have significant implications for advancing our understanding of the interactive role that these 2 neurotransmitters play in cognitive and reward processes. In this commentary, we review the evidence for and against glutamate as a cotransmitter and discuss the potential role of glutamate-DA corelease in addiction. In particular, we describe a recently proposed model in which coreleased glutamate transmits a temporally precise prediction error signal of reward described by Schultz et al., whereas the function of coreleased DA is to exert prolonged modulatory influences on neuronal activity. In addition, we suggest that as alcohol consumption transitions from recreational use to addiction, there is a corresponding transition in the reward valence signal from better than predicted to worse than predicted.


Youth violence is widely recognized as a major public health problem. Adolescent suicidality (ideation, behavior, or both) is disturbingly common in the United States, and homicide remains one of the leading causes of death for young people aged 10 to 24 years. Assessing youth suicidality and homicidality in the emergency department (ED) is a complex and challenging task. Evidence about the value of available ED risk assessments is not encouraging. Attempts to develop models that predict violence have in part been unsuccessful from the fact that ideation is common and the value of depression is hard to determine. The current study presents an empirically based assessment (adolescent and child urgent threat evaluation) and algorithm (violence ideation and suicidality treatment algorithm) evaluating the impact of ideation and nonideation states on attempt among clinical samples, such as serotonin reuptake inhibitor akathisia and acute adjustment disorders. The authors suggest important time-related factors and easy-to-administer procedures when assessing near-future youth violence. A validated suicide-homicide final common pathway model is discussed.
Oxidative stress could be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, a major psychiatric disorder. Glutathione (GSH), a redox regulator, is decreased in patients' cerebrospinal fluid and prefrontal cortex. The gene of the key GSH-synthesizing enzyme, glutamate cysteine ligase modifier (GCLM) subunit, is strongly associated with schizophrenia in two case-control studies and in one family study. GCLM gene expression is decreased in patients' fibroblasts. Thus, GSH metabolism dysfunction is proposed as one of the vulnerability factors for schizophrenia.
The transient receptor potential (TRP) channels are important membrane sensors, responding to thermal, chemical, osmotic, or mechanical stimuli by activation of calcium and sodium fluxes. In this study, three distinct TRP channels were detected and their role established in mediating cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](cyt)) response in tumor-derived SW982 synoviocytes and primary cultures of human synovial cells from patients with inflammatory arthropathies. As shown by fura-2 ratio measurements while cells were incubated in a temperature-regulated chamber, significant [Ca(2+)](cyt) elevation was elicited by rapid changes in bath temperature, application of TRPV1 receptor agonists capsaicin and resiniferatoxin, or a cold receptor stimulator, icilin. Temperature thresholds for calcium response were determined to be 12 +/- 1 degrees C for cold and 28 +/- 2 degrees C for heat activation. Temperature increases or decreases beyond these thresholds resulted in a significant rise in the magnitude of [Ca(2+)](cyt) spikes. Observed changes in [Ca(2+)](cyt) were completely abolished in calcium-free medium and thus resulted from direct calcium entry through TRP channels rather then by activation of voltage-dependent calcium channels. Two heat sensitive channels, TRPV1 and TRPV4, and a cold-sensitive channel, TRPA1, were detected by RT-PCR. Minimal mRNA for TRPV3 or TRPM8 was amplified. The RT-PCR results support the data obtained with the [Ca(2+)](cyt) measurements. We propose that the TRP channels are functionally expressed in human synoviocytes and may play a critical role in adaptive or pathological changes in articular surfaces during arthritic inflammation.
Food restriction paradigms are widely used in animal studies to investigate systems involved in energy regulation. We have observed behavioral, physiological, and molecular differences in response to food restriction in three inbred mouse strains, C57BL/6J, A/J, and DBA/2J. These are the progenitors of chromosome substitution and recombinant inbred mouse strains used for mapping complex traits. DBA/2J and A/J mice increased their locomotor activity during food restriction, and both displayed a decrease in body temperature, but the decrease was significantly larger in DBA/2J compared with A/J mice. C57BL/6J mice did not increase their locomotor activity and displayed a large decrease in their body temperature. The large decline in body temperature during food restriction in DBA/2J and C57BL/6J strains was associated with a robust reduction in plasma leptin levels. DBA/2J mice showed a marked decrease in white and brown adipose tissue masses and an upregulation of the antithermogenic hypothalamic neuropeptide Y Y(1) receptor. In contrast, A/J mice showed a reduction in body temperature to a lesser extent that may be explained by downregulation of the thermogenic melanocortin 3 receptor and by behavioral thermoregulation as a consequence of their increased locomotor activity. These data indicate that genetic background is an important parameter in controlling an animal's adaptation strategy in response to food restriction. Therefore, mouse genetic mapping populations based on these progenitor lines are highly valuable for investigating mechanisms underlying strain-dependent differences in behavioral physiology that are seen during reduced food availability.
This study determined the effect of destruction of rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM)-C1 cells on integrated sympathetic and hormonal responses to hypotension or glucoprivation. Injection of anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase-saporin into the RVLM resulted in 29-99% depletion of RVLM-C1 neurons and approximately 60% reduction in the number of A5 neurons. As in our previous study in unanesthetized rats, resting mean arterial pressure (MAP) was reduced by approximately 10 mmHg in rats with &gt;80% depletion of RVLM-C1 cells compared with control rats, although resting heart rate (HR) did not differ significantly. In the present study, resting plasma levels of norepinephrine (NE) did not differ significantly between control rats and rats with &gt;80% depletion of RVLM-C1 cells, although there was a tendency for RVLM-C1 lesioned rats to have lower levels. Also consistent with our previous study, hydralazine (HDZ)-evoked hypotension resulted in smaller increases in HR and plasma levels of NE in rats with &gt;80% depletion of RVLM-C1 cells compared with control rats. Furthermore, the elevated plasma levels of posterior pituitary hormones vasopressin and oxytocin evoked by HDZ were blunted in RVLM-C1 lesioned rats compared with control rats, even though MAP fell to lower levels in the lesioned rats. Plasma renin activity, plasma osmolality, and plasma protein concentrations did not differ between control rats and rats with &gt;80% depletion of RVLM-C1 neurons. In response to systemic administration of 2-deoxyglucose, the circulating level of epinephrine and the resulting hyperglycemia were attenuated in rats with &gt;80% depletion of RVLM-C1 cells compared with control rats. These results demonstrate that RVLM-C1 cells, in addition to playing a role in acute cardiovascular reflexes, play an important role in integrated sympathetic and hormonal responses to homeostatic challenges such as hypotension and glucoprivation.
There is growing evidence that the postnatal environment can have a major impact on the development of obesity and insulin resistance in offspring. We postulated that cross-fostering obesity-prone offspring to lean, obesity-resistant dams would ameliorate their development of obesity and insulin resistance, while fostering lean offspring to genetically obese dams would lead them to develop obesity and insulin resistance as adults. We found that obesity-prone pups cross-fostered to obesity-resistant dams remained obese but did improve their insulin sensitivity as adults. In contrast, obesity-resistant pups cross-fostered to genetically obese dams showed a diet-induced increase in adiposity, reduced insulin sensitivity, and associated changes in hypothalamic neuropeptide, insulin, and leptin receptors, which might have contributed to their metabolic defects. There was a selective increase in insulin levels and differences in fatty acid composition of obese dam milk which might have contributed to the increased adiposity, insulin resistance, and hypothalamic changes in obesity-resistant cross-fostered offspring. These results demonstrate that postnatal factors can overcome both genetic predisposition and prenatal factors in determining the development of adiposity, insulin sensitivity, and the brain pathways that mediate these functions.



We report here that chlorpromazine, a first generation antipsychotic drug, inhibits anionic amino acid transport mediated by system X(-) (AG) (EAAT transporters) in cultured human fibroblasts. With 30 microM chlorpromazine, transport inhibition is detectable after 3 h of treatment, maximal after 48 h (&gt;60%), and referable to a decrease in V(max). Chlorpromazine effect is not dependent upon changes of membrane potential and is selective for system X(-) (AG) since transport systems A and y(+) are not affected. Among antipsychotic drugs, the inhibitory effect of chlorpromazine is shared by two dibenzodiazepines, clozapine and olanzapine, while other compounds, such as risperidon, zuclopentixol, sertindol and haloperidol, are not effective. Transport inhibition by clozapine and olanzapine, but not by chlorpromazine, is reversible, suggesting that the mechanisms involved are distinct. These results indicate that a subset of antipsychotic drugs inhibits EAAT transporters in non-nervous tissues and prompt further investigation on possible alterations of glutamate transport in peripheral tissues of schizophrenic patients.
Management during the diagnostic phase of MND is considered an important influence on the patient's further disease course. Guidelines for the management of MND have been developed, but little is known on how recommended practices influence patients' experience of a new diagnosis of MND. We undertook an interview-based study exploring issues surrounding the diagnosis of MND in a sample of consecutive patients recently diagnosed at a neurosciences centre. Data were analysed with Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA). Thirteen patients were recruited to the study. The major themes identified in descending order were 'Family/carers', 'Communication of the diagnosis', 'Reaction to the diagnosis', 'Physical difficulties', 'Time before diagnosis', 'Information', 'Future', 'Coping with the diagnosis' and 'Formal support'. Communication was perceived satisfactory if handled according to existing guidelines. Physical difficulties impacted considerably on patients' lives. Delays in the diagnostic process appeared in various interviews. Five patients were avoiding information following the diagnosis. Some patients commented on an increasing number of uncoordinated services becoming involved after their diagnosis. This study supports the current international guidelines for MND care around diagnosis from the patients' perspective and underlines the importance of a multi-disciplinary, coordinated approach for patients with MND from diagnosis onwards.
We conducted a randomised study in 70 patients to assess the effect of orientation of a standard polyvinyl chloride tracheal tube on the ease of railroading the tube during awake fiberoptic orotracheal intubation. Conventional orientation of the tube (with the bevel of the tube directed to the patient's left) was compared with orientation of the tube with the bevel facing posteriorly. The success rate of intubation at the first attempt was higher with the bevel oriented posteriorly (35/35; 100%) than with the conventional orientation (21/35; 60%; p = 0.0001), and the intubating time was shorter (median (range) 7 (5-11) s and 11 (5-60) s, respectively; p = 0.0001). We recommend that the tracheal tube should be aligned in this manner when railroading it over the fibrescope during awake fibreoptic orotracheal intubation.
Previous studies have shown that connexin (Cx) expression is considerably higher in the preglomerular compared to postglomerular vasculature and that these differences are accentuated during diabetes. Since nitric oxide (NO) has been reported to alter Cx expression in endothelial cells and muscle cells and NO bioavailability is altered in diabetes, we hypothesized that NO may be responsible for the changes during diabetes. Cx expression was studied using immunohistochemistry in mice in which eNOS expression was either upregulated (eNOS transgenic) or downregulated (eNOS knockout). Diabetes was induced intraperitoneally with a single dose of alloxan or multiple low doses of streptozotocin. Expression of Cx40 in smooth muscle cells of afferent arterioles was increased, while expression of Cx43 in endothelial cells of efferent arterioles was absent in eNOS transgenic mice, similar to the changes occurring in wild-type mice during diabetes. Expression of Cx40 and Cx43 in eNOS knockout mice was not different from control; however, induction of diabetes in eNOS knockout mice failed to produce any changes in Cx40 or Cx43 in either afferent or efferent arterioles. Immunohistochemistry showed that eNOS expression was increased in the endothelium of renal arterioles in wild-type diabetic and eNOS transgenic mice, but absent from arterioles of eNOS knockout mice. We conclude that changes occurring in Cx expression in afferent and efferent arterioles during diabetes may result from increased eNOS.
To understand which layer of the intrinsic muscles of the foot the adductor hallucis muscle belongs to, it is essential to investigate the innervation patterns of this muscle. In the present study, we examined the innervation patterns of the adductor hallucis muscles in 17 feet of 15 Japanese cadavers. We investigated the intramuscular nerve supplies of the adductor hallucis muscles in six feet and performed nerve fiber analysis in three feet. The results indicate that: (i) the oblique head of the adductor hallucis muscle is divided into three compartments (i.e. lateral, dorsal and medial parts) or two compartments (i.e. dorsal and medial parts) based on its intramuscular nerve supplies, but we could not classify the transverse head into any parts; (ii) the communicating twig between the lateral and medial plantar nerves penetrated the oblique head of the adductor hallucis muscle in 13 of 17 feet (76.5%); (iii) the penetrating twig entered between the lateral and dorsal parts of the oblique head, passed between the lateral and medial parts of this muscle and then connected with the medial plantar nerve; and (iv) the majority of the nerve fibers of the penetrating twig derived from the lateral plantar nerve. The present study demonstrated that only the lateral part of the oblique head of the adductor hallucis muscle had a unique innervating pattern different from other parts of this muscle, suggesting that the lateral part of the oblique head has a different origin from other parts of this muscle.
Daunting obstacles to the development of careers in academic medicine represent the most important threat to the future of academic neurology. The Long Range Planning Committee of the American Neurological Association has for the past 2 years considered what practical methods might be undertaken to enhance the attractiveness of careers as neurologist investigators and to ensure that aspiring clinician-scientists are encouraged and retained. The deliberations have resulted in several recommendations. First, a plan has been developed to introduce flexibility during residency training in neurology. This will permit trainees who plan careers in academic medicine to have a substantial exposure to research during residency, shortening the subsequent transition to independent careers. Second, the American Neurological Association will create an annual course in clinical neuroscience research, to be held each summer for academically oriented residents. Improved mentoring and career guidance was identified as a third priority, addressed in part by the development of several new courses for trainees and mentors. Finally, planning is under way for a new postresidency training program in clinical research that will link small and large departments of neurology. Beyond these recommendations, the entire continuum of training for physician-scientists should be reexamined, from the first days of college to the successful launch as independent investigators. The development of additional demonstration projects to improve the quality and reduce the total length of training would be highly desirable.


The Nematode Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) is an established model increasingly used for studying human disease pathogenesis. C. elegans models are based on the mutagenesis of human disease genes conserved in this Nematode or on the transgenesis with disease genes not conserved in C. elegans. Genetic examinations will give new insights on the cellular and molecular mechanisms that are altered in some neurodegenerative diseases like Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's disease. C. elegans may be used for primary screening of new compounds that may be used as drugs in these diseases.
Neuroinflammatory (demyelinating) disease is a rare but feared complication of treatment with anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF)alpha in patients with polyarthritis. In this study, blood and cerebrospinal fluid markers of inflammation were analysed in 10 people with polyarthritis before and during treatment with infliximab. An increased systemic expression of interferon (IFN)gamma was detected. Systemic administration of IFNgamma is known to exacerbate multiple sclerosis. However, the present study failed to detect signs of inflammation in the cerebrospinal fluid samples-that is, pleocytosis, oligoclonal immunoglobulin G bands, increased expression of IFNgamma, TNFalpha or interleukin 10, or increased levels of nitric oxide oxidation products. Our initial hypothesis, that the few cases of clinical neuroinflammatory disorders observed during treatment of polyarthritis with anti-TNFalpha represent the extreme end of a commonly occurring minor intrathecal immune activation, which in most cases does not give any overt neurological dysfunction, was not supported. Induction of systemic IFNgamma production may still be relevant in neuroinflammation associated with treatment with anti-TNFalpha.
While the apoptotic and necrotic cell death pathways have been well studied, there lacks a comprehensive understanding of the molecular events involving autophagic cell death. We examined the potential roles of the apoptosis-linked caspase-3 and the necrosis/apoptosis-linked calpain-1 after autophagy induction under prolonged amino acid (AA) starvation conditions in PC-12 cells. Autophagy induction was observed as early as three hours following amino acid withdrawal. Cell death, measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assays occurred within 24 h following starvation and was accompanied by an upregulation in caspase-3 activity but not calpain-1. The cell death that occurred following AA starvation was significantly alleviated by treatment with the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyl adenine but not with the broad spectrum caspase inhibitors. Thus, this study demonstrates that 3-methyladenine-sensitive autophagic cell death due to AA starvation in PC-12 cells is mechanistically and biochemically similar to, yet distinct from, classic caspase dependent apoptosis.
The authors constructed tissue microarray (TMA) blocks from human postmortem brain including numerous core samples measuring 2 mm in diameter from various anatomic regions. These TMA sections were then processed using various stainings and pretreatment techniques to evaluate their properties. The loss of core samples ranged from 2% to 100% and was significantly influenced by the type of glass slide used; it was lowest (2-8%) with SuperFrost Plus slides. The losses were not significantly altered when applying the most demanding pretreatment procedures or using human brain tissue with a long postmortem delay. A slight influence on the quality and the repeatability of some of the IHC stainings was seen by the postmortem delay, by the brain region, or by the glass slide used. One special feature of the constructed brain TMA block including many anatomic brain regions is that persons who lack skills in neuroanatomy can identify various brain structures simply by following the x-y coordinates. Thus, the applications of this brain TMA block in neurologic research by scientists with different skill bases remain to be determined.
Membrane fusion is a very important process in gametes. The mechanism of membrane fusion during the AR has been proposed to involve SNAREs. Our aim is to quantify patterns of localization of Caveolin 1, SNAREs (Syntaxin 1A, Syntaxin 2 and VAMP 1) and NSF on human sperm, to determine how the differential distribution of these proteins might be interdependent and to evaluate if this distribution is related with seminal parameters. These proteins are present in different regions of the head of human sperm: anterior, equatorial and posterior regions and that Syntaxin 2 and Syntaxin 1A had a slightly different pattern of labelling. The presence and localization of SNAREs, NSF and Caveolin 1 do not correlate with seminal parameters. There is significant correlation between NSF and SNAREs, which may indicate a cooperation of these proteins in membrane fusion mechanisms of human sperm.






Nerves exert long-term influences on the salivary glands as e.g. revealed by increases in sensitivity to secretagogues following nerve degeneration. The objective was to study the effect of unilateral facial nerve section on the sensitivity of the parotid secretory cells 2-3 weeks postoperatively, i.e. at a time when the sensitisation is thought to be fully developed. Comparisons were made between pair of glands. However, no increase in the secretory response to increasing intravenous doses of methacholine of the duct-cannulated gland on the operated side was found; neither were any decrease in the acetylcholine synthesizing capacity of the gland found. In contrast, a slight supersensitivity had developed 1 week postoperatively supporting the idea of a functional influence of the facial nerve on the secretory cells under normal conditions. Furthermore, the results combined with the previous finding of ours of decreased acetylcholine synthesis in the parotid gland 1 week after facial nerve section, suggest a rapid restitution of the nervous influence on the secretory cells between 1 and 2-3 weeks postoperatively.

The relationship between mother infant interactions and psychopathology in postpartum psychotic disorders has been recognised as being clinically important, however data in the field is sparse. The current study had two aims--firstly, to study the prevalence and nature of delusions towards the infant among mothers with postpartum onset severe mental illness and secondly, to study the association between delusional symptoms towards the infant and mother infant interactions. 108 consecutive women with onset of severe mental illness in the postpartum, who were admitted to an inpatient psychiatric unit in South India over a two-year period, were systematically assessed for presence of delusions related to the infant, using the Kannada version of the Birmingham Interview for Maternal Mental Health. Fifty-three percent of subjects reported delusions related to the infant, with 34% reporting more than one delusion. Mothers with infant related persecutory delusions were more likely to show affectionate behaviour and had normal competence and caring for baby's basic needs; however, they were more likely to get disturbed and agitated if separated from the baby. Mothers who had delusions that the baby was a devil or ill fated or someone else's baby, were more likely to have significant abusive incidents towards the baby. Overall, the mothers who had delusions related to the infant were seen to have more significant abusive incidents and were more likely to be considered unsafe in looking after the baby alone. The study emphasises the need for systematic clinical assessment of psychopathology in mothers with postpartum psychosis.

Outbred Sprague-Dawley rats can be classified as high responders (HR) or low responders (LR) based on their levels of exploratory locomotion in a novel environment. While this novelty-seeking dimension was originally related to differential vulnerability to substance abuse, behavioral, neuroendocrine and gene expression studies suggest a fundamental difference in emotional reactivity between these animals. Here, we report the first study to selectively breed rats based on this novelty-seeking dimension. Response to novelty was clearly heritable, with a &gt; 2-fold difference in behavior seen after eight generations of selection. Three tests of anxiety-like behavior consistently showed significantly greater anxiety in LR-bred rats compared to HR-bred animals, and this difference was diminished in the open field test by administration of the anxiolytic benzodiazepine drug, chlordiazepoxide. Cross-fostering revealed that responses to novelty were largely unaffected by maternal interactions, though there was an effect on anxiety-like behavior. These selected lines will enable future research on the interplay of genetic, environmental and developmental variables in controlling drug seeking behavior, stress and emotional reactivity.
Many investigators have attempted to confirm the prediction that increased levels of heterozygosity entail greater developmental stability, manifesting itself through decreased phenotypical variation. The evidence presented so far is equivocal. The predicted relationship has been found in some morphological studies, but not in others. I propose that the variability of a character should be seen as different from the character itself. For most morphological characters, natural selection promotes strong canalization of development but, to facilitate responses to environmental changes, the organism needs to retain malleability of physiological and behavioral traits. These different types of selection should lead to distinct genetic architectures for these phenotypes. I report on the results of a diallel cross between four inbred mouse strains. Qualitatively different genetic architectures were in fact revealed for variation in behaviors in the open-field. In a second study, variances of inbred and hybrid populations for hippocampal morphometry were studied. Again, hybrids were not always less variable than inbreds and sometimes even more variable. It follows that there exists no one-to-one relation between heterozygosity and developmental stability.
Among transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease, APP-SWE mice have been shown to develop beta-amyloid plaques and to exhibit progressive impairment of cognitive function. Human Alzheimer's disease, however, also includes secondary clinical manifestations, spanning from hyperactivity to agitation. The aim of this study was a better characterization of motor impulsivity in APP-SWE mice, observed at 12 months of age, when levels of soluble beta-amyloid are elevated and beta-amyloid neuritic plaques start to appear. Mice were tested for spatial learning abilities in the Morris water maze (seven daily sessions, four trials per day). The distance traveled to reach the hidden platform showed a learning curve in both groups. This profile, however, was somewhat delayed in APP-SWE mice, thus confirming slightly impaired spatial capacities. To evaluate motor impulsivity, animals were trained to nose-poke for a food reward, which was delivered after a waiting interval that increased over days (15-60 s). Further nose-poking during this signaled waiting interval resulted in food-reward loss and electric-shock punishment. APP-SWE mice received an increased quantity of punishment and were able to earn fewer food rewards, suggesting inability to wait already at the lowest delay. After the animals were killed, prefrontal cortex samples were assessed for neurochemical parameters. Serotonin turnover was elevated in the prefrontal cortex of APP-SWE mice compared with controls. The results clearly confirm cognitive deficits, and are consistent with the hypothesis of reduced behavioral-inhibition abilities. Together with recent findings, APP-SWE mice emerge as a suitable animal model, characterized by a number of specific behavioral alterations, resembling primary and secondary symptoms of human Alzheimer's disease.
We examined long-term behavioural effects of neonatal lesions of the cholinergic basal forebrain obtained by intracerebroventricular injections of 192 IgG saporin (192 IgG-Sap). Five-month-old Wistar male rats (injected with 192 IgG-Sap or phosphate-buffered saline on postnatal day 7) were tested using operant chambers with two nose-poking holes, delivering one food pellet immediately or five pellets after a delay. The length of delay progressively increased over days (from 0 to 100 s). When compared with controls, 192 IgG-Sap rats showed a slight preference for smaller immediate over larger delayed rewards, thus indicating elevated intolerance to delay (i.e. more impulsivity). Sibling animals were tested in a computerized radial maze (baited vs. nonbaited arm procedure). 192 IgG-Sap rats appeared slower than controls in accomplishing the task. The neonatal 192 IgG-Sap lesion did not alter cortical levels of serotonin and/or its metabolites, but induced a marked cortical cholinergic loss. Our data suggest that a prolonged basal forebrain cholinergic hypofunction produces (i) an impairment in cognitive performances that is detectable only when highly complex tasks are used; (ii) a slight enhancement of the impulsive behavioural profile. This animal model may thus be useful to investigate some cognitive deficits and other secondary symptoms seen in Alzheimer's disease.
Glutamatergic neurotransmission is critical to normal learning and memory and when the activity of glutamate neurons becomes excessive, or the normal function of its primary receptors becomes dysfunctional, this may lead to pathological changes associated with age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Anomalous glutamatergic activity associated with Alzheimer's disease may be due to a postsynaptic receptor and downstream defects that produce inappropriately timed or sustained glutamate activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, leading to neuronal injury and death and cognitive deficits associated with dementia. The mechanisms leading to the condition of chronically depolarized membranes on vulnerable neurons in the Alzheimer's disease brain are likely due to a complex interaction between oxidative stress, mitochondrial failure, chronic brain inflammation and the presence of amyloid-beta and hyperphosphorylated-tau; each of these factors are highly interrelated with each other and are discussed with an emphasis upon potential therapeutic mechanisms underlying the neuroprotective actions of memantine.
In spite of the current availability of several pharmacological therapies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, side effects are invariably manifested during long-term treatment. Dyskinesia, wearing-off and on-off are among the most disabling side effects produced by the dopamine precursor L-dihydroxyphenylalanine and, to a lesser degree, by other pharmacological treatments based on dopamine receptor agonism. Evaluation of the side effects, in particular dyskinesia, produced by antiparkinsonian drug treatments, therefore represents a critical issue in drug validation prior to a clinical trial. Moreover, a reliable model of dyskinesia is a fundamental requirement for the study of the as yet unknown mechanisms at the basis of this severely disabling side effect. The present review aims to provide a critical evaluation of the validity, reliability and utility of animal models of dyskinesia. In the first part of this review, we present a brief overview of the different models of Parkinson's disease focusing on those utilized for the evaluation of dyskinetic movements, then proceed to critically examine the turning behaviour model in an attempt to assess the way in which it has influenced the evaluation of drugs utilized in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Subsequently, the various models of dyskinesia are reviewed and conclusions are drawn as to how the environment in which experiments are performed can influence the behaviour observed.
A variety of different types of instability has been found in the saccadic system of humans. Some of the instabilities correspond to clinical conditions, whereas others are inherent in the normal saccadic system. How can these instabilities arise within the mechanism of normal saccadic eye movements? A physiologically-based model of the saccadic system predicts that horizontal saccadic oscillations will occur with excessive mutual inhibition between the left and right burst cells and with underaction of the pause cells. The amplitudes and frequencies of the oscillations had ranges of 0-6 degrees and 6-20 cycles per second, respectively. Application of stability analysis techniques to the model reveals that development of the oscillations can be explained by the Hopf bifurcation mechanism. Future development of this approach will involve classifying pathological instabilities of the saccadic system according to the bifurcation involved in their generation.
We show how a general quantitative theory of neural computation can be used to explain two recent experimental findings in neuroscience. The first of these findings is that in human medial temporal lobe there exist neurons that correspond to identifiable concepts, such as a particular actress. Further, even when such concepts are preselected by the experimenter, such neurons can be found with paradoxical ease, after examining relatively few neurons. We offer a quantitative computational explanation of this phenomenon, where apparently none existed before. Second, for the locust olfactory system estimates of the four parameters of neuron numbers, synapse numbers, synapse strengths, and the numbers of neurons that represent an odor are now available. We show here that these numbers are related as predicted by the general theory. More generally, we identify two useful regimes for neural computation with distinct ranges of these quantitative parameters.

RHO GTPases are key regulators of the actin cytoskeleton and stress fiber formation. In the human uterus, activated RHOA forms a complex with RHO-associated protein kinase (ROCK) which inhibits myosin light chain phosphatase (PPP1R12A), causing a calcium-independent increase in myosin light chain phosphorylation and tension (Ca2+ sensitization). Recently discovered small GTP binding RND proteins can inhibit RHOA and ROCK interaction to reduce calcium sensitization. Very little is known about the expression of RND proteins in the human uterus. We tested the hypothesis that the uterine quiescence observed during gestation is mediated by an increase in RND protein expression inhibiting RHOA-ROCK-mediated PPP1R12A phosphorylation. Immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting were used to determine RHOA and RND protein expression and localization in nonpregnant, pregnant nonlaboring, and laboring patients at term and patients in spontaneous preterm labor. Changes in protein expression estimated by densitometry between different patient groups were measured. A significant increase of RND2 and RND3 protein expression was observed in pregnant relative to nonpregnant myometrium associated with a loss of PPP1R12A phosphorylation. RND transfected myometrial cells demonstrated a dramatic loss of stress fiber formation and a &quot;rounding&quot; phenotype. RND upregulation in pregnancy may inhibit RHOA-ROCK-mediated increase in calcium sensitization to facilitate the uterine quiescence observed during gestation.
Glutamate has toxic effects on a number of tissues, partly by inducing toxic (e.g., oxidative) stress, whereas adenosine can be protective. Since there is evidence that glutamate and adenosine receptors are present in bone, we set out to study whether oxidative stress, induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), affected viability in the MC3T3-E1 osteoblast-like cell line and whether treatment with adenosine receptor ligands attenuated this. Hydrogen peroxide (100 microM to 5 mM) reduced the viability of the MC3T3-E1 cells, while catalase reversed this cell loss and itself had some mitogenic effect. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) increased the number of viable cells alone but failed to modify significantly the effect of H2O2 treatments. Glutamate (100 microM, 1 mM) and NMDA (10 microM), applied alone for up to 1 h, had a mitogenic effect (P &lt; 0.05). Adenosine A1 and A2A receptor agonists and antagonists at low and high concentrations showed some mitogenic effects when added singly, but only high concentrations of the agonists showed significant protection against cell death resulting from H2O2 treatments. Contributions from both apoptotic and necrotic pathways were implicated in the H2O2-induced cell loss as was demonstrated by the use of the caspase-3 inhibitor (Z-DEVD-fmk) and the PARP-1 inhibitor (DPQ). The results demonstrate that hydrogen peroxide was toxic to MC3T3-E1 cells, whereas glutamate was not and may even have a trophic influence. Adenosine and its receptors afforded some protection to osteoblasts against cellular death mediated partly by apoptosis and partly by necrosis.







The finding of conduction block (CB) on nerve conduction studies supports the diagnosis of potentially treatable immune-mediated neuropathies. CB in a number of axons may result in reduction of the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) on proximal versus distal stimulation (decrement). Decrement may also result from increased temporal dispersion (TD) as this leads to desynchronization and phase cancellation of the motor unit action potentials (MUAPs) out of which the CMAP is built up; polyphasia of MUAPs possibly yields additional decrement. To prove the occurrence of CB, decrement has to be larger than can be explained by increased TD or increased phase cancellation. This was established previously by simulations using MUAPs recorded in rats assuming maximal TD. Unfortunately, criteria based on human data and criteria for nerves with limited TD are not available. In the present study, criteria for CB were derived using simulations with thenar surface recorded MUAPs affected by collateral reinnervation that were obtained in patients with lower motor neurone disease (LMND). The effect of TD on decrement was determined for a wide range of TDs in the forearm segment of the median nerve and the segment distal to this. Our criteria for CB were based on area decrement because this was less influenced by TD and more by CB than amplitude decrement. The maximal area decrement in the forearm segment increased as TD in the forearm segment increased but decreased as TD in the distal segment increased. This suggests that, when desynchronization and phase cancellation occur in the distal segment due to TD, less phase cancellation and, therefore, less decrement can occur due to TD in the forearm. The finding that duration prolongation on proximal versus distal stimulation reflected TD within the forearm segment and that distal duration reflected TD in the distal segment allowed proposal of a more flexible set of criteria for forearm segments when TD in the forearm segment is limited or TD in the distal segment is pronounced. A separate investigation showed that the maximal TD in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy was within the range of our simulations, indicating that these were realistic. Our criteria were validated retrospectively in patients with multifocal motor neuropathy and patients with LMND. In the forearm segment of the median nerve, our criteria were more sensitive and equally specific for CB as compared with criteria for CB based on the study using rats. Our criteria have to be evaluated prospectively.
Viable tissues at risk of infarction in acute stroke patients have been hypothesized to be detectable as volumetric mismatches between lesions on perfusion-weighted (PWI) and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI). Because tissue response to ischaemic injury and to therapeutic intervention is tissue- and patient-dependent, changes in infarct progression due to treatment may be better detected with voxel-based methods than with volumetric mismatches. Acute DWI and PWI were combined using a generalized linear model (GLM) to predict infarction risk on a voxel-wise basis for patients treated either with non-thrombolytic (Group 1; n = 11) or with thrombolytic therapy (Group 2; n = 27). Predicted infarction risk for both groups was evaluated in four ipsilateral regions of interest: tissue acutely abnormal on DWI (Core), tissue acutely abnormal on PWI but normal on DWI that either infarcts (Recruited) or does not (Salvaged), and tissue normal on both DWI and PWI that does not infarct (Normal) by follow-up imaging &gt; or = 5 days. The performance of the models was significantly reduced for the thrombolysed group compared with the group receiving standard treatment, suggesting an alteration in natural progression of the ischaemic cascade. Average GLM-predicted infarction risk values in the four regions were different from one another for both groups. GLM-predicted infarction risk in Salvaged tissue was significantly higher (P = 0.02) for thrombolysed patients than for non-thrombolysed patients, suggesting that thrombolysis rescued tissue with higher infarction risk than typically measured in tissue that spontaneously recovered. The observed spatial heterogeneity of GLM-predicted infarction risk values probably reflects the varying degrees of tissue injury and salvageability that exist after stroke. MRI-based algorithms may therefore provide a more sensitive means for monitoring therapeutic effects on a voxel-wise basis.

Over the years, several reports have demonstrated involvement of the nervous system in beta-thalassemia patients. Neurological complications have been attributed to various factors such as chronic hypoxia, bone marrow expansion, iron overload, and desferrioxamine neurotoxicity. In most cases, neurological involvement does not initially present with relevant signs or symptoms (i.e., is subclinical) and can only be detected during neurophysiological or neuroimaging evaluation. Abnormal findings in the visual, auditory, and somatosensory evoked potential recordings are mainly attributed to DFO neurotoxicity. On the other hand, nerve conduction velocity abnormalities are associated either to chronic hypoxia and older age or to hemosiderosis, whether by means of pancreas involvement or not. Neuropsychological studies available reveal a considerably high prevalence of abnormal IQ, not correlating, however, to factors such as hypoxia or iron overload. It is proposed that factors associated to severe chronic illness, rather than the disease per se, could be responsible for these findings. Such factors include regular school absence due to transfusions and frequent hospitalizations, physical and social restrictions resulting from the disease and its treatment, abnormal mental state due to the awareness of being chronically ill, and, last, the overly protective family attitude that leads to restricted initiative and psychosocial development. As life expectancy for beta-thalassemia patients extends, the use of neurophysiologic and neuropsychologic monitoring becomes imperative, enabling early detection of neural pathway impairment and allowing for appropriate management, in order to achieve a better life quality for this patient group.
Injury to the central nervous system (CNS) usually results in very limited regeneration of lesioned axons, which are inhibited by the environment of the injury site. Factors that have been implicated in inhibition of axonal regeneration include myelin proteins, astrocytic gliosis and cell surface molecules that are involved in axon guidance during development. This review examines the contribution of one such family of developmental guidance molecules, the Eph receptor tyrosine kinases and their ligands, the ephrins in normal adult CNS and following injury or disease. Eph/ephrin signaling regulates axon guidance through contact repulsion during development of the CNS, inducing collapse of neuronal growth cones. Eph receptors and ephrins continue to be expressed in the adult CNS, although usually at lower levels, but are upregulated following neural injury on different cell types, including reactive astrocytes, neurons and oligodendrocytes. This upregulated expression may directly inhibit regrowth of regenerating axons; however, in addition, Eph expression also regulates astrocytic gliosis and formation of the glial scar. Therefore, Eph/ephrin signaling may inhibit regeneration by more than one mechanism and modulation of Eph receptor expression or signaling could prove pivotal in determining the outcome of injury in the adult CNS.
The last 15 years have seen a growing interest regarding a technique for nerve repair named end-to-side (terminolateral) neurorrhaphy. This technique is based on the concept that nerve fiber regeneration along the distal stump of a transected nerve, the proximal stump of which was lost, can be obtained by just suturing the proximal end of its distal stump to the epinerium of a neighbor healthy and undamaged donor nerve. A large body of experimental studies have shown that end-to-side neurorrhaphy, in fact, is able to induce collateral sprouting from donor nerve's axons which is at the basis of the massive repopulation of the distal nerve stump. The regenerating nerve fibers eventually reinnervate the periphery of the severed nerve leading to a recovery of the lost function the degree of which varies depending on factors that still have to be elucidated. Surprisingly, this puzzling concept of nerve regeneration has attracted very little attention from basic neuroscientists so far and, thus, the present paper is intended to call for more biological research on it by overviewing the relevant literature and indicating the several unanswered questions that this concept asks to the neuroscience community.
One of the hallmarks of alcoholism is continued excessive consumption of alcohol-containing beverages despite the negative consequences of such behavior. The neurocircuitry regulating alcohol consumption is not well understood. Recent studies have shown that the neuropeptide urocortin 1 (Ucn1), a member of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) family of peptides, could be an important player in the regulation of alcohol consumption. This evidence is accumulated along three directions of research: (1) Ucn 1-containing neurons are extremely sensitive to alcohol; (2) the Ucn1 neurocircuit may contribute to the genetic predisposition to high alcohol intake in mice and rats; (3) manipulation of the Ucn1 system alters alcohol consumption and sensitivity. This paper reviews the current knowledge of the Ucn1 neurocircuit and the evidence for its involvement in alcohol-related behaviors, and proposes a mechanism for its involvement in the regulation of alcohol consumption.
The X11 protein family are multidomain proteins composed of a conserved PTB domain and two C-terminal PDZ domains. They are involved in formation of multiprotein complexes and two of the family members, X11alpha and X11beta, are expressed primarily in neurones. Not much is known about the principal function of X11s, but through interactions with other neuronal proteins, they are believed to be involved in regulating neuronal signaling, trafficking and plasticity. Furthermore, they have been shown to modulate processing of APP and accumulation of Abeta, making them potential therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease. This article reviews the known interactions of the different X11s and their involvement in Alzheimer's disease.
The correct formation of all central nervous system tissues depends on the proper balance of neurogenesis and developmental cell death. A model system for studying these programs is the ganglion cell layer (GCL) of the vertebrate retina because of its simple and well-described structure and amenability to experimental manipulations. The GCL contains approximately equal numbers of ganglion cells and displaced amacrine cells. Ganglion cells are the first or among the first cells born in the retina in all the studied vertebrates. Neurogenesis and cell death have been studied extensively in the GCL of various amniotes (rodents, chicks, and monkeys) and anamniotes (fish and frogs), and the two processes highlight developmental differences between the groups. In amniotes, neurogenesis occurs during a defined period prior to birth/hatch or the opening of the eyes, whereas in anamniotes, neurogenesis extends past hatching into adulthood-sometimes for years. Roughly half of GCL neurons die during development in amniotes, whereas developmental cell death does not occur in the GCL neurons of anamniotes. This review discusses the spatial and temporal patterns of neurogenesis, cell death, and possible explanation of cell death in the GCL. It also examines markers widely used to distinguish between ganglion cells and displaced amacrine cells, and methods employed to birth date neurons.
Nausea and vomiting are considered to be among the most distressing consequences of cytotoxic chemotherapies. Currently, there are several novel 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV), including ondansetron, granisetron, and dolasetron. These agents provide significant improvement in the management of acute emesis but are ineffective at preventing delayed emesis. In 2003, a new 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, palonosetron HCL (Aloxi), was introduced to the U.S. market. Palonosetron was found to be effective in preventing delayed CINV. Indeed, palonosetron was the first and only 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist approved by the FDA for the prevention of both acute and delayed CINV. More recently, studies on the role of substance P in the emetic process led to the development of aprepitant (Emend) for the prevention of delayed emesis in combination with 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists. Despite these major advances, CINV remains uncontrolled in some patients. Current efforts are focused on treating refractory emesis and include both the clinical evaluation of compounds marketed for other indications and the preclinical evaluation of novel molecules targeting other transmitters in the emetic pathway. Ongoing work in pharmacogenomics has postulated several candidate genes that could be involved in emetic sensitivity and responsiveness to antiemetic therapy. Investigations into the pharmacogenomics of CINV may someday be able to aid in the identification of high risk patients and patients unlikely to respond to conventional therapies.
We report that experimental glioblastoma grow more vigorously in A(1) adenosine receptor (A(1)AR)-deficient mice associated with a strong accumulation of microglial cells at and around the tumors. A(1)ARs were prominently expressed in microglia associated with tumor cells as revealed with immunocytochemistry but low in microglia in the unaffected brain tissue. The A(1)AR could also be detected on microglia from human glioblastoma resections. To study functional interactions between tumor and host cells, we studied glioblastoma growth in organotypical brain slice cultures. A(1)AR agonists suppressed tumor growth. When, however, microglial cells were depleted from the slices, the agonists even stimulated tumor growth. Thus, adenosine attenuates glioblastoma growth acting via A(1)AR in microglia.
Periodic behavioral motor patterns are normally controlled by neural circuits, such as central pattern generators. We here report a novel mechanism of motor pattern generation by non-neural cells. The defecation motor program in Caenorhabditis elegans consists of three stereotyped motor steps with precise timing and this behavior has been studied as a model system of a ultradian biological clock [J.H. Thomas, Genetic analysis of defecation in C. elegans, Genetics 124 (1990) 855-872; D.W. Liu, J.H. Thomas, Regulation of a periodic motor program in C. elegans, J. Neurosci. 14 (1994) 1953-1962; K. Iwasaki, D.W. Liu, J.H. Thomas, Genes that control a temperature-compensated ultradian clock in Caenorhabditis elegans, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92 (1995), 10317-10321]. It was previously implied that the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor in the intestine was necessary for this periodic behavior [P. Dal Santo, M.A. Logan, A.D. Chisholm, E.M. Jorgensen, The inositol trisphosphate receptor regulates a 50s behavioral rhythm in C. elegans, Cell 98 (1999) 757-767]. Therefore, we developed a new assay system to study a relationship between this behavioral timing and intestinal Ca(2+) dynamics. Using this assay system, we found that the timing between the first and second motor steps is coordinated by intercellular Ca(2+)-wave propagation in the intestine. Lack of the Ca(2+)-wave propagation correlated with no coordination of the motor steps in the CaMKII mutant. Also, when the Ca(2+)-wave propagation was blocked by the IP3 receptor inhibitor heparin at the mid-intestine in wild type, the second/third motor steps were eliminated, which phenocopied ablation of the motor neurons AVL and DVB. These observations suggest that an intestinal Ca(2+)-wave propagation governs the timing of neural activities that controls specific behavioral patterns in C. elegans.
Observational studies in multiple sclerosis (MS) demonstrated altered expression of chemokine receptors (CkRs) on comparable populations of mononuclear cells (e.g. CD4(+)/CD45RO(+) T-cells) in brain sections compared with blood. These findings raised questions about the regulation of CkRs on trafficking cells. Regulatory processes for CkRs are complex: examples include down-regulation following ligand engagement during migration and either up- or down-regulation following activation. Additionally, CkRs that mediate transmigration without being down-regulated will be selectively enriched on migrating cells in the inflammatory site. Finally, CkRs may act as functionally neutral markers of activated cells capable of undergoing transmigration. Clarifying CkR regulation may aid in the selection and application of antagonists for treating neuroinflammation. Mechanisms of receptor regulation during transmigration cannot be studied by descriptive methods. We evaluated CCR5 expression on CD14(+) monocytes and CD3(+) T-cells following CCL5-driven transmigration through an in vitro blood-brain barrier (IVBBB), as both T-cells and monocytes in MS lesions express CCR5. CCR5 expression was augmented on non-migrating CD14(+) but not CD3(+) cells, suggesting selective activation of monocytes by incubation in contact with endothelial cells. As proposed from observational studies, CCR5 was enriched on monocytes that migrated spontaneously in the absence of exogenous chemokine. Addition of the CCR5 ligand CCL5 to the lower chamber led to enhanced CD3(+) T-cell migration. Interestingly, CCR5 was down-regulated on both CD14(+) monocytes and CD3(+) T cells during CCL5-driven migration. These results are distinct from those obtained in comparable studies of CCR2 and CXCR3, suggesting that the specifics for CkR expression should be studied for individual receptors on each leukocyte subpopulation during the design of strategies for pharmacological blockade in neuroinflammation.
Adrenal medullary chromaffin cells are derivatives of the neural crest and are widely believed to share a common sympathoadrenal (SA) progenitor with sympathetic neurons. For decades, the adrenal cortical environment was assumed to be essential for channelling SA progenitors towards an endocrine chromaffin cell fate. Our recent analysis of steroidogenic factor 1(Sf1) -/- mice, which lack an adrenal cortex, has challenged this view: in Sf1 -/- mice chromaffin cells migrate to the correct &quot;adrenal&quot; location and undergo largely normal differentiation. In contrast to Sf1 homozygous mutants, heterozygous animals have an adrenal cortex, which, however, is smaller than in wildtype littermates. We show here that the Sf1 +/- adrenal cortical anlagen attract normal numbers of chromaffin progenitor cells into their vicinity by embryonic day 13.5 (E13.5). Two days later, however, only a few scattered cells with highly immature features have immigrated into the adrenal cortex, whereas the remainder form a coherent cell assembly ectopically located at the medial surface of the gland. These cells appear more mature than the scattered intracortical chromaffin progenitors and express the adrenaline synthesizing enzyme PNMT with a delay of 1 day in comparison with wildtype littermates. Nevertheless, chromaffin progenitor cells undergo a numerical reduction of approximately 30% by E17.5. Together, our data suggest that normal adrenocortical development is critical for the correct immigration of chromaffin progenitors into the cortical anlagen, for the timing of PNMT expression and for the regulation of chromaffin cell numbers.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is an endogenous stimulant of intestinal propulsive reflexes. It exerts its effects partly through 5-HT4 receptors; 5-HT4 receptor agonists that are stimulants of intestinal transit are in clinical use. Both pharmacological and recent immunohistochemical studies indicate that 5-HT4 receptors are present on enteric neurons but the specific neurons that express the receptors have not been determined. In the present work, we describe the characterization of an anti-5-HT4 receptor antiserum that reveals immunoreactivity for enteric neurons and other cell types in the gastrointestinal tract. With this antiserum, 5-HT4 receptor immunoreactivity has been found in the muscularis mucosae of the rat oesophagus, a standard assay tissue for 5-HT4 receptors. It is also present in the muscularis mucosae of the guinea-pig and mouse oesophagus. In guinea-pig small intestine and rat and mouse colon, 5-HT4 receptor immunoreactivity occurs in subpopulations of enteric neurons, including prominent large neurons. Double-staining has shown that these large neurons in the guinea-pig small intestine are also immunoreactive for two markers of intrinsic primary afferent neurons, cytoplasmic NeuN and calbindin. Some muscle motor neurons in the myenteric ganglia are immunoreactive for this receptor, whereas it is rarely expressed by secretomotor neurons. Immunoreactivity also occurs in the interstitial cells of Cajal but is faint in the external muscle. Expression of the protein and mRNA has been confirmed in extracts containing enteric neurons. The observations suggest that one site of action of 5-HT4 receptor agonists is the intrinsic primary afferent neurons.
The aim of this study was to evaluate olfactory hypersensitivity (OHS) between attacks in migraine patients. Seventy-four migraine patients and 30 controls were enrolled. The presence of OHS was evaluated using an oral questionnaire and a chemical odour intolerance index. Subjects had to rate the intensity and hedonicity of 12 odourants using a linear rating scale. Twenty-six patients (35.2%) but no control subjects reported an interictal OHS (P&lt;0.001). Logistic regression analysis showed that patients with OHS presented a greater attack frequency, a higher number of odour-induced migraines and visual hypersensitivity when compared with other patients. Disease duration, age, gender and auditory hypersensitivity were not associated with OHS. OHS patients judged odours less pleasant than did other patients and controls, whereas the intensity scores were identical in both groups. OHS between attacks was significantly associated with odour-triggered migraine and an alteration of hedonic judgement.
Electrophysiological and hemodynamic correlates of processing isolated faces have been investigated extensively over the last decade. A question not addressed thus far is whether the visual scene, which normally surrounds a face or a facial expression, has an influence on how the face is processed. Here we investigated this issue by presenting faces in natural contexts and measuring whether the emotional content of the scene influences processing of a facial expression. Event-related potentials were recorded to faces (fearful/neutral) embedded in scene contexts (fearful/neutral) while participants performed an orientation-decision task (face upright or inverted). Two additional experiments were run, one to examine the effects of context that occur without a face and the other to evaluate the effects of faces isolated from contexts. Faces without any context showed the largest N170 amplitudes. The presence of a face in a fearful context enhances the N170 amplitude over a face in neutral contexts, an effect that is strongest for fearful faces on left occipito-temporal sites. This N170 effect, and the corresponding topographic distribution, was not found for contexts-only, indicating that the increased N170 amplitude results from the combination of face and fearful context. These findings suggest that the context in which a face appears may influence how it is encoded.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) at inhibitory synapses of rat visual cortex requires firing of presynaptic cells for maintenance, at least at a low frequency. We examined the roles of adrenoceptors in this LTP maintenance. Although high-frequency stimulation (HFS) failed to produce LTP in normal Ca2+ medium, it produced pathway-specific LTP with addition of noradrenaline to the medium soon after HFS. However, this LTP disappeared after washout of noradrenaline. HFS applied during noradrenaline application produced LTP persisting even after washout, indicating that HFS together with adrenoceptor activation makes the adrenergic facilitation enduring. After washout, LTP was produced further by HFS of the conditioned, but not the unconditioned, pathway by the first HFS. Pharmacological examination demonstrated that alpha2 and beta, but not alpha1, receptors facilitated LTP maintenance synergistically. Bath application, but not postsynaptic loading, of either the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin or the protein kinase C (PKC) activator phorbol ester facilitated LTP maintenance. These results suggest that adrenergic facilitation of LTP maintenance is mediated by presynaptic adrenoceptors via a subfamily of adenylyl cyclases stimulated by Gsalpha, Gibetagamma, and PKC. Thus, it is likely that the activity of noradrenergic afferents takes part in the control of LTP duration at visual cortical inhibitory synapses.

Few children have a 'pure' diagnosis of neuropsychiatric disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or autism. Most have complex, overlapping symptoms, and it is often these associated and common comorbidities that cause as much, if not more impairments, than the core symptoms. Prescribing decisions are therefore complex and made on the basis of eliciting a range of agreed 'target symptoms'. At present, however, there are no agreed systems that allow monitoring of all areas of potential change, and few services are able to monitor symptoms, side effects, impact on family life and individual children's quality of life systematically. At best many clinics use a plethora of paper-based standardized questionnaires, based on individual diagnoses. This article describes the development of a novel biomedical informatics system that has been designed to allow parents, professionals and children to use a web-based, real-time symptom monitoring system to enable more effective treatments, better pathways of shared care, and more equitable and efficient service delivery for this group of vulnerable children.
Few well-constructed studies have systematically evaluated medical investigation protocols for children with autistic spectrum disorders. This is in large part due to the heterogeneous nature of the population and changing diagnostic frameworks. This review outlines the studies that have directed investigation strategies to date, and discusses how these might be applied in the clinical situation. The importance of listing the conditions that may be present on the basis of the specific clinical presentation, and using a thorough history and examination to generate a pre-test probability of the target disorders is emphasized if tests are to be useful in directing therapy or broader management approaches.





One of the most fascinating and frustrating issues in the priority of discovery in science is over just who, for the first time, went on record in the public forum, either orally at a conference or through a published communication, proclaiming that the faculty of articulate human speech was located in the left, not the right, cortical hemisphere. The disputed paper was purportedly written in 1836 by Marc Dax, who died subsequently in 1837. He was a physician in southern France in the city of Montpellier--far from the medical center of Paris. Little note was made of the presumed paper until the early and mid-1860s, when the issue of language localization in the human brain took on increased activity, as the clinico-pathological method of explanation continued to flourish in the &quot;Art of Physick.&quot; Marc Dax's son, Gustave, happened to be studying medicine in Paris in the 1860s, and, as most of the neuroscientific and anthropological researchers, came to know of Broca's published work, which in 1861, agreed with phrenological theory that this faculty was, indeed, in the anterior lobes, but further claimed, de novo, that the region in the anterior lobe was more precisely focused at the foot of the 3rd frontal convolution in that lobe, still assuming with phrenological theory and the &quot;Law of Symmetry&quot; that the faculty was bilaterally located. It was not until 1865 that Broca clearly, non-hesitatingly, and unambiguously claimed that the faculty was in the left hemisphere. As it turned out, Gustave, six weeks before Broca's paper appeared, had published the paper he said his father had written in 1836. In 1863, in fact, Gustave had submitted his (Gustave's) long monograph on aphemia, integrating what he claimed to be his father's 1836 pronouncement along with his own data. He sent this communication to the French Academy of Sciences and to the French Academy of Medicine; he heard nothing back from either academy. After waiting two years, he managed to publish his material. Gustave's valiant move to promote his father's priority for one of the most significant conclusions in the history of the neurosciences is a lesson in frustration. Broca's attitude towards Gustave's case was disarmingly nonchalant; the issue deserves further historical inquiry.





Previous studies of motor learning have proposed a distinction betweenfast and slow learning, but these mechanisms have rarely been examined simultaneously. We examined the influence of long-term motor expertise (slow learning) while pianists and nonpianists performed alternating epochs of sequenced and random keypresses in response to visual cues (fast learning) during functional neuroimaging. All of the participants demonstrated learning of the sequence as demonstrated by decreasing reaction times (RTs) on sequence trials relative to random trials throughout the session. Pianists also demonstrated faster RTs and superior sequence acquisition in comparison with nonpianists. Within-session decreases in bilateral sensorimotor and parietal activation were observed for both groups. Additionally, there was more extensive activation throughout the session for pianists in comparison with nonpianists across a network of primarily right-lateralized prefrontal, sensorimotor, and parietal regions. These findings provide evidence that different neural systems subserve slow and fast phases of learning.



This article provides an overview of recent developments in solving the timing problem (discreteness vs. continuity) in cognitive neuroscience. Both theoretical and empirical studies have been considered, with an emphasis on the framework of operational architectonics (OA) of brain functioning (Fingelkurts and Fingelkurts in Brain Mind 2:291-29, 2001; Neurosci Biobehav Rev 28:827-836, 2005). This framework explores the temporal structure of information flow and interarea interactions within the network of functional neuronal populations by examining topographic sharp transition processes in the scalp EEG, on the millisecond scale. We conclude, based on the OA framework, that brain functioning is best conceptualized in terms of continuity-discreteness unity which is also the characteristic property of cognition. At the end we emphasize where one might productively proceed for the future research.
Biological contributions to cognitive development continue to be conceived predominantly along deterministic lines, with proponents of different positions arguing about the preponderance of gene-based versus experience-based influences that organize brain circuits irreversibly during prenatal or early postnatal life, and evolutionary influences acting through selection on small numbers of genes. This article discusses evolutionary, mechanistic and probabilistic aspects of developmental processes that cognitive scientists need to better integrate. Developmental processes inseparably fuse experience-dependent and experience-independent components, have important stochastic contributions, and exhibit a greater degree of mechanistic continuity between developing and adult nervous systems than previously thought. Their balanced integration leads to new models for &quot;critical or sensitive&quot; period phenomena and behavioral biases. A general understanding of behavioral development - cognitive developmental biology--will require better coordination between comparative animal and human developmental research programs.
Against a background of recent progress in developmental neuroscience, some of which has been taken as challenging to the modularity hypothesis of , this article contrasts two competing conceptions of modularity: sui generis modularity, according to which modules are treated as independent neurocognitive entities that owe nothing to one another, and descent-with-modification modularity, according to which current cognitive modules are understood to be shaped by evolutionary changes from ancestral cognitive modules. I argue that sui generis modularity is incompatible with a range of data, from the co-occurrence of deficits to the patterns of activation in neuroimaging studies, but that same range of data is compatible with descent-with-modification modularity. Furthermore, I argue that the latter conception of modularity may have important implications for the practice and conception of fields such as developmental disorders and linguistics.
This paper reviews current progress in genetics in relation to the understanding of human cognition. It is argued that genetics occupies a prominent place in the future of cognitive science, and that cognitive scientists should play an active role in the process. Recent research in genetics and developmental neuroscience is reviewed and argued to provide a new perspective on the timeless questions of innateness and modularity. The special case of the genetic bases of language is further discussed, with the study of developmental dyslexia as an exemplary entry point. This Special Issue puts together articles providing different empirical examples and theoretical perspectives on how the integration between the different levels of description (gene, brain, and cognition) is to be achieved.


In this &quot;Reply&quot; paper, the arguments and experimental findings by Pockett, Pollen, and Haggard et al. are analyzed. It had been shown () that a 0.5s duration of repetitive activations of sensory cortex is required to produce a threshold of sensation. The view that this is due to a facilitatory buildup in excitatory state to finally elicit neuronal firing is shown to be incompatible with several lines of evidence. Objections to the phenomenon of subjective referral backwards in time (for the delayed sensation) are also untenable. report that a self-initiated act can, under hypnotic suggestion, appear to the subject to be &quot;involuntary.&quot; The act under hypnosis is better viewed as one initiated unconsciously, not as an act of conscious will.

Patients who have penetrating head injury all too often present with some of the most devastating and challenging intracranial injuries. The mechanisms of injury and associated neuropathology affect every body system and require a multidisciplinary approach. Evidence-based guidelines have been developed to offer some direction to clinicians involved in their care. Much remains scientifically unsubstantiated, however. Optimal management of critically ill patients who have penetrating head injury requires clinical expertise and care of the highest quality.
The Twentieth Century witnessed tremendous advances in our understanding of neurodegenerative diseases. Not least among them were the contributions from hyperendemic foci of neurodegenerative disorders in isolated human groups worldwide, with the knowledge gained applicable to our understanding of related neurodegenerative diseases globally.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder pathologically identified by the presence of extracellular senile plaques (SP) with a proteinaceous core composed of aggregates of the amyloid peptide (Abeta) and intracellular aggregates of the microtubule-associated protein tau (tau) as neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). These hallmarks consist of abnormally folded proteinaceous components that are believed to be neurotoxic in AD. The mechanisms of toxicity remain unclear although oxidative stress and inflammation are implicated as mediators of the toxicity and these lesions, in turn, are known to damage cellular components including proteins, lipids in the membrane and DNA. However effects on genotoxicity and its role in AD are less clear. The present review discusses various influences, in particular of amyloid, on the genetic material and their possible role in the neurodegeneration in AD. Further, the amalgamation of genomics and proteomics in understanding AD and therapeutic development is suggested.

Bacillus causes one of the most rapidly blinding intraocular infections: endophthalmitis. In this study, Bacillus spp. were isolated from ocular infection cases, taxonomically characterized by riboprint analysis, and screened for the presence of putative virulence factors. The ability of these isolates to kill retinal and corneal cells was examined, as were antibiotic susceptibility profiles. The majority of isolates belonged to the B. cereus taxonomic group of microorganisms and were identified as B. cereus (53%) or B. thuringiensis (26%). Toxins were identified in most B. thuringiensis and B. cereus isolates. Most B. cereus and B. thuringiensis killed corneal and retinal cells within 6 h. All isolates were susceptible to most antibiotics tested, with quinolones and vancomycin being the most potent. These findings represent the first report of B. thuringiensis as an important ocular pathogen, demonstrates the potential ocular toxicity of B. cereus and B. thuringiensis isolates, and identifies antibiotics whose efficacy against Bacillus were superior to those used clinically.
The peptide galanin is primarily expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) and it is active in a range of models of behavior. The identification of three galanin receptors, whose distribution of expression is distinct but overlapping, is evidence of the complexity of galanin's regulation of neuronal function. The majority of studies examining galanin have used broad methods to identify its function, employing nonselective peptide agonists and antagonists, or transgenic animal models. While these studies were informative, they provided limited insight to the specific receptors mediating the effects of galanin. The recent identification of potent, brain-permeable and selective galanin antagonists suggests it will be possible to gain greater insight into the function of each galanin receptor and their potential as therapeutic targets. This article reviews the roles identified for galanin in the CNS and how ligands of the galanin receptors, both peptidic and small-molecule, have been used to explore the behavioral models that characterize these roles.
The expression of zebrafish hoxb3a and hoxb4a has been found to be mediated through five transcripts, hoxb3a transcripts I-III and hoxb4a transcripts I-II, driven by four promoters. A &quot;master&quot; promoter, located about 2 kb downstream of hoxb5a, controls transcription of a pre-mRNA comprising exon sequences of both genes. This unique gene structure is proposed to provide a novel mechanism to ensure overlapping, tissue-specific expression of both genes in the posterior hindbrain and spinal cord. Transgenic approaches were used to analyze the functions of zebrafish hoxb3a/hoxb4a promoters and enhancer sequences containing regions of homology that were previously identified by comparative genomics. Two neural enhancers were shown to establish specific anterior expression borders within the hindbrain and mediate expression in defined neuronal populations derived from hindbrain rhombomeres (r) 5 to 8, suggesting a late role of the genes in neuronal cell lineage specification. Species comparison showed that the zebrafish hoxb3a r5 and r6 enhancer corresponded to a sequence within the mouse HoxA cluster controlling activity of Hoxa3 in r5 and r6, whereas a homologous region within the HoxB cluster activated Hoxb3 expression but limited to r5. We conclude that the similarity of hoxb3a/Hoxa3 regulatory mechanisms reflect the shared descent of both genes from a single ancestral paralog group 3 gene.
Neurons in the nascent dorsal root ganglia are born and differentiate in a complex cellular milieu composed of postmitotic neurons, and mitotically active glial and neural progenitor cells. Neurotrophic factors such as NT-3 are critically important for promoting the survival of postmitotic neurons in the DRG. However, the factors that regulate earlier events in the development of the DRG such as the mitogenesis of DRG progenitor cells and the differentiation of neurons are less defined. Here we demonstrate that both NT-3 and CNTF induce distinct dose-dependent responses on cells in the immature DRG: at low concentrations, they induce the proliferation of progenitor cells while at higher concentrations they promote neuronal differentiation. Furthermore, the mitogenic response is indirect; that is, NT-3 and CNTF first bind to nascent neurons in the DRG--which then stimulates those neurons to release mitogenic factors including neuregulin. Blockade of this endogenous neuregulin activity completely blocks the CNTF-induced proliferation and reduces about half of the NT-3-mediated proliferation. Thus, the genesis and differentiation of neurons and glia in the DRG are dependent upon reciprocal interactions among nascent neurons, glia, and mitotically active progenitor cells.
During embryonic development, the generation, diversification and maintenance of spinal motor neurons depend upon extrinsic signals that are tightly regulated. Retinoic acid (RA) is necessary for specifying the fates of forelimb-innervating motor neurons of the Lateral Motor Column (LMC), and the specification of LMC neurons into medial and lateral subtypes. Previous studies implicate motor neurons as the relevant source of RA for specifying lateral LMC fates at forelimb levels. However, at the time of LMC diversification, a significant amount of retinoids in the spinal cord originates from the adjacent paraxial mesoderm. Here we employ mouse genetics to show that RA derived from the paraxial mesoderm is required for lateral LMC induction at forelimb and hindlimb levels, demonstrating that mesodermally synthesized RA functions as a second source of signals to specify lateral LMC identity. Furthermore, reduced RA levels in postmitotic motor neurons result in a decrease of medial and lateral LMC neurons, and abnormal axonal projections in the limb; invoking additional roles for neuronally synthesized RA in motor neuron maintenance and survival. These findings suggest that during embryogenesis, mesodermal and neuronal retinoids act coordinately to establish and maintain appropriate cohorts of spinal motor neurons that innervate target muscles in the limb.
Sharp borders between cells with different developmental fates are important for patterning of invertebrates, but are not well understood in vertebrates. Zebrafish slow muscle cells develop from adaxial cells, a one-cell-diameter-thick pseudo-epithelium immediately adjacent to the notochord. Hedgehog (Hh) signals from notochord specify adaxial cells to form slow muscle cells. Cells next to adaxial cells form fast muscle. This suggests that Hh signaling is locally regulated to produce a sharp border that separates slow and fast muscle precursors. To understand how Hh activity is locally regulated, we characterized the dynamic roles of Hhip, a protein that binds Hedgehog at the cell surface. Hhip is strongly expressed by adaxial cells and, together with Patched, the Hedgehog receptor, limits transduction of the Hedgehog signaling by Smoothened to adaxial cells. Hhip protein lacking its membrane associated domain still suppresses Hh activity but no longer acts synergistically with Patched. Hhip and Smoothened colocalize at the cell surface and, in response to Hedgehog, internalize together. Knockdown of Hhip blocks Smoothened internalization while increasing Hedgehog signaling and slow muscle formation. These data support a model in which Hhip regulates muscle development both by sequestering Hedgehog and by modulating localization of Smoothened.
Shh-Gli signaling controls cell fates in the developing ventral neural tube by regulating the patterned expression of transcription factors in neural progenitors. However, the molecular mechanisms that limit target gene responses to specific domains are unclear. Here, we show that Wnt pathway inhibitors regulate the threshold response of a ventral Shh target gene, Nkx2.2, to establish its restricted expression in the ventral spinal cord. Identification and characterization of an Nkx2.2 enhancer reveals that expression is directly regulated by positive Shh-Gli signaling and negative Tcf repressor activity. Our data indicate that the dorsal limit of Nkx2.2 is controlled by Tcf4-mediated transcriptional repression, and not by a direct requirement for high-level Shh-Gli signaling, arguing against a simple model based on differential Gli factor affinities in target genes. These results identify a transcriptional mechanism that integrates graded Shh and Wnt signaling to define progenitor gene expression domains and cell fates in the neural tube.
Members of the Dact protein family initially were identified through binding to Dishevelled (Dvl), a cytoplasmic protein central to Wnt signaling. During mouse development, Dact1 is detected in the presomitic mesoderm and somites during segmentation, in the limb bud mesenchyme and other mesoderm-derived tissues, and in the central nervous system (CNS). Dact2 expression is most prominent during organogenesis of the thymus, kidneys, and salivary glands, with much lower levels in the somites and in the developing CNS. Dact3, not previously described in any organism, is expressed in the ventral region of maturing somites, limb bud and branchial arch mesenchyme, and in the embryonic CNS; of the three paralogs, it is the most highly expressed in the adult cerebral cortex. These data are consistent with studies in other vertebrates showing that Dact paralogs have distinct signaling and developmental roles and suggest they may differentially contribute to postnatal brain physiology.
A fascinating aspect of developmental biology is how organs are assembled in three dimensions over time. Fundamental to understanding organogenesis is the ability to determine when and where specific cell types are generated, the lineage of each cell, and how cells move to reside in their final position. Numerous methods have been developed to mark and follow the fate of cells in various model organisms used by developmental biologists, but most are not readily applicable to mouse embryos in utero because they involve physical marking of cells through injection of tracers. The advent of sophisticated transgenic and gene targeting techniques, combined with the use of site-specific recombinases, has revolutionized fate mapping studies in mouse. Furthermore, using genetic fate mapping to mark cells has opened up the possibility of addressing fundamental questions that cannot be studied with traditional methods of fate mapping in other organisms. Specifically, genetic fate mapping allows both the relationship between embryonic gene expression and cell fate (genetic lineage) to be determined, as well as the link between gene expression domains and anatomy (genetic anatomy) to be established. In this review, we present the ever-evolving development of genetic fate mapping techniques in mouse, especially the recent advance of Genetic Inducible Fate Mapping. We then review recent studies in the nervous system (focusing on the anterior hindbrain) as well as in the limb and with adult stem cells to highlight fundamental developmental processes that can be discovered using genetic fate mapping approaches. We end with a look toward the future at a powerful new approach that combines genetic fate mapping with cellular phenotyping alleles to study cell morphology, physiology, and function using examples from the nervous system.
We have developed an in situ hybridization procedure for the detection of microRNAs (miRNAs) in tissue sections from mouse embryos and adult organs. The method uses highly specific washing conditions for RNA oligonucleotide probes conjugated to a fluorescein hapten. We show that this method detects predominantly mature miRNAs rather than the miRNA precursors or primary transcripts. We have determined expression patterns for several miRNAs expressed in the developing and adult nervous system, including miR-124a, miR-9, miR-92, and miR-204. Whereas miR-124a is expressed in neurons, miR-9 is expressed in neural progenitors and some neurons, and miR-204 is expressed in the choroid plexus, retinal pigment epithelium, and ciliary body. miR-204 is located in an intron of the TRPM3 gene, and the TRPM3 mRNA is coexpressed with miR-204 in the choroid plexus. We also find that primary transcripts for miR-124a and miR-9 genes are expressed in patterns similar to their respective mature miRNAs. The ability to visualize expression of specific miRNAs in embryos and tissues should aid studies on miRNA function.
Why do the left and right sides of the vertebrate brain play different functions? Having a lateralized brain, in which each hemisphere carries out different functions, is ubiquitous among vertebrates. The different specialization of the left and right side of the brain may increase brain efficiency--and some evidence for that is reported here. However, lateral biases due to brain lateralization (such as preferences in the use of a limb or, in animals with laterally placed eyes, of a visual hemifield) usually occur at the population level, with most individuals showing similar direction of bias. Individual brain efficiency does not require the alignment of lateralization in the population. Why then are not left--and right-type individuals equally common? Not only humans, but most vertebrates show a similar pattern. For instance, in the paper I report evidence that most toads, chickens, and fish react faster when a predator approaches from the left. I argue that invoking individual brain efficiency (lateralization may increase fitness), evolutionary chance or direct genetic mechanisms cannot explain this widespread pattern. Instead, using concepts from mathematical theory of games, I show that alignment of lateralization at the population level may arise as an &quot;evolutionarily stable strategy&quot; when individually asymmetrical organisms must coordinate their behavior with that of other asymmetrical organisms. Thus, the population structure of lateralization may result from genes specifying the direction of asymmetries which have been selected under &quot;social&quot; pressures.
In three experiments, we traced the development of the adult pattern of judgments of attractiveness for faces that have been altered to have internal features in low, average, or high positions. Twelve-year-olds and adults demonstrated identical patterns of results: they rated faces with features in an average location as significantly more attractive than faces with either low or high features. Although both 4-year-olds and 9-year-olds rated faces with high features as least attractive, unlike adults and 12-year-olds, they rated faces with low and average features as equally attractive. Three-year-olds with high levels of peer interaction, but not those with low levels of peer interaction, chose faces with low features as significantly more attractive than those with high-placed features, possibly as a result of their increased experience with the proportions of the faces of peers. Overall, the pattern of results is consistent with the hypothesis that experience influences perceptions of attractiveness, with the proportions of the faces participants see in their everyday lives influencing their perceptions of attractiveness.
Changes to a scene often go unnoticed if the objects of the change are unattended, making change detection an index of where attention is focused during scene perception. We measured change detection in school-age children and young adults by repeatedly alternating two versions of an image. To provide an age-fair assessment we used a bimanual choice rather than open-ended verbal responses. The difference in detection speed and accuracy between 50-ms versus 250-ms blank screens between views indexed change detection in short-term visual memory independent of sensory and response processes. Younger children were significantly less efficient than older participants, especially when an object changed color or had a part deleted. Changes in object orientation were detected more readily. These results point to important differences in the perceptual reality of younger and older children.
The isolation and expansion of human neural cell types has become increasingly relevant in restorative neurobiology. Although embryonic and fetal tissue are frequently envisaged as providing sufficiently primordial cells for such applications, the developmental plasticity of endogenous adult neural cells remains largely unclear. To examine the developmental potential of adult human brain cells, we applied conditions favoring the growth of neural stem cells to multiple cortical regions, resulting in the identification and selection of a population of adult human neural progenitors (AHNPs). These nestin(+) progenitors may be derived from multiple forebrain regions, are maintainable in adherent conditions, co-express multiple glial and immature markers, and are highly expandable, allowing a single progenitor to theoretically form sufficient cells for approximately 4x10(7) adult brains. AHNPs longitudinally maintain the ability to generate both glial and neuronal cell types in vivo and in vitro, and are amenable to genetic modification and transplantation. These findings suggest an unprecedented degree of inducible plasticity is retained by cells of the adult central nervous system.
Molecular mechanisms that control oligodendrocyte myelination during mammalian central nervous system (CNS) development are poorly understood. In this study, we identified Zfp488, an oligodendrocyte-specific zinc-finger transcription regulator, by screening for genes downregulated in the optic nerves of Olig1-null mice. The predicted primary structure of Zfp488 is evolutionarily conserved in vertebrates and invertebrates. In the developing CNS, Zfp488 is specifically expressed in oligodendrocytes but not their precursors. Its expression increases in parallel with that of major myelin genes Mbp and Plp1. Zfp488 is a nuclear protein that possesses transcriptional repression activity. In the developing chick neural tube, Zfp488 can promote oligodendrocyte precursor formation upon Notch activation. In addition, Zfp488 can interact and cooperate with the bHLH transcription factor Olig2 to promote precocious and ectopic oligodendrocyte differentiation. Furthermore, knockdown of Zfp488 via RNAi in an oligodendroglial cell line leads to the downregulation of myelin gene expression. Taken together, these data suggest that Zfp488 functions as an oligodendrocyte-specific transcription co-regulator important for oligodendrocyte maturation and that zinc-finger/bHLH cooperation can serve as a mechanism for oligodendroglial differentiation.


The purpose of this article is to review the research status of illicit drug use and its data sources in Latin America, with particular attention to the research that has been produced in the past 15 years in epidemiology of illicit drug use services utilization, and relationship between HIV and drug use. This article complements the series of articles that are published in this same volume which examine drug abuse research (epidemiology, prevention, and treatment) and HIV prevention in Latinos residing in the United States. This review resulted from extensive international and national searches using the following databases: Current Contents Connect, Social and Behavioral Sciences; EBSCO; EMBASE(R) Psychiatry; Evidence Based Medicine (through OVID); Medline, Neurosciences, PsychINFO, Pubmed, BIREME/PAHO/WHO--Virtual Health Library, and SciELO. Papers selected for further review included those published in Spanish, English, and Portuguese in peer-reviewed journals. From the evidence reviewed, it was found that the published research literature is heavily concentrated on descriptive epidemiologic surveys, providing primarily prevalence rates and general information on associated factors. Evidence on patterns of service delivery and HIV prevention and treatment is limited. The cumulative scope of this research clearly indicates variability in quantity and quality of research across Latin American nations and the need for greater uniformity in data collection elements, methodologies, and the creation of international collaborative research networks.

In the early 19th century, physiologists Sir Charles Bell and Franois Magendie both claimed to have been the first to identify separate motor and sensory nerve roots, a discovery acknowledged by their contemporaries as one of the most important of the age. This priority dispute came to embody distinct visions of physiology, and of the role of experimentation and vivisection within that discipline. The dispute remained unresolved, in part, because of competing definitions of what was being discovered.




It is clear from both clinical observations of women, and research in laboratory animals, that gonadal hormones exert a profound influence on neuronal excitability, seizures, and epilepsy. These studies have led to a focus on two of the primary ovarian steroid hormones, estrogen and progesterone, to clarify how gonadal hormones influence seizures in women with epilepsy. The prevailing view is that estrogen is proconvulsant, whereas progesterone is anticonvulsant. However, estrogen and progesterone may not be the only reproductive hormones to consider in evaluating excitability, seizures, or epilepsy in the female. It seems unlikely that estrogen and progesterone would exert single, uniform actions given our current understanding of their complex pharmacological and physiological relationships. Their modulatory effects are likely to depend on endocrine state, relative concentration, metabolism, and many other factors. Despite the challenges these issues raise to future research, some recent advances have helped clarify past confusion in the literature. In addition, testable hypotheses have developed for complex clinical problems such as &quot;catamenial epilepsy.&quot; Clinical and animal research, designed with the relevant endocrinological and neurobiological issues in mind, will help advance this field in the future.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) was used to image brain activity associated with delusions in episodic interictal psychosis of epilepsy. Two female patients aged 65 and 68 with temporal lobe epilepsy were studied during and after a delusional state. Topographic images of the excess kurtosis (g2), the statistical index of spikelike activity, were obtained from unaveraged MEG recordings using an analysis called &quot;synthetic aperture magnetometry&quot; (SAM). For both patients, MEG waveforms and excess kurtosis images revealed spiky activity in the right inferior parietal region during the delusional state. A second MEG measurement after delusions were resolved with antipsychotic therapy revealed no excess kurtosis in the right parietal area. Likewise, the sharp waves on MEG recordings disappeared as well. Our results suggest association of the right inferior parietal cortex, including the supramarginal gyrus, with the delusional state of episodic interictal psychosis of epilepsy.
Mutations in the NHS gene cause Nance-Horan Syndrome (NHS), a rare X-chromosomal recessive disorder with variable features, including congenital cataract, microphthalmia, a peculiar form of the ear and dental anomalies. We investigated the NHS gene in four additional families with NHS from the Netherlands, by dHPLC and direct sequencing. We identified an unique mutation in each family. Three out of these four mutations were not reported before. We report here the first splice site sequence alteration mutation and three protein truncating mutations. Our results suggest that X-linked cataract and NHS are allelic disorders.
Neurological patient populations are usually described by diagnosis or in terms of functional disability measures but rarely by their clinical syndromes. A point-prevalence study was conducted assessing 349 neurological inpatients to determine the frequency and co-occurrence of disabling neurological syndromes, considering a wider spectrum including pain, emotional, neuropsychological, vegetative and sensorimotor syndromes. Of the study patients, 61% (n = 224) had sensorimotor syndromes, 53% (n = 185) had neuropsychological disorders, 40% (n = 139) of the patients suffered from pain, emotional disorders were found in 36% (n = 122) and vegetative disorders in 33% (n = 113). Although frequency varied by neurological diagnosis, these disabling conditions were found across all inpatient groups of diagnosis. Similarly, disorders outside the motor domains grouped according to their Barthel Index showed a striking frequency in patients considered as activities of daily living independent, reflecting a wider spectrum of disability that functional measures are not able to capture. Of the study population, 68% (n = 237) suffered from co-occurring disorders from different categories (pain, emotional, neuropsychological, vegetative and sensorimotor syndromes). There is a high prevalence and co-occurrence of disabling syndromes in neurological inpatients. These proportions reflect the neurological workload in a patient population and should be considered in future rehabilitation research and allocation of resources.
The objectives of this research were to further delineate the neural circuits subserving proposed memory-based behavioural subsystems in the hippocampal formation. These studies were guided by anatomical evidence showing a topographical organization of the hippocampal formation. Briefly, perpendicular to the medial/lateral entorhinal cortex division there is a second system of parallel circuits that separates the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. Recent work from this laboratory has provided evidence that the hippocampus incidentally encodes a context-specific inhibitory association during acquisition of a visual discrimination task. One question that emerges from this dataset is whether the dorsal or ventral hippocampus makes a unique contribution to this newly described function. Rats with neurotoxic lesions of the dorsal or ventral hippocampus were assessed on the acquisition of the visual discrimination task. Following asymptotic performance they were given reversal training in either the same or a different context from the original training. The results showed that the context-specific inhibition effect is mediated by a circuit that includes the ventral but not the dorsal hippocampus. Results from a control procedure showed that rats with either dorso-lateral striatum damage or dorsal hippocampal lesions were impaired on a tactile/spatial discrimination. Taken together, the results represent a double dissociation of learning and memory function between the ventral and dorsal hippocampus. The formation of an incidental inhibitory association was dependent on ventral but not dorsal hippocampal circuitry, and the opposite dependence was found for the spatial component of a tactile/spatial discrimination.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) has been implicated in cognitive and affective responses to acute and chronic stress; however, direct evidence for the reactivity or adaptability of PFC neurons to stress is lacking. We followed the unit activity of medial PFC (mPFC) neurons in awake rats during two consecutive exposures to restraint stress or to a non-aversive novel object. The majority (75%) of mPFC neurons had significant responses to the initial restraint that was differentiated into one of three temporal patterns: (i) phasic increase in firing rate during the restraint period, (ii) slow onset increase in firing rate that was sustained for &gt; 2 h after restraint, and (iii) brief bi-phasic responses to initiation and termination of restraint. Exposure to a novel object elicited an exposure-locked phasic response in 40% of the neurons. None of the neurons displayed the sustained activation that was prominent after restraint. A second exposure to the object no longer elicited this phasic response while neurons in the three restraint-responsive groups modified their firing rate during the second restraint in a manner that was specific to their pattern of response to the first restraint. These findings demonstrate that whereas some mPFC neurons respond phasically to novel stimuli irrespective of their aversive nature, a separate population of PFC neurons responds to a stressful stimulus with a sustained increase in firing rate that persists in the absence of that stimulus. These neurons may be a substrate for adaptive responses that are necessary for behavioral modification.
As a hormone, vasopressin binds to three distinct receptors: V1a and V1b receptors, which induce phospholipase-Cbeta (PLCbeta) activation and Ca2+ mobilization; and V2 receptors, which are coupled to adenylyl cyclase. V1a and V1b receptors are also present in neurons. In particular, hypoglossal (XII) and facial (VII) motoneurons are excited following vasopressin-V1a receptor binding. The aim of the present study was double: (i) to determine whether V1b receptors contribute to the excitatory effect of vasopressin in XII and VII motoneurons; and (ii) to establish whether the action of vasopressin on motoneurons is mediated by Ca2+ signalling. Patch-clamp recordings were performed in brainstem slices of young rats. Vasopressin depolarized the membrane or generated an inward current. By contrast, [1-deamino-4-cyclohexylalanine] arginine vasopressin (d[Cha4]AVP), a V1b agonist, had no effect. The action of vasopressin was suppressed by Phaa-D-Tyr(Et)-Phe-Gln-Asn-Lys-Pro-Arg-NH2, a V1a antagonist, but not by SSR149415, a V1b antagonist. Thus, the vasopressin-induced excitation of brainstem motoneurons was exclusively mediated by V1a receptors. Light microscopic autoradiography failed to detect V1b binding sites in the facial nucleus. In motoneurons loaded with GTP-gamma-S, a non-hydrolysable analogue of GTP, the effect of vasopressin was suppressed, indicating that neuronal V1a receptors are G-protein-coupled. Intracellular Ca2+ chelation suppressed a Ca2+-activated potassium current, but did not affect the vasopressin-evoked current. H7 and GF109203, inhibitors of protein kinase C, were without effect on the vasopressin-induced excitation. U73122 and D609, PLCbeta inhibitors, were also without effect. Thus, excitation of brainstem motoneurons by V1a receptor activation is probably mediated by a second messenger distinct from that associated with peripheral V1a receptors.
Kallikrein 6 (K6) is a member of the kallikrein gene family that comprises 15 structurally and functionally related serine proteases. In prior studies we showed that, while this trypsin-like enzyme is preferentially expressed in neurons and oligodendroglia of the adult central nervous system (CNS), it is up-regulated at sites of injury due to expression by infiltrating immune and resident CNS cells. Given this background we hypothesized that K6 is a key contributor to the pathophysiology of traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI), influencing neural repair and regeneration. Examination of K6 expression following contusion injury to the adult rat cord, and in cases of human traumatic SCI, indicated significant elevations at acute and chronic time points, not only at the injury site but also in cord segments above and below. Elevations in K6 were particularly prominent in macrophages, microglia and reactive astrocytes. To determine potential effects of elevated K6 on the regeneration environment, the ability of neurons to adhere to and extend processes on substrata which had been exposed to recombinant K6 was examined. Limited (1 h) or excess (24 h) K6-mediated proteolytic digestion of a growth-facilitatory substrate, laminin, significantly decreased neurite outgrowth. By contrast, similar hydrolysis of a growth-inhibitory substrate, aggrecan, significantly increased neurite extension and cell adherence. These data support the hypothesis that K6 enzymatic cascades mediate events secondary to spinal cord trauma, including dynamic modification of the capacity for axon outgrowth.
The piriform cortex makes strong interconnections with limbic structures (amygdala, entorhinal cortex and hippocampus) that are involved in memory processing. These connections have also been implicated in the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. However, little is known about how neurones in this region may change during seizure genesis. Here we tested the hypothesis that in the kindling model of temporal lobe epilepsy GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition is altered in the piriform cortex. To do this we performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in piriform cortex brain slices obtained from non-kindled and amygdala-kindled adult rats. We found that kindling coincided with an increase in the amplitude and duration of miniature inhibitory post-synaptic currents (mIPSCs) recorded from non-pyramidal neurones, whereas the mIPSCs occurring on pyramidal (excitatory) cells did not change. Non-stationary noise analysis of mIPSCs occurring on the non-pyramidal neurones showed that inferred unitary conductance of synaptic channels were the same before and after kindling, implying that the channel number increased significantly. Immunocytochemical analysis of the inhibitory innervation showed that it was also unaltered by seizure induction. We also found that the effect of the positive modulator tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone was reduced on the pyramidal neurones after kindling. In contrast, the potentiating effects of tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone on non-pyramidal cells were about the same after kindling as in control (sham) rats. These data indicate that amygdala kindling causes a shift in the inhibition 'balance' between the pyramidal and non-pyramidal cells, perhaps leading to the disinhibition of pyramidal cells.
The specific connectivity among principal cells and interneurons determines the flow of activity in neuronal networks. To elucidate the connections between hippocampal principal cells and various classes of interneurons, CA3 pyramidal cells were intracellularly labelled with biocytin in anaesthetized rats and the three-dimensional distribution of their axon collaterals was reconstructed. The sections were double-stained for substance P receptor (SPR)- or metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha (mGluR-1alpha)-immunoreactivity to investigate interneuron targets of the CA3 pyramidal cells. SPR-containing interneurons represent a large portion of the GABAergic population, including spiny and aspiny classes. Axon terminals of CA3 pyramidal cells contacted SPR-positive interneuron dendrites in the hilus and in all hippocampal strata in both CA3 and CA1 regions (7.16% of all boutons). The majority of axons formed single contacts (87.5%), but multiple contacts (up to six) on single target neurons were also found. CA3 pyramidal cell axon collaterals innervated several types of morphologically different aspiny SPR-positive interneurons. In contrast, spiny SPR-interneurons or mGluR-1alpha-positive interneurons in the hilus, CA3 and CA1 regions were rarely contacted by the filled pyramidal cells. These findings indicate a strong target selection of CA3 pyramidal cells favouring the activation of aspiny classes of interneurons.
The truncated isoform of TrkB, TrkB.T1, has been shown to be expressed in the neurogenic region of rodent brain. TrkB.T1 lacks tyrosine kinase activity and it may modify the action of the full-length TrkB. We show here that the full-length TrkB and TrkB.T1 are expressed at the same relative expression levels in mouse neural progenitor cell cultures. The number of neurosphere-forming progenitors was reduced and apoptosis increased in neurospheres generated from mice overexpressing TrkB.T1 when compared with wild-type neurospheres. The proliferation of the transgenic neural progenitors was increased, as indicated by the larger average diameter of spheres (140% of control), the increased cell growth in an MTT assay (137% of control) and the faster rate of 3H-thymidine incorporation (128% of control) in the transgenic cell cultures than in controls. The proliferation of neural progenitors was also increased after lentivirus-mediated TrkB.T1 overexpression. A significant increase in 3H-thymidine incorporation (119% of control) and the average diameter of spheres (112% of control) in the TrkB.T1-transduced neurospheres compared with neurospheres transduced with the control vectors confirmed the role of TrkB.T1 in proliferation of neural progenitor. When induced to differentiate, progenitors overexpressing TrkB.T1 generated two to three times more neurons than did wild-type cells. The increase in the number of neurons correlated with an increase in the number of apoptotic cells (two-fold) at these time points. The data indicate that changes in the relative expression levels of different TrkB isoforms influence the replicative capacity of neural progenitors.
Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by neuronal loss associated with a progressive impairment of cognitive functions. Early consequences of Alzheimer's disease include deficit of cholinergic signalling in particular regions controlling memory processes, such as the cortex and hippocampus, and accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide in neuritic plaques. The cholinergic system depends for its integrity and function on nerve growth factor. Chronic nerve growth factor deprivation in transgenic mice (AD11) engineered to produce recombinant neutralizing anti-nerve growth factor antibodies leads to progressive age-dependent Alzheimer's-like neurodegenerative pathology similar to that found in patients with Alzheimer's disease, associated with a selective loss of cholinergic neurones in the basal forebrain. Here we show that in the hippocampus of 6-month-old AD11 mice, Abeta aggregates started appearing in the CA1 region. The accumulation of Abeta was associated with a loss of cholinergic function at CA3-CA1 synapses. Whereas in wild-type mice nicotine induced a persistent increase of synaptic efficacy via alpha7 nicotine acetylcholine receptors, in AD11 mice this alkaloid failed to modify synaptic strength. Moreover, nicotine failed to transiently enhance the frequency of spontaneous miniature glutamatergic currents (miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents) recorded from CA1 but not from CA3 pyramidal neurones of AD11 mice. However, in CA3 principal cells of AD11 mice, the potentiating effect of nicotine on miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents was prevented when Abeta peptide 1-42 was added to the extracellular solution. These data suggest that in AD11 mice, Abeta interferes with nicotine acetylcholine receptors at the level of presynaptic glutamatergic terminals, inhibiting their function possibly through calcium signalling via presynaptic alpha7 nicotine acetylcholine receptors.
Low voltage-activated Ca2+ channels (LVA or T-type Ca2+ channels) are crucial to burst firing and oscillations in thalamocortical relay cells and are exhibited by neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of thalamus (PVT), a dorsal midline nucleus deemed important in the neural representation of motivational behaviours. We used a functional approach (whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy) to analyse the spatial distribution of LVA Ca2+ channel-evoked Ca2+ transients in PVT neurons. We observed that the magnitude of LVA Ca2+ channel-evoked Ca2+ transients was significantly greater in proximal dendrites (located up to 20 microm from the soma) than in the soma. In addition, the magnitudes of these Ca2+ transients varied significantly not only among different dendrites of the same cell but also within individual dendrites. These findings suggest that LVA Ca2+ channels are expressed (i) predominantly on the proximal dendrites and (ii) heterogeneously within individual dendrites of PVT neurons. The spatial characteristics of dendritic LVA Ca2+ channels in PVT neurons suggest that these channels may regulate burst firing by modulating dendritic afferent inputs.
Beta-secretase beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), is a membrane-bound aspartyl protease necessary for the generation of amyloid beta-protein (Abeta), which accumulates in the brains of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To gain insight into the mechanisms by which BACE1 activity is regulated, we used proteomic methods to search for BACE1-interacting proteins in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, which overexpress BACE1. We identified reticulon 4-B (RTN4-B; Nogo-B) as a BACE1-associated membrane protein. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed a physical association between BACE1 and RTN4-B, RTN4-C (the shortest isoform of RTN-4), and their homologue reticulon 3 (RTN3), both in SH-SY5Y cells and in transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. Overexpression of these reticulons (RTNs) resulted in a 30-50% reduction in the secretion of both Abeta40 and Abeta42 from HEK293 cells expressing the AD-associated Swedish mutant amyloid precursor protein (APP), but did not affect Abeta secretion from cells expressing the APP beta-C-terminal fragment (beta-CTF), indicating that these RTNs can inhibit BACE1 activity. Furthermore, a BACE1 mutant lacking most of the N-terminal ectodomain also interacted with these RTNs, suggesting that the transmembrane region of BACE1 is critical for the interaction. We also observed a similar interaction between these RTNs and the BACE1 homologue BACE2. Because RTN3 and RTN4-B/C are substantially expressed in neural tissues, our findings suggest that they play important roles in the regulation of BACE1 function and Abeta production in the brain.





We have identified a subset of metabolically obese, but normal weight individuals, with potentially increased risks of developing the metabolic syndrome, despite their normal body mass index. We determined the relationship among body fat distribution, resting metabolic rate (RMR), total body water amount (%TBW), selected gene polymorphism on interleukin-15 receptor-alpha (IL-15Ralpha) and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 677C--&gt;T (MTHFR 677C--&gt;T), to distinguish normal weight obese (NWO) from nonobese with a normal metabolic profile and obese individuals. We analysed anthropometric variables, body composition by Dual energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA), RMR by indirect calorimetry, %TBW by bioimpedence analysis (BIA), MTHFR 677C--&gt;T and IL-15Ralpha genotypes of 128 clinically healthy Caucasian individuals. We compared a group of female, defined as NWO and characterised by a BMI &lt; or = 25 kg/m(2) and FM &gt; or = 30% with groups of others female, and males, represented by nonobese with a BMI &lt; or = 25 kg/m(2) and FM &lt; or = 30%, and preobese-obese individuals with BMI &gt; or = 25 kg/m(2) and %FM &gt; or = 30%; none of the males was classified as NWO. Significant correlations were found among body fat mass distribution, metabolic variables, percentage of total body water distribution and selected genetic variations. The variables that contributed significantly to the separation of classes were body tissue (Tissue), %TBW, RMR, the volumes of both oxygen (VO2) and carbon dioxide (VCO2). The distribution of MTHFR 677C--&gt;T and IL-15 genotypes was significantly different between classes. Our data highlight that NWO individuals showed a significant relationship between the decrease in the basal metabolism (RMR), body fat mass increasing and total water amount. Possession of wild type homozygotes genotypes regarding IL-15Ralpha cytokine and 677C--&gt;T MTHFR enzyme characterised NWO individuals.


A growing body of research across genetics, cognitive science, and other basic science suggests the complexity and interconnectedness of multiple factors contributing to individual variation in susceptibility to engage in risk behaviors. Advances in these disciplines may direct new research directions and the development and evaluation of innovative intervention components for prevention that consider novel but central susceptibility factors. This article highlights findings from three interrelated areas of basic science research--genetics, neuroscience, and cognitive science--that together continue to inform prevention science. A primary objective of this article is to suggest how this research might guide primary prevention interventions. Translating findings from these disciplines can help to facilitate testable hypotheses for prevention science and explain potential limitations of current intervention approaches.
Development of many chordate features depends on retinoic acid (RA). Because the action of RA during development seems to be restricted to chordates, it had been previously proposed that the &quot;invention&quot; of RA genetic machinery, including RA-binding nuclear hormone receptors (Rars), and the RA-synthesizing and RA-degrading enzymes Aldh1a (Raldh) and Cyp26, respectively, was an important step for the origin of developmental mechanisms leading to the chordate body plan. We tested this hypothesis by conducting an exhaustive survey of the RA machinery in genomic databases for twelve deuterostomes. We reconstructed the evolution of these genes in deuterostomes and showed for the first time that RA genetic machinery--that is Aldh1a, Cyp26, and Rar orthologs--is present in nonchordate deuterostomes. This finding implies that RA genetic machinery was already present during early deuterostome evolution, and therefore, is not a chordate innovation. This new evolutionary viewpoint argues against the hypothesis that the acquisition of gene families underlying RA metabolism and signaling was a key event for the origin of chordates. We propose a new hypothesis in which lineage-specific duplication and loss of RA machinery genes could be related to the morphological radiation of deuterostomes.
In everyday life our reaching behaviour has to be guided not only by the location and properties of the target object, but also by the presence of potential obstacles in the workspace. Recent evidence from neglect and optic ataxia patients has suggested that this automatic obstacle avoidance is mediated by the dorsal, rather than the ventral, stream of visual processing. We tested this idea in two studies involving patients with visual form agnosia resulting from bilateral ventral-stream damage. In the first study, we asked patient DF to reach out and pick up a target object in the presence of obstacles placed at varying distances to the left or right of the target. We found that both DF and controls shifted their trajectories away from the potential obstacles and adjusted their grip aperture in such a way as to minimize risk of collision. In a second study, we asked DF and a second patient, SB, to either reach between, or to bisect the space between, two cylinders presented at varying locations. We found that both patients adjusted their reach trajectories to account for shifts in cylinder location in the reaching task, despite showing significantly worse performance than control subjects when asked to make a bisection judgement. Taken together, these data indicate that automatic obstacle avoidance behaviour is spared in our patients with visual form agnosia. We attribute their ability to the functional intactness of the dorsal stream of visual processing, and argue that the ventral stream plays no important role in automatic obstacle avoidance.
Walking onto a stationary platform, which had been previously experienced as moving generates a locomotor aftereffect (LAE), which resembles the 'broken escalator' phenomenon. Experimentally, this is achieved by having subjects walk initially onto a stationary sled (BEFORE condition), then onto a moving sled (MOVING condition, or adaptation trials) and then again onto the stationary sled (AFTER condition). Subjects are always appropriately warned of the change in conditions. In this paper, we ask how many adaptation trials are needed to produce such a LAE. Thus, in two experiments, the number of MOVING trials was varied between 20 and 5 (Experiment 1) and between 8 and 1 (Experiment 2). Gait velocity, trunk position, foot contact timing and EMG of the ankle flexor-extensors muscles were measured. In comparison with BEFORE trials all groups in the AFTER trials walked inappropriately fast, experienced a large overshoot of the trunk and showed increased leg EMG, indicating that all groups showed a LAE. In each experiment, and for all variables, no significant difference between the groups (i.e. 20 down to one MOVING trials) was found. The study shows that this LAE, in contrast to other motor aftereffects reported in the literature, can be generated with only one or two adaptation trials and without requiring unexpected 'catch' trials. The fast aftereffect generation observed is likely to depend on two types of mechanisms: (1) the nature of the sensorimotor adaptation process, involving multiple sensory feedbacks (visual, vestibular and proprioceptive), anticipatory control and large initial task errors and (2) the involvement of two phylogenetically old neural mechanisms, namely locomotion and fear. Fear-relevant mechanisms, which are notably resistant to cognitive control, may be recruited during the adaptation trials and contribute to the release of this LAE.
We aimed to dissociate components in prism adaptation and its aftereffect by using prism adaptation training in healthy humans. Arm proprioceptive aftereffects are usually measured by indicating the subjective straight ahead direction with eyes closed (S). This measure however could be affected by other components besides proprioception, such as an efferent motor component and internal egocentric reference frame. Here we report a very long lasting proprioceptive shift, detected by two measuring methods, that is a component of the adaptation aftereffects to left wedge prism glasses. In order to minimize possible active motor components, arm passive proprioceptive midsagittal judgment was measured (P). The subject's arm was passively brought from the right or left lateral position, and stopped by subjects' verbal order. The results from these different measurements of midsagittal judgment were compared for 7 days after prism adaptation. Surprisingly, we found two distinctly separate aftereffects of proprioceptive shift depending on the directions of the passive arm movement. The shift of the midsagittal plane appeared only when tested from the left (Pl). This indicates that our strong prism adaptation procedure affected proprioception in a directionally biased way and not a spatially ubiquitous way. Further, the early aftereffect seen in active straight ahead pointing (S) was mostly similar to this biased shift in proprioception (Pl). However the long lasting aftereffect in straight ahead pointing was independently maintained up to day 7, when the passive proprioception had returned to pretest level. These results indicate that active straight ahead pointing (S) involves other components in addition to the passively measurable proprioceptive component. We suggest a late onset shift in the internal egocentric reference frame is involved in S. Possible neural mechanisms for these phenomena are discussed.
Changing plans depends on executive control, the orchestration of behavior based on knowledge of both goal and context. Dorsolateral prefrontal (DLPFC) and anterior cingulate (ACC) cortices are clearly involved in these processes. Intracranial recordings in these regions were obtained from a monkey performing an executive control-challenging task that is widely used in clinic and laboratory to assess the integrity of cognitive function, the AX version of the continuous performance task (AX-CPT), and directly compared to scalp-recorded evoked potentials in humans. In this task the subject presses a button when detecting a frequent cue-target probe sequence in a stream of letters presented on a computer screen, and withholds response following incorrect sequences. Thus correct performance requires correct encoding of cue and probe instruction and inhibitory control. Intracranial recordings showed that DLPFC in the monkey was primarily activated by conditions that required inhibition of imminent action, as had been shown in human event-related potential (ERP) recordings. Different subregions of monkey ACC were activated primarily by either initiating or inhibiting action, whereas human ERP had shown ACC activation in both situations. We suggest that simultaneous activation of both types of subregions in conflict conditions may account the ubiquitous ACC activation observed with fMRI and ERP in those conditions.
The present results show that the common practice of using self-indexing conditioned stimuli (CSs) in research on Pavlovian conditioning is a major source of experimental bias. The typical stimulus used is either a light flash or a sound pulse in a light/sound-shielded chamber. Under these conditions the onset characteristics of the CS signal totally predominate over the durational characteristic, i.e. the pattern information. Thus a visual pattern presented as a CS in a dark chamber is confounded with a brightness change from darkness to light. In the first experiment, animals were conditioned with a brightness CS using a self-indexing signal paradigm. When tested for specificity of the conditioning, they showed complete transfer of learning to either a visual pattern or even an auditory CS. These findings indicated that the traditional conditioning paradigm is biased towards non-specific sensory learning. The second experiment showed that specific sensory conditioning is critically dependent on selective attention mechanisms. When the onset characteristics of the CS signal were de-emphasized by the use of equal energy background illumination in the intertribal interval (ITI) during conditioning, the animals were not able to feature extract either the onset or the durational component of the CS signal from the ITI background despite prolonged training. It was only by starting with conditioning that was initially anchored to the CS onset characteristics that a perceptual fade-in procedure would bias attention to feature extract the durational characteristics of the CS. Thus conditioning occurred only when the rabbit's attention was directed to detection of the gratings display without any associated changes in visual albedo. Perhaps the most important finding of the present experiments is that the use of self-indexing CS signals in Pavlovian conditioning inevitably introduces non-specific sensory processing involving multiple sensory input pathways in the conditioning. This inherent uncertainty of the sensory input pathways presents a problem for clarifying the role of sensory pathways in the neural mechanisms of NM conditioning. In addition, the use of self-indexing CSs inevitably leads to an underestimation of the role of forebrain mechanisms in Pavlovian conditioning.
Hindlimb unloading is considered as a model of functional deafferentation, since in this situation the tactile information from the paw and the proprioceptive input from the limb are dramatically reduced. Unloading induces a shrinkage of the cortical representation of the affected body part associated to a reorganization of topographic maps and to an expansion of receptive fields. Previous studies have suggested that cortical plasticity was the result of a change in the balance of excitation and inhibition in the cortex. The aim of the present study was thus to determine whether deafferentation of the hindlimb representation in the somatosensory cortex, by 14 days of unloading or by surgical means (selective dorsal rhizotomy during 17 days), can change the concentration in various amino acid neurotransmitters in the deprived cortex. The present findings indicate that both types of deafferentation result in a decrease in inhibitory amino acids (GABA, taurine) without significant changes in the main excitatory amino acid (glutamate). In conclusion, the present results support the idea that cortical changes are more likely due to a release from inhibition than to an increased excitation.
Previous research has shown that the postural configuration adopted by a subject, such as active leaning, influences the postural response to an unpredictable support surface translation. While those studies have examined large differences in postural conditions, it is of additional interest to examine the effects of naturally occurring changes in standing posture. Thus, it was hypothesized that the normal postural sway observed during quiet standing would affect the responses to an unpredictable support surface translation. Seventeen young adults stood quietly on a moveable platform and were perturbed in either the forward or backward direction when the location of the center of pressure (COP) was either 1.5 standard deviations anterior or posterior to the mean baseline COP signal. Postural responses, in the form of electromyographic (EMG) latencies and amplitudes, were recorded from lower limb and trunk muscles. When the location of the COP at the time of the translation was in the opposite, as compared to the same, direction as the upcoming translation, there was a significantly earlier onset of the antagonists (10-23%, i.e. 15-45 ms) and a greater EMG amplitude (14-39%) in four of the six recorded muscles. Stepping responses were most frequently observed during trials where the position of the COP was opposite to the direction of the translation. The results support the hypothesis that postural responses to unpredictable support surface translations are influenced by the normal movements of postural sway. The results may help to explain the large variability of postural responses found between past studies.
Performance in a reaction time task can be strongly influenced by the physical properties of the stimuli used (e.g., position and intensity). The reduction in reaction time observed with higher-intensity visual stimuli has been suggested to arise from reduced processing time along the visual pathway. If this hypothesis is correct, activity should be registered in neurons sooner for higher-intensity stimuli. We evaluated this hypothesis by measuring the onset of neural activity in the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus while monkeys generated saccades to high or low-intensity visual stimuli. When stimulus intensity was high, the response onset latency was significantly reduced compared to low-intensity stimuli. As a result, the minimum time for visually triggered saccades was reduced, accounting for the shorter saccadic reaction times (SRTs) observed following high-intensity stimuli. Our results establish a link between changes in neural activity related to stimulus intensity and changes to SRTs, which supports the hypothesis that shorter SRTs with higher-intensity stimuli are due to reduced processing time.
Decline of locomotor function is a prominent feature of aging in most species. We previously described a series of metrical analyses for quantifying functional declines associated with aging. Here, we have applied these metrics to elucidate differences in the nature of locomotor senescence between Drosophila cohorts from four different genetic backgrounds (Canton-S, Oregon-R, Samarkand and Lausanne-S) and two long-lived mutant strains, Indy(206) and chico(1). These analyses demonstrate that senescence of locomotor function in Oregon-R and Canton-S proceeds more rapidly than in Samarkand and Lausanne-S flies. Our analyses also show that while chico(1) and Indy mutants both exhibit attenuated locomotor declines, the impact of chico loss of function on locomotor senescence is substantially greater. Our studies illustrate how important differences in functional senescence characteristics can be unveiled by in-depth analysis on functional senescence data sets.

Environmental enrichment and exercise may be neuroprotective or promote recovery after different forms of CNS injury. Here, we tested the possible effects of moderate environmental enrichment and voluntary exercise on the outcome of incomplete spinal cord injury in rats. We provided rats in standard cages with basic environmental enrichment (carton house, nesting material, tube, gnawing sticks). We also analyzed the effect of increased activity by housing spinal-cord-injured rats in cages with or without access to running wheels. In a third experiment, we looked at the possible effect of pre-injury training. In all experiments, a battery of behavior tests were used. Enriched environment provided before, after or both before and after injury did not alter the outcome on any of these tests. Similarly, despite excessive running after injury, no differences in terms of recovery and behavior were found in the running experiment. Similarly, running prior to injury did not significantly decrease the degree of functional deficit caused by the injury. Since there were no effects of further enrichment, above the possible effects of being socially housed, and since exercise did not improve the outcome, we conclude that these forms of increased activity do not render the animals significantly less sensitive to spinal cord injury and do not cause robust improvement when initiated after injury. While these results pose a limit to how helpful environmental and physical training programs may be in rodent impact injury models, they do not contradict the fact that voluntary and guided training can be effective tools in human spinal cord rehabilitation.
A number of studies have already established the role of the subventricular zone in sustaining adult neurogenesis in different brain regions and under different pathological conditions, but nothing is reported about the role of this germinal area in preserving cell viability. In this work, we developed an organotypic culture model of the forebrain structures that comprise the neocortex, striatum, subventricular zone, and corpus callosum. With this model, we investigated the role of the subventricular zone in modulating cell viability in the cortex after oxygen/glucose deprivation. Here we have demonstrated that soluble heat-labile factors released by the subventricular zone in the media can lead to protection specifically in the cortical area. No protection was observed when medium, conditioned with factors released during the insult was administered to the hippocampal slices. Moreover, the use of different modifications of the slice cultures showed that the removal of the subventricular zone increased the cellular damage induced by oxygen/glucose deprivation. Furthermore, by using pharmacological experiments to investigate the possible mechanisms that regulate this subventricular function, we found evidence of purinergic involvement. We postulate that extracellular ATP signaling in the subventricular zone exacerbates cortical damage induced by hypoxia/hypoglycemia. For the first time, we demonstrate in vitro that the germinal subventricular zone can release factors that can be protective after exposure to a metabolic stressor. These released factors are not yet characterized but we identified in the extracellular ATP a factor that may interfere with the protective role of the subventricular zone during metabolic cortical damage.
In the adult mammalian brain, new neurons are continuously generated from a proliferating population of neural progenitor/stem cells and become incorporated into the existing neuronal circuitry via a process termed adult neurogenesis. The existence of active functional adult neurogenesis raises the exciting possibility that manipulating endogenous neural progenitors, or transplanting the progeny of exogenously expanded neural progenitors, may lead to successful cell replacement therapies for various degenerative neurological diseases. Significant effort is being made to decipher the mechanisms regulating adult neurogenesis, which may allow us to translate this endogenous neuronal replacement system into therapeutic interventions for neurodegenerative diseases. This review focuses on adult neurogenesis as a strategy to derive potential therapies, and discusses future directions in the field.
One of the greatest challenges to discovering more efficacious medications for pain control has been the heterogeneity of the chronic pain condition in humans. It is now appreciated that distinct mechanisms contribute to normal physiological pain, pain arising from tissue damage and pain arising from injury to the nervous system. To study pain transmission, identify new pain targets and characterise the potential analgesic profile of novel compounds, an array of experimental animal pain models has been developed (mainly in rodents) attempting to replicate the many human pain conditions, including inflammatory, neuropathic, visceral and cancer pain states. The authors review commonly used rodent models of acute and chronic pain that have been used in an attempt to identify novel analgesic drugs. Although these animal models have helped to better understand pain physio-pharmacology mechanisms, one should remember that even for patients labelled under the same 'pain condition', the pain experience is unique, increasing the difficulty of modelling such painful states in animals. Looking back at decades of pain research, it is clear that the transition from preclinical findings to clinical applications in the treatment of pain has been difficult and that more predictive models need to be developed to facilitate the discovery and development of novel pain medications. For these reasons, particular attention has been given in this review to the more recently developed models of visceral, osteoarthritic and bone cancer pain.
Ubiquitinated protein aggregates are observed in the brains of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's disease patients and in other neurodegenerative disorders. These aggregates indicate that the ubiquitin proteasome system may be impaired in these diseases. To date no therapy is available that specifically targets this system, although preventing aggregate formation or stimulating the degradation of already formed aggregates by targeting components of the ubiquitin proteasome system is an attractive therapeutic approach. Here, we review the role of the ubiquitin proteasome system in aggregate formation with respect to neurodegenerative diseases, discussing the unfolded protein response, endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation, aggresome formation and accumulation as well as aggregation and neurotoxicity of proteins involved in neurodegeneration. The potential of pharmacological intervention within this system in patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases will be evaluated.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major threat for the rapidly aging world population. AD is the leading cause of dementia and a major cause of death in developed countries. The disease puts a tremendous practical, emotional and financial burden on individuals and governments. Clinicians and researchers in the AD field face great challenges: the pathophysiological processes that cause AD are not well understood, definite diagnosis of AD requires autopsy, and therapeutic options are limited to treating the symptoms rather than the cause of the disease. Nevertheless, new insights into the earliest events that lead to development of AD increase hope that reliable diagnostics and efficacious therapies may emerge.
After binding, central nervous system (CNS) myelin-derived axon growth inhibitory ligands, the Nogo-66 receptor (NgR), complexes with LINGO-1 and either the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) or TROY to initiate growth cone collapse via a Rho-A inhibitory signaling pathway and/or Ca(2+)-dependent activation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) through an unknown signaling pathway. We have shown that axon growth through CNS myelin is disinhibited after neurotrophic factor administration by 1) initiating intramembranous proteolysis (RIP) of p75(NTR), leading to cleavage of the extracellular (p75(ECD)) and intracellular domains (p75(ICD)) by alpha- and gamma-secretase, respectively, thereby paralyzing inhibitory signaling; 2) shedding of soluble NgR(ECD), which acts as a competitive antagonist to NgR for binding of inhibitory ligands; and 3) antagonizing NgR/p75(NTR) clustering by competitive p75(ECD)/NgR interaction. Here, we report that TNF-alpha converting enzyme (TACE) (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase 17, ADAM17) induces disinhibition of FGF2-stimulated neurite outgrowth of dorsal root ganglion neurons (DRGN) cultured in the presence of a predetermined concentration of inhibitory CNS myelin-derived ligands. After addition of TACE (which has alpha-secretase activity) to mitotically arrested adult rat mixed DRG cultures, we demonstrate 1) NgR(ECD) shedding; 2) release of p75(ECD) and p75(ICD) by RIP of p75(NTR); 3) blockade of Rho-A activation; 4) reduced EGFR phosphorylation; and 5) increased FGF2-stimulated DRGN neurite outgrowth and branching in the presence of CNS myelin-derived inhibitory ligands. Thus, TACE-induced cleavage of NgR and RIP of p75(NTR) abrogates axon growth inhibitory signaling, thereby disinhibiting CNS axon/neurite growth.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the &quot;master clock&quot; of the mammalian brain. It coordinates the peripheral clocks in the body, including the pineal clock that receives SCN input via a multisynaptic noradrenergic pathway. Rhythmic pineal melatonin production is disrupted in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we show that the clock genes hBmal1, hCry1, and hPer1 were rhythmically expressed in the pineal of controls (Braak 0). Moreover, hPer1 and hbeta1-adrenergic receptor (hbeta1-ADR) mRNA were positively correlated and showed a similar daily pattern. In contrast, in both preclinical (Braak I-II) and clinical AD patients (Braak V-VI), the rhythmic expression of clock genes was lost as well as the correlation between hPer1 and hbeta1-ADR mRNA. Intriguingly, hCry1 mRNA was increased in clinical AD. These changes are probably due to a disruption of the SCN control, as they were mirrored in the rat pineal deprived of SCN control. Indeed, a functional disruption of the SCN was observed from the earliest AD stages onward, as shown by decreased vasopressin mRNA, a clock-controlled major output of the SCN. Thus, a functional disconnection between the SCN and the pineal from the earliest AD stage onward could account for the pineal clock gene changes and underlie the circadian rhythm disturbances in AD.

Previous studies have demonstrated that bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and heat killed Staphylococcus aureus (SA) activation of inflammatory cells depended in part upon activation of heterotrimeric Gi proteins. It has also been shown that (1 --&gt; 3) beta-D-glucan can suppress inflammatory cell activation by microbial products although the cellular mechanism of the glucan effect remains to be clearly defined. We hypothesized that Gi proteins function as a common convergent signaling pathway for both LPS and SA leading to monocyte mediator production. Additionally, we hypothesized that soluble glucan suppresses LPS and SA induced cytokine production via Gi protein coupled signaling. Human THP-1 promonocytic cells were pretreated with pertussis toxin (PTx, 100 ng/ml or 1 microgram/ml) 6 hours prior to stimulation with LPS (10 microgram/ml) and SA (10 microgram/ml) and/or soluble glucan (10 microgram/ml). Both LPS and SA significantly (p &lt; 0.05) induced cytokine production IL-6 &gt; TNF alpha &gt; IL-1 beta &gt; GM-CSF &gt; IL-10 &gt; IFN gamma. The induction of these cytokines was significantly (p &lt; 0.05) suppressed by PTx. Glucan treatment alone had no effect on cytokine production but suppressed (P &lt; 0.05) LPS and SA induced cytokines. PTx further augmented (p &gt; 0.05) the inhibitory effect of glucan on the LPS and SA induced cytokine expression. The data support the hypothesis that Gi proteins function as a common signaling protein for both LPS and SA induction of pro-and anti-inflammatory cytokines and that soluble glucan effectively suppresses cytokine production to the microbial stimuli. In contrast, the effect of soluble glucan on inhibiting cellular activation by LPS and SA is Gi protein independent.
In addition to its well documented action in female-typical behaviors, progesterone exerts an influence on the brain and behavior of males. This review will discuss the role of progesterone and its receptor in male-typical reproductive behaviors in adulthood and the role of progesterone and its receptor in neural development, in both sexual differentiation of the brain as well as in the development of &quot;non-reproductive&quot; functions. The seemingly inconsistent and contradictory results on progesterone in males that exist in the literature illustrate the complexity of progesterone's actions and illuminate the need for further research in this area. As progestin-containing contraceptives in men are currently being tested and progesterone administration to pregnant women and premature newborns increases, a better understanding of the role of this hormone in behavior and brain development becomes essential.
The melanocortin system consists of melanocortin peptides derived from the proopiomelanocortin gene (in particular adrenocorticotropic hormone, ACTH, and melanocyte-stimulating hormones, MSH) and five melanocortin receptor subtypes (MC1R-MC5R). Knowledge of the melanocortin system in fish is still limited, but information on the receptor part of the system is very rapidly growing. The melanocortin receptors (MCRs) have been recently cloned from several species of fish. The amino acid sequences appear remarkably well conserved. Pharmacological characterisation studies of the first identified piscine MCRs indicate that ACTH may be the original ligand for the MCRs, while the MSH peptides gained specialised functions in the course of evolution. Considering the tissue distribution of the MCRs, there are two distinctions between mammals and fish: where in mammals the MC4R is exclusively expressed in the central nervous system, in the fish species examined so far it is also peripherally expressed. It does however, alike the situation in mammals, likely play a key role in the central regulation of food intake and energy balance. Not only the MCRs, but also many other factors involved herewith, have been found in fish and roughly appear to function similarly as in mammals. The second difference is the distribution of the MC5R, which appears less widely expressed in fish than in mammals. Considering the available data it is predicted that, in mammals and fish alike, skin colouration is mediated via MC1R and steroidogenesis via MC2R. This review provides a short overview of the basic molecular characteristics, pharmacology, and tissue distribution of the MCRs in the fish investigated up to now, as well as their physiological role in the processes of skin colouration, steroidogenesis, and feeding behaviour.
To elucidate the role of 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 (PDK1) in cellular signaling, we constructed and expressed a pseudosubstrate of PDK1, designated as deltaAL-PIF, and characterized its properties in cultured cells. deltaAL-PIF consists of two fused proteins of the protein kinase Cdelta (deltaPKC) activation loop (deltaAL) and PDK1-interacting fragment (PIF). The phosphorylation of deltaAL-PIF was detected with anti-deltaPKC phospho-Thr505-specific antibody and was increased in proportion to the expression level of co-expressed GST-PDK1, indicating that it acts as a pseudosubstrate of PDK1. In cells expressing deltaAL-PIF, basal phosphorylation level at the activation loop of PKBalpha, deltaPKC and gammaPKC was reduced, compared with that in control cells, suggesting that deltaAL-PIF functions as an inhibitory molecule for PDK1. deltaAL-PIF affected the stability, translocation and endogenous activity of PKCs. These effects of deltaAL-PIF on gammaPKC properties were confirmed by investigation using conditioned PDK1 knockout cells. Furthermore, apoptosis frequently occurred in cells expressing deltaAL-PIF for 3 days. These findings revealed that deltaAL-PIF served as an effective pseudosubstrate and an inhibitory molecule for PDK1, suggesting that this molecule can be used as a tool for investigating PDK-mediated cellular functions as well as being applicable for anti-cancer therapy.
Understanding differences in the repertoire of orthologous gene pairs is vital for interpretation of pharmacological and physiological experiments if conclusions are conveyed between species. Here we present a comprehensive dataset for G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) in both human and mouse with a phylogenetic road map. We performed systematic searches applying several search tools such as BLAST, BLAT, and Hidden Markov models and searches in literature data. We aimed to gather a full-length version of each human or mouse GPCR in only one copy referring to a single chromosomal position. Moreover, we performed detailed phylogenetic analysis of the transmembrane regions of the receptors to establish accurate orthologous pairs. The results show the identity of 495 mouse and 400 human functional nonolfactory GPCRs. Overall, 329 of the receptors are found in one-to-one orthologous pairs, while 119 mouse and 31 human receptors originate from species-specific expansions or deletions. The average percentage similarity of the orthologue pairs is 85%, while it varies between the main GRAFS families from an average of 59 to 94%. The orthologous pairs for the lipid-binding GPCRs had the lowest levels of conservation, while the biogenic amines had highest levels of conservation. Moreover, we searched for expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and identified more than 17,000 ESTs matching GPCRs in mouse and human, providing information about their expression patterns. On the whole, this is the most comprehensive study of the gene repertoire that codes for human and mouse GPCRs. The datasets are available for downloading.
Myelination in the central nervous system is a complex process requiring the integration of oligodendrocyte progenitor differentiation and the coordinate expression of myelin genes. This study addresses the role of the helix-loop-helix protein Id4 in these two events. Overexpression of Id4 in oligodendrocyte progenitors prevents differentiation and consequently decreases the endogenous expression of all myelin genes. Conversely, progenitors lacking Id4 display precocious differentiation both in vitro and in vivo, and this phenotype is partially compensated by increased apoptosis. Besides this role, Id4 also has the ability to decrease the activity of specific myelin promoters, since Id4 overexpression decreases the activity of luciferase reporter genes driven by the ceramide galactosyltransferase (CGT) or myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter, but not by a myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) promoter. Consistent with these results, the expression levels of MBP and CGT are greater in neonatal Id4 null mice when compared with wild-type siblings and correlate with the early detection of MBP immunoreactive myelinated fibers. In contrast, the levels of other myelin proteins, such as PLP and myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG) are decreased in the Id4 null mice. MAG expression is localized to the soma rather than the fibers of immunoreactive cells in the neonatal brain and compensated at later developmental stages. These data support the role of Id4 as oligodendrocyte differentiation inhibitor with the ability to differentially regulate the expression and subcellular distribution of myelin gene products.


The German waltzing guinea pig is a new strain of animals with a recessively inherited inner ear defect resulting in deafness and severe vestibular dysfunction. Measurements of auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) demonstrated that the homozygotes (gw/gw) are deaf while the heterozygotes (gw/+) have normal hearing. In the gw/gw cochlea, a collapse of Reissner's membrane leads to the absence of scala media. Melanin pigment accumulation was clearly observed in the gw/gw stria vascularis, and both the height and width of stria vascularis were significantly reduced. Ultrastructural observations further detailed the disorganization of stria vascularis in the gw/gw animals: marginal cells lacked basolateral infoldings; intermediate cells (melanocytes) were scarce and degenerated; and basal cells were difficult to identify. The level of degeneration of the organ of Corti varied between individual gw/gw animals. The density of spiral ganglion neurons was significantly decreased in old (1-2 years of age) gw/gw animals. In contrast, no pathological changes were observed in the cochleae of gw/+ animals. Our data suggest that the degeneration originates in the stria vascularis (most likely in the melanocytes), and that this is the primary cause for inner ear defects in the German waltzing guinea pig. Here, we describe the auditory function and cochlear morphology in this spontaneously mutated guinea pig strain.
Mutations in the TRIM37 gene underlie mulibrey nanism (muscle-liver-brain-eye nanism), a rare monogenic developmental disorder characterized by severe growth failure, characteristic dysmorphic features, cardiopathy, failure of sexual maturation, and metabolic syndrome. The TRIM37 protein, a member of the tripartite motif subfamily of RING finger proteins, is highly conserved between human and mouse. High evolutionary conservation is seen also at the gene level. We here show that the mouse Trim37 gene presents several alternative splice variants, including a testis-specific transcript with an additional 3' exon. By Northern blot analysis the highest level of Trim37 mRNA was detected in testis and brain. In embryonic tissues, the Trim37 protein was detected in epithelia, including ducts of the developing pancreas, epithelium of the midgut and nasal epithelium. In adult mouse tissues, Trim37 immunoreactivity was detected in the central and peripheral nervous systems, including enteric ganglia, retina, and the adrenal medulla. Moreover, specific cellular populations in the adenohypophysis, pancreatic islets, intestine and gonads showed intense Trim37 staining. Both nuclear and granular cytoplasmic staining patterns were observed. These findings are in agreement with the clinical manifestations of mulibrey nanism and provide a basis for the future analysis of Trim37 knock-out mice.

Adult male Wistar rats were trained in the Morris water maze (MWM) on 3 consecutive days to find a visible platform. Concomitantly, microdialysis samples from the hypothalamic paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei were collected in order to monitor local release of the neuropeptides vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT), respectively, during controllable swim stress. Additionally, a separate set of animals was equipped with chronic jugular venous catheters to collect blood samples for analyzing plasma concentrations of corticotropin (ACTH) and corticosterone during training in the MWM. As measured by microdialysis, swimming in the MWM caused a significantly increased release of AVP within the PVN and of OXT within the SON on each of the 3 test sessions. In contrast to OXT in the SON, basal AVP concentrations in the PVN tended to rise from day to day. Plasma ACTH and corticosterone were found to be similarly elevated in response to MWM exposure on each of the test sessions. Taken together, these data demonstrate that testing in the MWM is not only associated with a significant activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis but also with an intrahypothalamic release of AVP and OXT. If compared with findings using repeated forced swimming as an uncontrollable stressor (Wotjak, C.T., Ganster, J., Kohl, G., Holsboer, F., Landgraf, R., Engelmann, M., 1998. Dissociated central and peripheral release of vasopressin, but not oxytocin, in response to repeated swim stress: new insights into the secretory capacities of peptidergic neurons. Neuroscience 85, 1209-1222), the present results suggest that (1) similarities in the release profiles of AVP in the PVN and plasma hormone levels are fairly independent from the controllability of the stressor and seem, thus, to primarily relate to the physical demands of the task, whereas (2) the different intra-SON OXT release profiles might be linked to the controllability of the stressor.
Hormone-neurotransmitter interactions form an important link through which hormones influence a variety of behavioral processes. Typically, sexual behavior is dimorphic with males mounting receptive females. In the all-female lizard species Cnemidophorus uniparens, individuals display both male-like pseudocopulation and female-like receptivity. These respective behavioral states are correlated with high circulating concentrations of progesterone following ovulation and of estrogen preceding it. In sexual species, serotonin is involved in male-typical mounting, and, as reported here, in male-like pseudosexual behavior in this unisexual species. In the first study, C. uniparens were ovariectomized and treated systemically with exogenous androgen, a hormonal regimen that results in individuals displaying only male-like pseudosexual behavior. An increase in serotonin levels in the preoptic area coupled with the suppression of male-like pseudocopulation was observed in androgen-treated lizards injected with 5-hydroxytryptophan (the precursor of serotonin) and clorgyline (a monoamine oxidase inhibitor) compared to vehicle-treated controls. Our second experiment involved ovariectomizing lizards and either injecting them with estradiol or implanting them with either an empty (Blank) or a progesterone- or testosterone-containing Silastic capsule. Treatment with para-chlorophenylalanine (an inhibitor of tryptophan hydroxylase) facilitated male-like pseudosexual behavior depending on the circulating hormonal milieu and decreased serotonin levels in the preoptic area. Our data suggest that serotonin is inhibitory to male-like pseudosexual behavior in C. uniparens but more importantly that the hormonal environment modulates the serotonin system at the level of the preoptic area, with the serotonergic system then establishing behavioral thresholds that allow for this behavior to be &quot;gated&quot;.
The ovarian hormones, estradiol (E) and progesterone (P) facilitate the expression of sexual behavior in female rats. E and P mediate many of these behavioral effects by binding to their respective intracellular receptors in specific brain regions. Nuclear receptor coactivators, including Steroid Receptor Coactivator-1 (SRC-1) and CREB Binding Protein (CBP), dramatically enhance ligand-dependent steroid receptor transcriptional activity in vitro. Previously, our lab has shown that SRC-1 and CBP modulate estrogen receptor (ER)-mediated induction of progestin receptor (PR) gene expression in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) and hormone-dependent sexual receptivity in female rats. Female sexual behaviors can be activated by high doses of E alone in ovariectomized rats, and thus are believed to be ER-dependent. However, the full repertoire of female sexual behavior, in particular, proceptive behaviors such as hopping, darting and ear wiggling, are considered to be PR-dependent. In the present experiments, the function of SRC-1 and CBP in distinct ER- (Exp. 1) and PR- (Exp. 2) dependent aspects of female sexual behavior was investigated. In Exp. 1, infusion of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to SRC-1 and CBP mRNA into the VMN decreased lordosis intensity in rats treated with E alone, suggesting that these coactivators modulate ER-mediated female sexual behavior. In Exp. 2, antisense to SRC-1 and CBP mRNA around the time of P administration reduced PR-dependent ear wiggling and hopping and darting. Taken together, these data suggest that SRC-1 and CBP modulate ER and PR action in brain and influence distinct aspects of hormone-dependent sexual behaviors. These findings support our previous studies and provide further evidence that SRC-1 and CBP function together to regulate ovarian hormone action in behaviorally-relevant brain regions.
We describe an extension of our empirical Bayes approach to magnetoencephalography/electroencephalography (MEG/EEG) source reconstruction that covers both evoked and induced responses. The estimation scheme is based on classical covariance component estimation using restricted maximum likelihood (ReML). We have focused previously on the estimation of spatial covariance components under simple assumptions about the temporal correlations. Here we extend the scheme, using temporal basis functions to place constraints on the temporal form of the responses. We show how the same scheme can estimate evoked responses that are phase-locked to the stimulus and induced responses that are not. For a single trial the model is exactly the same. In the context of multiple trials, however, the inherent distinction between evoked and induced responses calls for different treatments of the underlying hierarchical multitrial model. We derive the respective models and show how they can be estimated efficiently using ReML. This enables the Bayesian estimation of evoked and induced changes in power or, more generally, the energy of wavelet coefficients.
Rod and cone photoreceptors in mammalian retina are generated from common pool(s) of neuroepithelial progenitors. NRL, CRX and NR2E3 are key transcriptional regulators that control photoreceptor differentiation. Mutations in NR2E3, a rod-specific orphan nuclear receptor, lead to loss of rods, increased density of S-cones and supernormal S-cone-mediated vision in humans. To better understand its in vivo function, NR2E3 was expressed ectopically in the Nrl-/- retina, where post-mitotic precursors fated to be rods develop into functional S-cones similar to the human NR2E3 disease. Expression of NR2E3 in the Nrl-/- retina completely suppressed cone differentiation and resulted in morphologically rod-like photoreceptors, which were however not functional. Gene profiling of FACS-purified photoreceptors confirmed the role of NR2E3 as a strong suppressor of cone genes but an activator of only a subset of rod genes (including rhodopsin) in vivo. Ectopic expression of NR2E3 in cone precursors and differentiating S-cones of wild-type retina also generated rod-like cells. The dual regulatory function of NR2E3 was not dependent upon the presence of NRL and/or CRX, but on the timing and level of its expression. Our studies reveal a critical role of NR2E3 in establishing functional specificity of NRL-expressing photoreceptor precursors during retinal neurogenesis.
Intradermal (ID) vaccination with modern cell culture rabies vaccines is a means to significantly reduce the cost of post-exposure prophylaxis as compared to intramuscular vaccination. In this study we evaluated the efficacy, immunogenicity and tolerability of PCECV and PVRV administered ID in doses of 0.1 mL per site according to the 2-site Thai Red Cross (TRC) regimen. Patients with WHO category III exposure to suspect or laboratory proven rabid animals were administered either PCECV (n = 58) or PVRV (n = 52) ID at a dose of 0.1 mL per site at two sites on days 0, 3 and 7 and at one site on days 30 and 90. Serum samples were withdrawn on days 0, 14, 30, 90 and 180 and rabies virus neutralizing antibody (RVNA) titers were determined by rapid fluorescent focus inhibition test (RFFIT). Patients who were exposed to laboratory confirmed rabid animals were followed up for one year after exposure. All 110 patients developed RVNA titers above 0.5 IU/mL by day 14. Adequate titers &gt;0.5 IU/mL were maintained up to day 180. Both vaccines induced equivalent RVNA titers at all time points and were well tolerated. Five subjects who were bitten by laboratory confirmed rabid dogs were alive and healthy one year after exposure. As demonstrated, PCECV and PVRV are both immunogenic, efficacious and well tolerated when administered in the TRC post-exposure prophylaxis regimen in ID doses of 0.1 mL as recommended by WHO guidelines. The use of PCECV in this regimen may prove more economical in developing countries like India.

Linear inverse problems arise in biomedicine electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography (EEG and MEG) and geophysics. The kernels relating sensors to the unknown sources are Green's functions of some partial differential equation. This knowledge is obscured when treating the discretized kernels simply as matrices. Consequently, physical understanding of the fundamental resolution limits has been lacking. We relate the inverse problem to spatial Fourier analysis, and the resolution limits to uncertainty principles, providing conceptual links to underlying physics. Motivated by the spectral concentration problem and multitaper spectral analysis, our approach constructs local basis sets using maximally concentrated linear combinations of the measurement kernels.

Information concerning the epidemiology, etiology and treatment of premature (rapid) ejaculation is reviewed. Evidence concerning the prevalence of premature ejaculation indicates that subjective concern about rapid ejaculation is a common concern worldwide. Hypotheses concerning the pathogenesis of premature ejaculation include: (1) that it is a learned pattern of ejaculation maintained by interpersonal anxiety, (2) that it is the result of dysfunction in central or peripheral mechanisms regulating ejaculatory thresholds and (3) that it is a normal variant in ejaculatory latency. Current evidence based treatment interventions include behavioral psychotherapy and the use of pharmacological agents, including topical anesthetic agents and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
Most of our current understanding of the neurobiology, neuroanatomy and psychopharmacology of sexual behavior and ejaculatory function has been derived from preclinical studies in the rat. When a large population of male rats is tested on sexual activity during a number of successive tests, over time individual rats display a very stable sexual behavior that is either slow, normal or fast as characterized by the number of ejaculations performed. These sexual endophenotypes are postulated as rat counterparts of premature (fast rats) or retarded ejaculation (slow rats). Psychopharmacology in these endophenotypes helps to delineate the underlying mechanisms and pathology. This is illustrated by the effects of serotonergic antidepressants and serotonergic compounds on sexual and ejaculatory behavior of rats. These preclinical studies and models contribute to a better understanding of the neurobiology of ejaculation and boost the development of novel drug targets to treat ejaculatory disorders such as premature and retarded ejaculation.
The modern notion of pain and its clinical management, along with its physiological origins, is of exceeding interest to both clinicians and basic science researchers. While much is known about the control of pain via non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications or comparative exogenous analgesics, little is known about the interplay between pain perception and its relationship with catecholamine molecules. We believe that the perception of pain and the body's self-attempt to alleviate it utilizing conventional homeostatic mechanisms via endogenous opiate release is mediated by key catecholamines, and that this effect is further modulated by nitric oxide. We further propose a new paradigm which links pain, endogenous opiates, and the catecholamines in a unique robust fashion demonstrating a complex symbiotic signaling system.
If all experiences are generated by brain activity, then experiences of God and spirits should also be produced by the appropriate cerebral stimulation. During the last 15 years experiments have shown that the sensed presence of a &quot;Sentient Being&quot; can be reliably evoked by very specific temporal patterns of weak (&lt;1 microT) transcerebral magnetic fields applied across the temporoparietal region of the two hemispheres. Recently Granqvist et al. (2005) attributed these effects to suggestibility and exotic beliefs. Re-analyses with additional data for 407 subjects (19 experiments) showed that the magnetic configurations, not the subjects' exotic beliefs or suggestibility, were responsible for the experimental facilitation of sensing a presence. On the other hand, the subjects' histories of sensed presences before exposure to the experimental setting were moderately correlated with exotic beliefs and temporal lobe sensitivity. Several recent experiments have shown that the side attributed to the presence at the time of the experience is sensitive to the temporal parameters of the fields, the hemisphere to which they are maximized, and the person's a priori beliefs. The importance of verifying the specific timing and temporal pattern of the software-generated fields and following an effective protocol is emphasized.
The accumulation of compatible solutes, either by uptake from the medium or by de novo synthesis, is a general response of microorganisms to osmotic stress. The diversity of compatible solutes is large but falls into a few major chemical categories, such as carbohydrates or their derivatives and amino acids or their derivatives. This review deals with compatible solutes found in thermophilic or hyperthermophilic bacteria and archaea that have not been commonly identified in microorganisms growing at low and moderate temperatures. The response to NaCl stress of Thermus thermophilus is an example of how a thermophilic bacterium responds to osmotic stress by compatible solute accumulation. Emphasis is made on the pathways leading to the synthesis of mannosylglycerate and glucosylglycerate that have been recently elucidated in several hyper/thermophilic microorganisms. The role of compatible solutes in the thermoprotection of these fascinating microorganisms is also discussed.

Invertebrate neuroscience has provided a number of very informative model systems that have been extensively utilized in order to define the neurobiological bases of animal behaviours (Sattelle and Buckingham in Invert Neurosci 6:1-3, 2006). Most eminent among these are a number of molluscs, including Aplysia californica, Lymnaea stagnalis and Helix aspersa, crustacean systems such as the crab stomatogastric ganglion and a wide-range of other arthropods. All of these have been elegantly exploited to shed light on the very important phenomenon of the molecular and cellular basis for synaptic regulation that underpins behavioural plasticity. Key to the successful use of these systems has been the ability to study well-defined, relatively simple neuronal circuits that direct and regulate a quantifiable animal behaviour. Here we describe the pharyngeal system of the nematode C. elegans and its utility as a model for defining the genetic basis of behaviour. The circuitry of the nervous system in this animal is uniquely well-defined. Furthermore, the feeding behaviour of the worm is controlled by the activity of the pharynx and this in turn is regulated in a context-dependent manner by a simple nervous system that integrates external signals, e.g. presence or absence of food, and internal signals, e.g. the nutritional status of the animal to direct an appropriate response. The genetics of C. elegans is being effectively exploited to provide novel insight into genes that function to regulate the neuronal network that controls the pharynx. Here we summarise the progress to date and highlight topics for future research. Two main themes emerge. First, although the anatomy of the pharyngeal system is very well-defined, there is a much poorer understanding of its neurochemistry. Second, it is evident that the neurochemistry is remarkably complex for such a simple circuit/behaviour. This suggests that the pharyngeal activity may be subject to exquisitely precise regulation depending on the animal's environment and status. This therefore provides a very tractable genetic model to investigate neural mechanisms for signal integration and synaptic plasticity in a well-defined neuronal network that directs a quantifiable behaviour, feeding.


Mitochondria play a critical role in several metabolic processes and apoptotic pathways, regulating life cycle from the cradle to the grave. Despite the evidence of morphological, biochemical and molecular abnormalities in mitochondria in various tissues of patients with neurodegenerative disorders, the question &quot;is mitochondrial dysfunction a necessary step in neurodegeneration?&quot; is still unanswered. Moreover, a growing body of evidence seems to indicate that oxidative stress, which is increased in damaged mitochondria, is an earlier event associated with neurodegeneration. Here we examine the current evidences in this field, which indicate a key role of mitochondria and oxidative stress in contributing to the neurodegenerative processes.

Classical hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are a synaptic loss, cholinergic neuron death, and abnormal protein deposition, particularly of toxic amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) that is derived from amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) by the action of beta- and gamma-secretases. The trigger(s) initiating the biochemical cascades that underpin these hallmarks have yet to be fully elucidated. The typical forebrain cholinergic cell demise associated with AD brain results in a loss of presynaptic cholinergic markers and acetylcholine (ACh). Neurine (vinyl-trimethyl-ammonium hydroxide) is a breakdown product of ACh, consequent to autolysis and is an organic poison found in cadavre brain. The time- and concentration-dependent actions of neurine were assessed in human neuroblastoma (NB, SK-N-SH) cells in culture by quantifying cell viability by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and MTS assay, and AbetaPP and Abeta levels by Western blot and ELISA. NB cells displayed evidence of toxicity to neurine at &gt; or = 3 mg/ml, as demonstrated by elevated LDH levels in the culture media and a reduced cell viability shown by the MTS assay. Using subtoxic concentrations of neurine, elevations in AbetaPP and Abeta1-40 peptide levels were detected in conditioned media samples.

Previous studies have suggested that the addition of flavored acetaminophen suspension (for example, Children's Tylenol) in the drinking water of rats may not be effective in producing postoperative analgesia because of low levels of consumption. However, these investigations neither measured analgesia nor compared the consumption by rats that had undergone surgery with that by unmanipulated rats. The present study reports that although unmanipulated rats naive to the taste of flavored acetaminophen do indeed drink significantly less of this liquid than tap water, they drank sufficient amounts of the acetaminophen-containing solution to significantly raise pain thresholds, as measured by the hot-plate test. Moreover, rats that had undergone surgery drank significantly more acetaminophen solution than did those that had no surgery. These data suggest that oral self-administration of flavored acetaminophen by rats may be an appropriate means to reduce pain.
We assessed space use by 2 pairs of captive female rhesus monkeys recently transferred into 2 enclosures moderately larger than their former traditional research cages and providing elevated perches at or above human eye level for all monkeys. This new space did not affect the ongoing biomedical research in which these captive monkeys were involved, and we sought to determine whether they used the elevated positions preferentially, as do wild animals. The frequency and duration of visits at each of the 9 distinct regions within these enclosures was calculated during 30-min morning and evening sessions over 20 d. We found that the monkeys frequented all regions of their enclosures in a similar manner during both morning and evening sessions. However, the duration spent at each region varied significantly between morning and evening sessions, with high perches being chosen preferentially in the evenings. Overall, the monkeys spent the majority of their time at elevated positions. These results support the view that access to functional vertical space provides a preferred environment for species- specific behavior and is an option that should be considered by other research facilities.


The postnatal development of total number and perikaryon volume of cerebellar Purkinje cells was estimated in the Gttingen minipig cerebellar cortex using a new stereological approach, the vertical bar fractionator. Data were obtained from the brains of five neonate and five adult female Gttingen minipigs. The total number of Purkinje cells ranged from 1.83 x 10(6) in the neonate to 2.82 x 10(6) in the adult Gttingen minipig. The number-weighted mean perikaryon volume of Purkinje cells increased concurrently from around 6,800 microm(3) in the neonate to 17,600 microm(3) in the adult. The study demonstrates that a pronounced postnatal neurogenesis in Purkinje cell number and perikaryon volume is part of the growth and development of the cerebellum in the Gttingen minipig. The Purkinje cells of the Gttingen minipig were found to be substantially large compared with human and represents the largest cells described hitherto from mammalian cerebella. The vertical fractionator is a new sampling technique, which allows the combination of a fractionator design on vertical bar sections excluding exhaustive sampling and bias from artificial edges. By design, the sections are perfect stereological vertical sections and provide the basis for unbiased estimates of total number of structural entities in the brain, including surface area, fibre length and particle volume.
Existing cochlear implants stimulate the auditory nerve with trains of symmetric biphasic (BP) pulses. Recent data have shown that modifying the pulse shape, while maintaining charge balance, may be beneficial in terms of reducing power consumption, increasing dynamic range, and limiting channel interactions. We measured thresholds and most comfortable levels (MCLs) for various 99-pulses-per-second (pps) stimuli. &quot;Pseudomonophasic (PS)&quot; pulses consist of a brief phase of one polarity followed immediately by a longer and lower-amplitude phase of the opposite polarity. We focused on a novel variant of PS pulses, termed the &quot;delayed pseudomonophasic (DPS)&quot; stimulus, in which the longer phase is presented midway between the short phases of two consecutive pulses. DPS pulse trains produced thresholds that were more than 10 dB lower than those obtained with BP pulses. This reduction was much greater than the 0- to 3-dB drop obtained with PS pulses and was still more than 6 dB when a pulse rate of 892 pps was used. A study of the relative contributions of the two phases of DPS suggested that the short, high-amplitude phase dominated the perceived loudness. This study showed major threshold and MCL reductions using a DPS stimulus compared to the widely used BP stimulus. These reductions, which were predicted by a simple linear filter model, might lead to considerable power savings if implemented in a cochlear implant speech processor.

Examination of signal transduction pathways that modulate neuronal cell differentiation and protection against apoptosis has revealed a central role for the MAPK/Erk cascade. The activation of MAPK/Erk through the TrkA NGF signaling pathway is critical for growth and survival of neuronal cells. Here, we investigate the impact of HIV-1 Tat on the NGF-signaling pathway in SK-N-MC neuroblastoma cells. Expression of Tat decreased cell growth and induced apoptosis. Our results revealed dysregulation of various steps involved in the NGF pathway including suppression of MAPK, and inhibition of the promoter activity of Egr-1, a key pleiotropic mediator of the expression of genes involved in cell growth upon expression of Tat in SK-N-MC cells. Similarly, exposure of SK-N-MC to conditioned media derived from cells expressing Tat decreased phosphorylation of MAPK and reduced the level of Egr-1 protein expression in SK-N-MC cells. Furthermore, MAPK was able to phosphorylate Puralpha, a cellular protein that plays an important role in neuronal cell function and differentiation, and this was inhibited by Tat. The ability of Puralpha to interact with a GA/GC-rich sequence positioned upstream from the transcription start site of the Egr-1 promoter provided a rationale to examine Egr-1 expression. Expression of Tat decreased NGF-induced Egr-1 levels in SK-N-MC cells and reduced binding of Puralpha to the Egr-1 promoter. All of these observations support a model where the interplay between Tat and Puralpha dysregulates the NGF pathway including the MAPK/Erk network, resulting in reduced expression and activity of Egr-1 in neuronal cells.
Bolstering the endogenous oxidative damage defense system is a good strategy for development of treatments to combat neurodegenerative diseases in which oxidative damage plays a role. A first step in such treatment development is to determine the role of various components of the defense system in cells that degenerate. In this study, we sought to determine the role of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) in two models of oxidative damage-induced retinal degeneration. In one model, paraquat is injected into the vitreous cavity and then enters retinal cells and generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) that cause progressive retinal damage. Assessment of retinal function with serial electroretinograms (ERGs) showed that sod1 -/- mice were much more sensitive than sod1 +/+ mice to the damaging effects of paraquat, while sod1 +/- mice showed intermediate sensitivity. Compared to sod1 +/+ mice, sod1 -/- mice showed greater paraquat-induced oxidative damage and apoptosis. In the second model, mice were exposed to hyperoxia for several weeks, and sod1 -/- mice showed significantly greater reductions in ERG amplitudes than sod1 +/+ mice. In both of these models, transgenic mice carrying a sod1 transgene driven by a beta-actin promoter showed less oxidative stress-induced reduction in ERG amplitudes. These data demonstrate that SOD1 protects retinal cells against paraquat- and hyperoxia-induced oxidative damage and suggest that overexpression of SOD1 should be considered as one component of ocular gene therapy to prevent oxidative damage-induced retinal degeneration.
Hibernating Arctic ground squirrel (hAGS), Spermophilus parryii, survive profound decreases in cerebral perfusion during torpor and return to normal blood flow during intermittent rewarming periods without neurologic damage. Hibernating AGS tolerate traumatic brain injury in vivo, and acute hippocampal slices from hibernating animals tolerate oxygen and glucose deprivation. It remains unclear, however, if neuroprotection results from intrinsic tissue properties or from differences in response to acute trauma associated with slice preparation. The goal of this work was therefore to determine whether an intrinsic tissue tolerance persists in chronic culture of AGS hippocampal slices at 37 degrees C. A second goal was to address N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor involvement and channel arrest as potential mechanisms of intrinsic tissue tolerance. Baseline neuronal survival and tolerance to oxygen and nutrient deprivation (OND), an in vitro model of ischemia-reperfusion, were assessed in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices from juvenile, hAGS and interbout euthermic AGS (ibeAGS). Early in culture (insult onset at 3 h), slices from both hAGS and ibeAGS tolerate OND (4 h deprivation followed by 20 h recovery) and 500 micromol/L NMDA plus 20 mmol/L KCl. Later in culture (insult onset at 24 h), tolerance persists in slices from hAGS but not in slices from ibeAGS. Ouabain (Na(+)K(+)ATPase inhibitor) administered 24 h in culture enhances survival of slices from hAGS (assessed 24 h later). Thus, tolerance to OND in slices from hAGS is due to intrinsic tissue properties likely involving NMDA receptors and ion channel arrest.
Recent studies in a variety of species including mammals showed that resveratrol (trans-3, 5, 4''-trihydroxystibene) treatment and caloric restriction increased silent information regulator 2/sirtuin 1 activity, which mediated increase in life span/cell survival. Resveratrol is a naturally occurring phytoalexin and a well-documented cardioprotective agent. Similarly, ischemic preconditioning (IPC) has been shown to be both cardio- and cerebroprotective against subsequent ischemic insults. A major emphasis in this field is to understand the molecular mechanisms that mediate this phenomenon. The goal of this study was to define whether resveratrol can emulate IPC neuroprotection against cerebral ischemia. Employing an in vitro model of cerebral ischemia, the organotypic hippocampal slice culture, we report that resveratrol pretreatment mimics IPC via the SIRT1 pathway. Blockade of SIRT1 activation by sirtinol after IPC or resveratrol pretreatment abolished their neuroprotection. A better understanding of the mechanisms by which resveratrol induces ischemic tolerance in a prophylactic manner may provide a novel therapy against stroke or neurosurgical procedures.
Barth syndrome is an inherited disorder characterized by dilated cardiomyopathy, neutropenia, growth retardation, and skeletal myopathy. We describe a case of acute stroke owing to Barth syndrome that required intra-arterial thrombolysis. This case suggests that cardiovascular complications can be observed in patients with Barth syndrome. Stroke prevention measures, including the use of antithrombotic agents, might be warranted.
The objectives of this study were to determine if (1) children with migraine experience greater sleep disturbances than their siblings, (2) those with more severe migraine have greater levels of sleep disruption, and (3) these sleep disturbances lead to greater behavioral problems and more missed school. Children aged 6 to 18 years with a diagnosis of migraine for &gt; 6 months, who had at least one sibling without migraine in the same age range, were identified through our neurology clinic database or at the time of the clinic visit. Parents completed the (1) demographic, general health, and migraine information questionnaire; (2) Child Sleep Habits Questionnaire; and (3) Behavior Assessment System for Children: Second Edition (BASC-2) Parent Rating Scales for each child. Cases with migraine had higher total sleep (P &lt; .02), sleep delay (P &lt; .03), and daytime sleepiness scores (P &lt; .001) than controls. Cases with more severe migraines had higher total sleep (P &lt; .01) and sleep duration scores (P &lt; .03) than those with milder headaches. In cases, higher total sleep scores predicted greater behavior problems on all four composite scales on the Behavior Assessment System for Children: Second Edition (Externalizing Problems, P &lt; .05; Internalizing Problems, P &lt; .005; Behavior Systems Index, P &lt; .003; and Adaptability Skills, P &lt; .006). We conclude that children with migraine are prone to greater sleep and behavioral disturbances than children without headache. Sleep disorders should be routinely queried and appropriate advice on sleep hygiene provided.
The etiology of mild mental retardation remains undefined in about 60% of cases. Even though the causes of mild mental retardation are likely to be heterogeneous, the evidence for genetic involvement is increasing, along with the development of specific diagnostic techniques. To improve our understanding of the genetic basis of mild mental retardation, we explored the role of polymorphisms of adenosine deaminase, an enzyme that is supposed to act as a neuroregulatory protein. To this end, we conducted an association study comparing children with mild mental retardation of unknown origin with two groups of controls: (1) apparently healthy children and (2) children with moderate or severe mental retardation of known etiology. Overall, 338 participants were enrolled in the study. Cases (ie, 80 children) were more likely than controls (ie, 153 healthy children and 105 children with moderate or severe mental retardation) to have the low-activity ADA-Asn 8 (ADA(1) *2) polymorphism (P &lt; .05) and to present the ADA(1) *2/ ADA(2) *1 haplotype. No significant differences were found with respect to adenosine deaminase polymorphisms when comparing the group with moderate or severe mental retardation of known causes and healthy controls. In conclusion, our findings suggest a possible role for a low-activity genotype (ADA-8Asn) (ADA(1) *2) of adenosine deaminase in the pathogenesis of mild mental retardation.

The 2 cardinal cell populations mediating adaptive immunity are T and B lymphocytes. These cells play important but poorly understood roles in the immunopathological demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS) and in a widely used animal model of human MS known as EAE. In the current issue of the JCI, 2 research teams report their parallel studies of double-transgenic mice expressing T and B cell receptors that recognize the same myelin protein (see the related articles beginning on pages 2385 and 2393). More than half of the double-transgenic mice spontaneously developed autoimmune demyelination in their spinal cords and optic nerves, exhibiting pathologies reminiscent of human MS. The studies describe an important new model for MS research.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are involved in the pathophysiology of several central nervous system diseases that share common pathogeneses, such as disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and remodeling of the extracellular matrix (ECM). In early ischemic injury, MMPs participate in disruption of the BBB by digesting the basal lamina of capillaries and ECM, leading to vasogenic edema and hemorrhagic transformation. However, ECM degradation and remodeling are essential for tissue recovery, with MMPs having a key role as modulators of homeostasis between neuronal death and tissue regeneration. Thus, MMPs may be a double-edged sword that has a deleterious or beneficial role depending on the stage of brain injury.
In some individuals, a visually presented letter or number automatically evokes the perception of a specific color, an experience known as color-grapheme synesthesia. It has been suggested that parietal binding mechanisms play a role in the phenomenon. We used a noninvasive stimulation technique, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), to determine whether the posterior parietal lobe is critical for the integration of color and shape in color-grapheme synesthesia, as it appears to be for normal color-shape binding. Using a color-naming task with colored letters that were either congruent or incongruent with the synesthetic photism, we demonstrate that inhibition of the right posterior parietal lobe with repetitive TMS transiently attenuates synesthetic binding. These findings suggest that synesthesia (the induction of color from shape) relies on similar mechanisms as found in normal perception (where the perception of color is induced by wavelength).
On the assumption that linguistic faculties reflect both lexical storage in the temporal cortex and combinatorial rules in the striatal circuits, several authors have shown that striatal-damaged patients are impaired with conjugation rules while retaining lexical knowledge of irregular verbs [Teichmann, M., Dupoux, E., Kouider, S., Brugires, P., Boiss, M. F., Baudic, S., Cesaro, P., Peschanski, M., &amp; Bachoud-Lvi, A. C. (2005). The role of the striatum in rule application. The model of Huntington's disease at early stage. Brain, 128, 1155-1167; Ullman, M. T., Corkin, S., Coppola, M., Hickok, G., Growdon, J. H., Koroshetz, W. J., &amp; Pinker, S. (1997). A neural dissociation within language: Evidence that the mental dictionary is part of declarative memory, and that grammatical rules are processed by the procedural system. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 9, 266-276]. Yet, such impairment was documented only with explicit conjugation tasks in the production domain. Little is known about whether it generalizes to other language modalities such as perception and whether it refers to implicit language processing or rather to intentional rule operations through executive functions. We investigated these issues by assessing perceptive processing of conjugated verb forms in a model of striatal dysfunction, namely, in Huntington's Disease (HD) at early stages. Rule application and lexical processes were evaluated in an explicit task (acceptability judgments on verb and nonword forms) and in an implicit task (lexical decision on frequency-manipulated verb forms). HD patients were also assessed in executive functions, and striatal atrophy was evaluated with magnetic resonance imaging (bicaudate ratio). Results from both tasks showed that HD patients were selectively impaired for rule application but lexical abilities were spared. Bicaudate ratios correlated with rule scores on both tasks, whereas executive parameters only correlated with scores on the explicit task. We argue that the striatum has a core function in linguistic rule application generalizing to perceptive aspects of morphological operations and pertaining to implicit language processes. In addition, we suggest that the striatum may enclose computational circuits that underpin explicit manipulation of regularities.

Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are polypeptides that exert diverse biological effects on many cell types and tissues during embryogenesis and adulthood. In the adult brain, FGF-2 is primarily expressed by astrocytes and select groups of neurons. It has been shown that FGF-2 is neuroprotective and can stimulate proliferation of NSCs in neurogenic regions of the adult mammalian brain. Cellular responses to FGFs are mediated through membrane-spanning tyrosine kinase receptors in conjunction with low affinity binding to heparin sulfate proteoglycans. Four FGF receptors (FGFR1-4) have been cloned and characterized to date. In this study, we describe the anatomical distribution of FGFR-2 in young and aged rat brains. We demonstrate that the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, and cerebellum display the most robust FGFR-2 expression and observed age-related decrease in FGFR-2 levels in some but not all brain regions. In addition, we identified astrocytes as the primary source of FGFR-2 expression using immunofluorescence confocal microscopy. The astrocyte populations in the neurogenic areas, the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus, express high levels of FGFR-2 protein, which points to its possible involvement in neurogenesis. We also explored the role of FGFR-2 in response to perforant pathway lesion and observed enhanced FGFR-2 expression by astrocytes surrounding the lesion. Thus, FGF-2 biological effects on astrocytes appear to be mediated through FGFR-2-dependent mechanisms, and this may provide an indirect route by which FGF-2 acts on neuronal populations.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is critical for the generation of emotional behavior and the formation of emotional memory. Understanding the neuronal mechanisms that contribute to emotional information processing in the BLA will ultimately require knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of its constituent neurons. Two major cell classes exist in the BLA, pyramidal projection neurons and nonpyramidal interneurons. Although the properties of projection neurons have been studied in detail, little is known about the properties of BLA interneurons. We have used whole-cell patch clamp recording techniques to examine the physiological properties of 48 visually identified putative interneurons from the rat anterior basolateral amygdalar nucleus. Here, we report that BLA interneurons can be differentiated into four electrophysiologically distinct subtypes based on their intrinsic membrane properties and their response to afferent synaptic input. Interneuron subtypes were named according to their characteristic firing pattern generated in response to transient depolarizing current injection and were grouped as follows: 1) burst-firing interneurons (n = 13), 2) regular-firing interneurons (n = 11), 3) fast-firing interneurons (n = 10), and 4) stutter-firing interneurons (n = 14). Post hoc histochemical visualization confirmed that all 48 recorded neurons had morphological properties consistent with their being local circuit interneurons. Moreover, by using triple immunofluorescence (for biocytin, calcium-binding proteins, and neuropeptides) in conjunction with patch clamp recording, we further demonstrated that over 60% of burst-firing and stutter-firing interneurons also expressed the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (PV(+)). These data demonstrate that interneurons of the BLA show both physiological and neurochemical diversity. Moreover, we demonstrate that the burst- and stutter-firing patterns positively correlate with PV(+) immunoreactivity, suggesting that these neurons may represent functionally distinct subpopulations.
When insectivorous bats such as Eptesicus fuscus emit ultrasonic signals and analyze the returning echoes to hunt insects, duration selectivity of auditory neurons plays an important role in echo recognition. The success of prey capture indicates that they can effectively encode progressively shortened echo duration throughout the hunting process. The present study examines the echo duration selectivity of neurons in the central nucleus of the bat inferior colliculus (IC) under stimulation conditions of single pulses and pulse-echo (P-E) pairs. This study also examines the role of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inhibition in shaping echo duration selectivity of IC neurons. The data obtained show that the echo duration selectivity of IC neurons is sharper when determined with P-E pairs than with single pulses. Echo duration selectivity also sharpens with shortening of pulse duration and P-E gap. Bicuculline application decreases and GABA application increases echo duration selectivity of IC neurons. The degree of change in echo duration selectivity progressively increases with shortening of pulse duration and P-E gap during bicuculline application while the opposite is observed during the GABA application. These data indicate that the GABAergic inhibition contributes to sharpening of echo duration selectivity of IC neurons and facilitates echo recognition by bats throughout different phases of hunting.
In insects, thoracic pattern generators are modulated by the two head ganglia, the supraesophageal ganglion (brain) and the subesophageal ganglion, which act as higher-order neuronal centers. To explore the contribution of each head ganglion to the initiation and maintenance of specific motor behaviors in cockroaches (Periplaneta americana), we performed specific lesions to remove descending inputs from either the brain or the subesophageal ganglion or both, and quantified the behavioral outcome with a battery of motor tasks. We show that 'emergency' behaviors, such as escape, flight, swimming or righting, are initiated at the thoracic level independently of descending inputs from the head ganglia. Yet, the head ganglia play a major role in maintaining these reflexively initiated behaviors. By separately removing each of the two head ganglia, we show that the brain excites flight behavior and inhibits walking-related behaviors, whereas the subesophageal ganglion exerts the opposite effects. Thus, control over specific motor behaviors in cockroaches is anatomically and functionally compartmentalized. We propose a comprehensive model in which the relative permissive versus inhibitory inputs descending from the two head ganglia, combined with thoracic afferent sensory inputs, select a specific thoracic motor pattern while preventing the others.
Bisphosphonates (BPs) are used to inhibit bone resorption. Recently, they have been used in cancer patients to prevent bone loss due to bone metastasis. Fourteen consecutive patients, undergoing BPs monthly IV infusion due to neoplastic bone diseases, were diagnosed with osteonecrosis of the jaws. None of the patients had been previously undergoing radiotherapy of the head and neck region. Eight patients showed maxillary involvement, and nine patients had had a recent tooth extraction in the osteonecrosis areas. Biopsies and surgical debridment were performed. Histologically, none of the patients showed signs of bone metastasis. As high-dosage long-term BP therapy appears to be associated with osteonecrosis of the jaws, dental practitioners should exercise caution in the treatment of such patients.
Progesterone (P(4)) regulates many aspects of physiological functions via two nuclear P(4) receptors (PR), PRA and PRB, which are members of a structurally related nuclear hormone receptor superfamily that includes glucocorticoid receptors (GR). The regulation and cellular distribution of PR protein isoforms have been extensively studied in reproductive tissues, but this is not the case in the lung. In the present study, reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR, Western blotting, and immunolocalization supported the presence of PRA in the lung of female mice, with PRA protein levels significantly increased between postnatal day 7 and 12, declined at postnatal day 26, and minimal in adults when compared to postnatal day 2. The peak was temporally related to postnatal lung maturation in rodents. Immunoreactivity for PR was detected in the alveolar and bronchial epithelia. We then extended this study to examine, for the first time, the regulation of PRA protein expression in female mouse lung in vivo. Neither the increase in endogenous P(4) nor treatment with exogenous P(4) regulated PRA protein expression in female mouse lung. However, treatment of mice with the GR/PR antagonist RU 486, but not Org 31710 (a specific PR antagonist), significantly increased PRA protein expression in parallel to a decrease in GR protein expression. In addition, treatment with the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone led to a decrease in PRA protein expression independent of endogenous P(4) levels. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation followed by Western blot analysis revealed that, under in vivo conditions, PRA physically interacted with GR in mouse lung. Confocal laser microscopy revealed that PRA and GR co-localized in the nuclei of alveolar epithelia cells, whereas nuclear PR and cytoplasmic GR were detected in bronchial epithelium. Taken together, our observations suggest that PRA may be an important physiological factor involved in postnatal lung development and that the regulation of PRA protein expression is not dependent on P(4), but rather on functional glucocorticoid/GR signaling mediated by protein-protein interaction in the mouse lung.
To fully understand neuronal network operation, the influence of all inputs onto that network must be characterized. As in most systems, many neuronal and hormonal pathways influence the multifunctional motor circuits of the crustacean stomatogastric ganglion (STG), but the actions of only some of them are known. Therefore, we characterized the influence of the kinin peptide family on the gastric mill (chewing) and pyloric (filtering of chewed food) motor circuits in the STG of the crab Cancer borealis. The kinins are myoactive in arthropods and they occur within the arthropod central nervous system (CNS), but their CNS actions are not well characterized in any species. The pevkinins were first identified in the shrimp Penaeus vannamei, but they have yet to be studied in the STG of any species. We identified kinin-like immunolabeling (KLI) in the pericardial organs (POs) in C. borealis, but there was no KLI within the STG. The POs are a major source of hormonal influence on the STG. Pevkinin peptides activated the pyloric circuit and they caused a modest increase in the speed of ongoing pyloric rhythms. This modest influence on cycle speed resulted in part from pevkinin excitation of the lateral pyloric neuron, whose strengthened inhibitory synapse onto the pyloric pacemaker neurons limited the pevkinin-mediated increase in cycle speed. The pevkinin excitation of the pyloric rhythm was not strong enough to interfere with the previously documented, gastric mill rhythm-mediated weakening of the pyloric rhythm. Pevkinin also had little influence on the gastric mill rhythm. These results indicate that the kinin peptides have distinct and selective modulatory actions on the pyloric rhythm.
Transport across insect epithelia is thought to depend on the activity of a vacuolar-type proton ATPase (V-ATPase) that energizes ion transport through a secondary proton/cation exchanger. Although several of the subunits of the V-ATPase have been cloned, the molecular identity of the exchanger has not been elucidated. Here, we present the identification of sodium/proton exchanger isoform 3 (NHE3) from yellow fever mosquito, Aedes aegypti (AeNHE3). AeNHE3 localizes to the basal plasma membrane of Malpighian tubule, midgut and the ion-transporting sector of gastric caeca. Midgut expression of NHE3 shows a different pattern of enrichment between larval and adult stages, implicating it in the maintenance of regional pH in the midgut during the life cycle. In all tissues examined, NHE3 predominantly localizes to the basal membrane. In addition the limited expression in intracellular vesicles in the median Malpighian tubules may reflect a potential functional versatility of NHE3 in a tissue-specific manner. The localization of V-ATPase and NHE3, and exclusion of Na+/K+-ATPase from the distal ion-transporting sector of caeca, indicate that the role of NHE3 in ion and pH regulation is intricately associated with functions of V-ATPase. The AeNHE3 complements yeast mutants deficient in yeast NHEs, NHA1 and NHX1. To further examine the functional property of AeNHE3, we expressed it in NHE-deficient fibroblast cells. AeNHE3 expressing cells were capable of recovering intracellular pH following an acid load. The recovery was independent of the large cytoplasmic region of AeNHE3, implying this domain to be dispensable for NHE3 ion transport function. 22Na+ uptake studies indicated that AeNHE3 is relatively insensitive to amiloride and EIPA and is capable of Na+ transport in the absence of the cytoplasmic tail. Thus, the core domain containing the transmembrane regions of NHE3 is sufficient for pH recovery and ion transport. The present data facilitate refinement of the prevailing models of insect epithelial transport by incorporating basal amiloride-insensitive NHE3 as a critical mediator of transepithelial ion and fluid transport and likely in the maintenance of intracellular pH.

Generation is thought to enhance both item-specific and relational processing of generated targets as compared with read words (M. A. McDaniel &amp; P. J. Waddill, 1990). Generation facilitates encoding of the cue-target relation and sometimes boosts encoding of relations across list items. Of interest is whether generation can also increase the encoding of target-location associations. Because the literature on this point is mixed, 3 procedural differences between 2 studies (E. J. Marsh, G. Edelman, &amp; G. H. Bower, 2001; N. W. Mulligan, 2004) were identified and manipulated. A positive generation effect was found for location memory, but this effect was reduced when subjects wrote down the study words and when the filler task involved generation. Generation can enhance location memory in addition to item memory but only if the experimental parameters do not interfere with the processing benefits of generation.
Freestanding and bound morphemes differ in many (psycho)linguistic aspects. Some theorists have claimed that the representation and retrieval of freestanding and bound morphemes in the course of language production are governed by similar processing mechanisms. Alternatively, it has been proposed that both types of morphemes may be selected for production in different ways. In this article, the authors first review the available experimental evidence related to this topic and then present new experimental data pointing to the notion that freestanding and bound morphemes are retrieved following distinct processing principles: freestanding morphemes are subject to competition, bound morphemes not.
The brain is now widely recognized as having the capacity to make steroids, neurosteroidogenesis. Although many functions are known for steroids that might be made in the brain, the evolution of and natural biological functions for these neurosteroids are not fully understood. In songbirds, neurosteroids may function in the development of neural circuits controlling song and may also participate in the activation of some steroid-dependent behaviors during the non-breeding season. In addition to neuroanatomical and behavioral evidence, we have physiological, molecular, and biochemical evidence for the expression and activity of steroidogenic enzymes in the brains of developing and adult songbirds. We review the evidence published so far for songbird neurosteroidogenesis and discuss why we believe songbird species are excellent models for the study of brain steroid synthesis and action.
Human olfaction comprises the opposing actions of excitation and inhibition triggered by odorant molecules. In olfactory receptor neurons, odorant molecules not only trigger a G-protein-coupled signaling cascade but also generate various mechanisms to fine tune the odorant-induced current, including a low-selective odorant inhibition of the olfactory signal. This wide-range olfactory inhibition has been suggested to be at the level of ion channels, but definitive evidence is not available. Here, we report that the cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) cation channel, which is a key element that converts odorant stimuli into electrical signals, is inhibited by structurally unrelated odorants, consistent with the expression of wide-range olfactory inhibition. Interestingly, the inhibitory effect was small in the homo-oligomeric CNG channel composed only of the principal channel subunit, CNGA2, but became larger in channels consisting of multiple types of subunits. However, even in the channel containing all native subunits, the potency of the suppression on the cloned CNG channel appeared to be smaller than that previously shown in native olfactory neurons. Nonetheless, our results further showed that odorant suppressions are small in native neurons if the subsequent molecular steps mediated by Ca(2+) are removed. Thus, the present work also suggests that CNG channels switch on and off the olfactory signaling pathway, and that the on and off signals may both be amplified by the subsequent olfactory signaling steps.
Structural neuroimaging is a routine component of the diagnostic evaluation of dementia that is used to rule out potential causes of mental impairment, whereas functional imaging can differentiate different forms of dementia. Neuroimaging also offers promise as a surrogate marker for clinical trials, and new technologies have been developed to provide measures of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. Combining imaging with genetic risk data will likely improve diagnostic accuracy. These new findings warrant reconsideration of current guidelines on the use of neuroimaging in diagnosis and research in dementia.
Planning is being initiated for the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 5th ed. (DSM-V). Therefore, the dementia diagnosis criteria in the American Psychiatric Association's DSM-IV-TR (4th ed, text revision, 2000) have been compared with the World Health Organization's International Classification of Diseases (10th revision, 1992). Critiques are based primarily on (a) internal consistency and validity of the classification, (b) historical development of the field, (c) conclusions of consensus conferences, and (d) current knowledge and practice. It is suggested that (1) the entire category be labeled &quot;cognitive disorders,&quot; to better characterize this group of disorders, (2) there is no longer any scientific basis for the presenile versus senile dementia dichotomy at age 65, (3) Alzheimer's disease no longer should have unique status as a &quot;diagnosis of exclusion,&quot; (4) future manuals should incorporate knowledge regarding the clinical manifestation and course of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, and (5) the classification &quot;Pick's disease&quot; should be broadened to &quot;frontotemporal dementias.&quot; DSM-V should incorporate continuing advances in the neuroscience knowledge base and understanding of these disorders.
The frequencies of each of the several types of dementia are enumerated, showing that Alzheimer's disease is present in about 80% of cases. Cerebral changes associated with cognitively normal aging include shrinkage of large cortical neurons but not a significant loss of total neuronal number. Nevertheless, the population density of synapses measured by confocal microscopy does decline significantly in normal aging. The classical lesions of Alzheimer's disease are neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, and their frequency correlates with declining cognitive measures. Although amyloid is prominent in plaques, it is probably not the agent of destruction. That role seems to be held by Abeta oligomers. The strongest structural correlate with cognitive tests is synapse loss, which is probably caused by Abeta oligopeptides in the terminal axons and dendrites.
Advances in neuroimaging techniques hold significant promise for improving understanding of disorders of consciousness arising from severe brain injuries. We review neuroimaging studies of the vegetative state (VS) and minimally conscious state (MCS), and findings in an unusual case of late emergence from MCS. Multimodal neuroimaging studies using positron emission tomography techniques, functional magnetic resonance imaging, and quantitative electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography quantify variations of residual cerebral activity across these patient populations. The results suggest models to distinguish the pathophysiologic basis of VS and MCS. Less clear are potential brain mechanisms underlying late recovery of communication in rare MCS patients. Diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging studies and recent experimental findings suggest that structural remodeling of the brain following severe injury may play a role in late functional recoveries. More generally, relatively long time courses of recovery following severe brain injury emphasize the need to develop markers for identifying patients who may harbor potential for further meaningful recovery. Introduction of neuroimaging into the clinical evaluation process will require developing frameworks for longitudinal assessments of cerebral function. Although limited in number, available studies already provide important insights into underlying brain mechanisms that may help guide development of such assessment strategies.
The neuroimaging of headache patients has revolutionised our understanding of the pathophysiology of primary headaches and provided unique insights into these syndromes. Modern imaging studies point, together with the clinical picture, towards a central triggering cause. The early functional imaging work using positron emission tomography shed light on the genesis of some syndromes, and has recently been refined, implying that the observed activation in migraine (brainstem) and in several trigeminal-autonomic headaches (hypothalamic grey) is involved in the pain process in either a permissive or triggering manner rather than simply as a response to first-division nociception per se. Using the advanced method of voxel-based morphometry, it has been suggested that there is a correlation between the brain area activated specifically in acute cluster headache--the posterior hypothalamic grey matter--and an increase in grey matter in the same region. No structural changes have been found for migraine and medication overuse headache, whereas patients with chronic tension-type headache demonstrated a significant grey matter decrease in regions known to be involved in pain processing. Modern neuroimaging thus clearly suggests that most primary headache syndromes are predominantly driven from the brain, activating the trigeminovascular reflex and needing therapeutics that act on both sides: centrally and peripherally.
Cervical spine manipulation has been associated with several disorders such as cervical arteries dissection, but rarely has a relationship with intracranial hypotension been reported. We describe a patient showing intracranial hypotension syndrome following chiropractic cervical spine treatment. Magnetic resonance showed the presence of dural leakage at cervical level, suggesting the pathogenesis of the syndrome. We state that cervical spine manipulation should be considered a treatment with risk of neurological complications, including the occurrence of intracranial hypotension.
The killing of disabled patients with mental diseases during 1939-1945 is regarded as the precursor to the Holocaust. Although known at least since the Nuremberg Doctors Trial (1946-1947), the reception accorded these crimes against humanity varied (and evolved through time) depending on the parties: the old establishment, the younger generation, the different political interests, and the jurists, the theologians, the historians, the medical authorities. I attempt to distinguish five phases in the debate in light of the political background between 1945 until the present.
As a side-product of industrial research, new chemical nerve agents (Tabun, Sarin, Soman) superior to those available to the Allied Forces were discovered in Nazi Germany. These agents were never used by Germany, even though they were produced at a large scale. This article explores the toxicological and physiological research into the mechanisms of action of these novel nerve agents, and the emergence of military research objectives in neurophysiological and neurotoxicological research. Recently declassified Allied military intelligence files document secret nerve agent research, leading to intensified research on anticholinesterase agents in the peripheral and the central nervous system. The article discusses the involvement of IG Farben scientists, educational, medical and military institutions, and of Nobel Prize laureate Richard Kuhn, director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Medical Research.
During National Socialism, the politically motivated interest in psychiatric genetic research lead to the founding of research departments specialized in pathological-anatomical brain research, the two Kaiser Wilhelm-Institutes (KWI) in Berlin and Munich. The latter was indirectly provided with brain material by Bavarian State Hospitals, to three of which &quot;Kinderfachabteilungen&quot; (Special Pediatric Units) were affiliated. As children became victims of the systematically conducted child &quot;euthanasia&quot; in these Special Pediatric Units, this paper will address the question whether and to which extent the organs from victims of child &quot;euthanasia&quot; were used for (neuro-) pathological research at the KWI in Munich. By means of case studies and medical histories (with focus on the situation in Kaufbeuren-Irsee), I will argue that pediatric departments on a regular base delivered slide preparations, that the child &quot;euthanasia&quot; conduced in these departments systematically contributed to neuropathological research and that slide preparations from victims of child &quot;euthanasia&quot; were used in scientific publications after 1945.

Cholinergic neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMNV) are particularly vulnerable to laryngeal nerve damage, possibly because they lack fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF1). To test this hypothesis, we investigated the localization of FGF1 in cholinergic neurons innervating the rat larynx by immunohistochemistry using central-type antibodies to choline acetyltransferase (cChAT) and peripheral type (pChAT) antibodies, as well as tracer experiments. In the DMNV, only 9% of cChAT-positive neurons contained FGF1, and 71% of FGF1-positive neurons colocalized with cChAT. In the nucleus ambiguus, 100% of cChAT-positive neurons were FGF1 positive. In the intralaryngeal ganglia, all ganglionic neurons contained both pChAT and FGF1. In the nodose ganglia, 66% of pChAT-positive neurons were also positive for FGF1, and 90% of FGF1-positive ganglionic cells displayed pChAT immunoreactivity. Neuronal tracing using cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) demonstrated that cholinergic neurons sending their axons from the DMNV and nucleus ambiguus to the superior laryngeal nerve were FGF1 negative and FGF1 positive, respectively. In the nodose ganglia, some FGF1-positive cells were labeled with CTb. The results indicate that for innervation of the rat larynx, FGF1 is localized to motor neurons, postganglionic parasympathetic neurons, and sensory neurons, but expression is very low in preganglionic parasympathetic cholinergic neurons.

Working memory (WM) deficits are common in multiple sclerosis (MS). The Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT) is used frequently to measure WM in clinical settings. The n-back paradigm is used often in experimental studies of WM. One unique component of the n-back task is that it provides a measure of reaction time (RT), an additional behavioral index of processing speed and task difficulty. Despite the use of both tasks to measure WM, their common variance has not been documented. We tested 32 MS patients and 20 controls; performance measures were obtained for both tasks. Compared with controls, MS patients generally had poorer performance on both the PASAT and n-back task. MS patients also had slower RTs on the n-back than controls and showed more slowing than controls as a function of WM load. Correlational analyses showed a high correspondence between performance measures on the PASAT and n-back. Principal components analysis pointed to a common feature of the PASAT, n-back, and specific other neuropsychological measures, that is, processing speed. Although the PASAT and n-back were shown to have a significant amount of shared variance, each test has specific advantages and disadvantages for use in clinical populations.
The cholinergic system is one of the most important modulatory neurotransmitter systems in the brain. Alterations of the transmission communicators are accompanied by reduction of the cortical activity, which is associated with a learning and memory deficit. Down's syndrome is a pathological condition characterized by a high number of abnormalities that involve the brain. The cholinergic system is involved in alterations of the neurological system such as severe learning difficulties. To explain these alterations, important results are obtained from studies about murine trisomy 16 (animal model of Down's syndrome). The results obtained provide useful elements in the improvement of knowledge about the neurological and neurotransmissional alterations that are responsible for the neurobiological characteristics of Down's syndrome. These data potentially justify, in these patients, the therapeutic use of drugs that are principally administered to improve the severe learning difficulties of people with Alzheimer's disease, and suggest a trend which generates a hypothesis worthy of further exploration.

Angiogenesis is essential in many physiological and pathological processes and can be stimulated by many different factors. To better understand and to manipulate this process more effectively, it would be beneficial to identify molecules common to the signaling pathways stimulated by different classes of angiogenic factors. Sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (SREBPs) are involved in the metabolism of cholesterol and fatty acids, molecules that are critical in membrane biology, and hence, many of the processes involved in angiogenesis. Here, we show that angiogenic factors of different families, such as basic fibroblast growth factor, thrombin, and interleukin (IL)-8, stimulate SREBP activation, whereas nonangiogenic factors, such as transforming growth factor-beta1, do not. We focused our detailed studies on IL-8 in vitro and in vivo, as this chemokine is also involved in inflammation and hence, has the potential to be critical in inflammation-induced angiogenesis, a process common to many diseases. Using human microvascular endothelial cells, a rabbit skin wound-healing model, and the chorioallantoic membrane assay, we show that IL-8 stimulates the activation of SREBP-1 and -2, and this activation is specific and receptor-mediated. SREBP activation leads to activation of RhoA through 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase. RhoA is a small guanosinetriphosphatase, important in cytoskeletal functions, which in turn, are critical in many of the cellular processes needed for angiogenesis. Given that diverse, angiogenic factors use different cell-surface receptors, identification of this common step in the signal-transduction pathway provides the opportunity for novel approaches for prevention and treatment of diseases involving abnormal angiogenesis.
Although over the last 20 years diffusion MRI has become an established technique with a great impact on health care and neurosciences, like any other MRI technique it remains subject to artifacts and pitfalls. In addition to common MRI artifacts, there are specific problems that one may encounter when using MRI scanner gradient hardware for diffusion MRI, especially in terms of eddy currents and sensitivity to motion. In this article we review those artifacts and pitfalls on a qualitative basis, and introduce possible strategies that have been developed to mitigate or overcome them.
The authors' aim in this study was to consider the functional equivalence of internal imagery, external imagery, and action execution. Sixteen elite gymnasts imaged and performed a complex gymnastic vault. Ten performers imaged from an internal perspective, and 6 used an external perspective. Although the results revealed that the time to image the entire motor task did not significantly differ from the time required to physically perform it, irrespective of the imagery perspective used, the temporal organization of the action was different within the imagery conditions than it was in the physical condition. The results do not provide support for the principle of temporal functional equivalence. The authors discuss the results in light of recent findings from the cognitive neuroscience and psychology literatures.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the predictive factors for the development of binge eating in restricting anorexia nervosa patients who underwent an outpatient treatment. The sample was a group of 168 patients with restricting anorexia nervosa, consecutively admitted to an outpatient unit. All the patients underwent a routine baseline assessment. Information regarding binge eating onset and duration of treatment was prospectively recorded in clinical records. Twenty-three patients developed binge episodes during outpatient treatment. High scores on the Eating Disorders Inventory body dissatisfaction subscale and early age at menarche significantly predict the risk of developing binge eating. High levels of ineffectiveness, as measured by the Eating Disorders Inventory, and early age at menarche are significant predictors of a shortened time to develop binge eating. The identification of subjects at risk for developing binge eating should be considered an important step for a successful treatment of restricting anorexic patients.
Some issues in neuroscience can be addressed by building robot models of biological sensorimotor systems. What we can conclude from building models or simulations, however, is determined by a number of factors in addition to the central hypothesis we intend to test. These include the way in which the hypothesis is represented and implemented in simulation, how the simulation output is interpreted, how it is compared to the behaviour of the biological system, and the conditions under which it is tested. These issues will be illustrated by discussing a series of robot models of cricket phonotaxis behaviour.
Altered expression of Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) and dysbindin (DTNBP1), susceptibility genes for schizophrenia, in schizophrenic brain has been reported; however, the possible effect of antipsychotics on the expression levels of these genes has not yet been studied. We measured the mRNA expression levels of these genes in frontal cortex and hippocampus of mice chronically treated with typical and atypical antipsychotics by a real-time quantitative RT-PCR method. We found that atypical antipsychotics, olanzapine and risperidone, in a clinically relevant dose increased DISC1 expression levels in frontal cortex, while a typical antipsychotic, haloperidol, did not. No significant effect on dysbindin expression levels was observed in either brain region. These data suggest that prior evidence of decreased expression of dysbindin in postmortem brain of schizophrenics is not likely to be a simple artifact of antemortem drug treatment. Our results also suggest a potential role of DISC1 in the therapeutic mechanisms of certain atypical antipsychotics.
In rodents, male-typical copulatory behavior is generally dependent on gonadal sex steroids such as testosterone, and it is thought that the mechanism by which the hormone gates the behavior involves the gaseous neurotransmitter nitric oxide. According to one model, testosterone induces an up-regulation of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the preoptic area, increasing nitric oxide synthesis following exposure to a sexual stimulus. Nitric oxide in turn, possibly through its effect on catecholamine turnover, influences the way the stimulus is processed and enables the appropriate copulatory behavioral response. In whiptail lizards (genus Cnemidophorus), administration of male-typical levels of testosterone to females induces the display of male-like copulatory responses to receptive females, and we hypothesized that this radical change in behavioral phenotype would be accompanied by a large change in the expression of NOS in the preoptic area. As well as comparing NOS expression using NADPH diaphorase histochemistry between testosterone-treated females and controls, we examined citrulline immunoreactivity (a marker of recent nitric oxide production) in the two groups, following a sexual stimulus and following a nonsexual stimulus. Substantially more NADPH diaphorase-stained cells were observed in the testosterone-treated animals. Citrulline immunoreactivity was greater in testosterone-implanted animals than in blank-implanted animals, but only following exposure to a sexual stimulus. This is the first demonstration that not only is NOS up-regulated by testosterone, but NOS thus up-regulated is activated during male-typical copulatory behavior.
Neurofibrillary tangles, which are major pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), are composed of paired helical filaments (PHFs) containing hyperphosphorylated tau. Specific kinases regulate tau phosphorylation and are closely linked to the pathogenesis of AD. We have characterized a human tau-tubulin kinase 1 (TTBK1) gene located on chromosome 6p21.1. TTBK1 is a serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase that is conserved among species and belongs to the casein kinase 1 superfamily. It is specifically expressed in the brain, especially in the cytoplasm of cortical and hippocampal neurons. TTBK1 phosphorylates tau proteins in both a Mg2+- and a Mn2+-dependent manner. Phosphopeptide mapping and immunoblotting analysis confirmed a direct tau phosphorylation by TTBK1 at Ser198, Ser199, Ser202 and Ser422, which are also phosphorylated in PHFs. TTBK1 also induces tau aggregation in human neuronal cells in a dose-dependent manner. We conclude that TTBK1 is a neuron-specific dual kinase involved in tau phosphorylation at AD-related sites and is also associated with tau aggregation.
The vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) contains six conserved sequence motifs that are rich in proline and glycine. Because these residues can have special roles in the conformation of polypeptide backbone, the motifs might have special roles in conformational changes during transport. Using published bioinformatics insights, the amino acid sequences of the 12 putative, helical, transmembrane segments of wild-type and mutant VAChTs were analyzed for propensity to form non-alpha-helical conformations and molecular notches. Many instances were found. In particular, high propensity for kinks and notches are robustly predicted for motifs D2, C and C'. Mutations in these motifs either increase or decrease Vmax for transport, but they rarely affect the equilibrium dissociation constants for ACh and the allosteric inhibitor, vesamicol. The near absence of equilibrium effects implies that the mutations do not alter the backbone conformation. In contrast, the Vmax effects demonstrate that the mutations alter the difficulty of a major conformational change in transport. Interestingly, mutation of an alanine to a glycine residue in motif C significantly increases the rates for reorientation across the membrane. These latter rates are deduced from the kinetics model of the transport cycle. This mutation is also predicted to produce a more flexible kink and tighter tandem notches than are present in wild-type. For the full set of mutations, faster reorientation rates correlate with greater predicted propensity for kinks and notches. The results of the study argue that conserved motifs mediate conformational changes in the VAChT backbone during transport.
Heparan sulfate chains have been found to be associated with amyloid deposits in a number of diseases including transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. Diverse lines of evidence have linked proteoglycans and their glycosaminoglycan chains, and especially heparan sulfate, to the metabolism of the prion protein isoforms. Glypicans are a family of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored, heparan sulfate-containing, cell-associated proteoglycans. Cysteines in glypican-1 can become nitrosylated by endogenously produced nitric oxide. When glypican-1 is exposed to a reducing agent, such as ascorbate, nitric oxide is released and autocatalyses deaminative cleavage of heparan sulfate chains. These processes take place while glypican-1 recycles via a non-classical, caveolin-associated pathway. We have previously demonstrated that prion protein provides the Cu2+ ions required to nitrosylate thiol groups in the core protein of glypican-1. By using confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and immunomagnetic techniques, we now show that copper induces co-internalization of prion protein and glypican-1 from the cell surface to perinuclear compartments. We find that prion protein is controlling both the internalization of glypican-1 and its nitric oxide-dependent autoprocessing. Silencing glypican-1 expression has no effect on copper-stimulated prion protein endocytosis, but in cells expressing a prion protein construct lacking the copper binding domain internalization of glypican-1 is much reduced and autoprocessing is abrogated. We also demonstrate that heparan sulfate chains of glypican-1 are poorly degraded in prion null fibroblasts. The addition of either Cu2+ ions, nitric oxide donors, ascorbate or ectopic expression of prion protein restores heparan sulfate degradation. These results indicate that the interaction between glypican-1 and Cu2+-loaded prion protein is required both for co-internalization and glypican-1 self-pruning.
Protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) has been implicated in the control of long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) in rat hippocampal CA1 neurons. PP1 catalytic subunits associate with multiple postsynaptic regulatory subunits, but the PP1 complexes that control hippocampal LTP and LTD in the rat hippocampus remain unidentified. The neuron-specific actin-binding protein, neurabin-I, is enriched in dendritic spines, and tethers PP1 to actin-rich postsynaptic density to regulate morphology and maturation of spines. The present studies utilized Sindbis virus-mediated expression of wild-type and mutant neurabin-I polypeptides in organotypic cultures of rat hippocampal slices to investigate their role in synaptic plasticity. While wild-type neurabin-I elicited no change in basal synaptic transmission, it enhanced LTD and inhibited LTP in CA1 pyramidal neurons. By comparison, mutant neurabins, specifically those unable to bind PP1 or F-actin, decreased basal synaptic transmission, attenuated LTD and increased LTP in slice cultures. Biochemical and cell biological analyses suggested that, by mislocalizing synaptic PP1, the mutant neurabins impaired the functions of endogenous neurabin-PP1 complexes and modulated LTP and LTD. Together, these studies provided the first biochemical and physiological evidence that a postsynaptic actin-bound neurabin-I-PP1 complex regulates synaptic transmission and bidirectional changes in hippocampal plasticity.
To identify candidate genes that are responsible for motoneurone degeneration, we combined laser capture microdissection with microarray technology. We analysed gene expression in pure motoneurones from two mouse mutants that develop motoneurone degeneration, progressive motor neuronopathy and wobbler. At a presymptomatic age, there was a significant differential expression of a restricted number of genes (25 and 72 in progressive motor neuronopathy and wobbler respectively, of 22 600 transcripts screened). We compared these results to our previous analyses in the copper-zinc superoxide dismutase mutant mouse (SOD1(G93A)) in which we observed a de-regulation of 27 genes. Some of these genes were de-regulated uniquely in one mouse mutant and some have already been identified in cell death pathways implicated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and animal models of motoneurone degeneration (i.e. de-regulation of intermediate filaments, axonal transport, the ubiquitin-proteasome system and excitotoxicity). One gene, vimentin, was differentially up-regulated in all mouse mutants; this main candidate gene has been confirmed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry to be expressed in motoneurones in all mouse mutants. Furthermore, vimentin expression correlated with the state of motoneurone degeneration. These results identify early molecular changes that may be involved in the pathogenesis of motoneurones leading to cell death and favour a complex multipathway induction of the disease; surprisingly, there was no important modification in cell death-associated genes. This is the first study to show a clear difference in the genes that are de-regulated at an early stage in three different mouse models of motoneurone disease.
Considerable evidence indicates that neuroadaptations leading to addiction involve the same cellular processes that enable learning and memory, such as long-term potentiation (LTP), and that psychostimulants influence LTP through dopamine (DA)-dependent mechanisms. In hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, LTP involves insertion of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors into excitatory synapses. We used dissociated cultures to test the hypothesis that D1 family DA receptors influence synaptic plasticity in hippocampal neurons by modulating AMPA receptor trafficking. Brief exposure (5 min) to a D1 agonist increased surface expression of glutamate receptor (GluR)1-containing AMPA receptors by increasing their rate of externalization at extrasynaptic sites. This required the secretory pathway but not protein synthesis, and was mediated mainly by protein kinase A (PKA) with a smaller contribution from Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). Prior D1 receptor stimulation facilitated synaptic insertion of GluR1 in response to subsequent stimulation of synaptic NMDA receptors with glycine. Our results support a model for synaptic GluR1 incorporation in which PKA is required for initial insertion into the extrasynaptic membrane whereas CaMKII mediates translocation into the synapse. By increasing the size of the extrasynaptic GluR1 pool, D1 receptors may promote LTP. Psychostimulants may usurp this mechanism, leading to inappropriate plasticity that contributes to addiction-related behaviors.
DeltaFosB, a stable splice variant of FosB, has been proposed to mediate persistent brain adaptation in response to several chronic perturbations, but it has not yet been considered in the context of sustained pain. Inflammatory pain induces neuronal plasticity that can result in persistent alteration of nociceptive pathways. This neuronal plasticity can partly result from changes in gene expression controlled by transcription factors. In the present study, we analyse the capacity of carrageenan-mediated inflammation to induce DeltaFosB in the spinal cord. We found that hind-paw inflammation increases FosB-like immunoreactivity in the superficial layers of rat lumbar spinal cord for at least 7 days. This induction parallels mechanical hyperalgesia and is maximal in the dorsal horn of segment L4 of the spinal cord which corresponds to the primary nociceptive afferent regions from the hind paw. We identified this FosB-like signal as DeltaFosB by comparing data obtained with antibodies raised against either an epitope present in both FosB and DeltaFosB, or the FosB C-terminal region that is deleted in DeltaFosB. The week-lasting changes in DeltaFosB highlight the interest in this protein as a molecular marker of sustained pain, and suggest a role of this transcription factor in pain-related plasticity within the spinal cord.
Neurons are an extremely diverse group of excitable cells with a wide variety of morphologies including complex dendritic trees and very long axons. The electrical properties of neurons depend not only on the types of ion channels and receptors expressed, but also on where these channels are located in the cell. Two extreme examples that illustrate the subcellular polarized nature of neurons and the tight regulation of ion channel localization can be seen at the axon initial segment and the node of Ranvier. The axon initial segment is important for initiation of action potentials in the axon, whereas the node of Ranvier is required for the rapid, faithful and efficient propagation of action potentials along the axon. Given the similarity of their functions it is not surprising that nearly every protein component of the axon initial segment is also found at the node. However, there is one very important difference between these two sites: nodes require extrinsic, glial-derived factors in order to form, whereas the axon initial segment is intrinsically determined by the neuron. This mini-review discusses recent results that have begun to clarify the intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms underlying formation of nodes and axon initial segments, and poses several important unanswered questions regarding their unique mechanisms of formation.
The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), acting at IL-1R1 receptors, affects neuronal signaling under both physiological and pathophysiological conditions. The molecular mechanism of the rapid synaptic actions of IL-1beta in neurons is not known. We show here that within minutes of IL-1beta exposure, the firing rate of anterior hypothalamic (AH) neurons in culture was inhibited. This effect was prevented by pre-exposure of the cells to the Src family inhibitor, PP2, suggesting the involvement of Src in the hyperpolarizing effects of IL-1beta. The IL-1beta stimulation of neurons induced a rapid increase in the phosphorylation of the tyrosine kinase Src and kinase suppressor of Ras (ceramide activated protein kinase (CAPK)/KSR) in neurons grown on glia from IL-1RI(-/-) mice. These effects of IL-1beta were dependent on the association of the cytosolic adaptor protein, MyD88, to the IL-1 receptor, and on the activation of the neutral sphingomyelinase, leading to production of ceramide. A cell-permeable analog of ceramide mimicked the effects of IL-1beta on the cultured AH neurons. These results suggest that ceramide may be the second messenger of the fast IL-1beta actions in AH neurons, and that this IL-1beta/ceramide pathway may underlie the fast non-transcription-dependent, electrophysiological effects of IL-1beta observed in AH neurons in vivo.
Dopamine-induced changes in striatal gene expression are thought to play an important role in drug addiction and compulsive behaviour. In this study we report that dopamine induces the expression of the transcription factor CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein beta (C/EBP)-beta in primary cultures of striatal neurones. We identified the preprotachykinin-A (PPT-A) gene coding for substance P and neurokinin-A as a potential target gene of C/EBPbeta. We demonstrated that C/EBPbeta physically interacts with an element of the PPT-A promoter, thereby facilitating substance P precursor gene transcription. The regulation of PPT-A gene by C/EBPbeta could subserve many important physiological processes involving substance P, such as nociception, neurogenic inflammation and addiction. Given that substance P is known to increase dopamine signalling in the striatum and, in turn, dopamine increases substance P expression in medium spiny neurones, our results implicate C/EBPbeta in a positive feedback loop, changes of which might contribute to the development of drug addiction.
The male rat anterior pituitary responds highly reproducibly to specific hormonal stimuli in terms of the extent and timing of mitotic and apoptotic (trophic) activity. The principal objective of the present study was to define the contribution of hormonally identifiable cells to the trophic responses to bilateral gonadectomy and bilateral adrenalectomy. The patterns of pituitary mitotic responses to adrenalectomy and gonadectomy are similar in amplitude and duration. When adrenalectomy and gonadectomy are combined, the amplitude of the pituitary mitotic response is unchanged. That is, the trophic stimuli are not additive. Dexamethasone-induced apoptosis in nascent cells is amplified not only by recent adrenalectomy, but also, and to an almost identical extent, by gonadectomy. Combining adrenalectomy and gonadectomy does not further enhance the size of the apoptotically-responsive cell population. Dual bromodeoxyuridine and adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) or luteinising hormone (LH) immunolabelling showed that more than 95% of all dividing cells are not and do not become positive for either of these hormones during the period of peak mitotic response. Following adrenalectomy, most newly-formed ACTH cells are derived from differentiation of pre-existing hormonally undifferentiated cells. Despite an overall increase in mitotic activity, there is no measurable increase in the number of LH immunopositive cells after gonadectomy. The nonadditive pituitary mitotic and apoptotic responses to adrenalectomy and gonadectomy strongly suggest that the same progenitor cell population responds mitotically to both. This weakens the prevailing view that hormonally identifiable cells with specific trophic profiles contribute significantly to pituitary cell subpopulation revision.
Neuropathologies that affect our population include ischemic stroke and neurodegenerative diseases of immune origin, including multiple sclerosis. The endocannabinoid system in the brain, including agonists anandamide (arachidonyl ethanolamide) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol, and the CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors, has been implicated in the pathophysiology of these disease states, and can be a target for therapeutic interventions. This review concentrates on cellular signal transduction pathways believed to be involved in the cellular damage.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is widely known to be involved in physiological and pathophysiological processes of the brain where this proinflammatory cytokine is implicated with regulation of inflammatory and survival components. We report that TNF-alpha up-regulates exon-IV-bdnf mRNA and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein in primary astrocytes. The BDNF protein was detectable both in cellular lysate and in the extracellular medium. Activation of NF-kappaB by TNF-alpha and inhibition of TNF-alpha-induced BDNF expression by Deltap65 (a dominant-negative mutant) and NEMO-binding domain peptide (an inhibitor of NF-kappaB) suggests that TNF-alpha induces BDNF expression through the activation of NF-kappaB. Similarly, TNF-alpha induced the activation of C/EBPbeta and the expression of BDNF was sensitive to overexpression of DeltaC/EBPbeta (a dominant-negative mutant) and ETO (an inhibitor of C/EBPbeta). Among three MAP kinases, TNF-alpha-induced BDNF up-regulation was sensitive only to inhibitors of ERK MAP kinase. However, the ERK MAP kinase pathway was coupled to activation of C/EBPbeta but not NF-kappaB. Taken together, this study identifies a novel property of TNF-alpha in inducing the expression of BDNF via NF-kappaB and C/EBPbeta in astrocytes that may be responsible for neurotrophic activity of the cytokine.
The accumulation of B cells in the thymus is a common feature of myasthenia gravis (MG). To understand whether factors enhancing B-cell survival are increased in MG, we studied the expression of APRIL, BAFF and three of their receptors in the thymus. In hyperplastic thymi, macrophages expressed APRIL and BAFF, and germinal-center B cells, BAFF-R. CD138-positive plasma cells were abundant in MG thymi. By contrast, BCMA-positive plasma cells were scarce. The expression of APRIL and BAFF in MG thymi may reflect the establishment of an environment favorable to B-cell survival.




Immunotherapy holds great promise for the treatment of invasive brain tumors, and we are interested specifically in evaluating immune stimulation of microglial cells as one potential strategy. In order to better understand the tumor fighting capabilities of microglial cells, we have compared the responses of syngeneic (Fisher 344) and allogeneic (Wistar) rat strains after intracranial implantation of RG-2 gliomas. Animals were evaluated by clinical examination, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and immunohistochemistry for microglial and other immune cell antigens. While lethal RG-2 gliomas developed in all of the Fisher 344 rats, tumors grew variably in the Wistar strain, sometimes reaching considerable sizes, but eventually all of them regressed. Tumor regression was associated with greater numbers of T cells and CD8 positive cells and increases in MHC I and CD4 positive microglia. Our findings suggest that the combined mobilization of peripheral and CNS endogenous immune cells is required for eradicating large intracranial tumors.
Elucidating the causal role of head and eye movement signaling during cerebellar-dependent oculomotor behavior and plasticity is contingent on knowledge of precerebellar structure and function. To address this question, single-unit extracellular recordings were made from hindbrain Area II neurons that provide a major mossy fiber projection to the goldfish vestibulolateral cerebellum. During spontaneous behavior, Area II neurons exhibited minimal eye position and saccadic sensitivity. Sinusoidal visual and vestibular stimulation over a broad frequency range (0.1-4.0 Hz) demonstrated that firing rate mirrored the amplitude and phase of eye or head velocity, respectively. Table frequencies &gt;1.0 Hz resulted in decreased firing rate relative to eye velocity gain, while phase was unchanged. During visual steps, neuronal discharge paralleled eye velocity latency (approximately 90 ms) and matched both the build-up and the time course of the decay (approximately 19 s) in eye velocity storage. Latency of neuronal discharge to table steps (40 ms) was significantly longer than for eye movement (17 ms), but firing rate rose faster than eye velocity to steady-state levels. The velocity sensitivity of Area II neurons was shown to equal (+/- 10%) the sum of eye- and head-velocity firing rates as has been observed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. These results demonstrate that Area II neuronal firing closely emulates oculomotor performance. Conjoint signaling of head and eye velocity together with the termination pattern of each Area II neuron in the vestibulolateral lobe presents a unique eye-velocity brain stem-cerebellar pathway, eliminating the conceptual requirement of motor error signaling.
We have previously shown that the GABAergic nucleus zona incerta (ZI) suppresses vibrissae-evoked responses in the posterior medial (POm) thalamus of the rodent somatosensory system. We proposed that this inhibitory incerto-thalamic pathway regulates POm responses during different behavioral states. Here we tested the hypothesis that the cholinergic reticular activating system, implicated in regulating states of arousal, modulates ZI activity. We show that stimulation of brain stem cholinergic nuclei (laterodorsal tegmental and pedunculopontine tegmental) results in suppression of spontaneous firing of ZI neurons. Iontophoretic application of the cholinergic agonist carbachol to ZI neurons suppresses both their spontaneous firing and their vibrissae-evoked responses. We also found that carbachol application to an in vitro slice preparation suppresses spontaneous firing of neurons in the ventral sector of ZI (ZIv). Finally, we demonstrate that the majority of ZIv neurons contain parvalbumin and project to POm. Based on these results, we present the state-dependent gating hypothesis, which states that differing behavioral states-regulated by the brain stem cholinergic system-modulate ZI activity, thereby regulating the response properties of higher-order nuclei such as POm.
Interneuron kainate receptor (KAR) activation regulates normal network activity and modulates cell excitability. As a result, determining the subcellular distribution of KARs in a cell-specific manner is a necessary step toward understanding their role in network function. We have functionally mapped synaptic and extrasynaptic dendritic KARs on hippocampal oriens interneurons using local photolysis of caged glutamate. We find that the majority of trilaminar and oriens lacunosum-moleculare (O-LM) cells have uniform and continuous current densities along the lengths of their dendrites. However, there is a subpopulation of interneurons that have no KAR currents or currents exclusively at &quot;hot spots&quot; on the soma and dendrites. Finally, bistratified cells have KAR currents on all dendrites except those extending into the stratum radiatum. Thus KARs are functionally distributed in a cell-specific and cell-independent manner that may reflect the physiologically distinct roles they play in the hippocampal network.
Experimental evidence supports a number of mechanisms for the synaptic change that occurs with long-term potentiation (LTP) including insertion of AMPA receptors, an increase in AMPA receptor single channel conductance, unmasking silent synapses, and increases in vesicle release probability. Here we combine experimental and modeling studies to quantify the magnitude of the change needed at the synaptic level to explain LTP with these proposed mechanisms. Whole cell patch recordings were used to measure excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) amplitude in response to near minimal afferent stimulation before and after LTP induction in CA1 pyramidal cells. Detailed neuron and synapse level models were constructed to estimate quantitatively the changes needed to explain the experimental results. For cells in normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF), we found a 60% average increase in EPSP amplitude with LTP. This was explained in the models by a 63% increase in the number of activated synapses, a 64% increase in the AMPA receptor single channel conductance, or a 73% increase in the number of AMPA receptors per potentiated synapse. When the percentage LTP was above the average, the required increases through the proposed mechanisms became nonlinear, particularly for increases in the number of receptors. Given constraints from other experimental studies, our quantification suggests that neither unmasking silent synapses nor increasing the numbers of AMPA receptors at synapses is sufficient to explain the magnitude of LTP we observed, but increasing AMPA single channel conductance or vesicle release probability can be sufficient. Our results are most compatible with a combination of mechanisms producing LTP.
Parallel pathways mediate the rotatory vestibuloocular reflex (VOR). If the VOR undergoes adaptive modification with spectacles that change the magnification of the visual scene, signals in one neural pathway are modified, whereas those in another are not. By recording the responses of vestibular afferents and abducens neurons for vestibular oscillations at frequencies from 0.5 to 50 Hz, we have elucidated how vestibular signals are processed in the modified versus unmodified VOR pathways. For the small stimuli we used (+/- 15 degrees/s), the afferents with the most regular spontaneous discharge fired throughout the cycle of oscillation even at 50 Hz, whereas afferents with more irregular discharge showed phase locking. For all afferents, the firing rate was in phase with stimulus head velocity at low frequencies and showed progressive phase lead as frequency increased. Sensitivity to head velocity increased steadily as a function of frequency. Abducens neurons showed highly regular spontaneous discharge and very little evidence of phase locking. Their sensitivity to head velocity during the VOR was relatively flat across frequencies; firing rate lagged head velocity at low frequencies and shifted to large phase leads as stimulus frequency increased. When afferent responses were provided as inputs to a two-pathway model of the VOR, the output of the model reproduced the responses of abducens neurons if the unmodified and modified VOR pathways had frequency-dependent internal gains and included fixed time delays of 1.5 and 9 ms. The phase shifts predicted by the model provide fingerprints for identifying brain stem neurons that participate in the modified versus unmodified VOR pathways.
The spinal cord and spinal motoneurons are densely innervated by terminals of serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) neurons arising mostly from the brain stem, but also from intrinsic spinal neurons. Even after long-term spinal transection (chronic spinal), significant amounts (10%) of 5-HT and NE (monoamines) remain caudal to the injury. To determine the role of such endogenous monoamines, we blocked their action with monoamine receptor antagonists and measured changes in the sodium currents and firing in motoneurons. We focused on persistent sodium currents (Na PIC) and sodium spike properties because they are critical for enabling repetitive firing in motoneurons and are facilitated by monoamines. Intracellular recordings were made from motoneurons in the sacrocaudal spinal cord of normal and chronic spinal rats (2 mo postsacral transection) with the whole sacrocaudal cord acutely removed and maintained in vitro (cords from normal rats termed acute spinal). Acute and chronic spinal rats had TTX-sensitive Na PICs that were respectively 0.62 +/- 0.76 and 1.60 +/- 1.04 nA, with mean onset voltages of -63.0 +/- 5.6 and -64.1 +/- 5.4 mV, measured with slow voltage ramps. Application of 5-HT2A, 5-HT2C, and alpha1-NE receptor antagonists (ketanserin, RS 102221, and WB 4101, respectively) significantly reduced the Na PICs, and a combined application of these three monoamine antagonists completely eliminated the Na PIC, in both acute and chronic spinal rats. Likewise, reduction of presynaptic transmitter release (including 5-HT and NE) with long-term application of cadmium also eliminated the Na PIC. Associated with the elimination of the Na PIC in monoamine antagonists, the motoneurons lost their ability to fire during slow current ramps. At this point, the spike evoked by antidromic stimulation was not affected, suggesting that activation of the transient sodium current was not impaired. However, the spike evoked after a slow ramp depolarization was slightly reduced in height and rate-of-rise, suggesting decreased sodium channel availability as a result of increased channel inactivation. These results suggest that endogenous monoamine receptor activation is critical for enabling the Na PIC and decreasing sodium channel inactivation, ultimately enabling steady repetitive firing in both normal and chronic spinal rats.
Subjects were presented with pairs of tactile drifting sinusoids and made speed discrimination judgments. On some trials, a visual drifting sinusoid, which subjects were instructed to ignore, was presented simultaneously with one of the two tactile stimuli. When the visual and tactile gratings drifted in the same direction (i.e., from left to right), the visual distractors were found to increase the perceived speed of the tactile gratings. The effect of the visual distractors was proportional to their temporal frequency but not to their perceived speed. When the visual and tactile gratings drifted in opposite directions, the distracting effect of the visual distractors was either substantially reduced or, in some cases, reversed (i.e., the distractors slowed the perceived speed of the tactile gratings). This result suggests that the observed visual-tactile interaction is dependent on motion and not simply on the oscillations inherent in drifting sinusoids. Finally, we find that disrupting the temporal synchrony between the visual and tactile stimuli eliminates the distracting effect of the visual stimulus. We interpret this latter finding as evidence that the observed visual-tactile interaction operates at the sensory level and does not simply reflect a response bias.
Trial-by-trial variability is important in feedback-based motor learning. Variation in motor output enables evaluation mechanisms to differentially reinforce patterns of motor activity that produce desired behaviors. Here, we studied neural substrates of variability in the performance of adult birdsong, a complex, learned motor skill used for courtship. Song performance is more variable when male birds sing alone (undirected) than when they sing to females (directed). We test the role of the anterior forebrain pathway (AFP), an avian basal ganglia-forebrain circuit, in this socially driven modulation of song variability. We show that lesions of the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (LMAN), the output nucleus of the AFP, cause a reduction in the moment-by-moment variability in syllable structure during undirected song to the level present during directed song. This elimination of song modulation is immediate and long-lasting. We further show that the degree of syllable variability and its modulation are both attenuated in older birds, in concert with decreased variability of LMAN activity in these birds. In contrast to the requirement of LMAN for social modulation of syllable structure, we find that LMAN is not required for modulation of other features of song, such as the number of introductory elements and motif repetitions and the ordering of syllables or for other motor and motivational aspects of courtship. Our findings suggest that a key function of avian basal ganglia circuitry is to regulate vocal performance and plasticity by specifically modulating moment-by-moment variability in the structure of individual song elements.
The way in which input noise perturbs the behavior of a system depends on the internal processing structure of the system. In visual psychophysics, there is a long tradition of using external noise methods (i.e., adding noise to visual stimuli) as tools for system identification. Here, we demonstrate that external noise affects processing of visual scenes at different cortical areas along the human ventral visual pathway, from retinotopic regions to higher occipitotemporal areas implicated in visual shape processing. We found that when the contrast of the stimulus was held constant, the further away from the retinal input a cortical area was the more its activity, as measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), depended on the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the visual stimulus. A similar pattern of results was observed when trials with correct and incorrect responses were analyzed separately. We interpret these findings by extending signal detection theory to fMRI data analysis. This approach reveals the sequential ordering of decision stages in the cortex by exploiting the relation between fMRI response and stimulus SNR. In particular, our findings provide novel evidence that occipitotemporal areas in the ventral visual pathway form a cascade of decision stages with increasing degree of signal uncertainty and feature invariance.
We examined the modulation of persistent inward currents (PICs) by serotonin (5-HT) in spinal motoneurons of normal and chronic spinal rats. PICs are composed of both a TTX-sensitive persistent sodium current (Na PIC) and a nimodipine-sensitive persistent calcium current (Ca PIC), and we focused on quantifying the Na PIC (and its action on the total PIC), which is known to be critical in enabling repetitive firing. Intracellular recordings were made from motoneurons of the whole sacrocaudal spinal cord of normal adult rats after the cord was acutely transected at the S2 spinal level (acute spinal rat condition), removed from the animal, and then maintained in vitro. In vitro motoneuron recordings were likewise made from rats that had a sacral spinal transection 2 mo previously (chronic spinal rats). In motoneurons from acute spinal rats, moderately high doses of 5-HT (&gt; or = 10 microM), or the 5-HT2 receptor agonist DOI (&gt; or = 30 microM), significantly increased the total PIC, hyperpolarized the PIC onset voltage, and hyperpolarized the spike threshold, whereas lower doses had no effect. Both 5-HT and DOI specifically increased the Na PIC portion of the total PIC (tested with nimodipine blocking the Ca PIC). Additionally, 5-HT, but not DOI, depolarized the resting membrane potential (Vm) and increased the input resistance (Rm) in a dose-dependent manner. Therefore 5-HT2 receptor activation facilitated the Na PIC, whereas other 5-HT receptors modulated Vm and Rm. Motoneurons of chronic spinal rats responded to 5-HT and DOI in the same way, but with larger responses and at much lower doses (0.3-1 microM), thus exhibiting a 30-fold supersensitivity to 5-HT. Specifically the Na PIC was supersensitive to 5-HT2 receptor activation with DOI. Also, Rm and Vm were supersensitive to 5-HT. Consistent with the known critical role of the Na PIC in repetitive firing, enhancement of the Na PIC by DOI or 5-HT facilitated the repetitive firing evoked by steady current injection and enabled repetitive firing in a subpopulation of motoneurons of acute spinal rats that were initially unable to produce sustained repetitive firing. We suggest that after spinal transection, residual endogenous spinal sources of 5-HT help facilitate the Na PIC and repetitive firing. With chronic injury, the developed 5-HT supersensitivity more than compensates for lost brain stem 5-HT, so that the Na PIC is large and motoneurons are very excitable, thus contributing to spasticity.
We previously showed that, when observers watch an actor performing a predictable block-stacking task, the coordination between the observer's gaze and the actor's hand is similar to the coordination between the actor's gaze and hand. Both the observer and the actor direct gaze to forthcoming grasp and block landing sites and shift their gaze to the next grasp or landing site at around the time the hand contacts the block or the block contacts the landing site. Here we compare observers' gaze behavior in a block manipulation task when the observers did and when they did not know, in advance, which of two blocks the actor would pick up first. In both cases, observers managed to fixate the target ahead of the actor's hand and showed proactive gaze behavior. However, these target fixations occurred later, relative to the actor's movement, when observers did not know the target block in advance. In perceptual tests, in which observers watched animations of the actor reaching partway to the target and had to guess which block was the target, we found that the time at which observers were able to correctly do so was very similar to the time at which they would make saccades to the target block. Overall, our results indicate that observers use gaze in a fashion that is appropriate for hand movement planning and control. This in turn suggests that they implement representations of the manual actions required in the task and representations that direct task-specific eye movements.
Tetanic neuromuscular stimulation evokes contractions by depolarizing motor axons beneath the stimulating electrodes. However, we have shown that extra torque can develop due to the discharge of spinal neurons recruited by the evoked sensory volley. The present experiments investigated whether extra torque in the ankle plantar- and dorsiflexors was associated with enhanced H-reflexes. The tibial and common peroneal nerves were stimulated using 7-s trains (20 Hz for 2 s, 100 Hz for 2 s, 20 Hz for 3 s). Extra torque was defined as significantly more torque during 20-Hz stimulation after the 100-Hz burst (time2) than before it (time1). In 9 of 11 subjects, extra plantarflexion torque developed during stimulation just above motor threshold. In these nine subjects, torque increased from 8 to 13% MVC (time1 to time2), the soleus H-reflex increased from 13 to 19% Mmax and the M-wave of approximately 2% Mmax did not change significantly. To evoke extra dorsiflexion torque, greater stimulation intensities were required. In 6 of 13 subjects, extra torque developed at intensities that evoked an M-wave of 5-20% Mmax at time1. In these six subjects, torque doubled from 2 to 4% MVC (time1 to time2), whereas tibialis anterior (TA) H-reflexes and M-waves did not change significantly (H-reflex from 0.8 to 2% Mmax; M-wave from 12 to 14% Mmax). In 7 of 13 subjects, extra torque developed at higher stimulation intensities (35-65% Mmax). In these seven subjects, torque increased from 13 to 20% MVC, whereas TA H-reflexes and M-waves were not significantly different (H-reflex from 0.7 to 1% Mmax; M-wave from 49 to 54% Mmax). Thus enhanced H-reflexes contributed to extra plantarflexion, however, other factors generated extra dorsiflexion.
Months after sacral spinal transection in rats (chronic spinal rats), motoneurons below the injury exhibit large, low-threshold persistent inward currents (PICs), composed of persistent sodium currents (Na PICs) and persistent calcium currents (Ca PICs). Here, we studied whether motoneurons of normal adult rats also exhibited Na and Ca PICs when the spinal cord was acutely transected at the sacral level (acute spinal rats) and examined the role of the Na PIC in firing behavior. Intracellular recordings were obtained from motoneurons of acute and chronic spinal rats while the whole sacrocaudal spinal cord was maintained in vitro. Compared with chronic spinal rats, motoneurons of acute spinal rats were more difficult to activate because the input resistance was 22% lower and resting membrane potential was hyperpolarized 4.1 mV further below firing threshold (-50.9 +/- 6.2 mV). In acute spinal rats, during a slow voltage ramp, a PIC was activated subthreshold to the spike (at -57.2 +/- 5.0 mV) and reached a peak current of 1.11 +/- 1.21 nA. This PIC was less than one-half the size of that in chronic spinal rats (2.79 +/- 0.94 nA) and usually was not large enough to produce bistable behavior (plateau potentials and self-sustained firing not present), unlike in chronic spinal rats. The PIC was composed of two components: a TTX-sensitive Na PIC (0.44 +/- 0.36 nA) and a nimodipine-sensitive Ca PIC (0.78 +/- 0.82 nA). Both were smaller than in chronic spinal rats (but with similar Na/Ca ratio). The presence of the Na PIC was critical for normal repetitive firing, because no detectable Na PIC was found in the few motoneurons that could not fire repetitively during a slow ramp current injection and motoneurons that had large Na PICs more readily produced repetitive firing and had lower minimum firing rates compared with neurons with small Na PICs. Furthermore, when the Na PIC was selectively blocked with riluzole, steady repetitive firing was eliminated, even though transient firing could be evoked on a rapid current step and the spike itself was unaffected. In summary, only small Ca and Na PICs occur in acute spinal motoneurons, but the Na PIC is essential for steady repetitive firing. We discuss how availability of monoamines may explain the variability in Na PICs and firing in the normal and spinal animals.
Both patient and staff satisfaction with the SNP role has been high as it relates to quality of care delivery and accessibility of care and service. In particular, patients express satisfaction with the continuity of care experienced throughout the stroke care continuum, from acute in-hospital care to postdischarge follow-up. Improvements have been realized in systems and processes of care with the implementation of the SNP role. These include reductions in door-to-needle times in the administration of tPA (from 90 minutes to 60 minutes), rapid assessment and diagnostic interventions through coordination of are activities (e.g., door-to-CT scan times reduced from 60 minutes to 30 minutes), and faster consultation responses within the organization. Instituting the nurse practitioner role early in the development of the Calgary Stroke Program enhanced patient care while advancing the nursing discipline. The SNP has created a role that extends beyond that of physician helper to an autonomous nursing practice that has been beneficial to both patients with stroke and the regional healthcare delivery system. With the ability to practice autonomously, the nurse practitioner can aid in the expedient delivery of complex, comprehensive stroke care, as has been the case in the Calgary Stroke Program.
Patients afflicted with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) experience potentially devastating neurological sequelae; current therapy for ICH remains supportive. However, hemostatic therapy with recombinant activated factor VIIa holds promise for decreasing the morbidity and mortality of patients following an ICH. Nurses who are the responsible clinicians at the bedside often find it challenging to care for these patients. This article discusses the priorities that nurses need to determine as they balance the overall needs of the patient, incorporating recombinant activated factor VIIa as a new treatment for ICH.
Iron serves as an essential trace element for all body tissues, including the central nervous system (CNS). Because iron deficiency as well as iron overload is known to cause damage to the mammalian brain, the maintenance of iron homeostasis is crucial. It has been discovered recently that hepcidin plays an essential role in iron metabolism outside the CNS. A defect in hepcidin expression is responsible for iron accumulation and mice over-expressing hepcidin die postnatally by a severe anemia. We have used RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemistry to investigate the cellular distribution of hepcidin mRNA and protein in brain, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglia. Our results show a wide-spread distribution of hepcidin in different brain areas, including the olfactory bulb, cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus, hypothalamus, mesencephalon, cerebellum, pons, spinal cord, as well as in dorsal root ganglia of the peripheral nervous system. Hepcidin immunoreactivity is not restricted to neurons, but can be detected in both neurons and GFAP-positive glia cells. Because hepcidin action in organs outside the CNS is linked to iron homeostasis, we speculate that it is also involved in such processes in the CNS, putatively together with other iron regulating proteins. Cellular mechanisms and functions of hepcidin in the CNS remain to be elucidated.
Presenilin-dependent intramembranous proteolysis mediates the dual cleavage of the Notch-1 protein (S4 and S3) as well as the beta amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) (gamma40 and epsilon-site). betaAPP has a valine residue just before the gamma40 (amyloid beta [Abeta] numbering) site and after the epsilon-site. Both gamma40 and epsilon have multiple cleavage sites, and the varieties of gamma40 cleavage are associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). These lines of evidence suggest that valine plays a role in the intramembranous proteolysis. S4 cleavage in the middle of the Notch-1 transmembrane domain (TMD) corresponds to the gamma40 cleavage of betaAPP. The cleavage site is in the center of four sequential alanine residues between Ala1731 and Ala1732, neither of which has a valine residue. To investigate the effects of valine on presenilin-dependent intramembranous proteolysis, we replaced the transmembrane domain residue of Notch-1 with valine and analyzed the efficiency and precision at S4 and S3. We observed that all valine-mutated Notch-1 proteins have a dominant cleavage site (S4) between Ala1731 and Ala1732 with some variations of cleavage precision, suggesting that valine is not indispensable for determining the cleavage site of the Notch-1 transmembrane domain, but affects the efficiency and precision at S4 cleavage of the Notch-1 transmembrane domain.
A male infant was born full term with a prenatally diagnosed lumbosacral meningomyelocele and dilated ventricles that required ventriculoperitoneal shunt treatment. Following shunt insertion, a dysfunction occurred and operative exploration of the distal catheter revealed a knot formation resulting in occlusion of the shunt lumen. After the knot was untangled, the symptoms of increased intracranial pressure diminished. The authors stress that any possible cause of mechanical shunt complication should be taken into account when shunt malfunction is expected.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), also known as postinfectious encephalomyelitis, is an immunologically mediated demyelinating disorder affecting the central nervous system that typically occurs after infection or vaccination. The prognosis of ADEM is generally favorable. In a small subset of patients with ADEM, however, fulminant cerebral edema requiring neurosurgical intervention will develop. Few recommendations are available to help the neurosurgeon in dealing with such cases. In this report, the authors present the case of a patient with ADEM in whom central brain herniation developed secondary to medically intractable cerebral edema. The authors review the salient features of the disease and suggest a role for neurosurgeons in cases of fulminant ADEM.
Chronic expanding intracerebral hematoma (CEIH) is a rare cerebrovascular disease that behaves as a slowly expanding lesion with a gradual onset of progressive neurological deficit or recurrent seizures. The etiology of the CEIH is still not clear. Even if about a half of these lesions are associated with vascular malformations, the remaining cases are post-traumatic, associated with coagulative disorders or are cryptogenic. Treatment of these lesions is controversary: while some neurosurgeons remove the hematoma with its capsule, others prefer to wait and observe it if the patient is neurologically stable. We discuss the opportunity of treating selected patients bearing a CEIH by means of ultrasonography(US)-guided aspiration in selected patients. A 42-year-old hepatopathic man with coagulation disorders was referred to us with a 2-month history of progressive right-sided weakness, speech disorders and difficulty in swallowing solid foods. Radiological findings supported a CEIH with a thin surrounding capsule. The patient underwent to US-guided aspiration of the lesion with a complete resolution of the hematoma, confirmed intraoperatively by real-time US-control and postoperatively by early and long term neuroradiological controls. US-guided aspiration is a low cost, not time consuming technique, that allows an intraoperative real-time control of the lesion and seems to be an effective alternative to open surgery in cases of CEIHs with a thin capsule.
The inflammatory response is thought to be important for secondary damage following traumatic brain injury (TBI). The inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) isoform is a mediator in inflammatory reactions and may catalyze substantial synthesis of NO in the injured brain. This study was undertaken to analyze neuronal degeneration and survival, cellular apoptosis and formation of nitrotyrosine following treatment with the iNOS-inhibitor L-N-iminoethyl-lysine (L-NIL) in a model of brain contusion. A brain contusion was produced using a weight-drop device in 30 rats. The animals received treatment with L-NIL or NaCl at 15 min and 12 h after the injury and were sacrificed at 24 h or 6 days after trauma. iNOS activity was measured at 24 h post-trauma by the conversion of L-[U- ( 14 )C]arginine to L-[U-( 14 )C]citrulline and immunohistochemistry for iNOS. Peroxynitrite formation was indirectly assessed by nitrotyrosine (NT) immunohistochemistry. Neuronal degeneration and survival were assessed by Fluoro-Jade (FJ) and NeuN stainings, and cellular death by TUNEL staining. iNOS activity but not iNOS immunoreactivity was significantly reduced in animals that received L-NIL. Neuronal degeneration (FJ) and NT immunoreactivity were significantly reduced at 24 h. Neuronal survival was unchanged at 24 h but increased at 6 days in L-NIL-treated animals. Cellular apoptosis of ED-1 and NeuN positive cells was significantly reduced following L-NIL treatment at 6 days after trauma. We demonstrated neuroprotection by selective inhibition of iNOS after trauma. L-NIL appeared to protect the injured brain by limiting peroxynitrite formation. Our findings support a putative harmful role of iNOS induction early after TBI.
A regional orientation program increases the efficient and effective use of resources such as classroom, equipment, and educator time. It provides consistent information to all new nurses and maintains standards of nursing practice throughout the Department of Clinical Neurosciences.
Glucocorticoids are used to mature the fetal lung at times of threatened premature delivery. These drugs modify leukocyte profiles when administered in adulthood, but their effects on the mature host defence system following administration during the perinatal period are incompletely understood. In this study, the long-term effects of perinatal dexamethasone exposure on rodent host defence cells in the pulmonary airspaces, the perivascular compartment of the lung, and the blood were investigated. Rats were treated prenatally (gestational days 16-19) or neonatally (postnatal days 1-7) by inclusion of dexamethasone in the mothers' drinking water (1 microg/ml). The pups were then allowed to develop to adulthood (P60-80), at which time respiratory tissues were collected for light and electron microscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), and blood for cell count and fluorescent activated cell-sorting (FACS) analysis. Prenatal treatment had no effect on any parameter examined. Following neonatal dexamethasone exposure, light microscopy of the lung tissue revealed a significant reduction in the number of cells in the perivascular space in both the central and the peripheral regions of the adult lung, but no differences in the number of cells in the airspaces. Neonatal dexamethasone exposure was also characterized by a significant reduction in the total number of white cells in the peripheral blood in adulthood and in particular, the number of lymphocytes relative to neutrophils was significantly reduced at maturity in these animals. The results show that neonatal, but not prenatal, dexamethasone exposure significantly alters the distribution of host defence cells in the blood and lung at maturity compared with control animals. The early neonatal period is characterized by the stress hyporesponsive period in the rat, when endogenous glucocorticoid levels are very low. Therefore, exogenous glucocorticoids administered during this time are likely to have marked &quot;programming&quot; effects on glucocorticoid-sensitive tissues.

Barbiturates act on GABA(A) receptors (GABARs) through three distinct mechanisms, resulting in positive allosteric modulation, direct activation, and inhibition. These effects are observed at different concentrations and are differentially affected by some mutations and by the receptor's subunit composition. Mammalian GABARs can be formed from a combination of 16 different subunit subtypes. Although the effect of barbiturates depends largely on the beta subunit, their agonist activity is substantially influenced by the alpha subunit subtype. Pentobarbital is a more effective agonist than GABA only when receptors contain an alpha6 subunit. Results from chimeric alpha1/alpha6 subunits suggested that structural differences within the extracellular N-terminal domain were responsible for this characteristic. Within this domain, we examined 15 amino acid residues unique to the alpha6 subtype. Each of these sites was individually mutated in the alpha6 subunit to the corresponding residue of the alpha1 subunit. The effect of the mutation on direct activation by pentobarbital was determined with whole-cell electrophysiological recordings. Our results indicate that only one of these mutations, alpha6(T69K), altered pentobarbital efficacy. This single mutation reduced the response to pentobarbital to a level intermediate to the wild-type alpha1beta1gamma2L and alpha6beta1gamma2L isoforms. The mutation did not affect the sensitivity of the receptor to GABA but did reduce the efficacy of etomidate, another i.v. anesthetic with activity similar to pentobarbital. The reverse mutation in the alpha1 subunit (K70T) did not alter the response to pentobarbital. This is the first identification of a structural difference in GABAR alpha subtypes that regulates direct activation by barbiturates.
Acute seizures following brain injury have been associated with a worsening of patient outcome, but they are often undiagnosed and untreated when they occur without motor convulsions. Here, we sought to compare the antiseizure profile of ethosuximide (EXM; 125-312.5 mg/kg i.v.) and gabapentin (GBP; 0.3-50 mg/kg. i.v.) in a rat model of nonconvulsive seizures (NCS) induced by brain ischemia. Seizures were detected by continuous electroencephalographic monitoring for 24 h following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Both &quot;preseizure&quot; and &quot;postseizure&quot; treatment effects were evaluated. Control rats experienced a 91% incidence of NCS (averaging 10-11 NCS/rat), which was significantly reduced following preseizure treatment (delivered 20 min post-MCAo) with either EXM (ED(50) = 161 mg/kg) or GBP (ED(50) = 10.5 mg/kg). In contrast to preseizure treatment effects, only GBP reduced NCS when given after the first seizure event. A further, albeit nonsignificant, 20% reduction in NCS incidence was measured when given in combination postseizure. Drug treatment also reduced infarct volume, which was positively correlated to the number of NCS events (r = 0.475; P &lt; 0.001). EXM and GBP treatment of cultured neurons exposed to neurotoxic or ischemic insults showed no neuroprotective effects, suggesting that in vivo neuroprotection can be attributed to anti-seizure effects. We conclude that EXM and GBP significantly attenuate NCS in a dose-related manner and may help to improve patient outcome from brain ischemia-induced seizure activity.
It is a challenging question to understand how different neuronal types are organized into a complex architecture in the cortex, an architecture which is also adapted in different regions to subserve very different functions. Recent developments in genetic and molecular techniques have opened up the possibility of using gene expression profiling for neuronal cell typing, with the aim of uncovering novel cell types and the underlying mechanisms which generate and maintain neuronal heterogeneity in the cortex. This review introduces some current ideas about neuronal cell types in the cortex and describes recent approaches to expression profiling for defining cortical neuronal cell types.
Understanding the development of neuronal systems has become an important asset in the attempt to solve complex questions about neuropathology as found in Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia and other complex neuronal diseases. The development of anatomical and functional divergent structures in the brain is achieved by a combination of early anatomical patterning and highly coordinated neuronal migration and differentiation events. Fundamental to the existence of divergent structures in the brain is the early region-specific molecular programming. Neuronal progenitors located along the neural tube can still adapt many different identities. Their exact position in the developing brain, however, determines early molecular specification by region-specific signalling molecules. These signals determine time and region-specific expression of early regulatory genes, leading to neuronal differentiation. Here, we focus on a well-described neuronal group, the meso-diencephalic dopaminergic neurons, of which heterogeneity based on anatomical position could account for the difference in vulnerability of specific subgroups as observed in Parkinson's disease. The knowledge of their molecular coding helps us to understand how the meso-diencephalic dopaminergic system is built and could provide clues that unravel mechanisms associated with the neuropathology in complex diseases such as Parkinson's disease.
To examine the dark adaptation of human rod bipolar cells in vivo, we recorded ganzfeld ERGs to (a) a family of flashes of increasing intensity, (b) dim test flashes presented on a range of background intensities, and (c) dim test flashes presented before, and up to 40 min after, exposure to intense illumination eliciting bleaches from a few per cent to near total. The dim flash ERG was characterized by a prominent b-wave response generated principally by rod bipolar cells. In the presence of background illumination the response reached peak earlier and desensitized according to Weber's Law. Following bleaching exposures, the response was initially greatly desensitized, but thereafter recovered slowly with time. For small bleaches, the desensitization was accompanied by acceleration, in much the same way as for real light. Following a near-total bleach, the response was unrecordable for &gt;10 min, but after approximately 23 min half-maximal sensitivity was reached, and full sensitivity was restored between approximately 35 and 40 min. With smaller bleaches, recovery commenced earlier. We converted the post-bleach measurements of desensitization into 'equivalent background intensities' using a Crawford transformation. Across the range of bleaching levels, the results were described by a prominent 'S2' component (0.24 decades min(-1)) together with a smaller and slower 'S3' component (0.06 decades min(-1)), as is found for dark adaptation of the scotopic visual system. We attribute the S2 component to the presence of unregenerated opsin, and we speculate that the S3 component results from ion channel closure by all-trans retinal.
Brain gene expression databases are providing an increasing amount of information to the neuroscience community. Most databases are focused on the adult mouse rather than embryonic development. Here we survey the major mouse gene expression databases for the developing brain. The high throughput in situ hybridization approach generates large volumes of gene expression data that can be compiled and examined in a relatively short period of time. It is of increasing importance to compare gene expression patterns of neurodevelopment in the brain in relation to the adult. Often clues to adult gene expression and gene function can be determined by examining embryonic development. It is our hope that once all genes are mapped in the brain from the embryo to the adult, studies can be conducting based on information derived from such databases in conjunction with other bioinformatics sources.
The psychotomimetic drug phencyclidine (PCP) induces symptoms closely related to those of schizophrenia in humans. In order to test the hypothesis that cytokines may be involved in the aetiology and treatment of schizophrenia, this study investigated the levels of cytokine mRNAs in rat brain after acute and chronic administration of PCP, in the presence and absence of antipsychotic drugs. The levels of the mRNAs encoding TNF, IL-2, IL-6, TGF 1, 2, 3, IL-3 and GM-CSF were measured in the prefrontal cortex, cortex, hippocampus, ventral and dorsal striatum regions of male hooded Long Evans rats after acute drug administration. Antipsychotic drugs and PCP significantly reduced the levels of TNF in the prefrontal cortex compared to vehicle-treated animals, whilst other cytokines remained unchanged. In addition, significant reductions in the levels of TNF mRNA in the prefrontal cortex still occurred 24h after acute PCP administration. However, levels of TNF mRNA were restored to control values after chronic PCP treatment, whereas increased expression was detected in animals co-administered with haloperidol. Levels of TNF mRNA were also found to be significantly increased in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic subjects. The relationship between TNF levels and schizophrenia are discussed.
As smoking rates in the general population continue to fall in response to new information and changing social values, the continued high rate of smoking among persons with psychiatric disorders has caught the attention of society at many levels: public health officials, medical and mental health care providers, and concerned family members alike. As a consequence, research studies aimed at quantifying the problem and understanding its cause have increased dramatically over the past several years. The following review first examines epidemiological studies that have revealed a bidirectional causal relationship between tobacco dependence and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), one of several mental health disorders in which tobacco dependence remains prevalent and resistant to intervention. Second, we use a translational neuroscience perspective to discuss possible neurobiological mediators of the relationship between PTSD and tobacco dependence, hoping to spur further human and animal research that will elucidate pathogenetic mechanisms involved and inspire novel treatment interventions. Finally, to enable more effective clinical research in this area, we provide an overview of effective scientific methods for assessing and managing 'smoking status' as an experimental variable in clinical research studies of PTSD as well as other mental health disorders.
Ethanol may affect detection and processing of errors in performance tasks, and thus influence the speed accuracy trade-off. In this double-blind study, 11 volunteers, (seven female, four male) took part in four sessions in which they received ethanol (Eth; mean blood alcohol concentration at 60 min: 87.3, SD: 18.4), placebo (Pla), promethazine 20mg (P20) and 30 mg (P30) in randomized order. A computerized four choice reaction time test (FCRT), other performance measures and visual analogue scales (VAS) were administered before dosing and at intervals up to 2.5h after. During the FCRT volunteers reported errors verbally. These reports were recorded together with error signals from the computer. The overall pattern of effects was as expected for Eth, with increases in errors for most tasks, and subjective drowsiness. P30 affected only the FCRT, and both P30 and P20 caused drowsiness. The number of errors made by the volunteers in the FCRT was significantly increased for both Eth (N 5.20, p 0.01) and P30 (N 3.81, p 0.01) compared to Pla (1.84) with no significant change in response speed. The proportion of errors detected was slightly but not significantly reduced (Pla 68%, Eth 63%, P30 57%). These results show that error processing is not significantly impaired by ethanol, and a reduction in awareness of errors cannot account for the increased errors which occur when performance is impaired by ethanol.
The central nervous system plays a major role in the receipt and processing of gastrointestinal signals both at a conscious and subconscious level. It also provides major input into the motor control of the gut, most particularly with regard to swallowing and defecation. This review indicates how this control operates and provides recent experimental evidence of mechanisms underlying it both in health and disease.

The aim of the investigations was to explore the nature and the severity of cognitive deficits in narcolepsy patients. In two studies, narcolepsy patients were compared with matched control subjects on a range of attention, memory and executive control tasks. Impairments were only observed on attention and executive function tasks which involved higher demands on inhibition or task management abilities whereas relatively routine memory and attention tasks yielded intact performance in narcolepsy patients. The overall pattern of results indicates an executive control deficit in narcolepsy which might be related to a reduction of available cognitive processing resources because of the need for continuous allocation of resources to monitoring and maintenance of vigilance.
The aim of this study was to determine whether naturally occurring inter-individual and intra-individual differences in bedtime selection in the elderly might be lawfully related to the amount of sleep that is obtained. A total of 128 seniors (63f, 65m) aged 70-92 years each provided a week of sleep diary data yielding a total of 896 subject-nights for analysis. From each subject-night the diary was used to derive measures of time in bed (TIB) and total sleep time (TST). These measures were used as dependent variables in mixed-effect linear models (nights nested within subjects) with the independent variable being bedtime for that subject-night, arbitrarily expressed as minutes since 19:00 hours. Although there were strong inter-individual and intra-individual differences, for both genders, bedtime had a statistically significant effect (P &lt; 0.001) on both TIB and TST. We observed that later bedtimes were associated with less time in bed and less time asleep. On average between 7 and 8 min of less TIB and TST were associated with each 10-min delay in bedtime from 19:00 hours. These results are interpreted in terms of increases in sleep being derived from living in a better harmony with an earlier peaking circadian pacemaker characteristic of older age, although other possible mechanisms are also considered (e.g. age-dependent alterations in phase angle and homeostatic sleep need).

Rotenone is a widely used pesticide and fish toxin that inhibits complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Complex I dysfunction is linked to the degeneration of retinal ganglion cells in Leber's optic neuropathy. To study the association between environmental mitochondrial toxin exposure and neurodegeneration, mice were intravitreally microinjected with rotenone in one eye and with the vehicle dimethyl sulfoxide in the contralateral eye, as a within-subject control. The retinal ganglion cell layer (GCL) of eyes injected with rotenone became significantly thinner than that of the control eyes after 24 h, but not as early as 0.5 h. This reduction was observed using complex I histochemistry and with Nissl staining of cell bodies. After 24 h, retinal nerve fiber layer thickness was reduced by 89% and the number of GCL cells was reduced by 21% in rotenone-treated eyes. Cellular morphometric data (soma area, perimeter, and diameter) did not show overall differences, but there was a preferential reduction in the proportion of larger cells. Therefore, the reduction in GCL thickness 24 h after rotenone microinjection could be accounted for by cell loss and nerve fiber shrinkage, but not by overall soma size change. Rotenone-induced degeneration of the ganglion cell layer may be used as a convenient way to (1) evaluate mechanisms and treatments for the neurodegeneration produced by mitochondrial dysfunction and (2) investigate environmental pesticide contributions to neurodegenerative diseases.
Racial minorities generally exhibit worse health status than do whites. To assess the presence of similar phenomena among long-term cocaine-using veterans, this study examined racial variations in mortality and health status among cocaine-dependent men who were originally recruited at their admissions to cocaine treatment in 1988-1989 and were interviewed approximately 12 years later in 2002-2003. Mortality was higher among whites (15%) than blacks (6%), particularly due to drug overdose. Controlling for socioeconomic factors, cocaine severity, and depression, the racial difference was still significant in the survival analysis. Racial differences were examined in the health status of those interviewed in the 12-year follow-up study (178 blacks and 65 whites), after confirmation of their comparable socioeconomic backgrounds and levels of healthcare access and utilization. Contrary to expectations, few racial differences were found on most health indicators, although the level of cocaine use was higher among blacks. Furthermore, fewer blacks reported having hepatitis or sexually transmitted diseases than did whites. The study results suggest that black cocaine-dependent veterans do not have worse health status when compared with white veterans on most health indicators.
The human polyomavirus JC virus (JCV) is the causative agent of the fatal demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), which is commonly seen in AIDS patients. The bicistronic viral RNA, which is transcribed at the late phase of infection, is responsible for expressing the viral capsid proteins and a small regulatory protein, agnoprotein. Immunohistochemical analysis of brain tissue from subjects with AIDS/PML revealed colocalization of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) transactivator, Tat, and JCV agnoprotein in nucleus and cytoplasm of &quot;bizarre&quot; astrocytes. In accord with this observation, we detected the copresence of agnoprotein and Tat in human astrocytes upon infection with JCV and HIV-1 or in astrocytic cells expressing these proteins after transfection. Interestingly, results from infection of human astrocytes with HIV-1 and JCV showed a decrease in the level of HIV-1 replication in cells that are coinfected with JCV. Conversely, a slight increase in the level of JCV replication was observed in the presence of HIV-1. The copresence of JCV and HIV-1 in astrocytes prompted us to investigate the possible cross-interaction of agnoprotein with Tat and its impact on HIV-1 gene transcription. Our results demonstrate that agnoprotein through its N-terminal domain associates with Tat and the interaction causes the suppression of Tat-mediated enhancement of HIV-1 promoter activity in these cells. Results from RNA and protein binding assays showed that agnoprotein can inhibit the association of Tat with its target RNA sequence, TAR, and with cyclin T1. Furthermore, agnoprotein is able to interfere with cross-interaction of Tat with the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB and Sp1, whose functions are critical for Tat activation of the long terminal repeat. These observations unravel a new pathway for the molecular interaction of these two viruses in biologically relevant cells in the brains of AIDS/PML patients.
The prototypic arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is a formidable battle horse for the study of viral immunology, as well as viral persistence and associated diseases. Investigations with LCMV have uncovered basic mechanisms by which viruses avoid elimination by the host adaptive immune response. In this study we show that LCMV also disables the host innate defense by interfering with beta interferon (IFN-beta) production in response to different stimuli, including infection with Sendai virus and liposome-mediated DNA transfection. Inhibition of IFN production in LCMV-infected cells was caused by an early block in the IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3) activation pathway. This defect was restored in cells cured of LCMV, indicating that one or more LCMV products are responsible for the inhibition of IRF-3 activation. Using expression plasmids encoding individual LCMV proteins, we found that expression of the LCMV nucleoprotein (NP) was sufficient to inhibit both IFN production and nuclear translocation of IRF-3. To our knowledge, this is the first evidence of an IFN-counteracting viral protein in the Arenaviridae family. Inhibition of IFN production by the arenavirus NP is likely to be a determinant of virulence in vivo.
Neonatal infection of most mouse strains with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) leads to a life-long persistent infection characterized by high virus loads in the central nervous system (CNS) in the absence of inflammation and tissue destruction. These mice, however, exhibit impaired learning and memory. The occurrence of cognitive defects in the absence of overt CNS pathology led us to the hypothesis that chronic virus infection may contribute to neuronal dysfunction by altering the host's gene expression profile. To test this hypothesis, we examined the impact of LCMV persistence on host gene expression in the CNS. To model the natural route of human congenital CNS infection observed with a variety of viruses, we established a persistently infected mouse colony where the virus was maintained via vertical transmission from infected mothers to offspring (LCMV-cgPi). LCMV-cgPi mice exhibited a lifelong persistent infection involving the CNS; the infection was associated with impaired spatial-temporal learning. Despite high viral loads in neurons of the brains of adult LCMV-cgPi mice, we detected changes in the host's CNS gene expression for only 75 genes, 56 and 19 being significantly induced and reduced, respectively. The majority of the genes induced in the brain of LCMV-cgPi mice were interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes (ISGs) and included the transcription factors STAT1 and IRF9, the ISG15 protease UBP43, and the glucocorticoid attenuated-response genes GARG16 and GARG49. Based on their crucial role in antiviral defense, these ISGs may play an important role in limiting viral spread and replication. However, since IFNs have also been implicated in adverse effects on neuronal function, the chronic induction of some ISGs may also contribute to the observed cognitive impairment.
Recovery from Lassa virus (LASV) infection usually precedes the appearance of neutralizing antibodies, indicating that cellular immunity plays a primary role in viral clearance. To date, the role of LASV-specific CD8(+) T cells has not been evaluated in humans. To facilitate such studies, we utilized a predictive algorithm to identify candidate HLA-A2 supertype epitopes from the LASV nucleoprotein and glycoprotein precursor (GPC) genes. We identified three peptides (GPC(42-50), GLVGLVTFL; GPC(60-68), SLYKGVYEL; and GPC(441-449), YLISIFLHL) that displayed high-affinity binding (&lt; or =98 nM) to HLA-A*0201, induced CD8(+) T-cell responses of high functional avidity in HLA-A*0201 transgenic mice, and were naturally processed from native LASV GPC in human HLA-A*0201-positive target cells. HLA-A*0201 mice immunized with either GPC(42-50) or GPC(60-68) were protected against challenge with a recombinant vaccinia virus that expressed LASV GPC. The epitopes identified in this study represent potential diagnostic reagents and candidates for inclusion in epitope-based vaccine constructs. Our approach is applicable to any pathogen with existing sequence data, does not require manipulation of the actual pathogen or access to immune human donors, and should therefore be generally applicable to category A through C agents and other emerging pathogens.
We did a systematic review on the outcome of paediatric convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) and investigated the role of biological and non-biological variables in reported outcomes. The methodological quality of the 63 studies that met our inclusion criteria was assessed. Study design, type of study, and length of follow-up influenced the outcome. The studies with highest methodological quality are associated with better outcome: short-term mortality between 2.7% and 5.2% and morbidity other than epilepsy less than 15%. The incidence of subsequent epilepsy is not increased after cryptogenic CSE. Causal factor is the main determinant of outcome and the effect of age or duration is difficult to separate from the underlying cause. The risk of sequelae in unprovoked and febrile CSE is low. There is some evidence that CSE, especially febrile CSE, might cause hippocampal injury, although its role in the development of mesial temporal sclerosis is unknown.
Thrombolytic therapy has led to a higher proportion of patients presenting to hospital early, and this, with parallel developments in imaging technology, has greatly improved the understanding of acute stroke pathophysiology. Additionally, MRI, including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and gradient echo, or T2*, imaging is important in understanding basic structural information--such as distinguishing acute ischaemia from haemorrhage. It has also greatly increased sensitivity in the diagnosis of acute cerebral ischaemia. The pathophysiology of the ischaemic penumbra can now be assessed with CT or MRI-based perfusion imaging techniques, which are widely available and clinically applicable. Pathophysiological information from CT or MRI increasingly helps clinical trial design, may allow targeted therapy in individual patients, and may extend the time scale for reperfusion therapy.

This review briefly traces some of the history of the phenomenon of what has come to be called &quot;reconsolidation.&quot; The early findings of retrograde amnesia for an old but reactivated memory led to several interesting but largely behaviorally oriented studies. With only a few sporadic exceptions, research in the area languished until about 2000, when several articles caught the attention of the neuroscience community and led to a number of studies examining the phenomenon at several different levels of analysis. We consider several of the current issues generated by those studies, present a retrieval based model that may account for some findings, and indicate some possible new directions on this topic.
Studies of memory impairment in humans and experimental animals have been fundamental to learning about the organization of memory and its cellular and molecular substrates. When memory impairment occurs, especially after perturbations of the nervous system, the question inevitably arises whether the impairment reflects impaired information storage or impaired accessibility. This topic has been the subject of considerable commentary and experimental work over the years. In this reappraisal, I first consider four broad areas of behavioral study from the 1970s and 1980s that led to a dominant and compelling view of memory impairment as a deficit of information storage. Second, I identify some ambiguities that arise about how the terms &quot;storage&quot; and &quot;retrieval&quot; are applied, especially when the evidence is somewhat indirect and based on a behavioral-psychological level of analysis. I then review neurobiological findings that have been largely overlooked in these discussions. The relevant studies are ones where it has been possible to monitor neurons and synapses in direct relation to behavioral memory, for example, in animals with simple nervous systems and in single cell recordings from behaving monkeys. This work provides a straightforward and illuminating perspective on the question and confirms the view that first emerged from less direct evidence.
Results from studies of retrograde amnesia provide much of the evidence for theories of memory consolidation. Retrograde amnesia gradients are often interpreted as revealing the time needed for the formation of long-term memories. The rapid forgetting observed after many amnestic treatments, including protein synthesis inhibitors, and the parallel decay seen in long-term potentiation experiments are presumed to reveal the duration of short-term memory processing. However, there is clear and consistent evidence that the time courses obtained in these amnesia experiments are highly variable within and across experiments and treatments. The evidence is inconsistent with identification of basic temporal properties of memory consolidation. Alternative views include modulation of memory and emphasize the roles that hormones and neurotransmitters have in regulating memory formation. Of related interest, converging lines of evidence suggest that inhibitors of protein synthesis and of other biochemical processes act on modulators of memory formation rather than on mechanisms of memory formation. Based on these findings, memory consolidation and reconsolidation studies might better be identified as memory modulation and &quot;remodulation&quot; studies. Beyond a missing and perhaps unattainable time constant of memory consolidation, some current views of memory consolidation assume that memories, once formed, are generally unmodifiable. It is this perspective that appears to have led to the recent interest in memory reconsolidation. But the view adopted here is that memories are continually malleable, being updated by new experiences and, at the same time, altering the memories of later experiences. Studies of memory remodulation offer promise of understanding the neurobiological bases by which new memories are altered by prior experiences and by which old memories are altered by new experiences.
Predisposition to lymphomagenesis is a well-known phenomenon of ataxia-telangiectasia, a recessive disorder caused by germline inactivation of ATM. ATM encodes a protein implicated in the repair of radiation induced double-strand breaks. Biallelic ATM inactivation was described also in sporadic lymphoid malignancies, supporting a role of ATM as a tumour suppressor gene. It is, however, still unclear whether ATM heterozygotes are at higher risk of tumours. We describe an ATM heterozygous patient, who developed a mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) after occupational exposure to ionising radiation and somatic mutation of the second ATM allele supporting the contention that heterozygous germline ATM alterations in combination with irradiation exposure predisposes to sporadic MCL.
There appears to be a molecular process for relaxation. Given this, we attempt to demonstrate this phenomenon based on established molecular and physiological processes in light of our current understanding of central and peripheral nervous system mechanisms. Central to our hypothesis is the significance of norepinephrine, nitric oxide, dopamine and morphine signaling both in the central and peripheral nervous system. We find that nitric oxide and morphine control catecholamine processes on many levels, including synthesis, release and actions. We conclude that enough scientific information exists to support these phenotmena as actual physical processes that can be harnessed to provide better patient care.




In this study, a cleavable signal peptide fused to the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) was tagged to the extracellular N-terminus of the human dopamine D2 receptor short and long isoforms (D2S and D2L). Ligand-binding properties of EGFP-tagged receptors were essentially unchanged in comparison to their respective wild-type receptors. The dopamine-mediated activation of both EGFP-D2 isoforms generated a robust inhibition of adenylyl cyclase type 5 in intact cells. In addition, the receptor density of EGFP-D2S and EGFP-D2L in transfected human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells was not altered when compared to cells transfected with the untagged D2S and D2L. However, the receptor densities of untagged and EGFP-tagged D2L were significantly lower in comparison to those measured with D2S constructs. Moreover, the receptor density of EGFP-D2S and EGFP-D2L was differentially upregulated in cells treated with antipsychotic drugs. As assessed by confocal microscopy, both EGFP-D2 isoforms were present on the cell surface. Notably, in contrast to the predominant plasma membrane localization of EGFP- D2S, EGFP-D2L was visualized both on the plasma membrane and intracellularly before dopamine exposure. Importantly, EGFP-D2S and EGFP-D2L are robustly internalized after dopamine treatment. Overall, our data suggest a differential intracellular sorting of D2S and D2L.
Adrenergic stimulation has an important role in the pancreatic beta-cell proliferation and insulin secretion. In the present study, we have investigated how sympathetic system regulates the pancreatic regeneration by analyzing Epinephrine (EPI), Norepinephrine (NE) and beta-adrenergic receptor changes in the brain as well as in the pancreas. EPI and NE showed a significant decrease in the brain regions, pancreas and plasma at 72 hrs after partial pancreatectomy. We observed an increase in the circulating insulin levels at 72 hrs. Scatchard analysis using [(3)H] propranolol showed a significant increase in the number of both the low affinity and high affinity beta-adrenergic receptors in cerebral cortex and hypothalamus of partially pancreatectomised rats during peak DNA synthesis. The affinity of the receptors decreased significantly in the low and high affinity receptors of cerebral cortex and the high affinity hypothalamic receptors. In the brain stem, low affinity receptors were increased significantly during regeneration whereas there was no change in the high affinity receptors. The pancreatic beta-adrenergic receptors were also up regulated at 72 hrs after partial pancreatectomy. In vitro studies showed that beta-adrenergic receptors are positive regulators of islet cell proliferation and insulin secretion. Thus our results suggest that the beta-adrenergic receptors are functionally enhanced during pancreatic regeneration, which in turn increases pancreatic beta-cell proliferation and insulin secretion in weanling rats.
With DNA microarrays, we identified a gene, termed Solo, that is downregulated in the cerebellum of Purkinje cell degeneration mutant mice. Solo is a mouse homologue of rat Trio8-one of multiple Trio isoforms recently identified in rat brain. Solo/Trio8 contains N-terminal sec14-like and spectrin-like repeat domains followed by a single guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (GEF1) domain, but it lacks the C-terminal GEF2, immunoglobulin-like, and kinase domains that are typical of Trio. Solo/Trio8 is predominantly expressed in Purkinje neurons of the mouse brain, and expression begins following birth and increases during Purkinje neuron maturation. We identified a novel C-terminal membrane-anchoring domain in Solo/Trio8 that is required for enhanced green fluorescent protein-Solo/Trio8 localization to early endosomes (positive for both early-endosome antigen 1 [EEA1] and Rab5) in COS-7 cells and primary cultured neurons. Solo/Trio8 overexpression in COS-7 cells augmented the EEA1-positive early-endosome pool, and this effect was abolished via mutation and inactivation of the GEF domain or deletion of the C-terminal membrane-anchoring domain. Moreover, primary cultured neurons transfected with Solo/Trio8 showed increased neurite elongation that was dependent on these domains. These results suggest that Solo/Trio8 acts as an early-endosome-specific upstream activator of Rho family GTPases for neurite elongation of developing Purkinje neurons.
High mobility group protein A1a (HMGA1a) is expressed at high levels in embryonic cells and has been implicated in their transcriptional regulation. However, it has been reported that high levels of HMGA1a expression are normally detected in the photoreceptor of adult (terminally differentiated cells) murine retina. We showed that biochemical purification of the recombinant HMGA1a binding activity in nuclear fractions from murine retina, but not from hippocampus, resulted in STAT3 interacting protein 1 (StIP1) that formed a novel complex with HMGA1a, STAT3 and homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2). While StIP1 expressions in brain, liver, lung, heart, skeletal muscle, spleen and thymus have previously been demonstrated, this is the first report that StIP1 was expressed in nuclear fractions from murine retina, and that in murine retina there are several novel complexes of transcriptional regulators consisting of HMGA1a, StIP1, STAT3 and HIPK2.
Selective antagonism of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) 2B subunit containing receptors has been suggested to have potential therapeutic application for multiple CNS disorders. The amino terminal NR2B residues 1 to 282 were found to be both necessary and sufficient for the binding and function of highly NR2B subunit specific antagonists like ifenprodil and CP-101,606. Using a genetic approach in mice, we successfully replaced the murine NR2B gene function by &quot;knocking-in&quot; (KI) a chimeric human NR2A/B cDNA containing the minimal domain abolishing ifenprodil binding into the endogenous NR2B locus. Patch-clamp recording from hippocampal cultures of the NR2B KI mice demonstrated that their NMDA receptors have reduced sensitivity to both ifenprodil and CP-101,606, as predicted, but also have a lower affinity for glycine. The NR2B KI mice exhibited normal locomotor activity making this ifenprodil-insensitive mouse model a valuable tool to test the specificity of NR2B selective antagonists in vivo.
Secreted soluble growth factors have long been implicated in regulating or modulating cortical neurogenesis through stimulation of neurogenic progenitors. How a cortical progenitor cell interprets the growth factor signal may determine the progeny produced by the progenitor through a critical final round of cell division prior to terminal differentiation. Given that low concentrations of fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) have previously been shown to stimulate cortically derived rodent progenitors to produce neuroblasts, we hypothesized that low levels of FGF-2 may also promote neurogenesis from human neural progenitor cells (hNPC). hNPC were generated from the developing human cortex and maintained in epidermal growth factor as neurospheres. CREB phosphorylation revealed that a similar number of differentiating hNPC were stimulated by both low (2 pg/ml) and high (20 ng/ml) levels of FGF-2. The majority of progenitor cells that produced neurons underwent a final round of division during differentiation. Low concentrations of FGF-2 increased neurogenesis while high levels of FGF-2 maintained progenitor cell proliferation and blocked neurogenesis. Application of an FGF-2 neutralizing antibody during differentiation completely inhibited CREB phosphorylation but did not block neurogenesis. Thus, while low levels of FGF-2 can increase neurogenesis; extracellular stimulation by this factor is not required for new neuron production from hNPC.
IGF-I and IGF-II are essential regulators of mammalian growth, development and metabolism, whose actions are modified by six high-affinity IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs). New lines of knockout (KO) mice lacking either IGFBP-3, -4, or -5 had no apparent deficiencies in growth or metabolism beyond a modest growth impairment (approximately 85-90% of wild type) when IGFBP-4 was eliminated. To continue to address the roles of these proteins in whole animal physiology, we generated combinational IGFBP KO mice. Mice homozygous for targeted defects in IGFBP-3, -4, and -5 remain viable and at birth were the same size as IGFBP-4 KO mice. Unlike IGFBP-4 KO mice, however, the triple KO mice became significantly smaller by adulthood (78% wild type) and had significant reductions in fat pad accumulation (P &lt; 0.05), circulating levels of total IGF-I (45% of wild type; P &lt; 0.05) and IGF-I bioactivity (37% of wild type; P &lt; 0.05). Metabolically, triple KO mice showed normal insulin tolerance, but a 37% expansion (P &lt; 0.05) of beta-cell number and significantly increased insulin secretion after glucose challenge, which leads to enhanced glucose disposal. Finally, triple KO mice demonstrated a tissue-specific decline in activation of the Erk signaling pathway as well as weight of the quadriceps muscle. Taken together, these data provide direct evidence for combinatorial effects of IGFBP-3, -4, and -5 in both metabolism and at least some soft tissues and strongly suggest overlapping roles for IGFBP-3 and -5 in maintaining IGF-I-mediated postnatal growth in mice.
We have quantified the effects of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (R)-[(S)-1-(4-bromo-phenyl)-ethylamino]-(2,3-dioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoxalin-5-yl)-methyl]-phosphonic acid (NVP-AAM077) at rat recombinant N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NR)1/NR2A and NR1/NR2B NMDA receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. We observed no difference in the steady-state levels of inhibition produced by NVP-AAM077 when it was either preapplied or coapplied with glutamate. The IC50 values for NVP-AAM077 acting at NR1/NR2A NMDA receptors were, as expected, dependent on the glutamate concentration used to evoke responses, being 31 +/- 2 nM (with glutamate at its EC50 concentration) and 214 +/- 10 nM (at 10 times the EC50 concentration). Schild analysis confirmed that the antagonism produced by NVP-AAM077 at NR1/NR2A NMDA receptors was competitive and gave an estimate of its equilibrium constant (K(B)) of 15 +/- 2 nM. Furthermore, Schild analysis of an NMDA receptor carrying a threonine-to-alanine point mutation in the NR2A ligand binding site indicated that NVP-AAM077 still acted in a competitive manner but with its K(B) increased by around 15-fold. At NR1/NR2B NMDA receptors, NVP-AAM077 displayed reduced potency. An IC50 value of 215 +/- 13 nM was obtained in the presence of the EC50 concentration of glutamate (1.5 microM), whereas a value of 2.2 +/- 0.14 microM was obtained with higher (15 microM) glutamate concentrations. Schild analysis gave a K(B) for NVP-AAM077 at NR2B-containing receptors of 78 +/- 3 nM. Finally, using a kinetic scheme to model &quot;synaptic-like&quot; activation of NMDA receptors, we show that the difference in the equilibrium constants for NVP-AAM077 is not sufficient to discriminate between NR2A-containing or NR2B-containing NMDA receptors.
Numerous data showed that 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A (5-HT1A) receptors couple to Galpha(o)/alpha(i) proteins for signal transduction. However, the alpha subunit isoforms really involved in 5-HT1A receptor coupling in brain remain to be identified. Moreover, regional differences in the functional characteristics of brain 5-HT1A receptors have been evidenced repeatedly. Because such differences could be due to variations in G proteins interacting with the same receptor, relevant approaches were used for identifying alpha subunits physically coupled to 5-HT1A receptors in different regions of the rat brain. Using immunoaffinity chromatography coupled to Western blot detection, 5-HT1A receptors were found to interact equally with Galpha(o) and Galpha(i3) in the cerebral cortex, mainly with Galpha(o) and weakly with Galpha(i3) in the hippocampus and exclusively with Galpha(i3) in the anterior raphe area. In the hypothalamus, 5-HT(1A) receptors seemed to be coupled to the latter two G proteins plus Galpha(i1) and Galpha(z). Complementary experiments based on an antibody capture technique coupled to both classic radioactivity and scintillation proximity assay detections showed that hippocampal 5-HT1A receptor stimulation induced 5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding to immunoprecipitates with Galpha(i3) and Galpha(o) antisera. In the anterior raphe, such 5-HT1A receptor-mediated effect was obtained with Galpha(i3) antiserum only. These results demonstrated the existence of regional differences in the coupling of 5-HT1A receptors to G proteins in the rat brain. In the anterior raphe, 5-HT1A receptors seem to interact specifically with Galpha(i3), whereas in the hippocampus, they are mainly coupled to Galpha(o) proteins. Such a disparity in G-protein coupling might explain regional differences in adaptive regulations of brain 5-HT1A receptors.
Capsaicin (vanilloid) sensitivity has long served as the functional signature of a subset of nociceptive sensory neurons. Mutagenesis studies have revealed seemingly distinct regions involved in mediating ligand binding and channel activation at the capsaicin binding site. Residue 547 (transmembrane region 4) mediates significant species differences in resiniferatoxin (RTX) sensitivity, and the Ser(512) residue is critical in discriminating between pH and capsaicin gating. In the present study, the pharmacological profiles of a variety of ligands were studied to investigate cross-talk between these two regions. Exchange of residue 547 between species mediated a difference in capsaicin and RTX-dependent gating. Likewise, the potency of iodoresiniferatoxin (I-RTX) and a novel transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 antagonist were also altered. Experiments using the S512Y mutant channel have confirmed the importance of residue 512 for functional interaction of capsaicin and our novel antagonist. In this study, we were surprised to find that the mutation S512Y converted the activity of the antagonist I-RTX into an intrinsic agonist, albeit with a lower potency than its parent compound, RTX. Recent studies have proposed a novel model for the receptor, based on the X-ray crystal structure of the voltage-dependent potassium channel, in which both the 512 and 547 amino acid residues are in close proximity. Our data support the model whereby intracellular ligand interaction occurs within an S3-S4 &quot;sensor&quot; domain, enabling binding of ligands to be transduced to functional gating of the channel. The binding pocket also seems to be exquisitely sensitive to residue-specific interaction with ligands, because subtle changes in either ligand or channel structure can have profound effects on channel activity.
Phenotypic variability and likely extensive genetic heterogeneity have been confounding the search for the causes of schizophrenia since the inception of the diagnostic category. The inconsistent results of genetic linkage and association studies using the diagnostic category as the sole schizophrenia phenotype suggest that the current broad concept of schizophrenia does not demarcate a homogeneous disease entity. Approaches involving subtyping and stratification by covariates to reduce heterogeneity have been successful in the genetic study of other complex disorders, but rarely applied in schizophrenia research. This article reviews past and present attempts at delineating schizophrenia subtypes based on clinical features, statistically derived measures, putative genetic indicators, and intermediate phenotypes, highlighting the potential utility of multidomain neurocognitive endophenotypes.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) has been shown to be critical for prefrontal dopamine flux, prefrontal cortex-dependent cognition and activation. Several potentially functional variants in the gene have been identified, but considerable controversy exists regarding the contribution of individual alleles and haplotypes to risk for schizophrenia, partly because clinical phenotypes are ill-defined and preclinical studies are limited by lack of adequate models. Here, we propose a neuroimaging approach to overcome these limitations by characterizing the functional impact of ambiguous haplotypes on a neural system-level intermediate phenotype in humans. Studying 126 healthy control subjects during a working-memory paradigm, we find that a previously described risk variant in a functional Val158Met (rs4680) polymorphism interacts with a P2 promoter region SNP (rs2097603) and an SNP in the 3' region (rs165599) in predicting inefficient prefrontal working memory response. We report evidence that the nonlinear response of prefrontal neurons to dopaminergic stimulation is a neural mechanism underlying these nonadditive genetic effects. This work provides an in vivo approach to functional validation in brain of the biological impact of complex genetic variations within a gene that may be critical for its clinical association.
The authors have described a new method of coloration on anatomic slices of the central nervous system realised on formolated subjects. They have presented their first results on their experiences carried out on the different levels of the brain, and this simple method of proceeding shows how interesting it could be for all practicians of Neurosciences and for the teaching of Neuroanatomy.

Receptor-evoked Ca2+ signalling involves Ca2+ release from the endoplasmic reticulum, followed by Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane. Ca2+ influx is essential for many cellular functions, from secretion to transcription, and is mediated by Ca2+-release activated Ca2+ (I(crac)) channels and store-operated calcium entry (SOC) channels. Although the molecular identity and regulation of I(crac) and SOC channels have not been precisely determined, notable recent findings are the identification of STIM1, which has been indicated to regulate SOC and I(crac) channels by functioning as an endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ sensor, and ORAI1 (ref. 7) or CRACM1 (ref. 8)--both of which may function as I(crac) channels or as an I(crac) subunit. How STIM1 activates the Ca2+ influx channels and whether STIM1 contributes to the channel pore remains unknown. Here, we identify the structural features that are essential for STIM1-dependent activation of SOC and I(crac) channels, and demonstrate that they are identical to those involved in the binding and activation of TRPC1. Notably, the cytosolic carboxyl terminus of STIM1 is sufficient to activate SOC, I(crac) and TRPC1 channels even when native STIM1 is depleted by small interfering RNA. Activity of STIM1 requires an ERM domain, which mediates the selective binding of STIM1 to TRPC1, 2 and 4, but not to TRPC3, 6 or 7, and a cationic lysine-rich region, which is essential for gating of TRPC1. Deletion of either region in the constitutively active STIM1(D76A) yields dominant-negative mutants that block native SOC channels, expressed TRPC1 in HEK293 cells and I(crac) in Jurkat cells. These observations implicate STIM1 as a key regulator of activity rather than a channel component, and reveal similar regulation of SOC, I(crac) and TRPC channel activation by STIM1.


Aggressive behavior is pervasive throughout the animal kingdom, and yet very little is known about its molecular underpinnings. To address this problem, we have developed a population-based selection procedure to increase aggression in Drosophila melanogaster. We measured changes in aggressive behavior in the selected subpopulations with a new two-male arena assay. In only ten generations of selection, the aggressive lines became markedly more aggressive than the neutral lines. After 21 generations, the fighting index increased more than 30-fold. Using microarray analysis, we identified genes with differing expression levels in the aggressive and neutral lines as candidates for this strong behavioral selection response. We tested a small set of these genes through mutant analysis and found that one significantly increased fighting frequency. These results suggest that selection for increases in aggression can be used to molecularly dissect this behavior.
T cells expressing an invariant V(alpha)19-J(alpha)33 T cell receptor alpha-chain (V(alpha)19i TCR) are restricted by the nonpolymorphic major histocompatibility complex class Ib molecule MR1. Whether V(alpha)19i T cells are involved in autoimmunity is not understood. Here we demonstrate that T cells expressing the V(alpha)19i TCR transgene inhibited the induction and progression of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. Similarly, EAE was exacerbated in MR1-deficient mice, which lack V(alpha)19i T cells. EAE suppression was accompanied by reduced production of inflammatory mediators and increased secretion of interleukin 10. Interleukin 10 production occurred at least in part through interactions between B cells and V(alpha)19i T cells mediated by the ICOS costimulatory molecule. These results suggest an immunoregulatory function for V(alpha)19i T cells.
A small number of signalling pathways are used iteratively to regulate cell fates, cell proliferation and cell death in development. Notch is the receptor in one such pathway, and is unusual in that most of its ligands are also transmembrane proteins; therefore signalling is restricted to neighbouring cells. Although the intracellular transduction of the Notch signal is remarkably simple, with no secondary messengers, this pathway functions in an enormous diversity of developmental processes and its dysfunction is implicated in many cancers.
Images of the exquisitely formed apparatus of the nervous system have great potential to capture the imagination. However, the fascinating complexity and diversity of neuronal form has only rarely been celebrated in broader visual culture. We discuss how scientific and cultural practices at the time of the neuron's discovery generated a legacy of schematic and simplified popular neuronal imagery, which is only now being revised in the light of technological advances and a changing artistic climate.
Functional MRI (fMRI) has had a major impact in cognitive neuroscience. fMRI now has a small but growing role in clinical neuroimaging, with initial applications to neurosurgical planning. Current clinical research has emphasized novel concepts for clinicians, such as the role of plasticity in recovery and the maintenance of brain functions in a broad range of diseases. There is a wider potential for clinical fMRI in applications ranging from presymptomatic diagnosis, through drug development and individualization of therapies, to understanding functional brain disorders. Realization of this potential will require changes in the way clinical neuroimaging services are planned and delivered.
Behavioural, cellular and molecular studies have revealed significant effects of enriched environments on rodents and other species, and provided new insights into mechanisms of experience-dependent plasticity, including adult neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity. The demonstration that the onset and progression of Huntington's disease in transgenic mice is delayed by environmental enrichment has emphasized the importance of understanding both genetic and environmental factors in nervous system disorders, including those with Mendelian inheritance patterns. A range of rodent models of other brain disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, fragile X and Down syndrome, as well as various forms of brain injury, have now been compared under enriched and standard housing conditions. Here, we review these findings on the environmental modulators of pathogenesis and gene-environment interactions in CNS disorders, and discuss their therapeutic implications.
GABA-containing interneurons are crucial to both the development and function of the cerebral cortex. Unlike cortical projection neurons, which have a relatively conserved set of characteristics, interneurons include multiple phenotypes that vary on morphological, physiological and neurochemical axes. This diversity, and the relatively late, context-dependent maturation of defining features, has challenged efforts to uncover the transcriptional control of cortical interneuron development. Here, we discuss recent data that are beginning to illuminate the origins and specification of distinct subgroups of cortical interneurons.

In a recent study, Manns et al. (2007) showed that CA1 population spiking activity differs in mean phase between conditions of exposure to stimuli of varying levels of familiarity. Here, we provide an analysis of a computational model of the hippocampus from Hasselmo et al. (2002) to examine how an animal's history of exposures to stimuli affects CA1 population activity. We show how the model can reproduce the major findings from the study by Manns et al. Specifically, we show that differences in direction and magnitude of the mean phase of population activity between two stimuli in the model depend on the order of presentation of the stimuli and the duration of exposure during each presentation. The analyses also reveal that the model's learning rule results in stability and normalization of synaptic weights and show how dysfunction of neuromodulatory systems might lead to epileptic or amnestic type conditions.
We introduce and test a system for simulating networks of conductance-based neuron models using analog circuits. At the single-cell level, we use custom-designed analog circuits (ASICs) that simulate two types of spiking neurons based on Hodgkin-Huxley like dynamics: &quot;regular spiking&quot; excitatory neurons with spike-frequency adaptation, and &quot;fast spiking&quot; inhibitory neurons. Synaptic interactions are mediated by conductance-based synaptic currents described by kinetic models. Connectivity and plasticity rules are implemented digitally through a real time interface between a computer and a PCI board containing the ASICs. We show a prototype system of a few neurons interconnected with synapses undergoing spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP), and compare this system with numerical simulations. We use this system to evaluate the effect of parameter dispersion on the behavior of small circuits of neurons. It is shown that, although the exact spike timings are not precisely emulated by the ASIC neurons, the behavior of small networks with STDP matches that of numerical simulations. Thus, this mixed analog-digital architecture provides a valuable tool for real-time simulations of networks of neurons with STDP. They should be useful for any real-time application, such as hybrid systems interfacing network models with biological neurons.
The purpose of this study was to obtain a better understanding of neuronal responses to correlated input, in particular focusing on the aspect of synchronization of neuronal activity. The first aim was to obtain an analytical expression for the coherence between the output spike train and correlated input and for the coherence between output spike trains of neurons with correlated input. For Poisson neurons, we could derive that the peak of the coherence between the correlated input and multi-unit activity increases proportionally with the square root of the number of neurons in the multi-unit recording. The coherence between two typical multi-unit recordings (2 to 10 single units) with partially correlated input increases proportionally with the number of units in the multi-unit recordings. The second aim of this study was to investigate to what extent the amplitude and signal-to-noise ratio of the coherence between input and output varied for single-unit versus multi-unit activity and how they are affected by the duration of the recording. The same problem was addressed for the coherence between two single-unit spike series and between two multi-unit spike series. The analytical results for the Poisson neuron and numerical simulations for the conductance-based leaky integrate-and-fire neuron and for the conductance-based Hodgkin-Huxley neuron show that the expectation value of the coherence function does not increase for a longer duration of the recording. The only effect of a longer duration of the spike recording is a reduction of the noise in the coherence function. The results of analytical derivations and computer simulations for model neurons show that the coherence for multi-unit activity is larger than that for single-unit activity. This is in agreement with the results of experimental data obtained from monkey visual cortex (V4). Finally, we show that multitaper techniques greatly contribute to a more accurate estimate of the coherence by reducing the bias and variance in the coherence estimate.
Event-driven simulation strategies were proposed recently to simulate integrate-and-fire (IF) type neuronal models. These strategies can lead to computationally efficient algorithms for simulating large-scale networks of neurons; most important, such approaches are more precise than traditional clock-driven numerical integration approaches because the timing of spikes is treated exactly. The drawback of such event-driven methods is that in order to be efficient, the membrane equations must be solvable analytically, or at least provide simple analytic approximations for the state variables describing the system. This requirement prevents, in general, the use of conductance-based synaptic interactions within the framework of event-driven simulations and, thus, the investigation of network paradigms where synaptic conductances are important. We propose here a number of extensions of the classical leaky IF neuron model involving approximations of the membrane equation with conductance-based synaptic current, which lead to simple analytic expressions for the membrane state, and therefore can be used in the event-driven framework. These conductance-based IF (gIF) models are compared to commonly used models, such as the leaky IF model or biophysical models in which conductances are explicitly integrated. All models are compared with respect to various spiking response properties in the presence of synaptic activity, such as the spontaneous discharge statistics, the temporal precision in resolving synaptic inputs, and gain modulation under in vivo-like synaptic bombardment. Being based on the passive membrane equation with fixed-threshold spike generation, the proposed gIF models are situated in between leaky IF and biophysical models but are much closer to the latter with respect to their dynamic behavior and response characteristics, while still being nearly as computationally efficient as simple IF neuron models. gIF models should therefore provide a useful tool for efficient and precise simulation of large-scale neuronal networks with realistic, conductance-based synaptic interactions.
No therapy currently exists to repair demyelinated lesions in multiple sclerosis. However, the use of IgM antibodies may provide a valuable therapeutic avenue for evoking such repair. Unfortunately, the mechanism of immunoglobulin action in CNS repair is currently unknown but may depend upon complex interactions between multiple cell types rather than upon direct activation of a single cell type. Using rat mixed glial cultures containing oligodendrocytes, microglia, and astrocytes, we found that the Fc portion of human IgM shifts microglia to an activated phenotype, reduces glial proliferation, upregulates a variety of immediate early genes, including JunB, Egr-1, and c-Fos, and stimulates microglial production and release of IL-1beta. Microglia-derived IL-1beta consequently triggers transcriptional upregulation of immediate early genes such as c-Jun, Egr-1, and c-Fos in the mixed glial cultures, and stimulates the upregulation of late response genes such as lipocalin in purified oligodendrocytes. Treatment with an IL-1beta receptor antagonist abrogates the effects of Fcmu on glial proliferation and prevents the upregulation of lipocalin in response to Fcmu, but does not prevent Fcmu-mediated upregulation of IL-1beta, suggesting that IL-1beta mediates at least some of the downstream effects of Fcmu in mixed glial cultures. We hypothesize that Fcmu-stimulated IL-1beta-induced upregulation of immediate early and late response genes in oligodendrocytes may promote CNS repair.
Prion (PrP) and amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides are involved in the neuronal loss that occurs in Prion disorders (PrD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), respectively, partially due to Ca(2+) dysregulation. Besides, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has an active role in the neurotoxic mechanisms that lead to these pathologies. Here, we analyzed whether the ER-mediated apoptotic pathway is involved in the toxic effect of synthetic PrP and Abeta peptides. In PrP106-126- and Abeta1-40-treated cortical neurons, the release of Ca(2+) through ER ryanodine (RyR) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)R) receptors induces ER stress and leads to increased cytosolic Ca(2+) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and subsequently to apoptotic death involving mitochondrial cytochrome c release and caspases activation. These results demonstrate that the early PrP- and Abeta-induced perturbation of ER Ca(2+) homeostasis is a death message that leads to neuronal loss, suggesting that the regulation of ER Ca(2+) levels may be a potential therapeutical target for PrD and AD.
The deposition of amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides and neurofibrillary tangles are the two characteristic pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To investigate the relation between amyloid precursor protein (APP) production, amyloid beta deposition and the type of Abeta in deposits, i.e., human and/or mouse, we performed a histopathological analysis, using mouse and human specific antibodies, of the neocortex and hippocampus in 6, 12 and 19 months old APP/PS1 double and APP and PS1 single transgenic mice. There was a significant correlation between the human amyloid beta deposits and the intrinsic rodent amyloid beta deposits, that is, all plaques contained both human and mouse Abeta, and the diffuse amyloid beta deposits also colocalized human and mouse Abeta. Furthermore, some blood vessels (mainly leptomeningeal vessels) show labeling with human Abeta, and most of these vessels also label with mouse Abeta. Our findings demonstrate that the human amyloid deposits in APP/PS1 transgenic mice are closely associated with mouse Abeta, however, they do not precisely overlap. For instance, the core of plaques consists of primarily human Abeta, whereas the rim of the plaque contains both human and mouse amyloid beta, similarly, human and mouse Abeta are differentially localized in the blood vessel wall. Finally, as early as amyloid beta deposits can be detected, they show the presence of both human and mouse Abeta. Together, these data indicate that mouse Abeta is formed and deposited in significant amounts in the AD mouse brain and that it is deposited together with the human Abeta.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the formation of intracytoplasmic inclusions, which contain alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) protein. While most profound neurodegeneration is seen in the dopamine (DA) synthesizing neurons located in the ventral midbrain, it is unclear why some DA cell groups are more susceptible than others. In the midbrain, the degeneration of the substantia nigra (SN) DA neurons is severe, whereas the involvement of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons is relatively spared. In the present study, we overexpressed human A53T alpha-syn in the VTA neurons and found that A53T toxicity did not affect their survival. There was, however, a mild functional impairment seen as altered open field locomotor activity. Overexpression of A53T in the SN, on the other hand, led to profound cell loss. These results suggest that the selective susceptibility of nigral DA neurons is at least in part associated with factor(s) involved in handling of alpha-syn that is not shared by the VTA neurons. Secondly, these results highlight the fact that impaired but surviving neurons can have a substantial impact on DA-dependent behavior and should therefore be considered as a critical part of animal models where novel therapeutic interventions are tested.
The effect of selective injury to dopaminergic neurons on the expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was examined in substantia nigra cell cultures. H(2)O(2), mimicking increased oxidative stress, or l-DOPA, the main symptomatic treatment for Parkinson's disease, increased GDNF mRNA and protein levels in a time-dependent mode in neuron-glia mixed cultures. The concentration dependence indicated that mild, but not extensive, injury induced GDNF up-regulation. GDNF neutralization with an antibody decreased dopaminergic cell viability in H(2)O(2)-treated cultures, showing that up-regulation of GDNF was protecting dopaminergic neurons. Neither H(2)O(2) nor l-DOPA directly affected GDNF expression in astrocyte cultures, but conditioned media from challenged mixed cultures increased GDNF mRNA and protein levels in astrocyte cultures, indicating that GDNF up-regulation was mediated by neuronal factors. Since pretreatment with 6-OHDA completely abolished H(2)O(2)-induced GDNF up-regulation, we propose that GDNF up-regulation is triggered by failing dopaminergic neurons that signal astrocytes to increase GDNF expression.
The present study assessed the influence of dietary lipids on accumulation of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the brain. Seven experimental diets with varying n-6/n-3-ratio, saturated and polyunsaturated fatty acid and cholesterol contents were fed to transgenic APPswe/PS1dE9 mice for 3-4 months beginning at a young adult age (6 months). Hippocampal Abeta levels were determined with ELISA and plaque load by using immunocytochemistry. A typical Western diet with 40% saturated fatty acids and 1% of cholesterol increased, while diets supplemented with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) decreased Abeta levels compared to regular (soy oil based) diet. DHA diet also decreased the number of activated microglia in hippocampus and increased exploratory activity of transgenic mice, but did not improve their spatial learning in the water maze. The favorable effect of DHA on Abeta production was verified in two different cell lines. Regulation of dietary lipid intake may offer a new tool to reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease at the population level.
The development of therapy to aid poststroke recovery is essential. The female hormone 17beta-estradiol has been shown to promote synaptogenesis; the purpose of this study was to attempt to harness these mechanisms to promote repair and recovery in the peri-infarct zone. Rats were ovariectomized, tested for sensorimotor function, and the middle cerebral artery permanently occluded (MCAO). Infarct volumes were calculated using MRI, and damage was equivalent in all animals prior to implantation of either 17beta-estradiol or placebo pellets. Animals were tested for functional recovery for 28 days and tissue processed for synaptic marker syntaxin immunohistochemistry. The stroke induced a significant behavioral deficit, which persisted out to 28 days, and was not significantly different between 17beta-estradiol and placebo treatment groups. There was no difference in syntaxin immunostaining between groups in either the peri-infarct cortex or in the dendritic CA1 reference region. In conclusion, 17beta-estradiol treatment, delivered poststroke, did not influence recovery of function or synaptogenesis.
Across multiple learning tasks (that place different sensory, motor, and information processing demands on the animals), we have found that the performance of mice is commonly regulated by a single factor (&quot;general learning&quot;) that accounts for 30-40% of the variance across individuals and tasks. Furthermore, individuals' general learning abilities were highly correlated with their propensity to engage in exploration in an open field, a behavior that is potentially stress-inducing. This relationship between exploration in the open field and general learning abilities suggests the possibility that variations in stress sensitivity/responsivity or related emotional responses might directly influence individuals' general learning abilities. Here, the relationship of sensory/motor skills and stress sensitivity/emotionality to animals' general learning abilities were assessed. Outbred (CD-1) mice were tested in a battery of six learning tasks as well as 21 tests of exploratory behavior, sensory/motor function and fitness, emotionality, and stress reactivity. The performances of individual mice were correlated across six learning tasks, and the performance measures of all learning tasks loaded heavily on a single factor (principal component analysis), accounting for 32% of the variability between animals and tasks. Open field exploration and seven additional exploratory behaviors (including those exhibited in an elevated plus maze) also loaded heavily on this same factor, although general activity, sensory/motor responses, physical characteristics, and direct measures of fear did not. In a separate experiment, serum corticosterone levels of mice were elevated in response to a mild environmental stressor (confinement on an elevated platform). Stress-induced corticosterone levels were correlated with behavioral fear responses, but were unsystematically related to individuals' propensity for exploration. In total, these results suggest that although general learning abilities are strongly related to individuals' propensity for exploration, this relationship is not attributable to variations in sensory/motor function or the individuals' physiological or behavioral sensitivity to conditions that promote stress or fear.
The specialized role that sleep-specific brain physiology plays in memory processing is being rapidly clarified with a greater understanding of the dynamic, complex, and exquisitely orchestrated brain state that emerges during sleep. Behaviorally, the facilitative role of non-REM (NREM) sleep (primarily slow wave sleep) for declarative but not procedural memory performance in humans has been demonstrated in a number of nocturnal sleep studies. However, subjects in these studies were tested after periods of sleep that contained REM sleep in addition to NREM sleep, and comparison wake groups were subjected to mild sleep deprivation. To add some clarity to the findings of these nocturnal studies, we assessed performance on declarative and procedural memory tasks following a daytime training-retest interval containing either a short nap that included NREM without REM sleep, or wakefulness. Consistent with previous findings we show that, after a comparatively brief sleep episode, subjects that take a nap improve more on a declarative memory task than subjects that stay awake, but that improvement on a procedural memory task is the same regardless of whether subjects take a nap or remain awake. Slow wave sleep was the only sleep parameter to correlate positively with declarative memory improvement. These findings are discussed with reference to the general benefits of napping and within the broader context of a growing literature suggesting a role for NREM-specific physiology for the processing of declarative memory.
Amphibian vision is one of the most comprehensively studied of all vertebrate sensory systems. However, the processes of object recognition and memory in anuran amphibians have resisted satisfactory explanation. Our research shows that insight to the issue of visual discrimination and recognition in toads may be gained by investigation of the specialized and complementary functions carried out by the left and right brain hemispheres. We report that specialized processes associated with the left eye (right hemisphere) of the Bufo marinus toad carry out decisions to view and strike at complex prey stimuli recognized as 'novel.' This was demonstrated in the toads' preferences when provided a choice between identical novel insect models presented simultaneously into the left and right lateral, monocular visual fields. In a second experiment, videotaped trials of toad groups competing in an open field for live crickets were analysed for lateralized prey-catching behaviour. Concomitant with a preference for directing agonistic strikes at conspecifics within the left visual hemifield, toads were found to possess a significant preference for directing predatory responses at the familiar prey viewed in the right visual hemifield. The preference for directing prey-catching responses at freely moving crickets in the right visual hemifield supports the earlier findings drawn from automated and familiar model insect prey. We present a hypothesis explaining differences in hemispheric processing in toads responding to 'novel' and 'familiar' prey types, utilizing a range of long-term memories found to be lateralized in other vertebrates.
It has been suggested that neurosteroids with agonist properties at the central GABA-A receptor are implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) in chronic liver disease. In order to address this issue, gas chromatography/mass spectrometry was used to measure the neurosteroids pregnenolone, allopregnanolone, and tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC) in postmortem brain tissue from controls, cirrhotic patients who died without HE, a patient who died in uremic coma, and cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic coma. Exposure of rat cerebral cortical membranes to brain extracts from hepatic coma patients resulted in a 53% (p &lt; 0.001) increase in binding of [3H]muscimol, a GABA-A receptor ligand. Subsequent GC/MS analysis showed that concentrations of the GABA-A receptor agonist neurosteroid allopregnanolone were significantly increased in brain tissue from hepatic coma patients compared to patients without HE or controls (p &lt; 0.001). Brain allopregnanolone concentrations were significantly correlated with the magnitude of induction of [3H]muscimol binding (r2 = 0.82, p &lt; 0.0001). Concentrations of allopregnanolone comparable to those observed in hepatic coma brains are pathophysiologically relevant. Concentrations of the neurosteroid precursor pregnenolone were also increased in brain tissue from hepatic coma patients, while those of a second neurosteroid THDOC were below the levels of detection in all groups. Brain concentrations of benzodiazepine receptor ligands estimated by radioreceptor assay were not significantly increased in cirrhotic patients with or without hepatic coma. These findings suggest that increased levels of allopregnanolone rather than &quot;endogenous benzodiazepines&quot; offer a cogent explanation for the phenomenon of &quot;increased GABAergic tone&quot; previously proposed in HE.
Cannabinoid receptor (CBR) stimulation inhibits motility and increases food intake in rodents. Effects of CBR stimulation in human gastrointestinal (GI) tract are unclear. We compared effects of dronabinol (DRO) and placebo (PLA) on GI transit, gastric volume and satiation in humans. In a double-blind, randomized study, 30 healthy volunteers were randomly assigned to DRO 5 mg b.i.d. or PLA for three doses. We measured GI functions noninvasively: day 0, Ensure satiation test to measure maximum tolerated volume (MTV) and 30-min post-Ensure symptoms; day 1, scintigraphic transit ((111)In-egg meal) and fasting and postprandial gastric volume ((99Tcm)-SPECT); day 2, 24-h colonic transit and repeat satiation test. ancova was used to compare treatment groups with gender, age, and, for the satiation test, the baseline MTV, as covariates. A log-rank test was used to assess treatment effects on gastric emptying. Planned sample size had 80% power to detect 25-30% differences in primary end points. There was an overall retardation of gastric emptying with DRO (P = 0.018); this was more pronounced in females (P = 0.011), than in males (P = 0.184). No significant treatment differences were detected for gastric volumes, MTV, post-Ensure(R) symptoms, small bowel and colonic transit. Fasting gastric volume was greater in males receiving DRO compared with PLA (238 +/- 17 vs 185 +/- 16, P = 0.04). DRO retards gastric emptying in humans; effects are gender-related. Dronabinol also increases fasting gastric volumes in males.
Apparent motion (AM) is the illusory perception of real motion created when two spatially distinct stationary visual objects are presented in alternating sequence. In common with many other illusory percepts, activation during AM can be identified in unstimulated regions of V1 representing the illusory motion path. However, little is known about the mechanisms underlying such activation and its relationship with motion-sensitive area hMT+/V5. Using fMRI and a novel AM stimulus, we replicated previous findings showing a correlate of the perceived AM path in V1. To more closely characterize the mechanisms underlying these activations, we performed analyses of effective connectivity and found that the AM-induced activations on the illusory AM path were associated with enhanced feedback (but not feedforward) connectivity from hMT+/V5. These findings provide for the first time evidence for the involvement of cortico-cortical coupling in generating an illusory percept of AM. They therefore emphasize the role of recurrent processing between visual cortical areas in human perceptual awareness.
Both intracranial and scalp EEG studies have demonstrated that oscillatory activity, especially in the gamma band (28 to 100 Hz), can differentiate successful and unsuccessful episodic encoding [Sederberg, P.B., Kahana, M.J., Howard, M.W., Donner, E.J., Madsen, J.R., 2003. Theta and gamma oscillations during encoding predict subsequent recall. Journal of Neuroscience, 23(34), 10809-10814; Fell, J., Klaver, P., Lehnertz, K., Grunwald, T., Schaller, C., Elger, C.E., Fernandez, G., 2001. Human memory formation is accompanied by rhinal-hippocampal coupling and decoupling. Nature Neuroscience, 4 (12), 1259-1264; Gruber, T., Tsivilis, D., Montaldi, D., and Mller, M. (2004). Induced gamma band responses: An early marker of memory encoding and retrieval. Neuroreport, 15, 1837-1841; Summerfield, C., Mangels, J.A., in press. Dissociable neural mechanisms for encoding predictable and unpredictable events. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience]. Although the probability of recalling an item varies as a function of where it appeared in the list, the relation between the oscillatory dynamics of successful encoding and serial position remains unexplored. We recorded scalp EEG as participants studied lists of common nouns in a delayed free-recall task. Because early list items were recalled better than items from later serial positions (the primacy effect), we analyzed encoding-related changes in 2 to 100 Hz oscillatory power as a function of serial position. Increases in gamma power in posterior regions predicted successful encoding at early serial positions; widespread low-frequency (4-14 Hz) power decreases predicted successful memory formation for later serial positions. These results suggest that items in early serial positions receive an encoding boost due to focused encoding without having to divide resources among numerous list items. Later in the list, as memory load increases, encoding is divided between multiple items.
The aim of this paper was to deepen understanding about the role played by brain plasticity in obtaining clinical recovery. Eighteen patients, who had recovered partially or totally from dysfunctions due to a monohemispheric infarction within the middle cerebral artery territory, underwent magnetoencephalographic (MEG) recordings of rolandic areas cerebral activity both in rest state (spectral power properties) and in response to the electrical stimulation of the contralateral median nerve (M20 and M30 cortical sources). MEG evaluation was performed in acute (T0: mean 5 days from ischemic attach) and post-acute phase (T1: median 6 months). At T1, all the inter-hemispheric asymmetries were reduced for both spontaneous and evoked activity parameters with respect to T0. In post-acute phase, lower cortical excitability, higher delta and theta power and lower spectral entropy were associated to a worse clinical state. An unusual recruitment-as revealed by an excessive inter-hemispheric asymmetry of M20 cortical source position-correlated with higher level of clinical amelioration in the patients who showed a partial recovery. In addition to confirmative evidence that &quot;normalization&quot; of neural activity in both the affected and unaffected hemispheres subtends best clinical recovery, present data provide support to the positive role of cerebral plasticity phenomena--i.e. unusual neural recruitments--to regain lost functions in those patients unable to achieve total recovery.
Normal aging is generally associated with declining performance in cognitive and fine motor tasks. Previous functional imaging studies have been inconsistent regarding the effect of aging on primary motor cortex (M1) activation during finger movement, showing increased, unchanged or decreased activation contralaterally, and more consistently increased activation ipsilaterally. Furthermore, no study has addressed the effect of age on M1 hemispheric activation balance. We studied 18 optimally healthy right-handed subjects, age range 18-79 years (mean +/- SD: 47 +/- 17) using 3 T fMRI and right index finger-thumb tapping auditory-paced at 1.25 Hz. The weighted Laterality Index (wLI) for M1 was obtained according to Fernandez et al. (2001) [Fernandez, G., de Greiff, A., von Oertzen, J., Reuber, M., Lun, S., Klaver, P., et al. 2001. Language mapping in less than 15 min: real-time functional MRI during routine clinical investigation. Neuroimage 14 585-594], with some modifications. The wLI, as well as the total activation on each side, were assessed against age using non-parametric correlation. There was a highly significant negative correlation between age and wLI such that the older the subjects, the lower the wLI. Furthermore, there was a highly significant positive correlation between total activation for ipsilateral M1 and age, and a nearly significant trend for contralateral M1. This study documents that during execution of a simple paced motor task, the older the subject the less lateralized the M1 activation balance as a result of increasing amount of activation on both sides, more significantly so ipsilaterally. Thus, in aging, enhanced M1 recruitment bilaterally is required to produce the same motor performance, suggesting a compensatory process. These findings are in line with cognitive studies indicating a tendency for the aging brain to reduce its functional lateralization, perhaps from less efficient transcallosal connections.
Humans differ substantially in their ability to imagine spatial transformations of novel stimuli (i.e., mental rotation). Whereas &quot;high-spatial&quot; individuals are able to maintain high-quality representations even after complex mental transformations, &quot;low-spatial&quot; individuals often experience substantial degradation of the initial representation. Even though subdivisions of the posterior parietal cortex are known to instantiate the necessary spatial transformations, a direct demonstration of neuroanatomical differences predicting this behavioral variability is currently missing. Because recent evidence suggests that interindividual differences on the behavioral level might be related to regionally specific white matter organization, we addressed this question using diffusion tensor imaging in combination with well-established psychometric tests. As expected, behavioral results revealed a substantial disparity in mental rotation performance. Most importantly, despite controlling for differences in spatial short-term memory capacity, we observed a tight relationship between mental rotation proficiency and white matter organization near the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus. Whereas high-level proficiency was paralleled by high fractional anisotropy (FA) values, the opposite pattern was observed in &quot;low spatials&quot;. The present results strongly indicate that the efficiency of information transfer between posterior parietal regions involved in the mental transformation process could be one decisive factor in individual spatial visualization proficiency.
We report two patients diagnosed to have familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). A 40 year old lady had progressive weakness and atrophy of the limbs and bulbar palsy from the age of 39 years and with electrophysiological evaluation was confirmed as definite ALS. Her mother had presented in 1978 at the age of 42 years with symptoms and signs of ALS. The other patient was a 43 year old male with rapidly progressive weakness, wasting and spasticity of the limbs and bulbar palsy of 4 months duration and with electrophysiological evidence of diffuse anterior horn cell involvement. His father also had onset of illness at 43 years of age with gradually progressive spasticity and atrophy of the extremities followed by bulbar palsy. In the first instance the mother had a duration of illness of 8 years while in the second the father lived for 15 years after the onset of illness.
A 19-year-old gentleman presented with slowly progressive spastic paraparesis, 2 years after the therapeutic lienorenal shunt for portal hypertension secondary to cirrhosis and portal vein occlusion. After 2 years of initial evaluation, the motor functions had not worsened further. He did not have any obvious clinical or EEG features of hepatic encephalopathy. Other causes for myelopathy were ruled out. Contribution of portal vein occlusion to portosystemic shunting has not been reported previously in patients with 'hepatic myelopathy.' This uncommon complication needs to be considered in patients with shunt surgery for relieving portal hypertension.
We describe our experience with the previously described technique of preservation of the bone flap in a subgaleal pocket created over the intact side of the calvaria, discuss our experience of this method and review the literature to compare this method with other alternative techniques.

The goal of this paper is to provide scientists with a comprehensive review of the state-of-the-art influence the ischemic blood-brain barrier (BBB) has on the final development of Alzheimer's disease and to provide detailed food-for-thought which will hopefully stimulate more researchers in this area of neuroscience. Understanding new and fundamental concepts about the behavior of the BBB during long-term reperfusion after ischemia with a variety of new neuropathogenic factors can hopefully provide some interesting clues related to the pathologic processes issues that have been receiving considerable attention in the human clinic. We present the recent data to understand the role of the BBB in maturation of both diseases and try to differentiate between primary and secondary pathologic mechanisms. In conclusion, the neuropathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease involves an initial ischemic neuronal alterations leading to enhanced neuronal vulnerability to beta-amyloid peptide and the ischemic breakdown of the BBB with leakage of serum borne beta-amyloid peptide into brain parenchyma, activation of beta-amyloid peptide-dependent toxicity culminating in the formation of amyloid plaques and finally end in full-blown Alzheimer's disease. In summary, probably we have combined mechanism(s) of ischemia processes, ischemic and chronic BBB dysfunction and beta-amyloid peptide-dependent injury in pathology of neurodegeneration that is observed in Alzheimer's disease. We speculate that Alzheimer's disease may be caused by silent and sublethal ischemic episodes that attack and slowly steal the minds of its victims. Finally, our review proposes the ischemic BBB-dependent mechanism(s) that probably are responsible for full-blown Alzheimer's disease.
Several studies report that blood pressure is increased in victims of Alzheimer's disease (AD) decades before the onset of the disease. Years before onset of Alzheimer's disease, blood pressure start to decrease and continues to decrease during the disease process. High blood pressure has also been related to pathological manifestations of Alzheimer's disease (senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, hippocampal atrophy). The exact mechanism behind these associations is not clear. Hypertension is also a risk factor for stroke, ischemic white matter lesions, silent infarcts, general atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction and cardiovascular diseases, and often clusters with other vascular risk factors, including diabetes mellitus, obesity and hypercholesterolemia. Also these risk factors have been related to Alzheimer's disease. Hypertension may thus cause cerebrovascular disease that may increase the possibility for individuals with AD encephalopathy to express a dementia syndrome. Hypertension may also lead to vessel wall changes in the brain, leading to hypoperfusion, ischemia and hypoxia which may initiate the pathological process of AD. Finally, subclinical AD may lead to increased blood pressure, and similar biological mechanisms may be involved in the pathogenesis of both disorders. Hypertension is a common disorder and often untreated. Several observational studies have reported that use of antihypertensives decreases risk of AD. Even though hypertension only results in a moderately increased risk of AD, or overall dementia, better treatment of hypertension may have an immense effect on the total number of demented individuals.
Spinal strokes are often localised in the anterior spinal artery territory, whereas an involvement of the posterior spinal arteries (PSA) is uncommon, and usually unilateral. Bilateral PSA stroke is exceptional. A 70-year-old woman, after a mild head trauma, presented with cervical pain, left hypoaesthesia and sensitive ataxia, which then extended to the right hemibody, including face. A Doppler ultrasound showed an only systolic flow signal in the left vertebral artery (VA). MR showed a bilateral infarction extending from the posterior medulla oblongata to C4 and a left hypoplasic VA with lack of visualisation of the V3 segment. This case was peculiar, implying a bilateral stroke in the PSA territory, possibly related to a left VA dissection, and in the presence of a dominant PSA, originating from the hypoplasic VA and of hyposupply of posterior radiculomedullary arteries and anastomoses.
Chickenpox may lead to several different neurological complications, but optic neuritis has rarely been described; in particular, only one case of isolated bilateral anterior optic neuritis (AON) in an immune-competent adult has so far been reported. We describe a second case of this type and consider similarities and differences between our patient and all other cases of AON following chickenpox. Then, we discuss the therapeutic role of steroids and advance the hypothesis of different pathogenetic pathways in immune-competent and immune-compromised subjects.
Until the 1990s, neurologists were practising their profession under the doctrine established in the late 19th to early 20th century by the prominent histologist Ramon y Cajal: &quot;Once the development was ended, the founts of growth and regeneration of the axons and dendrites dried up irrevocably. In the adult centers, the nerve paths are something fixed, ended, and immutable. Everything may die, nothing may be regenerated. It is for the science of the future to change, if possible, this harsh decree.&quot; Similarly, Giulio Bizzozero, the most prominent Italian histologist and mentor of Camillo Golgi, classified the tissues of the human body into &quot;labile, stable and perennial&quot;. Among the latter were the nerve cells, believed to be unable to proliferate in the postnatal brain. This classification was taught until a few years ago to generations of medical students and biologists all over the world. We have investigated the historical, methodological and technical reasons why this &quot;central dogma of neurology&quot;, so influential in clinical and experimental neurology, has lasted so long. We examined how this dogma was broken and who contributed, and the difficulties encountered by the &quot;heretical&quot; researchers who contributed to this goal, especially between the 1960s and the early 1990s, when at last neurogenesis in the adult brain could no longer be denied. Finally, we propose that the understanding of the mechanisms underlying various neurological diseases and the interpretations of clinical syndromes, as well as the design of new therapies, are being revolutionised by the breaking of this dogma and the discovery of the presence of neural stem cells in the adult brain.
The objective of this study was to analyse the clinical characteristics, pathological features and expression patterns of multiple drug resistance type 1 (MDR1) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in intractable epilepsy patients with variable aetiologies and to analyse the relationships between the clinical and pathological findings. Twenty-six patients (15 males, 11 females, age range 4-25 years, mean age 22.92 years, SD 11.19 years) with intractable epilepsy were included in this study; the clinical characteristics were considered, and the pathological changes as well as expression of MDR1 and GFAP in surgically removed brain tissues of each subject were examined under light and electron microscopy. All patients presented a long-lasting, refractory epilepsy, mostly of the partial type, due to different causes, such as trauma, vascular injuries, encephalitis, cortical dysplasia, cavernous angioma and Sturge-Weber disease. Neuronal degenerative damage, reactive proliferation of astrocytes, as well as overexpression of GFAP and MDR1, appeared as common pathological features in all cases. The detection of MDR1 by electron microscopy allowed us to precisely define its cellular location in reactive astrocytes and to exclude the presence of the antigen in other cellular types. In all cases, pathological features, at both light and electron microscopy, were similar, independent of the different clinical presentation and aetiology.
The increasing prevalence of brain tumours and longer duration of survival achieved by recent advances in treatment prompt a critical analysis of the impact of functional rehabilitation on patients with brain tumours. In this review brain tumours and outcome of brain tumour patients are discussed from a rehabilitation perspective, taking into account not only life expectancy but also the direct and indirect causes of functional impairment. Results of functional rehabilitation and factors involved in its effectiveness are presented and analysed to serve as a basis to neurologists involved in the management of patients with brain tumours.
The issue of fertility in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) has not been exhaustively studied. Epidemiological data have suggested that spontaneous fecundity might be reduced; several endocrine and sexual disturbances potentially interfering with reproduction have been evidenced in MS patients of both sexes. Moreover, some medical treatments used in MS (e. g., mitoxantrone, cyclophosphamide) may exert detrimental effects on spermatozoa as well as on oocytes, leading to early impairment of fertility. This review illustrates the factors potentially interfering with fertility in MS and discusses the therapeutic tools that may be used to promote fertility in these patients. The safety of hormonal therapies in MS is also examined. The current applications of assisted reproductive technology (ART) are discussed, including in vitro fertilisation (IVF) techniques. Currently available methods to preserve fertility in patients that undergo cytotoxic treatments by means of sperm/oocyte cryostorage or by ovarian fragment cryopreservation and autografting are considered.
Serotonin2C (5-HT2C) receptors may influence motivation and reward through effects on the mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) system. Previous work from this laboratory indicated that 5-HT2C receptor stimulation does not induce place conditioning when animals are tested in a drug-free state, but does result in decreased locomotor activity and increased frequency thresholds for electrical self-stimulation of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). The present study was conducted to determine whether the 5-HT2C receptor agonist WAY 161503 may induce place conditioning in a state-dependent manner and also whether this compound will induce gustatory avoidance conditioning in the conditioned taste aversion (CTA) paradigm. The effects of the 5-HT2C receptor agonist WAY 161503 in the place conditioning and CTA (two-bottle choice test) paradigms were assessed in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Administration of WAY 161503 (3.0 mg/kg) induced a state-dependent conditioned place aversion and a CTA to saccharin. The differential state dependency of 5-HT2C receptor agonists' effects in place conditioning (state dependent) and CTA (non-state dependent) is consistent with the activation of different brain systems in these two paradigms. The state-dependent effects in place conditioning underscore the need to include controls for state dependency in studies of 5-HT receptor related compounds.
Endogenous divalent cations Cu2+ and Zn2+ suppress the activity of glycine receptors (glyRs). Whereas residues critical for the effects of Zn2+ on glyRs have been identified, little is known about the determinants of Cu2+-mediated inhibition. In the present studies, we have assessed the potential commonality of Zn2+ and Cu2+-mediated inhibition of glyRs. Cu2+ potently inhibited recombinant human glycine alpha1 receptors, with an IC50 of 4.1+/-0.7 microM. Systematic mutation of extracellular histidine residues revealed that mutation H215A greatly reduced the inhibitory modulation by Cu2+. Substitution of H215 with C produced receptors with Cu2+ sensitivity similar to the wild type. Furthermore, modification of H215C with a thio-specific reagent, [2-(trimethylammonium)ethyl] methanethiosulfonate bromide (MTSET), reduced Cu2+ sensitivity of H215C receptors. However, mutation of other extracellular histidine residues including H107 and H109, which are known inhibitory Zn2+coordination sites, failed to influence inhibition of glycine currents by Cu2+. Moreover, mutation to alanine of two threonine residues (T112, T133) critical for Zn2+ inhibition had no effect (T133A) or only partial inhibitory effects (T112A) on Cu2+-induced inhibition. The double mutation, T112A/H215A, caused greater effects on Cu2+-mediated inhibition than either mutation alone. In addition, the glycine currents recorded from T112A/H215A mutant receptors were significantly potentiated by low concentrations of Cu2+. Our results have identified critical determinants of Cu2+-mediated inhibition of glyRs. Moreover, we demonstrate for the first time a clear difference in residues responsible for Cu2+-mediated compared to Zn2+-mediated inhibition of glyRs.
The receptors that couple to the G protein Gz in vivo are still relatively unknown. In this study, we investigated the effects of various dopamine receptor agonists in a mouse deficient in the alpha subunit of Gz. The dopamine D1-like receptor agonist SKF38393 stimulated comparable locomotor activity in both wildtype mice and mice lacking Galphaz. In contrast, the dopamine D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole suppressed locomotor activity in both groups of mice, but this suppression was significantly smaller in Galphaz knockout mice. Consistent with these behavioural observations, quinpirole inhibition of dopamine release in the forebrain nucleus accumbens evoked by electrical stimulation of dopamine axons was significantly attenuated in mice lacking Galphaz. In addition, hypothermia and adrenocorticotropic hormone release resulting from activation of dopamine D2-like receptors were also significantly reduced in Galphaz knockout mice. However, adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion induced by corticotrophin releasing hormone and the serotonin 1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-dipropylamino-tetralin were similar between wildtype and Galphaz knockout mice. Western blot analysis showed that the expression levels of Galphai, Galphao, Galphas, Galphaq and Gbeta were the same in the brains of mice of both genotypes. Overall, our data suggest that Gz proteins are functionally coupled to dopamine D2-like receptors in vivo.
We examined the occurrence of functional interactions between CB1 cannabinoid and mu opioid receptors in the core of rat nucleus accumbens (NAc core). To that end, receptor-mediated inhibition of depolarization (4-aminopyridine)-induced [3H]glutamate release and glutamate (NMDA) receptor-stimulated [14C]acetylcholine (ACh) and [3H]GABA release was studied in superfused NAc core slices. The inhibitory effects of the mu receptor agonist morphine and the CB1 receptor agonist HU210 on the release of these neurotransmitters were selectively antagonized by the mu receptor antagonist naloxone and the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A, respectively. Surprisingly, naloxone prevented the antagonistic action of SR141716A at CB1 receptors and SR141716A abolished that of naloxone at mu receptors mediating inhibition of [3H]glutamate and [3H]GABA release. Therefore, these antagonists seem to allosterically interact, indicating the involvement of physically associated mu opioid and CB1 cannabinoid receptors. Such an interaction between antagonists was not observed at the receptors mediating inhibition of [14C]ACh release. Moreover, dose-response curves of the agonists showed that mu and CB1 receptors mediating inhibition of [3H]glutamate release display a non-additive interaction, whereas these receptors synergistically interact regarding their inhibitory control of [3H]GABA release. Finally, the apparent allosteric interaction between antagonists was also observed regarding the effects of other receptor-selective agonists and antagonists at mu opioid and CB1 cannabinoid receptors (mediating inhibition of NMDA-induced [3H]GABA release) and must therefore be a unique property of the receptors involved. These data suggest the existence of physically associated mu opioid and CB1 cannabinoid receptors, whereby activation of these receptors results in either a non-additive (glutamate release) or a synergistic (GABA release) effect. It is proposed that these allosterically interacting mu and CB1 receptors in the NAc core may represent G-protein coupled heterodimeric receptor complexes.
Thiocolchicoside (TCC) is used clinically for its muscle relaxant, anti-inflammatory, and analgesic properties, and it has been shown to interact with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptors (GABAARs) and strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors in the rat central nervous system. In contrast to a proposed agonistic action at these two types of inhibitory receptors, pharmacological evidence has shown that, under certain conditions, TCC manifests convulsant activity in animals and humans. We now show that the phasic and tonic GABAAR-mediated currents recorded from Purkinje cells and granule neurons, respectively, in parasagittal cerebellar slices from adult male rats were inhibited by TCC in a concentration-dependent manner. The median inhibitory concentrations of TCC for these effects were approximately 0.15 and approximately 0.9 microM, respectively. TCC did not potentiate GABABR-mediated currents in hippocampal slices, suggesting that its muscle relaxant action is not mediated by GABABRs. Intraperitoneal injection of TCC in rats either alone or in combination with negative modulators of GABAergic transmission revealed convulsant and proconvulsant actions of this drug. Our data, consistent with clinical observations of the epileptogenic effect of this compound, suggest that TCC is a potent competitive antagonist of GABAAR function.
Improgan is a chemical congener of the H2 antagonist cimetidine which shows the profile of a highly effective analgesic when administered directly into the CNS. Although the improgan receptor is unknown, improgan activates analgesic pathways which are independent of opioids, but may utilize cannabinoid mechanisms. To discover selective, potent, improgan-like drugs, seven compounds chemically related to improgan were synthesized and tested for antinociceptive activity in rats after intracerebroventricular (icv) administration. Among a series of improgan congeners in which the alkyl chain length of improgan ((-CH2)3-) was varied, five compounds showed full agonist antinociceptive activity with potencies greater than that of improgan. VUF5420 (containing (-CH2)4-, EC50 = 86.1 nmol) produced maximal antinociceptive activity after doses which showed no motor impairment or other obvious toxicity, and was 2.3-fold more potent than improgan (EC50 = 199.5 nmol). As found previously with improgan, VUF5420-induced antinociception was unaffected by administration of the opioid antagonist naltrexone, but was inhibited by the CB1 antagonist SR141716A, suggesting a non-opioid, cannabinoid-related analgesic action. However, VUF5420 showed very low affinity (Kd approximately 10 microM) on CB1-receptor activation of 35S-GTPgammaS binding, indicating that this drug does not directly interact with the CB1 receptor in vivo. The present results show that VUF5420 is a high potency, improgan-like, non-opioid analgesic which may indirectly activate cannabinoid pain-relieving mechanisms.
Our study examined ethanol self-administration and accumbal dopamine concentration during kappa-opioid receptor (KOPr) blockade. Long-Evans rats were trained to respond for 20 min of access to 10% ethanol (with sucrose) over 7 days. Rats were injected s.c. with the long-acting KOPr antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (NOR-BNI; 0 or 20 mg/kg) 15-20 h prior to testing. Microdialysis revealed a transient elevation in dopamine concentration within 5 min of ethanol access in controls. NOR-BNI-treated rats did not exhibit this response, but showed a latent increase in dopamine concentration at the end of the access period. The rise in dopamine levels correlated positively with dialysate ethanol concentration but not in controls. NOR-BNI did not alter dopamine levels in rats self-administering 10% sucrose. The transient dopamine response during ethanol acquisition in controls is consistent with previous results that were attributed to ethanol stimulus cues. The altered dopamine response to NOR-BNI during ethanol drinking suggests that KOPr blockade temporarily uncovered a pharmacological stimulation of dopamine release by ethanol. Despite these neurochemical changes, NOR-BNI did not alter operant responding or ethanol intake, suggesting that the KOPr is not involved in ethanol-reinforced behavior under the limited conditions we studied.
We previously described that agonist-activated histamine H3 autoreceptors inhibit the stimulation of histamine synthesis mediated by calcium/calmodulin- and cAMP-dependent protein kinases (CaMKII and PKA respectively) in histaminergic nerve endings. In the absence of an agonist H3 receptors show partial constitutive activity, so we hypothesized that suppression of constitutive activity by an inverse agonist could stimulate these transduction pathways. We show here that the H3 inverse agonist thioperamide increases histamine synthesis in rat brain cortical slices independently from the amounts of extracellular histamine. Thioperamide effects were mimicked by the inverse agonists clobenpropit and A-331440, but not by the neutral antagonist VUF-5681. In contrast, coincubation with VUF-5681 suppressed thioperamide effects. The effects of thioperamide were completely blocked by the PKA inhibitor peptide myristoyl-PKI14-22, a peptide that did not block depolarization stimulation of histamine synthesis. In addition, thioperamide effects required depolarization and were impaired by blockade of N-type calcium channels (mediating depolarization), but not by CaMKII inhibition. These results indicate that constitutive activity of H3 receptors in rat brain cortex inhibits the adenylate cyclase/PKA pathway, and perhaps also the opening of N-type voltage sensitive calcium channels, but apparently not CaMKII.
Iloperidone is a novel atypical antipsychotic which acts as a broad spectrum dopamine/serotonin/norepinephrine receptor antagonist. To compare iloperidone behaviorally to other known antipsychotics, we evaluated the drug in three pharmacological models and one developmental model of disrupted prepulse inhibition (PPI) in rats. Firstly, 0.5 mg/kg apomorphine induced PPI deficits that were prevented by pretreatment with iloperidone (1 and 3 mg/kg). Secondly, treatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) produced robust deficits in PPI. Both doses of iloperidone (1 and 3 mg/kg) prevented the PPI-disruptive effects of treatment with 1 mg/kg PCP. Thirdly, treatment with the alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist cirazoline (0.6 mg/kg) disrupted PPI, and produced a concurrent large increase in startle magnitude. A relatively low dose of iloperidone (0.3 mg/kg) prevented cirazoline-induced PPI deficits, independent of its effects on startle magnitude. Finally, iloperidone (1 mg/kg) did not reverse PPI deficits in the isolation-rearing model of schizophrenia. These results indicate that iloperidone exerts behavioral effects in pharmacological models of disrupted sensorimotor gating consistent with &quot;atypical&quot; antipsychotics, mediated by antagonism of dopaminergic and noradrenergic receptors. The absence of effect in isolation-reared rats may be due to the relatively small effect size of isolation rearing on PPI or dose of iloperidone.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of dopaminergic activity in the prefrontal cortex in the regulation of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle. Rats were instrumented with permanent indwelling cannulas into the prefrontal cortex region and tested at least one week after surgery using a randomized sequence, repeated-measures protocol. Doses of apomorphine (0.1 mg/kg subcutaneously, s.c.) and MK-801 (0.03 mg/kg s.c.) were obtained from preliminary dose-response studies. Intracerebral injection of 0.5 microg/side of the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, significantly enhanced the disruptive effect of apomorphine on PPI, but had no effect on its own or on startle amplitude or habituation. Furthermore, the effect of SCH 23390 on PPI was not seen with a lower dose (0.2 microg/side) or in combination with the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801. These data confirm and extend previous reports on the importance of dopaminergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex in the regulation of PPI. It is suggested that apomorphine treatment directly or indirectly activates dopamine D1 receptors in the prefrontal cortex to inhibit its own action on PPI elsewhere in the brain, presumably in the nucleus accumbens. Antagonism of this inhibitory component by SCH 23390 therefore leads to a larger disruption of PPI.
Negative myoclonus (NM) is an unspecific motor disorder that can characterize a variety of neurological conditions. From the clinical point of view, NM appears as a shock-like involuntary jerky movement caused by a sudden, brief interruption of muscle activity. Asterixis is a type of NM that occurs typically in toxic-metabolic encephalopathies. NM of epileptic nature, or epileptic negative myoclonus (ENM), is defined as an interruption of tonic muscle activity, which is time-locked to an epileptic EEG abnormality, without evidence of an antecedent positive myoclonia in the agonist-antagonist muscles. ENM can be observed in idiopathic, cryptogenic, and symptomatic epileptic disorders. Pathophysiological hypotheses on the origin of NM involve subcortical as well as cortical mechanisms. Recent neuroimaging and neurophysiologic investigations, including intracerebral recordings and electrical stimulation procedures in epileptic patients, suggest the participation of premotor, primary motor, primary sensory, and supplementary motor areas in the genesis of NM. Polygraphic monitoring is essential for the diagnosis of NM, allowing the demonstration of brief interruptions of a tonic EMG activity, not preceded by a positive myoclonus in the agonist and antagonist muscles of the affected limb. Simultaneous EEG-EMG monitoring demonstrating the association of NM with an epileptic potential is consistent with the diagnosis of ENM. Evolution and prognosis of NM is mainly related to aetiology. In childhood idiopathic partial epilepsy, ENM can respond to some drugs (in particular, ethosuximide), whereas other medications (such as carbamazepine or phenytoin) have been reported to induce or worsen it.
A huge number of neurological disorders are associated with myoclonus. This paper describes these disorders whose diagnosis partly relies on the presence of myoclonus. The diagnostic approach is related to certain clinical features of myoclonus, which, after their integration in the clinical context, help orientate towards diagnosis. Myoclonus is frequent during dementia. Although its presence is well-known to take part in the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), myoclonus can also be present to a significant degree in Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body dementia (LBD), which raises a diagnostic issue. Both its clinical and electrophysiological features may help differential diagnosis, given that myoclonus with fast-evolving dementia and focal neurological signs should favor the diagnosis of CJD. Myoclonus in a context of progressive ataxia suggests one clinical form of the Ramsay-Hunt syndrome (progressive myoclonic ataxia, PMA), whose most frequent causes are: coeliac disease, mitochondriopathies, some spino-cerebellar degenerations, and some late metabolic disorders. In addition to ataxia and myoclonus, the presence of opsoclonus directs diagnosis toward the opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome (OMS), whose origin, in adult, is idiopathic or paraneoplastic. Palatal tremor (myoclonus) with ataxia may represent either a sporadic pattern, which often reflects the evolution of degenerative or lesional disorders, or a familial pattern in some degenerative affections or metabolic diseases. Of more recent knowledge is the association of progressive ataxia, myoclonus, and renal failure, which corresponds to a recessive autosomic disease. In a context of encephalopathy, myoclonus is frequent in metabolic or hydro-electrolytic disorders, and in brain anoxia. One should distinguish these various forms of myoclonus which may occur in the acute post-anoxic phase, from those occurring as sequels at a later stage, i.e. the Lance and Adams syndrome whose clinical aspects are also multiple. Myoclonus is less frequent during toxic or drug exposures. Irrespective of its acute or insidious onset, Hashimoto's encephalopathy is accompanied by myoclonus and tremor. Myoclonus may also be present during encephalic and/or spinal infectious disorders. Myoclonus with focal neurological signs may be observed in thalamic lesions, responsible for unilateral asterixis or unilateral myoclonus superimposed on dystonic posture. Segmental spinal myoclonus or propriospinal myoclonus may be associated with several spinal-cord disorders. Myoclonus associated with peripheral nerve lesions is exceptional or even questionable for some of these.
Alterations in the serotonin (5-HT) system have been related to impulsive aggression and suicidal behavior, common features of the borderline personality disorder (BPD). Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in 5-HT biosynthesis. Two isoforms are known, TPH-1 and TPH-2. TPH-1 has been correlated to various psychiatric and behavioral disorders by gene polymorphism association studies. We aimed to determine whether specific TPH-1 haplotypes associate with BPD. A case-control design was employed. The control group included 98 women without psychiatric history. In all, 95 patients were included, all Caucasian women with a BPD diagnosis who had attempted suicide at least twice during their lifetime. Exclusion criteria were: (i) substance dependence; (ii) dementia or other irreversible organic brain syndromes; (iii) psychotic disorders or major depressive illness with melancholic features; (iv) life-threatening eating disorders. Six single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were found at significant linkage disequilibrium across 23 kb of the TPH-1 gene in both patients and controls, suggesting a haplotype block structure. While no individual SNP showed association, several haplotypes associated with the BPD group. In particular, one six-SNP haplotype was absent from the control group while representing about one-quarter of all haplotypes in the BPD group (corrected P&lt;10(-5)). A 'sliding window' analysis attributed the strongest disease association to haplotype configurations located between the gene promoter and intron 3. We conclude that TPH-1 associates with BPD in suicidal women. Our data support the expectation that haplotype analysis is superior to single locus analysis in gene-disease, case-control association studies.
Estrogen has been shown to interact with the cholinergic system and influence cognition in animal models. This study investigated the interaction of estrogen and cholinergic system functioning and the effects of this interaction on cognitive task performance in healthy older women. Fifteen post-menopausal women were randomly and blindly placed on 1 mg of 17-beta estradiol or placebo for 3 months after which they participated in five anticholinergic challenge sessions, where they were administered one of two doses of the antimuscarinic drug scopolamine (SCOP) or the antinicotinic drug mecamylamine (MECA) or placebo. After the first challenge phase, they were crossed over to the other hormone treatment for another 3 months and repeated the challenges. Performance in multiple domains of cognition was assessed during anticholinergic drug challenge, including attention and verbal and nonverbal learning and memory. Results showed that estrogen pretreatment attenuated the anticholinergic drug-induced impairments on tests of attention and tasks with speed components. This study is the first to demonstrate the interaction of estrogen and the cholinergic system and the effects on cognitive performance in humans. The results suggest that estrogen status may affect cholinergic system tone and may be important for cholinergic system integrity.
Recent emerging biochemical data indicate that several important neuroregulatory genes and proteins may be involved in the etiology of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Additionally, the same genes appear to be targets of several psychotropic medications that are used to treat these disorders. Recent DNA microarray studies show that genes involved in synaptic neurotransmission, signal transduction, and glutamate/GABA regulation may be differentially regulated in brains of subjects with schizophrenia. We hypothesized that chronic administration of olanzapine to rats would alter expression of various genes that may be involved in the etiology of schizophrenia and mood disorders. Rats were administered olanzapine (N=20, 2 mg/kg/day) or sterile saline intraperitoneally (N=20) daily for 21 days. Control and olanzapine-treated frontal cortices were analyzed using cDNA microarray technology. The results showed significant downregulation of 31 genes and upregulation of 38 genes by greater than two-fold in the drug-treated brains vs controls. Our results provide evidence for altered regulation of genes involved with signal transduction and cell communication, metabolism and energy pathways, transport, immune response, nucleic acid metabolism, and neuronal growth factors. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis verified the direction and magnitude of change in six genes of interest: calbindin 3, homer 1, regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) 2, pyruvate kinase, Reelin and insulin 2. Western blotting showed significant upregulation in protein products for Reelin 410 and Reelin 180 kDa and downregulation for NMDA3B and RGS2. Our results show for the first time that olanzapine causes changes in levels of several important genes that may be involved in the etiology and treatment of schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders.
Schizophrenia-mimicking compounds such as phencyclidine (PCP) and MK801 are antagonists at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and produce the whole spectrum of positive, negative, and cognitive symptoms. This is one of the most important pillars of the hypoglutamatergic hypothesis of schizophrenia. Since the synthesis of glutamate and GABA in neurons is closely connected to astrocyte metabolism, the study of astrocytic function is essential in this context. Dizocilpine-maleate (MK801) (0.5 mg/kg) was injected into rats every day for 6 days. The last dose was given together with [1-(13)C]glucose and [1,2-(13)C]acetate. Extracts from frontal, retrosplenial, and cingulate cortices (CRFC) and temporal lobes were examined by (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, high pressure liquid chromatography, and light microscopy. In CRFC, significant increases in the levels of glutamate, glutathione, and taurine were seen, whereas amounts and turnover of noradrenaline, dopamine, and serotonin were unchanged. Glutamate and glutamine, derived from [1,2-(13)C]acetate and thus astrocytes, were significantly decreased in CRFC as compared to controls. Labeling from [1-(13)C]glucose and thus mostly neuronal metabolism was affected in the same brain region with decreased labeling of glutamate and GABA. The present model mimics the increased glutamate/glutamine activity found in drug-naive patients with first episode schizophrenia. Moreover, the decreased labeling indicates the transition to lower glutamatergic function seen in chronic schizophrenia patients. The disturbance in astrocytic function and the glutamine-glutamate-GABA cycle are of significant importance and might add to the malfunction of the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical loop caused by NDMA receptor blockade.
Administration of methylphenidate (MPH, Ritalin) to children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is an elective therapy, but raises concerns for public health, due to possible persistent neurobehavioral alterations. Wistar adolescent rats (30 to 46 day old) were administered MPH or saline (SAL) for 16 days, and tested for reward-related and motivational-choice behaviors. When tested in adulthood in a drug-free state, MPH-pretreated animals showed increased choice flexibility and economical efficiency, as well as a dissociation between dampened place conditioning and more marked locomotor sensitization induced by cocaine, compared to SAL-pretreated controls. The striatal complex, a core component of the natural reward system, was collected both at the end of the MPH treatment and in adulthood. Genome-wide expression profiling, followed by RT-PCR validation on independent samples, showed that three members of the postsynaptic-density family and five neurotransmitter receptors were upregulated in the adolescent striatum after subchronic MPH administration. Interestingly, only genes for the kainate 2 subunit of ionotropic glutamate receptor (Grik2, also known as KA2) and the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 7 (Htr7) (but not GABA(A) subunits and adrenergic receptor alpha1b) were still upregulated in adulthood. cAMP responsive element-binding protein and Homer 1a transcripts were modulated only as a long-term effect. In summary, our data indicate short-term changes in neural plasticity, suggested by modulation of expression of key genes, and functional changes in striatal circuits. These modifications might in turn trigger enduring changes responsible for the adult neurobehavioral profile, that is, altered processing of incentive values and a modified flexibility/habit balance.
Effects of big dynorphin (Big Dyn), a prodynorphin-derived peptide consisting of dynorphin A (Dyn A) and dynorphin B (Dyn B) on memory function, anxiety, and locomotor activity were studied in mice and compared to those of Dyn A and Dyn B. All peptides administered i.c.v. increased step-through latency in the passive avoidance test with the maximum effective doses of 2.5, 0.005, and 0.7 nmol/animal, respectively. Effects of Big Dyn were inhibited by MK 801 (0.1 mg/kg), an NMDA ion-channel blocker whereas those of dynorphins A and B were blocked by the kappa-opioid antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (6 mg/kg). Big Dyn (2.5 nmol) enhanced locomotor activity in the open field test and induced anxiolytic-like behavior both effects blocked by MK 801. No changes in locomotor activity and no signs of anxiolytic-like behavior were produced by dynorphins A and B. Big Dyn (2.5 nmol) increased time spent in the open branches of the elevated plus maze apparatus with no changes in general locomotion. Whereas dynorphins A and B (i.c.v., 0.05 and 7 nmol/animal, respectively) produced analgesia in the hot-plate test Big Dyn did not. Thus, Big Dyn differs from its fragments dynorphins A and B in its unique pattern of memory enhancing, locomotor- and anxiolytic-like effects that are sensitive to the NMDA receptor blockade. The findings suggest that Big Dyn has its own function in the brain different from those of the prodynorphin-derived peptides acting through kappa-opioid receptors.
To assess whether the development and expression of behavioral sensitization to the dopamine D2/D3 agonist quinpirole (QNP) is influenced by coadministration of the kappa opioid receptor agonist U69593, rats received every 3-4 days for a total of 10 treatments an injection of U69593 (0.3 mg/kg) together with an injection of either a postsynaptic (0.5 mg/kg) or a presynaptic dose of QNP (0.05 mg/kg); locomotor activity was measured after each treatment. Control rats were injected as appropriate with QNP, U69593, and vehicle/saline. Following chronic treatment, dose-response profiles to QNP were obtained to assess the expression of sensitization; the effect of U69593 on locomotor activity in animals already sensitized to QNP was also assessed. Results showed that cotreatment of U69593 with a postsynaptic dose of QNP doubled the speed and magnitude of sensitization to QNP, while U69593 cotreatment with a presynaptic dose of QNP switched the effects of QNP from locomotor depression to locomotor sensitization. However, U69593 cotreatment with a presynaptic dose of QNP changed a different set of measures of sensitization than did cotreatment with a postsynaptic dose of the dopamine agonist. Together, findings suggest that sensitization to QNP is not a unitary phenomenon but has components that are relatively independent, mediated by distinct pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms and modulated by kappa receptor activity.




Several theories of schizophrenia suggest dysfunction in glutamate neurotransmission in higher brain regions such as the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Previous studies have investigated whether astroglial abnormalities could give rise to glutamate dysfunction using glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunocytochemistry. We have used quantitative immunoautoradiography to measure glutamine synthetase (GS), the glial enzyme which recycles synaptic glutamate, as a more direct test of glial mechanisms of abnormal glutamate function in schizophrenia. We compared GS with GFAP immunoautoradiography in dorsolateral (area 9) and orbitofrontal (area 11/47) cortex. Optical density measures from film autoradiographs revealed an increase in GFAP immunoreactivity in area 9 in schizophrenia and a decrease in area 11/47 in both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The increase in GFAP in area 9 significantly correlated with lifetime antipsychotic drug treatment, whereas the reduction in area 11/47 occurred despite this effect. There were no changes in GS immunoreactivity in any psychiatric disorder. Regional and antigen-specific down-regulation of GFAP protein in OFC in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder may relate to disease mechanisms of psychosis.
Vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) are involved in storing glutamate for secretion at the level of glutamatergic axon terminals, and for this reason they have been extensively used as markers to identify glutamate-releasing cells. Platelets have been considered as a suitable model for studying glutamatergic dysfunction because they perform glutamate uptake and express both external transporters, and NMDA-like receptors. Here, we show that platelets express the pre-synaptic markers VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 and release glutamate following aggregation, implying a possible contributory role in the pathophysiology of stroke, migraine, and other excitotoxic disorders.
In this report, we present a simple and reliable way of assessing mechanical sensitivity of masseter muscle as a model for craniofacial muscle hyperalgesia. Mechanical thresholds that evoke nocifensive hindpaw responses following noxious masseter stimulation were assessed. Masseteric injections of widely used sensitizing agents significantly increased mechanical sensitivity of the muscle in a time dependent manner without affecting other muscles and overlying skin. This lightly anesthetized rodent paradigm allows us to provide calibrated and reliable mechanical stimulus, which is not possible in behaving animals. The technique can be applied to study mechanistic bases for craniofacial muscle tenderness.
Injection of kainic acid (KA) into the brain causes severe seizures with hippocampal neuron loss. KA has been shown to immediately induce cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in hippocampal neurons, indicating that neuronal COX-2 might be involved in neuronal death. In this study, however, we reveal that the delayed COX-2 induction in non-neuronal cells after KA injection plays an important role in hippocampal neuron loss rather than early COX-2 expression in neurons. We find that KA microinjection into the hemilateral hippocampus shows a later induction of COX-2 expression in non-neuronal cells, such as endothelial cells and astrocytes. In the KA-injected side, PGE2 concentration gradually increases and peaks at 24 h after injection, when non-neuronal COX-2 expression also peaks. When this delayed PGE2 elevation is prevented by selective COX-2 inhibitor NS398, it can block hippocampal cell death. Moreover, COX-2 knockout mice are also resistant to neuronal death after KA treatment. These findings indicate that delayed PGE2 production by non-neuronal COX-2 may facilitate neuronal death after seizure. Inhibition of COX-2 to an extent similar to PGE2 elevation after onset of seizure may be useful to prevent neuronal death.
A disynaptic projection from the spinal cord to the striatum was observed in the rat light and electron microscopically. An anterograde tracer, wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was injected into the ventral gray matter of the upper cervical spinal cord, and a retrograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine was injected into the striatum of a rat. Then the parafascicular nucleus was examined. Some anterogradely labeled axon terminals originating in the spinal cord were observed to synapse with retrogradely labeled dendrites of parafascicular nucleus neurons which sent axons to the striatum. We concluded that information from the spinal cord was transmitted to the striatum, being relayed by parafascicular nucleus neurons.
In this study, we used a well-established animal model to investigate changes in the peptidergic and parasympathetic innervation of the bladder following chronic bladder inflammation. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with either 70 mg/kg cyclophosphamide diluted in saline, i.p., once every 3 days or saline. After 10 days, all animals were tested for urinary frequency and number of low volume voids, as well as symptoms of spontaneous pain. At the end of 12 days, all animals were perfused with histological fixatives and the urinary bladders processed for immunofluorescence using antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter as markers, respectively, of peptidergic primary afferent fibers and parasympathetic efferent fibers. We show that animals treated with cyclophosphamide had inflamed bladders and displayed high urinary frequency as well as some indicators of spontaneous pain, such as piloerection and a rounded-back posture. Furthermore, they had a significant increase in the density of both parasympathetic and peptidergic sensory fibers in the bladder mucosa and an increase in peptidergic sensory fibers in the detrusor muscle. Based on these results, we suggest that peripheral sprouting of parasympathetic and peptidergic fibers could be a mechanism responsible for sensitization of the bladder, leading to urinary symptoms. Since we observed that the parasympathetic and peptidergic fibers often wrapped around one another and that their varicosities were very close, these two fiber populations may be interacting with each other to lead to and maintain sensitization. Future studies are required to establish the role of this fiber sprouting in bladder symptoms.
In the CNS, nucleotide receptors termed P2 receptors are identified on neurons and glial cells, mediating neuron-neuron, glia-glia and glia-neuron communication. In the present work, we qualify in vivo in the adult rat CNS the cellular/subcellular distribution of P2Y12 receptor protein in cerebral cortex, white matter and subcortical nuclei (striatum and substantia nigra), by means of immunofluorescence-confocal, electron microscopy and Western blot analysis. P2Y12 receptor immunoreactivity colocalizes neither with markers such as neuronal nuclei, neurofilament light chain, calbindin and tyrosine hydroxylase, nor with glial fibrillary acidic protein and isolectin B4, but with myelin basic protein and the oligodendrocyte marker RIP, in both cell bodies and processes, indicating therefore oligodendrocyte localization. Electron microscopy identifies P2Y12 receptors in both the perikaryon and under the plasmalemma of oligodendrocyte cell bodies and radiating processes, until the paranodal region of fibers. By Western blot analysis, P2Y12 receptor shows a specific band of 42-44 kDa, matching the molecular mass predicted from amino acid sequencing. Since in platelets P2Y12 receptor is known to regulate adhesion/activation and thrombus growth/stability, from our results we could speculate by analogy that, in oligodendrocytes, P2Y12 receptor signaling might contribute to the migration and adhesion of the glial processes to axons to be myelinated.
Orexin (hypocretin)-containing neurons in the perifornical hypothalamus project to widespread regions of the brain, including the dorsal and median raphe nuclei [Peyron C, Tighe DK, van den Pol AN, de Lecea L, Heller HC, Sutcliffe JG, Kilduff TS (1998) Neurons containing hypocretin (orexin) project to multiple neuronal systems. J Neurosci 18:9996-10015; Wang QP, Koyama Y, Guan JL, Takahashi K, Kayama Y, Shioda S (2005) The orexinergic synaptic innervation of serotonin- and orexin 1-receptor-containing neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Regul Pept 126:35-42]. Orexin-A or orexin-B was infused by reverse microdialysis into the dorsal raphe nucleus or median raphe nucleus of freely behaving rats, and extracellular serotonin was simultaneously collected by microdialysis and analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. We have found that orexin-A produced a dose-dependent increase of serotonin in the dorsal raphe nucleus, but not in the median raphe nucleus. However, orexin-B elicited a small but significant effect in both the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus. Orexins may have regionally selective effects on serotonin release in the CNS, implying a unique interaction between orexins and serotonin in the regulation of activities including sleep-wakefulness.
Learned helplessness rats are thought to be an animal model of depression. To study the role of synapse plasticity in depression, we examined the effects of learned helplessness and antidepressant treatments on synapsin I (a marker of presynaptic terminals), growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43; a marker of growth cones), and microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP-2; a marker of dendrites) in the hippocampus by immunolabeling. (1) Learned helplessness rats showed significant increases in the expression of synapsin I two days after the attainment of learned helplessness, and significant decreases in the protein expression eight days after the achievement of learned helplessness. Subchronic treatment of nave rats with imipramine or fluvoxamine significantly decreased the expression of synapsin I. (2) Learned helplessness increased the expression of GAP-43 two days and eight days after learned helplessness training. Subchronic treatment of nave rats with fluvoxamine but not imipramine showed a tendency to decrease the expression of synapsin I. (3) Learned helplessness rats showed increased expression of MAP-2 eight days after the attainment of learned helplessness. Nave rats subchronically treated with imipramine showed a tendency toward increased expression of MAP-2, but those treated with fluvoxamine did not. These results indicate that the neuroplasticity-related proteins synapsin I, GAP-43, and MAP-2 may play a role in the pathophysiology of depression and the mechanisms of antidepressants.
Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by neurodegeneration, immunodeficiency, cancer predisposition, genome instability, and radiation sensitivity. Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) amplicon vectors provide a means to deliver large genes to the nervous system efficiently and safely. We have generated an amplicon vector, carrying human FLAG-tagged A-T mutated (ATM), as well as an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) marker gene. Due to the lack of effective and reliable antibodies for ATM and FLAG appropriate for immunohistochemistry in mouse tissue sections, expression of the human FLAG-tagged ATM was confirmed in the mouse cerebellum at the RNA level by reverse transcription followed by quantitative PCR, and by radioactive in situ hybridization. In addition, we were able to immunoprecipitate the full-length human ATM protein from the cerebella of Atm -/- mice post-infection. This vector has been injected into the cerebella of Atm -/- mice with gene delivery to thousands of cells, including Purkinje cells, based on the EGFP marker gene. The expression of human FLAG-tagged ATM has been demonstrated in the cerebella of Atm-/- mice at the transcription and translational level three days post-infection. To our knowledge, this is the first report of vector-mediated delivery of the human ATM cDNA to an Atm -/- mouse. These vectors provide the groundwork to develop gene therapy approaches for A-T patients.
The experiments described herein present a method for tracking diffusion of the glucocorticoid receptor agonist RU28362 in brain following i.c.v. drug administration. A useful property of glucocorticoid receptor is that it is primarily cytoplasmic when unbound and rapidly translocates to the nucleus when bound by ligand. Thus, removal of endogenous glucocorticoids by adrenalectomy allows us to identify brain regions with activated glucocorticoid receptor after i.c.v. glucocorticoid receptor agonist treatment by examining the presence or absence of nuclear glucocorticoid receptor immunostaining. We have previously demonstrated that an i.p. injection of 150 microg/kg RU28362 1 h prior to restraint stress is sufficient to suppress stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hormone secretion [Ginsberg AB, Campeau S, Day HE, Spencer RL (2003) Acute glucocorticoid pretreatment suppresses stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hormone secretion and expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone hnRNA but does not affect c-fos mRNA or fos protein expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. J Neuroendocrinol 15:1075-1083]. We report here, however, that in rats i.c.v. treatment with a high-dose of RU28362 (1 microg) 1 h prior to stressor onset does not suppress stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity. We then performed a series of experiments to examine the possible differences in glucocorticoid receptor activation patterns in brain and pituitary after i.c.v. or i.p. treatment with RU28362. In a dose-response study we found that 1 h after i.c.v. injection of RU28362 (0.001, 0.1 and 1.0 microg) glucocorticoid receptor nuclear immunoreactivity was only evident in brain tissue immediately adjacent to the lateral or third ventricle, including the medial but not more lateral portion of the medial parvocellular paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. In contrast, i.p. injection of RU28362 produced a uniform predominantly nuclear glucocorticoid receptor immunostaining pattern throughout all brain tissue. I.c.v. injection of the endogenous glucocorticoid receptor agonist, corticosterone (1 microg) also had limited diffusion into brain tissue. Time-course studies indicated that there was not a greater extent of nuclear glucocorticoid receptor immunostaining present in brain after shorter (10 or 30 min) or longer (2 or 3 h) intervals of time after i.c.v. RU28362 injection. Importantly, time-course studies found that i.c.v. RU28362 produced significant increases in nuclear glucocorticoid receptor immunostaining in the anterior pituitary that were evident within 10 min after injection and maximal after 1 h. These studies support an extensive literature indicating that drugs have very limited ability to diffuse out of the ventricles into brain tissue after i.c.v. injection, while at the same time reaching peripheral tissue sites. In addition, these studies indicate that significant occupancy of some glucocorticoid receptor within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and pituitary is not necessarily sufficient to suppress stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity.
Transient spinal cord ischemia may lead to a progressive degeneration of spinal interneurons and subsequently to increased hind limb motor tone. In the present work we sought to characterize the rigidity and spasticity components of this altered motor function by: i) tonic electromyographic activity measured in gastrocnemius muscle before and after ischemia, ii) measurement of muscle resistance during the period of ankle flexion and corresponding changes in electromyographic activity, iii) changes in Hoffmann reflex, and, iv) motor evoked potentials. In addition the effect of intrathecal treatment with baclofen (GABAB receptor agonist; 1 microg), nipecotic acid (GABA uptake inhibitor; 300 microg) and dorsal L2-L5 rhizotomy on spasticity and rigidity was studied. Finally, the changes in spinal choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 and 1 (VGLUT2 and VGLUT1) expression were characterized using immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy. At 3-7 days after ischemia an increase in tonic electromyographic activity with a variable degree of rigidity was seen. In animals with modest rigidity a velocity-dependent increase in muscle resistance and corresponding appearance in electromyographic activity (consistent with the presence of spasticity) was measured during ankle rotation (4-612 degrees /s rotation). Measurement of the H-reflex revealed a significant increase in Hmax/Mmax ratio and a significant loss of rate-dependent inhibition. In the same animals a potent increase in motor evoked potential amplitudes was measured and this change correlated positively with the increased H-reflex responses. Spasticity and rigidity were consistently present for a minimum of 3 months after ischemia. Intrathecal treatment with baclofen (GABA B receptor agonist) and nipecotic acid (GABA uptake inhibitor) provided a significant suppression of spasticity, rigidity, H-reflex or motor evoked potentials. Dorsal L2-L5 rhizotomy significantly decreased muscle resistance but had no effect on increased amplitudes of motor evoked potentials. Confocal analysis of spinal cord sections at 8 weeks-12 months after ischemia revealed a continuing presence of ChAT positive alpha-motoneurons, Ia afferents and VGLUT2 and VGLUT1-positive terminals but a selective loss of small presumably inhibitory interneurons between laminae V-VII. These data demonstrate that brief transient spinal cord ischemia in rat leads to a consistent development of spasticity and rigidity. The lack of significant suppressive effect of dorsal L2-L5 rhizotomy on motor evoked potentials response indicates that descending motor input into alpha-motoneurons is independent on Ia afferent couplings and can independently contribute to increased alpha-motoneuronal excitability. The pharmacology of this effect emphasizes the potent role of GABAergic type B receptors in regulating both the spasticity and rigidity.
The von Economo neurons are one of the few known specializations to hominoid cortical microcircuitry. Here, using a Golgi preparation of a human postmortem brain, we describe the dendritic architecture of this unique population of neurons. We have found that, in contrast to layer 5 pyramidal neurons, the von Economo neurons have sparse dendritic trees and symmetric apical and basal components. This result provides the first detailed anatomical description of a neuron type unique to great apes and humans.
The naked mole-rat (Rodentia, Bathyergidae: Heterocephalus glaber) is a strictly subterranean eusocial mammal. These rodents show a suite of morphological and physiological adaptations, including brain specializations, to this underground milieu that they have inhabited since the early Miocene. Recently, naked mole-rats have received considerable attention as the longest living rodent known, and some of these brain specializations may be potentially important to their exceptional longevity. To serve as a basis for future brain studies, we have constructed a stereotaxic atlas of the brain of this species, labeling all major brain structures.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) belongs to the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily and is composed extracellularly of five Ig-like and two fibronectin type III (F3) modules. It plays a pivotal role in neuronal development and synaptic plasticity. NCAM signals via a direct interaction with the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR). A 15-amino-acid long peptide, the FG loop (FGL) peptide, that is derived from the second F3 module of NCAM has been found to activate FGFR1. We here report that the FGL peptide, when administered intranasally to newborn rats, accelerated early postnatal development of coordination skills. In adult animals s.c. administration of FGL resulted in a prolonged retention of social memory. We found that FGL rapidly penetrated into the blood and cerebrospinal fluid after both intranasal and s.c. administration and remained detectable in the fluids for up to 5 hours.
Age-dependent, neuronal apoptosis following N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade has been linked to loss of calcium. To further explore this relationship, we examined expression of activated caspase-3, as well as the calcium binding proteins, calbindin-D 28K, calretinin and parvalbumin, following injection of vehicle or the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker, MK801, in postnatal day 7 or 21 rats. At postnatal day 7, MK801-induced activated caspase-3 expression was most frequently found in mutually exclusive cell populations to those expressing any of the three calcium binding proteins. For example, in the somatosensory cortex, most immunoreactivity for activated caspase-3 was found in layers IV/V, layered between areas of high calbindin or calretinin expression. Further, in the caudate putamen, activated caspase-3 rarely invaded zones of intense calbindin immunoreactivity. Suggesting expression patterns of these proteins were inversely related, these same brain regions no longer displayed MK801-induced activated caspase-3 at postnatal day 21, but instead robustly expressed calcium binding proteins. This later surge in expression was especially true for parvalbumin in regions such as the somatosensory and retrosplenial cortex, as well as the subicular complex. Calbindin-D 28K was also found to increase in the same regions though not as impressively as parvalbumin. Thus, developmental regulation of calcium binding protein expression may be a critical factor in age-dependent sensitivity to agents that disrupt calcium homeostasis in maturing neurons, providing a possible mechanistic explanation for age-dependent MK801 toxicity.
Arginine vasopressin and corticotropin-releasing factor are two neuroactive peptides that regulate hypothalamic-pituitary-axis and associated stress response. While the potential antidepressant and anxiolytic profiles of corticotropin-releasing factor 1 antagonists have been well studied, the concept of blockade of vasopressin system as another approach for the treatment of emotional processes has only been made available recently by the synthesis of the first non-peptide antagonist at the V1b receptor, SSR149415. In the present study SSR149415 has been compared with the corticotropin-releasing factor 1 antagonist SSR125543 and with anxiolytic and antidepressant drugs on the response of hippocampal cholinergic and cortical noradrenergic systems to the anxiogenic benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonist FG 7142. Acute (0.3-10 mg/kg, i.p.) and long-term administration (10 mg/kg, i.p., 21 days) of SSR149415 and SSR125543 reduced the FG 7142-induced increase in extracellular concentrations of acetylcholine in the hippocampus of anesthetized rats measured by microdialysis. By contrast acute and long-term administration of SSR149415 failed to reduce the FG 7142-induced increase in the release of norepinephrine in the cortex of freely moving rats. The present results demonstrate that the two compounds have similar profiles in a model of activation by an anxiogenic drug of the hippocampal cholinergic system and they suggest that SSR149415 and SSR125543 may have anti-stress anxiolytic and antidepressant effects via a mechanism of action different from classical benzodiazepine ligands and noradrenergic antidepressants.
Specific neurons in the brain are the primary targets of the action of antipsychotic drugs. Identification and characterization of the nature of these neurons are important for understanding how antipsychotic drugs produce their effects. In previous studies GABAergic/dynorphinergic neurons were identified as a principal cell target of antipsychotic drugs in the shell of nucleus accumbens. In the present study, we further characterized which subpopulations of GABAergic neurons in this area respond after acute administration of antipsychotic drugs. Rats were treated with the typical antipsychotic haloperidol, or the prototype atypical antipsychotic clozapine and killed two hours after treatment. In appropriate sections of brain, double immunofluorescence labeling was performed with antibodies directed against markers specific to candidate cell types and Fos-like proteins (a marker to identify drug-induced cell activation). We reported here that haloperidol- and clozapine-activated neurons showed the following features: 1) approximately 54-57% of them express dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa (a marker for GABAergic medium spiny projection neurons), 2) they appear rarely to be GABAergic interneurons, marked by the calcium binding proteins, parvalbumin, calretinin or calbindin-D28K, 3) about 84-86% of them express the neuropeptide neurotensin (a neurotransmitter most often associated with projection neurons in the site tested). The results suggest that most of the antipsychotic drug-activated neurons in the shell of nucleus accumbens are likely to be neurotensin containing projection neurons.
The neurobehavioral and neurochemical effects produced by prenatal methylmercury exposure (8 mg/kg, gestational-days 8 or 15), were investigated in rats. On postnatal day 40, animals exposed to methylmercury and tested in the open field arena, showed a reduction in the number of rearings, whereas the number of crossings and resting time was not altered with respect to the age-matched control rats. The methylmercury-exposed groups showed a lower level of exploratory behavior as well as an impairment in habituation and working memory when subjected to the novel object exploration task. The neophobia displayed by methylmercury-exposed rats is unlikely to be attributed to a higher degree of anxiety. Prenatal methylmercury exposure did not affect motor coordination or motor learning in 40-day-old rats subjected to the balance task on a rotating rod, and it did not impair the onset of reflexive behavior in pups screened for righting reflex, cliff aversion and negative geotaxis. In cortical cell cultures from pups exposed to methylmercury during gestation, basal extracellular glutamate levels were higher, whereas the KCl-evoked extracellular glutamate levels were lower than that measured in cultures from rats born to control mothers. In addition, a higher responsiveness of glutamate release to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor activation was evident in cortical cell cultures from pups born from methylmercury-treated dams than in cultures obtained from control rats. The present results suggest that acute maternal methylmercury exposure induces, in rat offspring, subtle changes in short-term memory as well as in exploratory behavior. These impairments seem to be associated to alterations of cortical glutamatergic signaling.
Experimental evidence recently obtained suggests that synaptogenesis is a tripartite event in which not only pre- and post-synaptic neurons but also glial cells play a key role. However, the molecular mechanisms by which glia modulate the formation of synapses in the CNS remain poorly understood. In the present study, we analyzed the role of astrocytes in synapse formation in cultured hippocampal rat neurons. For these experiments, hippocampal neurons were cultured in the presence or absence of a monolayer of astrocytes. Our results indicated that hippocampal neurons cultured in the presence of astrocytes formed more synapses than the ones cultured in their absence only when kept in N2 serum-free medium. To get insights into the potential molecular mechanisms underlying this effect, we analyzed the expression of proteins known to induce synapse formation in hippocampal neurons. A significant increase in agrin expression was detected in astrocytes cultured in N2 serum-free medium when compared with the ones cultured in serum containing medium. Experiments performed using different components of the N2 mixture indicated that progesterone induced the expression of agrin in astrocytes. Taken collectively, these results provide evidence supporting a role for astrocytes in synapse formation in central neurons. Furthermore, they identified agrin as a potential mediator of this effect, and astrocytes as a bridge between the endocrine and nervous systems during synaptogenesis.
Synaptoporin and synaptophysin are integral membrane components of synaptic vesicles. The distribution of synaptoporin and its relationship with synaptophysin in sensory afferent fibers remain unclear. In the present study, we showed that in the rat dorsal root ganglia synaptoporin was expressed in subsets of small neurons that contain either calcitonin gene-related peptide or isolectin B4, and was distributed in their afferent terminals in laminae I-II of the spinal cord. Synaptophysin was expressed in 57% of synaptoporin-containing small dorsal root ganglion neurons and in large dorsal root ganglion neurons. In the spinal dorsal horn, synaptophysin-immunolabeling was weak in the afferent fibers in lamina I, outer lamina II and the dorsal part of inner lamina II, but strong in the afferent fibers in laminae III-IV. However, a subpopulation of isolectin B4-positive small dorsal root ganglion neurons expressed both synaptoporin and synaptophysin, and their afferent fibers were mainly distributed in the ventral part of inner lamina II. After peripheral nerve injury, synaptoporin expression was up-regulated in small dorsal root ganglion neurons, and synaptoporin level was increased in their afferent terminals. Thus, synaptoporin and synaptophysin have topographically distinct distributions in afferent fibers. Synaptoporin is a major synaptic vesicle protein in Adelta- and C-fibers in both physiological and neuropathic pain states.
One of the most common, and disruptive, neurological symptoms following neonatal brain injury is a motor impairment. Neonatal medial frontal cortical lesions in rats produce enduring motor impairments, and it is thought that lesion-induced abnormal cortical morphology and connectivity may underlie the motor deficits. In order to investigate the functional consequences of the lesion-induced anatomical abnormalities in adulthood, we used intracortical microstimulation to determine the neurophysiologic organization of motor maps within the lesion hemisphere. In addition, groups of neonatal lesion rats were given reach training or complex housing rehabilitation in adulthood and then mapped with intracortical microstimulation. The results demonstrate that neonatal medial frontal cortex lesions produce motor deficits in adulthood that are associated with abnormal motor maps. Further, adult behavioral treatment promoted partial recovery that was supported by reorganization of the motor maps whereby there were increases in the size of the forelimb motor maps. The experience-induced expansion of the forelimb motor maps in adulthood provides a neural mechanism for the experience-dependent improvements in motor performance.
The present study tests the hypothesis that cerebral hypoxia results in increased ratio of Bax/Bcl-2, activation of caspase-9, lipid peroxidation, and DNA fragmentation in mitochondria of the cerebral cortex of newborn piglets and that the inhibition of nitric oxide synthase by N-nitro-L-arginine during hypoxia will prevent the events leading to mitochondrial DNA fragmentation. To test this hypothesis, six piglets, 3-5 days old, were divided into three groups: normoxic (n=5), hypoxic (n=5), and hypoxic-nitric oxide synthase (n=4). Hypoxic animals were exposed to a FiO2 of 0.6 for 60 min. Nitric oxide synthase (40 mg/kg) was infused over 60 min prior to hypoxia. Tissue hypoxia was confirmed by measuring levels of ATP and phosphocreatine. Cerebral cortical tissue mitochondria were isolated and purified using a discontinuous ficoll gradient. Mitochondrial Bax and Bcl-2 proteins were determined by Western blot. Caspase-9 activity in mitochondria was determined spectro-fluorometrically using fluorogenic substrate for caspase-9. Fluorescent compounds, an index of mitochondrial membrane lipid peroxidation, were determined spectrofluorometrically. Mitochondrial DNA was isolated and separated by electrophoresis on 1% agarose gel and stained with ethidium bromide. ATP levels (micromol/g brain) were 4.52+/-0.34 in normoxic, 1.18+/-0.29 in hypoxic (P&lt;0.05) and 1.00+/-0.26 in hypoxic-nitric oxide synthase animals (P&lt;0.05 vs. normoxic). Phosphocreatine levels (micromol/g brain) were 3.61+/-0.33 in normoxic, 0.70+/-0.20 in hypoxic (P&lt;0.05 vs. normoxic) and 0.57+/-0.14 in hypoxic-nitric oxide synthase animals (P&lt;0.05 vs. normoxic, P=NS vs. hypoxic). Bax density in mitochondrial membranes was 160+/-28 in normoxic and 324+/-65 in hypoxic (P&lt;0.001 vs. normoxic). Bcl-2 density mitochondria was 96+/-18 in normoxic and 98+/-20 in hypoxic (P=NS vs. normoxic). Mitochondrial caspase-9 activity (nmol/mg protein/h) was 1.32+/-0.23 in normoxic and 2.25+/-0.24 in hypoxic (P&lt;0.01 vs. normoxic). Levels of fluorescent compounds (microg of quinine sulfate/g protein) were 12.48+/-4.13 in normoxic and 37.92+/-7.62 in hypoxic (P=0.003 vs. normoxic). Densities (ODxmm2) of low molecular weight DNA fragments were 143+/-38 in normoxic, 365+/-152 in hypoxic, (P&lt;0.05 vs. normoxic) and 163+/-25 in hypoxic-nitric oxide synthase animals (P&lt;0.05 vs. hypoxic, P=NS vs. normoxic). The data demonstrate that hypoxia results in increased mitochondrial proapoptotic protein Bax, increased mitochondrial caspase-9 activity, increased mitochondrial lipid peroxidation, and increased fragmentation of DNA in mitochondria of the cerebral cortex of newborn piglets. The administration of a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, nitric oxide synthase, prior to hypoxia prevented fragmentation of mitochondrial DNA, indicating that the hypoxia-induced mitochondrial DNA fragmentation is NO-mediated. We propose that NO free radicals generated during hypoxia lead to NO-mediated altered expression of Bax leading to increased ratio of pro-apoptotic/anti-apoptotic protein resulting in modification of mitochondrial membrane, and subsequently Ca2+-influx and fragmentation of mitochondrial DNA.
Biophysically based computational models have successfully accounted for the persistent neural activity underlying the maintenance of single items of information in working memory. The aim of the present study was to extend previous models in order to retain multiple items, in agreement with the observed human storage capacity. This was done by implementing cellular mechanisms known to occur during the childhood development of working memory, such as an increased synaptic strength and improved contrast and specificity of the neural response. Our computational study shows that these mechanisms are sufficient to create a neural network which can store information about multiple items through sustained neural activity. Furthermore, by using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we found that the information-activity curve predicted by the model corresponds to that in the human posterior parietal cortex during performance of working memory tasks, which is consistent with previous studies of brain activity related to working memory capacity in humans.
Long term potentiation in hippocampus, evoked by high-frequency stimulation, is mediated by two major glutamate receptor subtypes, alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Receptor subunit composition and its interaction with cytoplasmic proteins constitute different pathways regulating synaptic plasticity. Here, we provide further evidence that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated long term potentiation evoked at hippocampal CA1 region of rats induced by high-frequency stimulation of the Schaffer collateral-commissural pathway in vivo is not dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit NR2B. Applying semi-quantitative immunoblotting, we found that in the whole tetanized hippocampus, synaptic expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A, glutamate receptor 1) and their associated partners, e.g. synaptic associated protein 97, postsynaptic density protein 95, alpha subunit of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, neuronal nitricoxide synthase, increased 180 min post-high-frequency stimulation. Moreover, phosphorylation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II at thr286 and glutamate receptor 1 at ser831 was increased 30 min post-high-frequency stimulation and blocked by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists (AP-5 and MK-801). In sham group and controls, these changes were not observed. The expression of several other synaptic proteins (NR2B, glutamate receptors 2/3, N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor) was not affected by long term potentiation induction. In hippocampal homogenates, the level of these proteins remained unchanged. These data indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent long term potentiation in CA1 region in vivo mainly affects the synaptic expression of glutamate receptor subunits and associated proteins in the whole hippocampus. The alteration of molecular aspects can play a role in regulating the long-lasting synaptic modification in hippocampal long term potentiation in vivo.
Glutamate, the main excitatory amino acid transmitter in the vertebrate brain is involved in the dynamic changes in protein repertoire that underlie synaptic plasticity. Activity-dependent differential expression patterns occur not only in neurons but also in glial cells. In fact, a membrane to nuclei signaling has been described after ionotropic glutamate receptor stimulation in cultured chick cerebellar Bergmann glia cells. In order to characterize other levels of protein expression regulation, we explored the effect of glutamate treatment in [35S]-methionine incorporation into newly synthesized polypeptides. A time-dependent modification in protein synthesis was found. An important component of translational control is the ribosomal S6 protein kinase. Threonine phosphorylation renders the kinase active increasing translation initiation. Glutamate exposure results in ribosomal S6 protein kinase Thr389 phosphorylation in a dose and time-dependent manner that matches perfectly with the overall protein synthesis profile detected upon the excitatory amino acid. Pharmacological characterization of the receptors involved suggests the participation of both ionotropic as well as metabotropic glutamate receptors. The non-receptor tyrosine kinase Src, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, protein kinase B and the mammalian target of rapamycin are mediators of the glutamate effect. These results not only demonstrate that glutamate receptors activation is critically involved in translational control in glial cells adjacent to synaptic processes like cerebellar Bergmann glia cells, but also further strengthen the notion of an active participation of glial cells in synaptic transmission.
Unilateral intracarotid infusion of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in baboons produces transient contralateral dystonia lasting 2-3 weeks followed by chronic hemiparkinsonism. We now extend this model to Macaca nemestrina and Macaca fascicularis. MPTP was infused unilaterally into the internal carotid artery of two M. nemestrina and 11 M. fascicularis. Effects were assessed with blinded clinical ratings of dystonia and Parkinsonism; [18F]-6-fluoro-DOPA (FDOPA) positron emission tomography; and postmortem measurements of striatal dopamine content. In two M. nemestrina, MPTP 0.4 mg/kg intracarotid produced acute dystonia within 24 h then chronic Parkinsonism starting 3 weeks later. In three M. fascicularis, MPTP 0.4 mg/kg produced acute dystonia within 3-8 h but two others died from large hemispheric infarcts within 1 day. A much lower dose, MPTP 0.1 mg/kg produced no clinical manifestations (n=1), whereas MPTP 0.25 mg/kg produced consistent transient dystonia and ipsiversive turning within 1-3 days followed by chronic Parkinsonism at 3 weeks (n=5). One week after MPTP, striatal FDOPA uptake decreased an average of 69% in M. nemestrina (0.4 mg/kg); and decreased an average of 70+/-21% in M. fascicularis (0.25 mg/kg). Striatal dopamine was reduced an average 66% in the first day (n=2) during acute dystonia, 98% at 3 days (n=1) and 99%+/-2.3% at 2-4 months (n=5). M. nemestrina had a clinical response similar to baboons whereas M. fascicularis seemed more sensitive to MPTP. These findings extend the model of MPTP-induced transient dystonia followed by chronic hemiparkinsonism to M. nemestrina and M. fascicularis and demonstrate that the early dystonic phase is accompanied by striatal dopamine deficiency.
The magnocellular medial preoptic nucleus plays a crucial role in the regulation of male sexual behavior in Syrian hamsters. Histological and behavioral studies suggest that the magnocellular medial preoptic nucleus regulates male mating behavior by integrating chemosensory and hormonal signals. The present study is the first to systematically identify the afferent connections of the magnocellular medial preoptic nucleus by tracing the uptake of cholera toxin B from deposits in the magnocellular medial preoptic nucleus of adult male Syrian hamsters. Our findings indicate that the magnocellular medial preoptic nucleus receives 1) chemosensory input from areas in the main and accessory olfactory pathways including the posterior medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, anterior medial, anterior cortical and posterior cortical nuclei of the amygdala; 2) input from steroid responsive structures such as the posterior medial nucleus of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, lateral septum, anteroventral periventricular nucleus, medial preoptic nucleus, ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and arcuate nucleus; 3) input from structures in the brainstem such as the subparafascicular thalamic nucleus, peripeduncular nucleus and the premamillary nucleus in the hypothalamus that carry sensory information from the genitalia. The major afferent input to the magnocellular medial preoptic nucleus was confirmed by injecting anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine into the anterior medical nucleus of the amygdala, the posterodorsal part of the medial nucleus of the amygdala, the posteromedial part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the posterointermediate part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Our results support the hypothesis that the magnocellular medial preoptic nucleus is part of the chemosensory pathway that receives chemosensory and hormonal input to regulate mating behavior and suggest that the magnocellular medial preoptic nucleus may utilize information from the genitalia to regulate male mating behavior.
Expression of a prion-like protein, doppel, induces apoptosis-like changes in cerebellar neuronal granule and Purkinje cells of prion-knockout mice and this effect can be rescued by re-introduction of cellular prion. Since most of those studies were done in transgenic mice, in the present study, we have established a murine neuro-2a cell line and the primary rat adult reactive astrocyte model for studying doppel-induced apoptosis and possible prion counteraction. We demonstrate that expression of doppel in neuro-2a cells causes apoptosis, during which DNA fragmentation occurs as visualized by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling staining and other intracellular changes characteristic of apoptosis are observed in the electron microscope. Using immunoblot analyses, we further demonstrate that doppel expression activates caspase-10 as well as caspase-3, but does not activate caspase-9. Addition of purified doppel to cultures of neuro-2a cells and the primary astrocytes causes similar apoptotic changes. Significantly, apoptosis induced by doppel is enhanced when cellular prion protein is depleted by RNA interference, suggesting a protective effect of cellular prion against doppel-induced apoptosis. The antagonistic interaction between cellular prion and doppel appears to involve direct protein-protein interaction possibly on cell membrane as cellular prion and doppel physically interact with each other and co-localize on cell membranes. Together, our data show that doppel induces apoptosis in neuroblastoma neuro-2a and rat primary astrocytes via a caspase-10 mediated pathway and that this effect is counteracted by cellular prion through direct interaction with doppel possibly on cell membrane.
The medial geniculate nucleus of the thalamus responds to auditory information and is a critical part of the neural circuitry underlying aversive conditioning with auditory signals for shock. Prior work has shown that lesions of this brain area selectively disrupt conditioning with auditory stimuli and that neurons in the medial geniculate demonstrate plastic changes during fear conditioning. However, recent evidence is less clear as to whether or not this area plays a role in the storage of auditory fear memories. In the current set of experiments rats were given infusions of protein or messenger RNA (mRNA) synthesis inhibitors into the medial geniculate nucleus of the thalamus 30 min prior to auditory fear conditioning. The next day animals were tested to the auditory cue and conditioning context. Results showed that rats infused with either inhibitor demonstrated less freezing to the auditory cue 24 h after training, while freezing to the context was normal. Autoradiography confirmed that the doses used were effective in disrupting synthesis. Taken together with prior work, these data suggest that the formation of fear memory requires the synthesis of new protein and mRNA at multiple brain sites across the neural circuit that supports fear conditioning.
Strabismus (or squint) is both a well-established model for developmental plasticity and a frequent clinical symptom. To analyze experience-dependent plasticity of functional maps in the brain we used optical imaging of intrinsic signals to visualize both orientation and ocular dominance domains in cat area 18. In strabismic animals, iso-orientation domains exhibited a pinwheel-like organization, as previously described for area 18 of normally raised animals and for area 17 of both normally raised and strabismic cats. In area 18, mean pinwheel density was similar in the experimental (2.2 pinwheel centers per mm2 cortical surface) and control animals (2.3/mm2 in normally raised animals), but significantly lower than in area 17 of both normally raised and strabismic cats (2.7-3.4/mm2). A comparison of orientation and ocular dominance domains revealed that iso-orientation domains were continuous across the borders of ocular dominance domains and tended to cross these borders at steep angles. Thus, the orientation map does not seem to be modified by experience-dependent changes in afferent activity. Together with our recent observation that strabismus does not enhance the segregation of ocular dominance domains in cat area 18, the present data indicate that the layout of functional maps in area 18 is less susceptible to experience-dependent manipulations than in area 17.
Electrophysiological studies within the lung have documented the presence of heterogenous groups of afferent fibers composed of Adelta and C-fibers and studies of somatosensory nerves within the skin reveal a complex pattern of distribution of sensory neuropeptides and transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV)1 positive nerves. However, the anatomical location of these different subpopulations of nerves within the lung has not been extensively studied. In the present study we have demonstrated that TRPV1 axons represented only a small proportion of the total number of PGP9.5 staining nerves within guinea-pig tracheal epithelium and only half the number of TRPV1 axons was immunopositive for substance P. In contrast, most TRPV1 positive neurones found within guinea-pig intrapulmonary airways were found to co-localize with sensory neuropeptides substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide within and beneath the epithelium, around blood vessels, within airway smooth muscle and alveoli, indicative of heterogeneity of TRPV1 positive axons throughout the airways. However, in the smooth muscle layer of the trachea there was evidence of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide containing nerves that did not stain for TRPV1. We also demonstrated a complete loss of TRVP1 positive axons in the trachea and intrapulmonary airways and associated loss of bronchoconstriction induced by capsaicin, in animals chronically treated with capsaicin. However, some neuropeptide immunoreactive axons remained in the smooth muscle layer of capsaicin-treated animals which could represent the small subset of neuropeptide containing fibers which do not co-localize with TRPV1. We have provided evidence of heterogeneity of TRPV1 positive nerve fibers, including fibers characterized by lack of co-localization with neuropeptides in various regions of the airways and the existence of neuropeptide containing fibers that were not TRPV1 positive in guinea-pigs.
Glioblastoma is the most malignant and prevalent brain tumor that still remains incurable. Recent studies reported anti-cancer effect of the broccoli-derived compound sulforaphane. We explored the mechanisms of sulforaphane-mediated apoptosis in human glioblastoma T98G and U87MG cells. Wright staining and ApopTag assay confirmed apoptosis in glioblastoma cells treated with sulforaphane. Increase in intracellular free Ca2+ was detected by fura-2 assay, suggesting activation of Ca2+-dependent pathways for apoptosis. Western blotting was used to detect changes in expression of Bax and Bcl-2 proteins resulting in increased Bax:Bcl-2 ratio that indicated a commitment of glioblastoma cells to apoptosis. Upregulation of calpain, a Ca2+-dependent cysteine protease, activated caspase-12 that in turn caused activation of caspase-9. With the increased Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, cytochrome c was released from mitochondria to cytosol for sequential activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3. Increased calpain and caspase-3 activities generated 145 kD spectrin breakdown product and 120 kD spectrin breakdown product, respectively. Activation of caspase-3 also cleaved the inhibitor-of-caspase-activated-DNase. Accumulation of apoptosis-inducing-factor in cytosol suggested caspase-independent pathway of apoptosis as well. Two of the inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins were downregulated because of an increase in 'second mitochondrial activator of caspases/Direct inhibitor-of-apoptosis protein binding protein with low pI.' Decrease in nuclear factor kappa B and increase in inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B alpha expression favored the process of apoptosis. Collectively, our results indicated activation of multiple molecular mechanisms for apoptosis in glioblastoma cells following treatment with sulforaphane.
Immunogold labeling distributions of seven presynaptic proteins were quantitatively analyzed under control conditions and after high K+ depolarization in excitatory synapses from dissociated rat hippocampal cultures. Three parallel zones in presynaptic terminals were sampled: zones I and II, each about one synaptic vesicle wide extending from the active zone; and zone III, containing a distal pool of vesicles up to 200 nm from the presynaptic membrane. The distributions of SV2 and synaptophysin, two synaptic vesicle integral membrane proteins, generally followed the distribution of synaptic vesicles, which were typically evenly distributed under control conditions and had a notable depletion in zone III after stimulation. Labels of synapsin I and synuclein, two synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, were similar to each other; both were particularly sparse in zone I under control conditions but showed a prominent enrichment toward the active zone, after stimulation. Labels of Bassoon, Piccolo and RIM 1, three active zone proteins, had very different distribution profiles from one another under control conditions. Bassoon was enriched in zone II, Piccolo and RIM 1 in zone I. After stimulation, Bassoon and Piccolo remained relatively unchanged, but RIM 1 redistributed with a significant decrease in zone I, and increases in zones II and III. These results demonstrate that Bassoon and Piccolo are stable components of the active zone while RIM 1, synapsin I and synuclein undergo dynamic redistribution with synaptic activity.
Chronic restraint stress has been associated with induction of morphological changes in the hippocampus. Postsynaptically, these changes include decreased length and branching of apical dendrites from CA3 pyramidal neurons, while presynaptically, depletion and clustering of synaptic vesicles have been observed. However, the molecular correlates of these changes remain poorly defined; while some studies have identified changes in the levels of some presynaptic proteins, none have assessed the coordinate expression of components of the membrane fusion complex, including synaptobrevin, syntaxin, and synaptosomal-associated protein 25 kDa, and their major regulatory molecules synaptotagmin, synaptophysin, and synapsin. Therefore, we undertook to assess the immunoreactivity of these proteins in hippocampal slices obtained from rats subjected to either acute (one 6 h session) or chronic (21 days at 6 h per day) of restraint stress. Specifically, we observed a significant increase in synaptobrevin immunoreactivity in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (54.2%; P=0.005), the stratum radiatum in the CA1 subfield (55.5%; P=0.007), and a region including the stratum lucidum and the proximal portion of the stratum radiatum in the CA3 subfield (52.7%; P=0.002); we also observed a trend toward increased synaptophysin levels in the stratum lucidum/radiatum of the CA3 subfield (8.0%; P=0.051) following chronic, but not acute, restraint stress. In that synaptobrevin has been associated with replenishment of the &quot;readily-releasable&quot; pool of synaptic vesicles and the efficiency of neurotransmitter release, the present results suggest that stress-induced changes in synaptobrevin may at least in part underlie the previously observed changes in synaptic and neuronal morphology.
We investigated whether inhibitory synaptic transmission mediated through glycinergic receptor, GABAA receptors, glutamic acid decarboxylase, the enzyme synthesizing GABA, and excitatory synaptic transmission through alpha-amino-3-hydroxi-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptors and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are affected in the inferior colliculus by unilateral surgical cochleectomy. In situ hybridization and immunohistofluorescence studies were performed in normal and lesioned adult rats at various times following the lesion (1-150 days). Unilateral auditory deprivation decreased glycine receptor alpha1 and glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 expression in the contralateral central nucleus of the inferior colliculus. This decrease began one day after cochleectomy, and continued until day 8; thereafter expression was consistently low until day 150. The glycine receptor alpha1 subunit decrease did not occur if a second contralateral cochleectomy was performed either on day 8 or 150 after the first cochleectomy. Bilateral cochleectomy caused also a bilateral inferior colliculus diminution of glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 mRNA at post-lesion day 8 but there were no changes in glycine receptor alpha1 compared with controls. In contrast, the abundance of other alpha2-3, and beta glycine receptor, gephyrin, the anchoring protein of glycine receptor, the alpha1, beta2 and gamma2 subunits of GABAA receptors, GluR2, R3 subunits of alpha-amino-3-hydroxi-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptors, and NR1 and NR2A transcripts of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was unaffected during the first week following the lesion. Thus, unilateral cochlear removal resulted in a selective and long-term decrease in the amount of the glycine receptor alpha1 subunit and of glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 in the contralateral central nucleus of the inferior colliculus. These changes most probably result from the induced asymmetry of excitatory auditory inputs into the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus and may be one of the mechanisms involved in the tinnitus frequently encountered in patients suffering from a sudden hearing loss.
Administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents reduces the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease in normal aging populations, an effect that may occur from inhibition of the cyclooxygenases, the rate-limiting enzymes in the formation of prostaglandins. In this study, we investigated whether increased activity of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), the inducible isoform of cyclooxygenase, potentiates disease progression in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. To study the functional effects of COX-2 activity, male and female bigenic mice (amyloid precursor protein with Swedish mutation [APPswe]-presenilin-1 protein with deletion of exon 9 [PS1dE9] and trigenic COX-2/APPswe-PS1dE9) were behaviorally tested +/-administration of the selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib. Behavioral testing included a three-trial Y maze that measures spatial working and recognition memories and an open field task that tested levels of hyperactivity. Overexpression of COX-2 in APPswe-PS1dE9 mice resulted in specific deficits in spatial working memory in female but not male mice. These sex-specific deficits were abolished by pharmacological inhibition of COX-2 activity. Importantly, COX-2-associated deficits were dependent on co-expression of all three transgenes since COX-2 single transgenic and APPswe-PS1dE9 bigenic mice showed normal memory. Quantification of amyloid plaque load and total Abeta 40 and 42 peptides did not reveal significant differences in trigenic versus bigenic mice treated with either vehicle or celecoxib. Taken together, these data indicate an interaction between the effects of COX-2 and Abeta peptides on cognition that occurs in a sex-specific manner in the absence of significant changes in amyloid burden. These findings suggest that pathological activation of COX-2 may potentiate the toxicity of Abeta peptides, particularly in females, without significantly affecting Abeta accumulation.
Nuclear respiratory factor 1 is a transcription factor involved in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis by activating the transcription of subunit genes of cytochrome oxidase and other respiratory enzymes. Very little is known of its role in neurons. To determine if neuronal activity regulates nuclear respiratory factor 1 expression, cultured primary neurons from postnatal rat visual cortex were subjected to 20 mM KCl depolarizing treatment for 1, 3, 5, and 7 h, or exposed to 7 h of KCl followed by withdrawal for 1, 3, 5, and 7 h. Nuclear respiratory factor 1 expression was analyzed by immunoblots, immunocytochemistry, quantitative electron microscopy, real-time quantitative PCR, and in situ hybridization. Nuclear respiratory factor 1 protein was expressed at relatively low basal levels in both the nucleus, where it was associated primarily with euchromatin, and in the cytoplasm, where it was localized to free ribosomes and occasionally to the Golgi apparatus and the outer nuclear membrane. Depolarizing treatment progressively up-regulated both nuclear respiratory factor 1 protein and mRNA in a time-dependent manner, increasing above controls after 1 h and remaining high at 3, 5, and 7 h. Both nuclear and cytoplasmic mRNA levels increased with stimulation, and there was an apparent cytoplasmic-to-nuclear translocation of protein. Following the withdrawal of KCl, both nuclear respiratory factor 1 message and protein were significantly reduced after 1 h. The message returned to basal levels by 5 h and the protein by 7 h. These results strongly indicate that the expression and compartmental redistribution of nuclear respiratory factor 1 protein and mRNA in visual cortical neurons are dynamic processes tightly controlled by neuronal activity.
In general, psychostimulants are thought to exert rewarding and locomotor stimulating effects via increased dopamine transmission in the ventral striatum. However, little is known about the mechanisms underlying the effects of the stimulant drug methylphenidate. The present study examined the putative role of dopaminergic transmission in i.v. methylphenidate reward as measured by conditioned place preference. Rats were shown to exhibit conditioned place preference for i.v. methylphenidate (5 mg/kg, not 2 mg/kg). Administration of the dopamine receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol (0.1-0.8 mg/kg i.p.), either during conditioning or on test day, dose-dependently attenuated the magnitude of the conditioned place preference. Finally, we examined the effects of bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of nucleus accumbens core, medial shell or anteromedial olfactory tubercle on the rewarding and locomotor stimulant effects of methylphenidate. Residual dopamine innervation, as assessed by radioligand binding to the dopamine transporter, revealed a significant association between core dopamine innervation and the locomotor stimulant effect of methylphenidate. However, neither core nor medial shell dopamine innervation was related to conditioned place preference magnitude. Instead, conditioned place preference magnitude was associated with dopamine innervation in the anteromedial olfactory tubercle. These results establish a role for dopaminergic transmission in both i.v. methylphenidate conditioned place preference and locomotor stimulation. As well, they suggest that different ventral striatal subregions mediate the rewarding (anteromedial olfactory tubercle) and locomotor stimulant (accumbens core) effects of methylphenidate.
Opioid receptors play an important role in female physiology. They modulate directly and indirectly neuroendocrine phenomena that influence pregnancy maintenance, pain threshold, parturition, lactation, maternal behavior, rewarding and addiction. Thus understanding the gene expression levels of the three major opioid receptors, mu, delta and kappa in different brain regions is essential for investigating dynamic mechanisms of opioidergic transmission. Adult virgin female rats were treated acutely with morphine sulfate (3.5 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg s.c.) or chronically for 5 days (3.5 mg/kg). Rats were killed 1 h after the last injection. In the acute treatment, expression levels for the encoded mu-opioid receptor Oprm1, as detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, were significantly decreased in the periaqueductal gray. In chronic treatment, both Oprk1 and Oprm1 expression levels, that encoded kappa and mu-opioid receptor respectively, showed significant decreases in the periaqueductal gray and striatum. Regional changes in opioid receptor gene expression levels might reflect highly specialized roles for these receptors with possible functional meaning for the plasticity of the opioidergic transmission.
The visual system rapidly completes a partially occluded figure. We probed the completion process by using priming in combination with neuroimaging techniques. Priming leads to more efficient visual processing and thus a reduction in neural activity in relevant brain areas. These areas were studied with high spatial resolution and temporal accuracy with focus on early perceptual processing. We recorded magnetoencephalographic responses from 10 human volunteers in a primed same-different task for test figures. The test figures were preceded by a sequence of two figures, a prime or control figure followed by an occluded figure. The prime figures were one of three possible interpretations of the occluded figures: global and local completions and mosaic interpretation. A significant priming effect was evident: in primed trials as compared with control trials, subjects responded faster and the latency was shorter in the magnetoencephalographic signal for the largest peak between 50 and 300 ms after the occluded figure onset. Tomographic and statistical parametric mapping analyses revealed stages of activation in occipitotemporal areas during occluded figure processing. Notably, we found significantly reduced activation in the right fusiform cortex between 120 and 200 ms after occluded figure onset for primed trials as compared with control trials. We also found significant spatiotemporal differences of local, global and mosaic interpretations for individual subjects but not across subjects. We conclude that modulation of activity in the right fusiform cortex may be a neural correlate of priming in the interpretation of an occluded figure, and that this area acts as a hub for different occluded figure interpretations in this early stage of perception.
The lateral nucleus of the amygdala is the entry point of most sensory inputs into the amygdala. However, the way information is processed and distributed within the lateral nucleus still eludes us. To gain some insight into this issue, we have examined the spatial organization of excitatory and inhibitory connections in the lateral nucleus. To this end, we performed whole-cell recordings of principal lateral amygdala neurons and studied their responses to local pressure applications of glutamate in coronal and horizontal slices of the guinea-pig amygdala. In coronal sections, glutamate puffs performed at a distance from the recorded cells usually evoked inhibitory responses, except when the recorded neuron was adjacent to the external capsule, in which case excitatory responses could be evoked from ejection sites along the external capsule. In contrast, glutamate puffs evoked a mixture of excitatory and inhibitory responses in horizontal slices. Excitatory responses were generally evoked from stimulation sites located lateral to the recorded cell whereas inhibitory responses were commonly elicited from medial stimulation sites, irrespective of their rostrocaudal position. These findings confirm and extend previous tract-tracing studies where it was found that intrinsic connections within the lateral amygdala prevalently run in the dorsoventral and lateromedial directions. However, our results also reveal a hitherto unsuspected level of spatial heterogeneity in the intrinsic circuit of the lateral amygdala. The prevalence of excitatory responses in horizontal slices coupled to the ubiquity of inhibitory responses in coronal slices suggest that the lateral amygdala network is designed to allow associative interactions within the rostrocaudal plane while preventing runaway excitation locally.
Neurogenesis in the adult hippocampal dentate gyrus is promoted by transient forebrain ischemia. The mechanism responsible for this ischemia-induced neurogenesis, however, remains to be determined. It has been suggested that there may be a close relationship between neurogenesis and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor, an angiogenic factor. The purpose of the present study was to examine the relationship between vascular endothelial growth factor and cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus after transient forebrain ischemia. The mRNA expression of vascular endothelial growth factor was increased in the dentate gyrus on day 1 after ischemia. Immunohistochemical analysis on day 9 after ischemia, when a significant increase in cell proliferation was seen, showed that the cerebral vessel space in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus had not been affected by the ischemia. Neither were the vascular densities on days 1 and 3 after ischemia altered compared with those of non-operated nave control rats. Furthermore, the distance from the center of the proliferative cells to the nearest cerebral vessel of ischemic rats was comparable to that of the sham-operated rats. We demonstrated that transient forebrain ischemia-induced cell proliferation and differentiation to mature neurons in the hippocampal dentate gyrus was attenuated by the i.c.v. administration of a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. These results suggest that vascular endothelial growth factor receptor at the early period of reperfusion may contribute to neurogenesis rather than to angiogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus.
Previous studies demonstrating a critical role of the hippocampus during trace eye-blink conditioning have focused primarily upon the dorsal portion of the structure. However, evidence suggests that a functional differentiation exists along the septotemporal axis of the hippocampus. In the present study, the activity of 2588 single cornu ammonis region 1 pyramidal neurons of the dorsal hippocampus and ventral hippocampus were recorded during trace and pseudo-eye-blink conditioning of the rabbit. Learning-related increases in dorsal hippocampus neuron firing rates were observed immediately prior to behavioral criterion, and increased over the course of training. Activation of dorsal hippocampus neurons during trace conditioning was also greater than that of ventral hippocampus neurons, including during the trace interval, in well-trained animals. An unexpected difference in the patterns of learning-related activity between hemispheres was also observed. Neurons of the dorsal hippocampus ipsilateral and contralateral to the trained eye, exhibiting significant increases in firing rate [rate increasing neurons], demonstrated the greatest magnitude of activation early and late in training, respectively. Rate increasing neurons of the dorsal hippocampus also exhibited a greater diversity of response profiles, with 69% of dorsal hippocampus rate increasing neurons exhibiting significant increases in firing rate during the conditioned stimulus and/or trace intervals, compared with only 8% of ventral hippocampus rate increasing neurons (the remainder of which were significantly responsive during only the unconditioned stimulus and/or post-unconditioned stimulus intervals). Only modest learning-related activation of ventral hippocampus neurons was observed, reflected as an increase in conditioning stimulus-elicited rate increasing neuron response magnitudes over the course of training. No differences in firing rate between dorsal hippocampus and ventral hippocampus neurons during a 1-day pre-training habituation session were observed. Thus, dorsal hippocampus activation is more robust, suggesting a more substantial role for these neurons in the processing of temporal information during trace eye-blink conditioning.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that 5-hydroxytryptamine induces nociception by an indirect action on the primary afferent nociceptor in addition to its previously described direct action. Injection of 5-hydroxytryptamine into the s.c. tissue of the hind paw of rats produced nociceptive flinch behavior and inflammatory cell migration, that were significantly reduced by the nonspecific selectin inhibitor fucoidan. 5-Hydroxytryptamine-induced nociception was also significantly reduced by local blockade of the 5-HT3 receptor by tropisetron, by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin and by local blockade of the beta1-adrenergic receptor or of the D1 receptor by atenolol or SCH 23390, respectively. Neither guanethidine depletion of norepinephrine in the sympathetic terminals nor local blockade of the beta2-adrenergic receptor by ICI-118,551 significantly reduced 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced nociception. Taken together, these findings indicate that 5-hydroxytryptamine induces nociception by a novel, indirect and norepinephrine-independent mechanism mediated by neutrophil migration and local release of prostaglandin and dopamine. Furthermore, to test whether dopamine acts on beta1-adrenergic and/or D1 receptor to contribute to 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced nociception, dopamine was s.c. injected either alone or combined with atenolol or with SCH 23390. S.c.-injected dopamine also produced a dose-dependent nociceptive behavior that was significantly reduced by both SCH 23390 and atenolol. Based on that it is proposed that dopamine, once released, activates D1 and beta1-adrenergic receptors to contribute to 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced nociception.
Rearing rats in isolation produces perturbations in behavior and brain neurochemistry suggested to resemble those of schizophrenia. In particular, isolation-reared rats display deficits in prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle that in humans are associated with disorders including schizophrenia and are interpreted as abnormalities in sensorimotor gating. The prefrontal cortex is considered important in the regulation of prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle and postmortem studies suggest that neuropil and total volume, but not total number of neurons, are decreased in this region of the brains of schizophrenic patients. In this study we used design-based stereological techniques to examine the brains of Lister Hooded rats, reared in isolation and which displayed prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle deficits, for changes in morphology compared with the brains of their socially-reared littermates. Pooled data from three batches of animals revealed a significant 7% volume loss of the medial prefrontal cortex of isolation-reared rats whereas neuron number in this region was unchanged. In contrast, volume and total neuron number were unaffected in the rostral caudate putamen. The robust reduction in prefrontal cortical volume observed in isolation-reared rats, in the absence of reductions in total neuron number, suggest that there is a loss of volume of the neuropil. These changes parallel those reported in schizophrenia patients and therefore support the construct validity of this model.
People with schizophrenia display sensory encoding deficits across a broad range of electrophysiological and behavioral measures, suggesting fundamental impairments in the ability to transduce the external environment into coherent neural representations. This inability to create basic components of complex stimuli interferes with a high fidelity representation of the world and likely contributes to cognitive deficits. The current study evaluates the effects of constitutive forebrain activation of the G(s)alpha G-protein subunit on auditory threshold and gain using acoustic brainstem responses and cortically generated N40 event-related potentials to assess the role of cyclic AMP signaling in sensory encoding. Additionally, we examine the ability of pharmacological treatments that mimic (amphetamine) or ameliorate (haloperidol) positive symptoms of schizophrenia to test the hypothesis that the encoding deficits observed in G(s)alpha transgenic mice can be normalized with treatment. We find that G(s)alpha transgenic mice have decreased amplitude of cortically generated N40 but normal acoustic brainstem response amplitude, consistent with forebrain transgene expression and a schizophrenia endophenotype. Transgenic mice also display decreased stimulus intensity response (gain) in both acoustic brainstem response and N40, indicating corticofugal influence on regions that lack transgene expression. N40 deficits in transgenic animals were ameliorated with low dose haloperidol and reversed with higher dose, suggesting dopamine D2 receptor-linked Gi activity contributes to the impairment. Consistent with this hypothesis, we recreated the G(s)alpha transgenic deficit in wild type animals using the indirect dopamine agonist amphetamine. This transgenic model of sensory encoding deficits provides a foundation for identifying biochemical contributions to sensory processing impairments associated with schizophrenia.
Circadian rhythms are entrained by light/dark cycles. In hamsters, the effects of light on circadian rhythms can be modulated by serotonergic input to the suprachiasmatic nucleus from the raphe nuclei and by neuropeptide Y containing afferents to the suprachiasmatic nucleus from the intergeniculate leaflet in the thalamus. In this study we measured effects of compounds acting on serotonergic 1A and neuropeptide Y Y5 receptors to determine if combined serotonergic-neuropeptide Y inhibition could synergistically potentiate effects of light on rhythms. We used mixed serotonergic agonist/antagonists BMY 7378 or NAN-190 as well as a neuropeptide Y Y5 antagonist CP-760,542. Both BMY 7378 and NAN-190 are thought to block serotonin release via acting as agonists at the 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT1A) autoreceptors on cells in the raphe, and also block response of target cells by acting as antagonists at post-synaptic 5-HT1A receptors, for example, in the suprachiasmatic nuclei or the intergeniculate leaflet. Replicating prior work, we found that pretreatment with either drug alone increased the phase shift to light at circadian time 19. The combined effect of BMY 7378 and CP-760,542 given prior to light at circadian time 19 was to further potentiate the subsequent phase shift in wheel-running rhythms (the phase shift was 317% of controls; light alone: 1.35 h phase shift vs. BMY 7378, CP-760,542, and light: 4.27 h phase shift). Combined treatment with NAN-190 and CP-760,542 produced a light-induced phase shift 576% of controls (phase shift to light alone: 1.23 h vs. NAN-190, CP-760,542, and light: 7.1 h phase shift). These results suggest that the resetting effects of light on circadian rhythms can be greatly potentiated in hamsters by using pharmacological treatments that block both serotonergic and neuropeptide Y afferents to the suprachiasmatic nuclei.
The rat auditory cortex is made up of multiple auditory fields. A precise correlation between anatomical and physiological areal extents of auditory fields, however, is not yet fully established, mainly because non-primary auditory fields remain undetermined. In the present study, based on thalamocortical connection, electrical stimulation and auditory response, we delineated a non-primary auditory field in the cortical region ventral to the primary auditory area and anterior auditory field. We designated it as &quot;ventral&quot; area after its relative location. At first, based on anterograde labeling of thalamocortical projection with biocytin, ventral auditory area was delineated as a main cortical terminal field of thalamic afferents that arise from the dorsal division of the medial geniculate body. Cortical terminal field (ventral auditory area) extended into the ventral margin of temporal cortex area 1 (Te1) and the dorsal part of temporal cortex area 3, ventral (Te3V), from 3.2-4.6 mm posterior to bregma. Electrical stimulation of the dorsal division of the medial geniculate body; evoked epicortical field potentials confined to the comparable cortical region. On the basis of epicortical field potentials evoked by pure tones, best frequencies were further estimated at and around the cortical region where electrical stimulation of the dorsal division of the medial geniculate body evoked field potentials. Ventral auditory area was found to represent frequencies primarily below 15 kHz, which contrasts with our previous finding that the posterodorsal area, the other major recipient of the dorsal division of the medial geniculate body; projection, represents primarily high frequencies (&gt;15 kHz). The posterodorsal area is thought to play a pivotal role in auditory spatial processing [Kimura A, Donishi T, Okamoto K, Tamai Y (2004) Efferent connections of &quot;posterodorsal&quot; auditory area in the rat cortex: implications for auditory spatial processing. Neuroscience 128:399-419]. The ventral auditory area, as the other main cortical region that would relay auditory input from the dorsal division of the medial geniculate body to higher cortical information processing, could serve an important extralemniscal function in tandem with the posterodorsal area. The results provide insight into structural and functional organization of the rat auditory cortex.
Examples of spontaneous oscillating neural activity contributing to both pathological and physiological states are abundant throughout the CNS. Here we report a spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current located in lamina I of the neonatal rat spinal cord dorsal horn. The spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current is characterized by its large amplitude, slow decay time, and low-frequency. We demonstrate that post-synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) mediate the spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current, as it is inhibited by magnesium, bath-applied d-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV), or intracellular MK-801. The NR2B subunit of the NMDAR appears important to this phenomenon, as the NR2B subunit selective NMDAR antagonist, alpha-(4-hydroxphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-benzyl-1-piperidineethanol tartrate (ifenprodil), also partially inhibited the spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current. Inhibition of spontaneous glutamate release by the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) or the mu-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5] enkephalin-ol (DAMGO) inhibited the spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current frequency. Marked inhibition of spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current frequency by tetrodotoxin (TTX), but not post-synaptic N-(2,6-dimethylphenylcarbamoylmethyl)triethylammonium bromide (QX-314), suggests that the glutamate release important to the spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current is dependent on active neural processes. Conversely, increasing dorsal horn synaptic glutamate release by GABAA or glycine inhibition increased spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current frequency. Moreover, inhibiting glutamate transporters with threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid (DL-TBOA) increased spontaneous oscillating intermittent synaptic current frequency and decay time. A possible functional role of this spontaneous NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic current in modulating nociceptive transmission within the spinal cord is discussed.
The transient (T-type) calcium channel participates in the generation of normal brain rhythms as well as abnormal rhythms associated with a range of neurological disorders. There are three different isoforms of T-type channels and all are particularly enriched in the thalamus, which is involved in generating many of these rhythms. We report a novel means of T-type channel regulation in the thalamus that involves diurnal regulation of gene expression. Using real time polymerase chain reaction we detected a diurnal pattern of gene expression for all T-type channel transcripts. The peak of gene expression for the CaV3.1 transcript occurred close to the transition from active to inactive (sleep) states, while expression for both CaV3.2 and CaV3.3 peaked near the transition of inactive to active phase. We assessed the effect of chronic consumption of ethanol on these gene expression patterns by examining thalamic tissues of ethanol-consuming cohorts that were housed with the controls, but which received ethanol in the form of a liquid diet. Ethanol consumption resulted in a significant shift of peak gene expression of approximately 5 h for CaV3.2 toward the normally active phase of the mice, as well as increasing the overall gene expression levels by approximately 1.7-fold. Peak gene expression was significantly increased for both CaV3.2 and CaV3.3. Measurements of CaV3.3 protein expression reflected increases in gene expression due to ethanol. Our results illustrate a novel regulatory mechanism for T-type calcium channels that is consistent with their important role in generating thalamocortical sleep rhythms, and suggests that alterations in the pattern of gene expression of these channels could contribute to the disruption of normal sleep by ethanol.

Benno Schlesinger (1900-1983) was a neurosurgeon, neuroanatomist, and neurologist from Vienna, Austria. He was a great person and a brilliant scientist. Schlesinger's life is a picture-book reflection of Europe's tragedy in the first half of the 20th century. Born an Austrian of Jewish descent, he left his home country and went to the United States where he spent the better part of his life engaging in painstaking research on a wide range of subjects, writing unique research papers on neuroanatomy, and working as a successful neurosurgeon. He made lasting contributions to our understanding of the surgical anatomy of the venous system of the brain and the effects of brain lesions on higher cortical functions. His intimate personal friendship with Harvey Cushing went far beyond their shared enthusiasm for neurosurgery.


Recent work has shown that zinc is involved in the developmental regulation of neurotrophins and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, controlling use of glutamate as a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system (CNS). This is particularly important in the hippocampus, a region of the brain involved in learning and memory, and is an intriguing link to the role of zinc in neuropsychological development.

Some studies indicate that placebo analgesia is stronger when pre-conditioning with effective analgesic treatments is performed, thereby suggesting that the placebo response is a learning phenomenon. Here we further tested this hypothesis in order to better understand when and how previous experience affects the placebo analgesic response. To do this, we used a conditioning procedure whereby the intensity of painful stimulation was reduced surreptitiously, so as to make the subjects believe that an analgesic treatment was effective. This procedure induced strong placebo responses after minutes, and these responses, albeit reduced, lasted up to 4-7 days. In addition, in a second group of subjects we repeated the same conditioning procedure 4-7 days after a totally ineffective analgesic treatment, and found that the placebo responses were remarkably reduced compared to the first group. Thus we obtained small, medium and large placebo responses, depending on several factors, such as the previous positive or negative experience of an analgesic treatment and the time lag between the treatment and the placebo responses. We also ran extinction trials, and found that these effects did not undergo extinction in a time span of several minutes. These findings indicate that placebo analgesia is finely tuned by prior experience and these effects may last, albeit reduced, several days. These results emphasize that the placebo effect is a learning phenomenon in which many factors come into play, and may explain the large variability of the placebo responses that is found in many studies.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) has been demonstrated to modulate nociceptive transmission via selective activation of N/OFQ peptide (NOP) receptors. Despite huge research efforts, the role(s) of the endogenous N/OFQ-NOP receptor system in pain processing remains incompletely understood. In the present study, we investigated the role of endogenous N/OFQ in the processing of tonic nociceptive input. To address this issue the effects of NOP-selective antagonists [Nphe1,Arg14,Lys15]N/OFQ-NH2 (UFP-101) and J-113397 on nociceptive behaviour, and the nociceptive phenotype of NOP receptor-deficient mice were tested in the mouse formalin test. Twenty microliters of 1.5% formalin solution was injected subcutaneously into the right hind paw causing a characteristic pattern of nociceptive behaviours (licking, biting and lifting of the injected paw). In control mice, the injection of formalin resulted in a classical biphasic nociceptive response with the first phase lasting from 0 to 10 min and the second phase from 15 to 45 min. UFP-101 at 10 nmol/mouse (but not at 1 nmol/mouse) produced antinociceptive action when injected intracerebroventricularly and a pronociceptive action when given intrathecally. Systemic administration of J-113397 (10 mg/kg, intravenously) and the genetic ablation of the NOP receptor gene both produced a significant increase of mouse nociceptive behaviour. Collectively, these results demonstrate that endogenous N/OFQ-NOP receptor signalling is activated during the mouse formalin test producing spinal antinociceptive and supraspinal pronociceptive effects. The overall effect of blocking NOP receptor signalling, by either systemic pharmacological antagonism or genetic ablation, indicates that the spinal antinociceptive action prevails over supraspinal pronociceptive effects.
Several lines of evidence support an important role for somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) in pain modulation. The therapeutic use of established SSTR peptide agonists for this indication is limited by their broad range of effects, need for intrathecal delivery, and short half-life. Therefore, the goal of the present study was to investigate the analgesic effect of SCR007, a new, highly selective SSTR2 non-peptide agonist. Behavioral studies demonstrated that paw withdrawal latencies to heat were significantly increased following intraplantar SCR007. Furthermore, both intraperitoneal and intraplantar injection of SCR007 significantly reduced formalin- and capsaicin-induced flinching and lifting/licking nociceptive behaviors. Recordings from nociceptors using an in vitro glabrous skin-nerve preparation showed that SCR007 reduced heat responses in a dose-dependent fashion, bradykinin-induced excitation, heat sensitization and capsaicin-induced excitation. In both the behavioral and single fiber studies, the SCR007 effects were reversed by the SSTR antagonist cyclo-somatostatin, demonstrating receptor specificity. In the single fiber studies, the opioid antagonist naloxone did not reverse SCR007-induced anti-nociception suggesting that SCR007 did not exert its effects through activation of opioid receptors. Analysis of cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) involvement demonstrated that SCR007 prevented forskolin- and Sp-8-Br-cAMPS (a PKA activator)-induced heat sensitization, supporting the hypothesis that SCR007-induced inhibition could involve a down-regulation of the cAMP/PKA pathway. These data provide several lines of evidence that the non-peptide imidazolidinedione SSTR2 agonist SCR007 is a promising anti-nociceptive and analgesic agent for the treatment of pain of peripheral and/or central origin.
Electroacupuncture (EA) has been reported to reduce body weight in overweight subjects in clinical practice, as well as in rats and mice with diet-induced obesity. In the present study, this effect of EA was tested in lean rats subjected to long-term food restriction (FR, food was offered only 1 h/day). Two hertz EA administered once every other day produced a further reduction in body weight in FR rats. Exploration of the mechanism involved revealed significant downregulation of the orexigenic peptides: ghrelin in the stomach, and neuropeptide Y (NPY) but not Agouti-related peptide (AgRP) in the hypothalamus, which was in line with the reduction in food intake in rats receiving EA stimulation as compared with those receiving restraint only. Uncoupling protein 3 (UCP3), involved in accelerating energy expenditure, was not significantly altered. These results suggest that the EA-induced body weight reduction was due mainly to a decrease in food intake rather than an increase in energy expenditure. A reduction in the orexigenic peptides ghrelin and NPY may be involved in the underlying mechanism.
The neuropeptide, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) has been shown to disrupt prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response in rodents. Prepulse inhibition is deficient in a number of psychiatric disorders. In Experiment 1, we examined whether repeated central infusion of CRF alters the reduction in prepulse inhibition caused by subsequent CRF infusion or apomorphine injection. Repeated intracerebroventricular infusion of CRF (0.3 micro g) did not cause tolerance to the effect of CRF on prepulse inhibition. Additionally, repeated CRF did not alter the effect of apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) on prepulse inhibition. In contrast to other reported results, both CRF and apomorphine reduced baseline startle amplitude in the Brown Norway rats, which show low prepulse inhibition. In Experiment 2, we showed that a CRF-induced change in baseline startle amplitude does not contribute to the CRF-induced decrease in percent prepulse inhibition. In Experiment 3, we found that methylphenidate (20.0 mg/kg, i.p.) increased baseline startle amplitude in Brown Norway rats, yet it also decreased percent prepulse inhibition. These results suggest that CRF can be administered repeatedly without diminution of its effects on prepulse inhibition, and that in Brown Norway rats, compounds that either increase or decrease baseline startle amplitude can reduce percent prepulse inhibition independently of the effects on baseline startle.
Stressful stimuli and anxiogenic drugs increase the plasma and brain concentrations of neuroactive steroids. Moreover, in rats trained to consume their daily meal during a fixed period, the anticipation of food is associated with changes in the function of various neurotransmitter systems. We have now evaluated the effects of anticipation and consumption of food in such trained rats on the plasma and brain concentrations of 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG) and 3alpha,21-dihydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-TH DOC), two potent endogenous positive modulators of type A receptors for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The abundance of these neuroactive steroids was increased in both the cerebral cortex and plasma of the rats during both food anticipation and consumption. In contrast, the concentration of their precursor, progesterone, was increased in the brain only during food consumption, whereas it was increased in plasma only during food anticipation. Intraperitoneal administration of the selective agonist abecarnil (0.1 mg/kg) 40 min before food presentation prevented the increase in the brain levels of 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG and 3alpha,5alpha-TH DOC during food anticipation but not that associated with consumption. The change in emotional state associated with food anticipation may thus result in an increase in the plasma and brain levels of 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG and 3alpha,5alpha-TH DOC in a manner sensitive to the activation of GABA(A) receptor-mediated neurotransmission. A different mechanism, insensitive to activation of such transmission, may underlie the changes in the concentrations of these neuroactive steroids during food consumption.
The present experiment examined the effects of cocaine (0.0 and 15 mg/kg, i.p.) and ketamine (0.0, 10.0 and 15 mg/kg, i.p.) on timing behavior using a 12-s differential reinforcement of low rates (DRL) procedure and a 2- vs. 8-s bisection procedure in rats. DRL (time production) and bisection (time perception) procedures are sensitive to effects of dopaminergic drugs and provide an assessment of the accuracy and precision of interval timing as well as the subject's level of impulsivity. When administered to rats trained on either the DRL or the bisection procedure, cocaine shifted the psychophysical functions leftward relative to control conditions. In contrast, ketamine produced no change in the temporal control of behavior on either procedure. These differential effects of cocaine and ketamine are consistent with previous reports suggesting that dopamine levels in the dorsal striatum, but not in prefrontal cortex, ventral striatum or hippocampal regions, are crucial for the regulation of the speed of an internal clock.
Repeated high dose (5.0 mg/kg) anabolic/androgenic steroid exposure during adolescence stimulates offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters. These studies examined whether anabolic/androgenic steroid-induced aggression was regulated by the activity and expression of serotonin (5HT) type-1A receptors. In a first experiment, adolescent male hamsters were treated with a mixture of anabolic/androgenic steroids and then scored for offensive aggression in the absence or presence of the selective 5HT1A receptor agonist R(+)-8-OH-DPAT (0.1-0.6 mg/kg). Adolescent anabolic/androgenic steroid-treated hamsters displayed high levels of offensive aggression that could be reversed by enhancing the activity of 5HT1A receptors. The agonist R(+)-8-OH-DPAT dose-dependently reduced the steroid-induced aggressive response, with significant reductions in aggression observed at 0.1-0.3 mg/kg. In a second set of experiments, adolescent hamsters were administered anabolic/androgenic steroids or vehicle and then examined for 5HT1A receptor localization and expression in regions of the brain important for aggression control. Hamsters treated with anabolic/androgenic steroids showed significant decreases in 5HT1A receptor-immunoreactive staining and protein levels in the anterior hypothalamus (i.e., a brain region central to the control of offensive aggression in hamsters) with no concomitant decrease in the number of 5HT1A receptor-expressing neurons. Together, these data support a role for site-specific down-regulation of 5HT1A receptor activity in adolescent anabolic/androgenic steroid-induced aggression.
In this review we will discuss the unique features that make the central nervous system (CNS) a specialized microenvironment where immune responses are tightly regulated in order to properly face pathogens without damaging the neural cells. We will show how every paradigm of this theoretical model has been addressed by the scientific literature over the past decades providing new insights on the immune response within the CNS. In particular, new light has been shed on the trafficking of the immune cells inside and outside the CNS. Dendritic cells (DCs) have been described in the context of structures in direct contact with the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and their migration, upon antigen encounter, outside the CNS into deep cervical lymph nodes (DCLNs) has been further clarified. T-cells, B-cells, and antibody-secreting cells (ASCs) have been found in the CSF and CNS parenchymal lesions of inflammatory disorders and their phenotype depicted. Moreover, in chronically inflamed CNS, ectopic lymphoid structures have been observed and a germinal center reaction similar to the one found in peripheral lymph nodes has been described. These structures may play a role in the maintenance and expansion of the local autoimmune response. Although the complex interactions between immune and neural cells still remain far to be elucidated, the data discussed here suggest that the physiopathology of the adaptive immune response inside the CNS mimics, although in a mitigated fashion, what occurs in other organs and tissues.

CKBM is an herbal formula composed of five Chinese medicinal herbs (Panax ginseng, Schisandra chinensis, Fructus crataegi, Ziziphus jujuba and Glycine max) supplemented with processed Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It has been demonstrated that CKBM is capable of triggering the release of IL-6 and TNFalpha from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In this report, T-lymphocytic Sup-T1 cells and B-lymphocytic Ramos cells were utilized as cellular models to investigate how CKBM regulates intracellular signaling as well as the production of cytokines. CKBM stimulated the three major subgroups of mitogen-activated protein kinase (i.e. ERK, JNK and p38) in Sup-T1 cells, but only triggered the activation of ERK and p38 in Ramos cells. The induction of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) activations varied with the duration of treatment, as well as with the dosage of CKBM. In terms of cytokine production, treatment of CKBM alone did not trigger the release of IL-1beta and IFNgamma, but it suppressed the LPS-induced IFNgamma production from both Sup-T1 cells and Ramos cells. In view of the therapeutic effects of traditional Chinese medicines in inflammatory and autoimmune disorders, the results suggest that CKBM may exhibit its immuno-modulatory effects by regulating intracellular signaling as well as cytokine production in different lymphocytic cell types.
In this paper, we present a retrospective and chronological review of our efforts to revolutionize the way physical medicine is practiced by developing and deploying therapeutic robots. We present a sample of our clinical results with well over 300 stroke patients, both inpatients and outpatients, proving that movement therapy has a measurable and significant impact on recovery following brain injury. Bolstered by this result, we embarked on a two-pronged approach: 1) to determine what constitutes best therapy practice and 2) to develop additional therapeutic robots. We review our robots developed over the past 15 years and their unique characteristics. All are configured both to deliver reproducible therapy but also to measure outcomes with minimal encumbrance, thus providing critical measurement tools to help unravel the key question posed under the first prong: what constitutes &quot;best practice&quot;? We believe that a &quot;gym&quot; of robots like these will become a central feature of physical medicine and the rehabilitation clinic within the next ten years.
It is well documented that the hormone leptin plays a pivotal role in regulating food intake and body weight via its hypothalamic actions. However, leptin receptors are expressed throughout the brain with high levels found in the hippocampus. Evidence is accumulating that leptin has widespread actions on CNS function and in particular learning and memory. Recent studies have demonstrated that leptin-deficient or-insensitive rodents have impairments in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and in spatial memory tasks performed in the Morris water maze. Moreover, direct administration of leptin into the brain facilitates hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), and improves memory performance in mice. There is also evidence that, at the cellular level, leptin has the capacity to convert hippocampal short-term potentiation (STP) into LTP, via enhancing NMDA receptor function. Recent data indicates that leptin can also induce a novel form of NMDA receptor-dependent hippocampal long-term depression. Here, we review the evidence implicating a key role for the hormone leptin in modulating hippocampal synaptic plasticity and discuss the role of lipid signaling cascades in this process.

Within the Human Proteome Organization (HUPO) Brain Proteome Project, a pilot study was launched with reference samples shipped to nine international laboratories (see Hamacher et al., this Special Issue) to evaluate different proteome approaches in neuroscience and to build up a first version of a brain protein database. One part of the study addresses quantitative proteome alterations between three developmental stages (embryonic day 16; postnatal day 7; 8 weeks) of mouse brains. Five brains per stage were differentially analyzed by 2-D DIGE using internal standardization and overlapping pH gradients (pH 4-7 and 6-9). In total, 214 protein spots showing stage-dependent intensity alterations (&gt; two-fold) were detected, 56 of which were identified. Several of them, e.g. members of the dihydropyrimidinase family, are known to be associated with brain development. To feed the HUPO BPP brain protein database, a robust 2-D LC-MS/MS method was applied to murine postnatal day 7 and human post-mortem brain samples. Using MASCOT and the IPI database, 350 human and 481 mouse proteins could be identified by at least two different peptides. The data are accessible through the PRIDE database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/).


In the present study, the psychometric properties of the German version of the Posttraumatic Diagnostic Scale (PTDS; A. Ehlers, R. Steil, H. Winter, &amp; E. B. Foa, 1996) were evaluated in a sample of 143 trauma survivors. To investigate convergent and discriminant validity of this questionnaire, the authors assessed posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), anxiety, depression symptoms, and social phobia. Internal consistencies of the PTDS and its subscales as well as their association with related measures show that the German PTDS is a reliable and valid instrument for the assessment of posttraumatic stress symptoms. A 3-factor structure was found that is, however, not exactly in concordance with the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed., text rev.; American Psychiatric Association, 2000) formulation (Reexperiencing, Avoidance, and Hyperarousal) but rather comprises a Reexperiencing/Avoidance factor; an Emotional Numbing/Hyperarousal factor; and a 3rd factor, consisting of Hypervigilance and an Exaggerated Startle Response. The findings are discussed with respect to their equivalency to the original PTDS, core symptoms of PTSD, and desirable future research.

Pitch and time are two principal form-bearing dimensions in Western tonal music. Research on melody perception has shown that listeners develop expectations about &quot;What&quot; note is coming next and &quot;When&quot; in time it will occur. Our study used sequences of chords (i.e., simultaneously sounding notes) to investigate the influence of these expectations on chord processing (Experiments 1 and 4) and subjective judgments of completion (Experiments 2 and 3). Both tasks showed an influence of tonal relations and temporal regularities: expected events occurring at the expected moment were processed faster and led to higher completion judgments. However, pitch and time dimensions interacted only for completion judgments. The present outcome suggests that for chord perception the influence of pitch and time might depend on the required processing: with a more global judgment favoring interactive influences in contrast to a task focusing on local chord processing.





Evidence of a role for purinergic signalling in visceral afferents involving P2X(2), P2X(3) and P2Y(1) receptors exists, which appears to be important during inflammation. This study aimed to evaluate the degree of interaction between adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and other mediators that activate sensory nerves in the colorectum. Recordings from pelvic nerve afferents were made during application of agents to the in-vitro colorectal preparation. Analysis allowed calculation of single unit activity. When applied individually, bradykinin (78%) and 5-hydoxytryptamine (77%) activated the greatest number of neurons, followed by substance P, protons, ATP and capsaicin. Prostaglandin E(2) stimulated the least number (54%) and had a longer latency. Seventy-seven percent of all units studied either responded to both ATP and capsaicin or to neither, giving the greatest degree of activity correlation. Five percent of units were activated by all seven agents and no units were activated by a single agent alone. 5-hydroxytryptamine, capsaicin and protons, when co-applied with ATP, increased pelvic nerve activity to a greater degree than the sum of the individual responses. It is concluded that ATP activates pelvic nerve afferents and acts synergistically with protons, capsaicin and 5-hydroxytryptamine. The pattern of neuronal activation suggests that visceral afferents are polymodal but the receptor expression on their terminals is variable.
Purinergic receptors, which bind adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), are expressed on human cutaneous keratinocytes and in squamous cell carcinomas. Studies on normal human epidermis and primary keratinocyte cultures have suggested that P2X(5) receptors are likely to be involved in keratinocyte differentiation and P2X(7) receptors are likely to be part of the machinery of end stage terminal differentiation/apoptosis of keratinocytes. P2X(7) receptor agonists can significantly reduce primary keratinocyte cell numbers in culture. Human papillomaviruses are increasingly recognised as important human carcinogens in the development of non-melanoma skin cancers. In our study, immunohistochemical analysis for P2X(5) and P2X(7) receptors was performed on paraffin sections of normal human skin, warts, raft cultures of normal human keratinocytes and raft cultures of CIN 612 cells, a model of keratinocytes infected with human papillomavirus type 31. In warts there was up-regulation of the expression of P2X(5) receptors. A similar pattern was seen in the CIN 612 raft cultures. Both P2X(5) and P2X(7) receptors were found in the nuclei of koilocytes, abnormal keratinocytes characteristic of human papillomavirus infection. P2X(5) and P2X(7) receptors may provide a new focus for therapeutic research into treatments for warts because these receptors can induce cell differentiation and cell death.
Extracellular ATP and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) are both involved in visceral sensory pathways by interacting with P2X and 5-HT(3) receptors, respectively. We have investigated the changes in P2X and 5-HT(3)-mediated signalling in pelvic afferent neurons in mice deficient in P2X(2) and/or P2X(3) subunits by whole-cell recording of L(6)-S(2) dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and by multi-unit recording of pelvic afferents of the colorectum. In wildtype DRG neurons, ATP evoked transient, sustained or mixed (biphasic) inward currents. Transient currents were absent in P2X(3) (-/-) neurons, whereas sustained currents were absent in P2X(2) (-/-) DRG neurons. Neither transient nor sustained currents were observed following application of ATP or alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP) in P2X(2)/P2X(3) (Dbl-/-) DRG neurons. 5-HT was found to induce a fast inward current in 63% of DRG neurons from wildtype mice, which was blocked by tropisetron, a 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist. The percentage of DRG neurons responding to 5-HT was significantly increased in P2X (2) (-/-), P2X(3) (-/-) and P2X(2)/P2X(3) (Dbl-/-) mice, and the amplitude of 5-HT response was significantly increased in P2X(2)/P2X(3) (Dbl-/-) mice. The pelvic afferent response to colorectal distension was attenuated in P2X(2)/P2X(3) (Dbl-/-) mice, but the response to serosal application of 5-HT was enhanced. Furthermore, tropisetron resulted in a greater reduction in pelvic afferent responses to colorectal distension in the P2X(2)/P2X(3) (Dbl-/-) preparations. These data suggest that P2X receptors containing the P2X(2) and/or P2X(3) subunits mediate purinergic activation of colorectal afferents and that 5-HT signalling in pelvic afferent neurons is up-regulated in mice lacking P2X(2) or P2X(3) receptor genes. This effect is more pronounced when both subunits are absent.

The identification of activated oncogenes, such as the bcl-2, in several types of cancer has made it possible to consider such genes as targets for antitumor therapy. Bcl-2 is an anti-apoptotic protein, whose overexpression is associated with chemotherapy resistant cancer, aggressive clinical course and poor survival. The development of novel targeted gene-silencing strategies, such as those based on the use of antisense oligonucleotides, represents a renewed hope in the treatment of cancer. Within this scope, this review covers the main pre-clinical aspects and the most recent clinical data obtained with Oblimersen sodium (Genta Inc.). Oblimersen is a 18-mer phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotide designed to bind to the first six codons of the human bcl-2 mRNA. Phase I/II trials indicate that infusion of Oblimersen provides biologically relevant plasma levels that lead to downregulation of target Bcl-2 protein. Moreover, the use of Oblimersen in combination with chemotherapy in a variety of cancers has shown promising response rates with good tolerability. Randomized phase III trials are currently underway to evaluate whether the combined use of Oblimersen with standard treatment is superior to standard treatment alone in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, malignant melanoma and multiple myeloma. Overall, the enhanced efficacy of anticancer treatments of this bcl-2-targeted antisense therapy represents a promising new apoptosis-modulating strategy.
A 30-year-old man presented with a 10-year history of recurrent, stereotypic episodes of incapacitating nausea and vomiting. Initially, he had been diagnosed as having superior mesenteric artery syndrome, and had undergone abdominal surgery at age 20. The patient was in good health between episodes. During each episode, oral intake was impossible and total parenteral nutrition and sedation were necessary. Conventional antiemetics such as metoclopramide were not effective, and the 5-HT3 antagonist ondansetron hydrochloride was only partially effective. Investigations into gastrointestinal, hormonal, and metabolic function were unremarkable, as was psychiatric evaluation. Diagnosing this to be an adult case of cyclic vomiting syndrome, we administered amitriptyline hydrochloride; a prophylactic agent for migraine. This resulted in rapid resolution of the episodes, which have not recurred over several years' follow up. Recently, cyclic vomiting syndrome has been considered a subtype of migraine. In the present case, effectiveness of the tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline hydrochloride indicated that migraine and cyclic vomiting syndrome have a common pathology. Clinicians should be aware that cyclic vomiting syndrome can affect adults as well as children, and that treatment for migraine may be effective.
RNAi interference and siRNA have become useful tools for investigation of gene function. However, the discovery that not all siRNA are equally efficient made necessary screens or design algorithms to obtain high activity siRNA candidates. Several algorithms have been published, but they remain inefficient, obscure, or commercially restricted. This article describes an open-source JAVA program that is surprisingly efficient at predicting active siRNAs (Pearson correlation coefficient r = 0.52, n = 526 siRNAs). Furthermore, this version 1.0 sets the stage for further improvement of the free code by the open-source community (http://sourceforge.net/).

Antipsychotic polypharmacy and excessive dosing still prevail worldwide in the treatment of schizophrenia, while their possible association with cognitive function has not well been examined. We examined whether the &quot;non-standard&quot; use of antipsychotics (defined as antipsychotic polypharmacy or dosage &gt;1,000 mg/day of chlorpromazine equivalents) is associated with cognitive function. Furthermore, we compared cognitive function between patients taking only atypical antipsychotics and those taking only conventionals. Neurocognitive functions were assessed in 67 patients with chronic schizophrenia and 92 controls using the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R), the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R), the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), and the Advanced Trail Making Test (ATMT). Patients showed markedly poorer performance than controls on all these tests. Patients on non-standard antipsychotic medication demonstrated poorer performance than those on standard medication on visual memory, delayed recall, performance IQ, and executive function. Patients taking atypical antipsychotics showed better performance than those taking conventionals on visual memory, delayed recall, and executive function. Clinical characteristics such as duration of medication, number of hospitalizations, and concomitant antiparkinsonian drugs were different between the treatment groups (both dichotomies of standard/non-standard and conventional/atypical). These results provide evidence for an association between antipsychotic medication and cognitive function. This association between antipsychotic medication and cognitive function may be due to differential illness severity (e.g., non-standard treatment for severely ill patients who have severe cognitive impairment). Alternatively, poorer cognitive function may be due in part to polypharmacy or excessive dosing. Further investigations are required to draw any conclusions.
According to the literature, there is an association between schizophrenia and caffeine consumption, but it is not clear whether schizophrenia is associated with either higher prevalence of daily caffeine intake or the amount consumed. In this study we compared our previously published schizophrenia patients (n=250) with a control sample (n=290) after controlling for demographic variables and tobacco and alcohol consumption. Current caffeine intake was less frequent in schizophrenia patients (59%, 147/250) than in controls (70%, 204/290). In the multivariate analyses, caffeine intake was less frequent at an older age and in schizophrenia patients, and more frequent in smokers and alcohol users. Among caffeine consumers, heavy caffeine intake (&gt; or =200 mg/day) was significantly associated with schizophrenia (64%, 94/147 in schizophrenia versus 36%, 73/204 in controls), as well as older age and smoking. Daily amount of caffeine intake and smoked cigarettes correlated significantly in the schizophrenia group but not in the control group; the correlation of caffeine intake with nicotine dependence was low and non-significant in both groups. The association between current smoking and heavy caffeine intake may be partly explained by a pharmacokinetic effect: tobacco smoke compounds induce caffeine metabolism by the cytochrome P450 1A2. Although schizophrenia by itself may be associated with heavy caffeine intake in caffeine users, part of this association was explained by the association between schizophrenia and smoking. The relationship between caffeine and alcohol intake appeared to be more complex; alcohol and caffeine use were significantly associated, but within caffeine users alcohol was associated with less frequent heavy caffeine consumption among smokers. In future studies, the measurement of plasma caffeine levels will help both to better define heavy caffeine intake and to control for smoking pharmacokinetic effects.
Advances in neuroscience are increasingly intersecting with issues of ethical, legal, and social interest. This study is an analysis of press coverage of an advanced technology for brain imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging, that has gained significant public visibility over the past ten years. Discussion of issues of scientific validity and interpretation dominated over ethical content in both the popular and specialized press. Coverage of research on higher order cognitive phenomena specifically attributed broad personal and societal meaning to neuroimages. The authors conclude that neuroscience provides an ideal model for exploring science communication and ethics in a multicultural context.



Along with expanding the understanding of the human 'social brain', a new challenge for neuroscience is to elucidate the nature of individual differences in social competence. Here we report a neural index of gender difference in empathy-related processing in a complex social situation. Using electroencephalography, we measured the neural activity of perceptions to one's own and another's monetary gain or loss, while individuals played a 'competitive' two-person gambling game, in which one's monetary gain resulted in the other's loss. The medial-frontal negativity (MFN), a component within 300 ms latency reflecting an emotional categorization of the event, showed a significant gender difference in perceiving an opponent's, but not a self-performed outcome. When females perceive the opponent's outcomes, the MFN was elicited, indicating that another's loss was categorized as negative, even though it resulted in a benefit to them. On the contrary, the males did not elicit discernable MFN to the opponent's outcomes. Together with the fact that the affect score has a negative linear correlation with the MFN, this indicated that the MFN was sensitive to socio-emotional processing. These results suggest that individual differences in complex social behavior result from rapid neural activity in response to external stimuli.
Students' beliefs and goals can powerfully influence their learning success. Those who believe intelligence is a fixed entity (entity theorists) tend to emphasize 'performance goals,' leaving them vulnerable to negative feedback and likely to disengage from challenging learning opportunities. In contrast, students who believe intelligence is malleable (incremental theorists) tend to emphasize 'learning goals' and rebound better from occasional failures. Guided by cognitive neuroscience models of top-down, goal-directed behavior, we use event-related potentials (ERPs) to understand how these beliefs influence attention to information associated with successful error correction. Focusing on waveforms associated with conflict detection and error correction in a test of general knowledge, we found evidence indicating that entity theorists oriented differently toward negative performance feedback, as indicated by an enhanced anterior frontal P3 that was also positively correlated with concerns about proving ability relative to others. Yet, following negative feedback, entity theorists demonstrated less sustained memory-related activity (left temporal negativity) to corrective information, suggesting reduced effortful conceptual encoding of this material-a strategic approach that may have contributed to their reduced error correction on a subsequent surprise retest. These results suggest that beliefs can influence learning success through top-down biasing of attention and conceptual processing toward goal-congruent information.
Intentionally adopting a discrete emotional facial expression can modulate the subjective feelings corresponding to that emotion; however, the underlying neural mechanism is poorly understood. We therefore used functional brain imaging (functional magnetic resonance imaging) to examine brain activity during intentional mimicry of emotional and non-emotional facial expressions and relate regional responses to the magnitude of expression-induced facial movement. Eighteen healthy subjects were scanned while imitating video clips depicting three emotional (sad, angry, happy), and two 'ingestive' (chewing and licking) facial expressions. Simultaneously, facial movement was monitored from displacement of fiducial markers (highly reflective dots) on each subject's face. Imitating emotional expressions enhanced activity within right inferior prefrontal cortex. This pattern was absent during passive viewing conditions. Moreover, the magnitude of facial movement during emotion-imitation predicted responses within right insula and motor/premotor cortices. Enhanced activity in ventromedial prefrontal cortex and frontal pole was observed during imitation of anger, in ventromedial prefrontal and rostral anterior cingulate during imitation of sadness and in striatal, amygdala and occipitotemporal during imitation of happiness. Our findings suggest a central role for right inferior frontal gyrus in the intentional imitation of emotional expressions. Further, by entering metrics for facial muscular change into analysis of brain imaging data, we highlight shared and discrete neural substrates supporting affective, action and social consequences of somatomotor emotional expression.
Filmmakers have long recognized the importance of editing techniques to guide the audiences' perceptions and enhance the impact of a scene. We demonstrate behaviorally that pairing identical faces with either neutral or emotionally salient contextual movies, an editing technique referred to as the 'Kuleshov Effect', results in both altered attributions of facial expression and mental-state. Using functional neuroimaging (fMRI), we show that faces paired with emotional movies enhance BOLD responses in the bilateral temporal pole, anterior cingulate cortices, amygdala and bilateral superior temporal sulcus relative to identical faces juxtaposed with neutral movies. An interaction was observed in the right amygdala when subtle happy and fear faces were juxtaposed with positive and negative movies, respectively. An interaction between happy faces and negative context was also observed in bilateral amygdala suggesting that the amygdala may act to prime or tag affective value to faces. A parametric modulation of BOLD signal by attribution ratings indicated a dissociation between ventrolateral and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex for negative and positive contextually evoked attributions, respectively. These prefrontal regions may act to guide appropriate choices across altering contexts. Together, these findings offer a neurobiological basis for contextual framing effects on social attributions.
When we observe the actions of others, certain areas of the brain are activated in a similar manner as to when we perform the same actions ourselves. This 'mirror system' includes areas in the ventral premotor cortex and the inferior parietal lobule. Experimental studies suggest that action observation automatically elicits activity in the observer, which precisely mirrors the activity observed. In this case we would expect this activity to be independent of observer's viewpoint. Here we use whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) to record cortical activity of human subjects whilst they watched a series of videos of an actor making a movement recorded from different viewpoints. We show that one cortical response to action observation (oscillatory activity in the 7-12 Hz frequency range) is modulated by the relationship between the observer and the actor. We suggest that this modulation reflects a mechanism that filters information into the 'mirror system', allowing only socially relevant information to pass.


A decreased reactivity to stressors during lactation might heighten the expression of maternal care (including defense of offspring) by minimizing the extent to which stress can impact maternal care. Although stressors applied during pregnancy have variable effects on maternal aggression (or defense of offspring), to date no study has examined the effects of stress applied during the postpartum period on maternal aggression. In this study, we examined the effects of both daily and acute restraint stress (30 min) applied postpartum on maternal aggression and other maternal behaviors. Daily restraint (ending 2 h before testing) did not alter any measure of maternal behavior, including nursing, licking and grooming of pups and pup retrieval, or any measure of maternal aggression. In contrast, acute stress significantly impaired total time aggressive and number of attacks, but pup retrieval was normal. c-Fos levels were significantly elevated in a number of brain regions in association with acute stress, including lateral septum (LS), caudal periaqueductal gray and medial amygdala (MeA), suggesting possible sites where stress reactivity could alter aggression. Together, the results indicate that acute restraint stress impairs maternal aggression and provide a starting point for future studies examining how stress reactivity pathways may intersect with maternal aggression pathways.





[(11)C]MADAM, or [(11)C]N,N-dimethyl-2-(2-amino-4-methylphenyl thio)benzylamine, is a radioligand suitable for positron emission tomography (PET) studies of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) in man. The purpose of this study was to examine the test-retest reproducibility using a design tailored for future applied studies. Nine healthy male subjects were examined with PET and [(11)C]MADAM under baseline conditions at two occasions 4-8 weeks apart. The subjects participated in a Phase 1 trial to which the present study was an addendum. Eight regions of interest were studied, including frontal cortex, hippocampal complex, and the raphe nuclei. All regions, but the raphe nuclei, were defined on MR-images to which the PET-images were coregistered using SPM2. Binding potentials were calculated using the simplified reference tissue model, with cerebellum as reference region. Test-retest data were calculated from the binding potentials, and included binding potential (BP) quotient, BP difference, and the intraclass correlation coefficient. The quotient was about one in all regions, and the mean difference varied between 0 and 11%. The intraclass correlation coefficient varied between 0.96 and 0.51 in the raphe nuclei and averaged bilateral regions. [(11)C]MADAM was shown to have good to excellent reliability in measurements of 5-HTT binding in brain regions of interest in research on psychiatric disorders.
Aging creates deficits in motor performance related to changes in striatal processing of cortical information. This study describes age-related changes in corticostriatal snaptic plasticity and associated mechanisms, which may contribute to declines in motor behavior. Intracellular recordings revealed an age-related decrease in the expression of paired-pulse, posttetanic, and long-term potentiation (LTP). The age-related difference in LTP was associated with reduced sensitivity to block of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the aged population. These age-related changes could not be explained by increased L-type Ca(2+)channel activity, since block of L-type Ca(2+) channels with nifedipine increased rather than decreased the age-related difference in long-term plasticity. Age-related increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS) modulation were also ruled out, since application of H(2)O(2) produced changes in synaptic function that were opposite to trends seen in aging, and addition of the antioxidant Trolox-C had a larger effect on long-term plasticity in young rats than in older rats. A robust age-related difference in long-term synaptic plasticity was found by studying synaptic plasticity following the blocking of D2 receptors with l-sulpiride, which may involve age-difference in NMDA receptor function. l-sulpiride consistently enabled a slow development of LTP at young (but not aged) corticostriatal synapses. However, No age differences were found in the sensitivity to the addition of the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole. These findings provide evidence for age-induced changes in the release properties of cortical terminals and in the functioning of postsynaptic striatal NMDA receptors, which may contribute to age-related deficits in striatum control of movement.
Our purpose was to determine the effects of six cigarette toxicants (pyridine, nicotine, 2-ethylpyridine, 3-ethylpyridine, p-cresol, and pyrazine) on three types of cultured mammalian cells (human umbilical vein endothelial cells [HUVECs], human microvascular endothelial cells [HMVECs], and NIH 3T3 cells) using a cell proliferation/survival assay. Synchronized cells were cultured in proliferation or survival medium containing various doses (10(-18)M-10(-2)M) of the tested chemicals. After 48 h, cells were counted using a hemacytometer. The no observable adverse effect level (NOAEL), lowest observable adverse effect level (LOAEL), and the efficacy were determined for each compound in the cell proliferation and survival assays. Pyridine and p-cresol did not show significant effects with any cell types, except at high doses. Derivitization of the pyridine ring altered its potency, especially when an ethyl group or nitrogen was added. In survival medium, nicotine stimulated proliferation of all three cell types at doses found in smoker's serum (10(-8)M-10(-7)M). For HUVEC and HMVEC, 2-ethylpyridine, 3-ethylpyridine, and pyrazine inhibited proliferation in proliferation medium and induced cell death in survival medium at attomolar and femtomolar doses. All chemicals, except pyridine and pyrazine, stimulated NIH 3T3 cell proliferation at low doses and induced cell death at high doses. LOAELs and efficacies revealed that endothelial cells from a developing organ (umbilical cord) were more sensitive to these chemicals than endothelial cells from an adult organ (lung). 3-Ethylpyridine and pyrazine, which induced cell death at low doses, are added to consumer products and should be subjected to further toxicological testing.
Developmental exposure to the organophosphorous insecticide chlorpyrifos (CPF) induces long-term effects on brain and behavior in laboratory rodents. We evaluated in adult mice the behavioral effects of either fetal and/or neonatal CPF exposure at doses not inhibiting fetal and neonatal brain cholinesterase. CPF (3 or 6 mg/kg) was given by oral treatment to pregnant females on gestational days 15-18 and offspring were treated sc (1 or 3 mg/kg) on postnatal days (PNDs) 11-14. Serum and brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was evaluated at birth and 24 h from termination of postnatal treatments. On PND 70, male mice were assessed for spontaneous motor activity in an open-field test and in a socioagonistic encounter with an unfamiliar conspecific. Virgin females underwent a maternal induction test following presentation of foster pups. Both sexes were subjected to a plus-maze test to evaluate exploration and anxiety levels. Gestational and postnatal CPF exposure (higher doses) affected motor activity in the open field and enhanced synergically agonistic behavior. Postnatal CPF exposure increased maternal responsiveness toward pups in females. Mice of both sexes exposed to postnatal CPF showed reduced anxiety response in the plus-maze, an effect greater in females. Altogether, developmental exposure to CPF at doses that do not cause brain AChE inhibition induces long-term alterations in sex-specific behavior patterns of the mouse species. Late neonatal exposure on PNDs 11-14 was the most effective in causing behavioral changes. These findings support the hypothesis that developmental CPF may represent a risk factor for increased vulnerability to neurodevelopmental disorders in humans.
Recent developments in neuroscience raise the worry that understanding how brains cause behavior will undermine our views about free will and, consequently, about moral responsibility. The potential ethical consequences of such a result are sweeping. I provide three reasons to think that these worries seemingly inspired by neuroscience are misplaced. First, problems for common-sense notions of freedom exist independently of neuroscientific advances. Second, neuroscience is not in a position to undermine our intuitive notions. Third, recent empirical studies suggest that even if people do misconstrue neuroscientific results as relevant to our notion of freedom, our judgments of moral responsibility will remain largely unaffected. These considerations suggest that neuroethical concerns about challenges to our conception of freedom are misguided.
A key challenge for cognitive neuroscience is determining how mental representations map onto patterns of neural activity. Recently, researchers have started to address this question by applying sophisticated pattern-classification algorithms to distributed (multi-voxel) patterns of functional MRI data, with the goal of decoding the information that is represented in the subject's brain at a particular point in time. This multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) approach has led to several impressive feats of mind reading. More importantly, MVPA methods constitute a useful new tool for advancing our understanding of neural information processing. We review how researchers are using MVPA methods to characterize neural coding and information processing in domains ranging from visual perception to memory search.
Vast numbers of extracellular signalling molecules exert effects on their target cells by activation of a relatively limited number of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades, raising the question of how specificity is achieved. To a large extent, this appears to be attributable to differences in kinetics and compartmentalization of MAPK protein activation that are dictated by MAPK-associated proteins serving as scaffolds, anchors, activators or effectors. Here, we review spatiotemporal aspects of signalling via the Ras-Raf-extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway, emphasizing recent work on roles of arrestins as scaffolds and transducers for seven transmembrane receptor signalling.
Microglia are seen as the sentries in the CNS who provide a first line of defense whenever there is injury or disease. Microglia and related perivascular macrophages perform various functions, ranging from immunological surveillance to neuroprotection. Recent work in the aged human brain has provided morphological evidence of structural deterioration of microglia, and work in rodents suggests that microglia are subject to replicative senescence (loss of mitotic ability after repeated rounds of replication). Together these observations raise the possibility that old age, and perhaps other factors (genetic and epigenetic) adversely affect viability and self-renewal capacity of microglia, resulting in the generation of senescent and/or dysfunctional cells. Such attrition of the brain's immune system could contribute to the development of neurodegenerative disease by diminishing glial neuroprotection.
Neuroethics, a recently modernized field at the intersection of bioethics and neuroscience, is founded on centuries of discussion of the ethical issues associated with mind and behavior. Broadly defined, neuroethics is concerned with ethical, legal and social policy implications of neuroscience, and with aspects of neuroscience research itself. Advances in neuroscience increasingly challenge long-held views of the self and the individual's relationship to society. Neuroscience also has led to innovations in clinical medicine that have not only therapeutic but also non-therapeutic dimensions that extend well beyond previously charted boundaries. The exponential increase in cross-disciplinary research, the commercialization of cognitive neuroscience, the impetus for training in ethics, and the increased attention being paid to public understanding of science all illuminate the important role of neuroethics in neuroscience.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors comprise a heterogeneous class of cationic channels that is present throughout the nervous system. These channels are involved both in physiological functions (including cognition, reward, motor activity and analgesia) and in pathological conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, some forms of epilepsy, depression, autism and schizophrenia. They are also the targets of tobacco-smoking effects and addiction. Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are pentamers of homomeric or heteromeric combinations of alpha (alpha2-alpha10) and beta (beta2-beta4) subunits, which have different pharmacological and biophysical properties and locations in the brain. The lack of subtype-specific ligands and the fact that many neuronal cells express multiple subtypes initially hampered the identification of the different native nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes, but the increasing knowledge of subtype composition and roles will be of considerable interest for the development of new and clinically useful nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ligands.
A recent article supports the concept that prostaglandin (PG)E(2) EP(1)-receptor antagonists reduce stroke severity and cell damage; could these agents become a substitute for cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors? The total activity of COXs--rate-limiting enzymes of PGE(2) synthesis--increases following acute neurological insult. Drugs that offer the beneficial anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects of PGs but that limit the negative effects of COX-2 inhibition could provide the next generation of treatment for acute neuronal damage.
Identification of a face is facilitated by adapting to its computationally opposite identity, suggesting that the average face functions as a norm for coding identity [Leopold, D. A., O'Toole, A. J., Vetter, T., &amp; Blanz, V. (2001). Prototype-referenced shape encoding revealed by high-level aftereffects. Nature Neuroscience, 4, 89-94; Leopold, D. A., Rhodes, G., Mller, K. -M., &amp; Jeffery, L. (2005). The dynamics of visual adaptation to faces. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, Series B, 272, 897-904]. Crucially, this interpretation requires that the aftereffect is selective for the opposite identity, but this has not been convincingly demonstrated. We demonstrate such selectivity, observing a larger aftereffect for opposite than non-opposite adapt-test pairs that are matched on perceptual contrast (dissimilarity). Component identities were also harder to detect in morphs of opposite than non-opposite face pairs. We propose an adaptive norm-based coding model of face identity.

Inflammation, a self-defensive reaction against various pathogenic stimuli, may become harmful self-damaging process. Increasing evidence has linked chronic inflammation to a number of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and multiple sclerosis. In the central nervous system, microglia, the resident innate immune cells play major role in the inflammatory process. Although they form the first line of defense for the neural parenchyma, uncontrolled activation of microglia may directly toxic to neurons by releasing various substances such as inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6), NO, PGE(2), and superoxide. Moreover, our recent study demonstrated that activated microglia phagocytose not only damaged cell debris but also neighboring intact cells. It further supports their active participation in self-perpetuating neuronal damaging cycles. In the following review, we discuss microglial responses to damaging neurons, known activators released from injured neurons and how microglia cause neuronal degeneration. In the last part, microglial activation and their role in PD are discussed in depth.
The metabolism of the amino acid L-tryptophan is a highly regulated physiological process leading to the generation of several neuroactive compounds within the central nervous system. These include the aminergic neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), products of the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism (including 3-hydroxykynurenine, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid, quinolinic acid and kynurenic acid), the neurohormone melatonin, several neuroactive kynuramine metabolites of melatonin, and the trace amine tryptamine. The integral role of central serotonergic systems in the modulation of physiology and behaviour has been well documented since the first description of serotonergic neurons in the brain some 40 years ago. However, while the significance of the peripheral kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism has also been recognised for several decades, it has only recently been appreciated that the synthesis of kynurenines within the central nervous system has important consequences for physiology and behaviour. Altered kynurenine metabolism has been implicated in the pathophysiology of conditions such as acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related dementia, Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's disease. In this review we discuss the molecular mechanisms involved in regulating the metabolism of tryptophan and consider the medical implications associated with dysregulation of both serotonergic and kynurenine pathways of tryptophan metabolism.

Theories of instrumental learning are centred on understanding how success and failure are used to improve future decisions. These theories highlight a central role for reward prediction errors in updating the values associated with available actions. In animals, substantial evidence indicates that the neurotransmitter dopamine might have a key function in this type of learning, through its ability to modulate cortico-striatal synaptic efficacy. However, no direct evidence links dopamine, striatal activity and behavioural choice in humans. Here we show that, during instrumental learning, the magnitude of reward prediction error expressed in the striatum is modulated by the administration of drugs enhancing (3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine; L-DOPA) or reducing (haloperidol) dopaminergic function. Accordingly, subjects treated with L-DOPA have a greater propensity to choose the most rewarding action relative to subjects treated with haloperidol. Furthermore, incorporating the magnitude of the prediction errors into a standard action-value learning algorithm accurately reproduced subjects' behavioural choices under the different drug conditions. We conclude that dopamine-dependent modulation of striatal activity can account for how the human brain uses reward prediction errors to improve future decisions.
Whisker trimming deprives the cortical barrel field from the patterned sensory input that derives from active touch but leaves passive tactile signals unaltered. We have studied in the rat barrel field, by stereological procedures, the effects of a sustained period of unilateral deprivation by whisker clipping during adolescence and early adulthood on (1) the surface density (SV) of asymmetric synapses, as determined from measuring the presynaptic membrane specializations, and (2) the numerical density of asymmetric synaptic profiles (NA), classified according to their postsynaptic target and their apparent curvature. Compared to control rats, the procedure did not change the overall volume of the region, the volume fraction occupied by each cortical layer, or the volume fraction occupied by unmyelinated axons and boutons. However, the deprived barrel cortex displayed an increase in SV in layers I and II, and an increase in NA in layer I and in the cortex as a whole, mainly due to an increase in profiles with a convex shape. Layer IV was the least affected by the deprivation. These results point to a net increase, rather than a decrease, of excitatory synapses in the deprived cortex, which could result from a deprivation-induced decrease in the rate of normal synapse loss. This effect occurs specifically in superficial layers, more involved in intracortical and cortico-cortical, rather than thalamo-cortical, processing.
High titer polyclonal antibodies were produced in rabbit against a peptide unique to NaV1.2 sodium channels. NaV1.2 antibodies displayed 500,000-fold greater affinity for the NaV1.2 peptide compared with NaV1.1 or NaV1.3 peptides from the same region. These antibodies, when coupled to Sepharose beads, retained saxitoxin binding sites from solubilized rat brain membranes. Eluted protein from this antibody-affinity column was recognized by antibodies directed against neuronal voltage-gated sodium channels. Rabbit antibodies, which had been partially purified, were used in immunocytochemical localization of the NaV1.2 channel in 50 microm rat brain slices at dilutions of 1:1000 or 1:2000. NaV1.2 channels were predominately localized in unmyelinated fibers in the cortex, hippocampus, spinal cord and hypothalamus. Varicosities were seen in fiber staining which may reflect true varicosities in the fiber or simply varying densities of sodium channels along the fiber. Cell body staining with the NaV1.2 antibody was primarily observed in the hypothalamus. Antibody staining in the cerebellum was complex, with staining observed primarily in posterior lobes and considerably lower amounts of staining observed in anterior lobes. Specific staining was limited to fibers located in the granule and molecular layer, in an orientation consistent with granule cell unmyelinated axon labeling.
Electroencephalographic (EEG) responses measured simultaneously with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have opened a new window into the human nervous system. The combined use of TMS and EEG (TMS-EEG) provides a means for the detailed study of the reactivity of any cortical region in the intact brain; also the reactivities of non-motor cortical areas related with higher-order functions are now appreciable. A recent epochal finding concerning cortical reactivity is that neuronal activation is induced with remarkably low stimulation intensities. This knowledge is significant when optimizing experimental set-ups for maximal patient safety. Stimulation of different cortical areas evokes different patterns of remote EEG activity, confirming the viability of TMS-EEG for the study of corticocortical connections. In this review, we expand on these and other notable findings related with TMS-EEG. We discuss the possibilities of the technique for the study of cortical reactivity and connectivity. We show that TMS-EEG allows the study of interhemispheric connections with high spatiotemporal specificity and the assessment of cortical reactivity with excellent sensitivity.
The present decade had witnessed an unprecedented attention focused on glial cells as a result of their unusual physiological roles that are being unraveled. It is now known that, rather than being a mere supporter of neurons, astroglia are actively involved in their modulation. The aluminum hypothesis seems to have been laid to rest, probably due to contradictory epidemiological reports on it as a causative factor of neurodegenerative diseases. Surprisingly, newer scientific evidences continue to appear and recent findings have implicated astrocytes as the principal target of its toxic action. In view of the likely detrimental effects of the interaction between these two infamous partners in neuroscience on neurons and nervous system, we have reviewed some aspects of glia-neuron interaction and discussed the implications of aluminum-impaired astrocytic functions on neurodegeneration. Because sporadic causes still account for the majority of the neurodegenerative diseases of which Alzheimer's disease is the most prominent, it has been suggested that neurotoxicologists should not relent in screening for the environmental agents, such as aluminum, and that considerable attention should be given to glial cells in view of the likely implications of environmental toxicants on their never-imagined newly reported roles in the central nervous system (CNS).
In behavioral neurosciences, such as neurobiology and biopsychology, animal models make it possible to investigate brain-behavior relations, with the aim of gaining insight into normal and abnormal human behavior and its underlying neuronal and neuroendocrinological processes. Different types of animal models of behavioral dysfunctions are reviewed in this article. In order to determine the precise criteria that an animal model should fulfill, experts from different fields must define the desired characteristics of that model at the neuropathologic and behavioral level. The list of characteristics depends on the purpose of the model. The phenotype-abnormal behavior or behavioral dysfunctions-has to be translated into testable measures in animal experiments. It is essential to standardize rearing, housing, and testing conditions, and to evaluate the reliability, validity (primarily predictive and construct validity), and biological or clinical relevance of putative animal models of human behavioral dysfunctions. This evaluation, guided by a systematic strategy, is central to the development of a model. The necessity of animal models and the responsible use of animals in research are discussed briefly.
This review discusses the effects of prenatal alcohol exposure on the developing brain and the potential use of derived peptides from activity-dependent neurotrophic factor (ADNF) and activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) in neuroprotection against the insults of alcohol. Alcohol is known to impede the growth of the central nervous system and to induce neurodegeneration through cellular apoptosis. Sari et al. have shown that prenatal alcohol exposure reduced the fetal brain weight, the size of the brain regions and the number of serotonin (5-HT) neurons. Prenatal alcohol exposure compromises neural tube midline development. Sari et al. further suggested that the timing of alcohol exposure during pregnancy is critical to the induction of deficits in 5-HT neurons, as well as other types of neurons and consequently results in deficits in neural tube development. ADNF and ADNP are glial-derived proteins discovered to be induced by vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). These proteins are expressed during embryonic development. Functional assays and genetic manipulations have identified these proteins as highly important for neural tube closure and brain formation/development. The peptide derivatives of ADNF, ADNF-14 (VLGGGSALLRSIPA), ADNF-9 (or SALLRSIPA = SAL) and of ADNP, NAPVSIPQ = NAP have shown neuroprotective effects and have been proven to prevent brain damage associated with prenatal alcohol exposure in animals. Here, we discuss the many aspects of alcohol-associated growth restriction in the developing brain and the potential inhibition of this severe phenotype through the use of neuroprotective peptides.

Recent studies have indicated that members of the transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) family of cation channels are required for the generation of normal osmoregulatory responses, yet the mechanism of osmosensory transduction in primary osmoreceptor neurons of the CNS remains to be defined. Indeed, despite ample evidence suggesting that the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT) serves as the primary locus of the brain for the detection of osmotic stimuli, evidence that neurons in the OVLT are intrinsically osmosensitive has remained elusive. Here we show that murine OVLT neurons are intrinsically sensitive to increases in the osmolality of the extracellular fluid. Hypertonic conditions provoked increases in membrane cation conductance that resulted in the generation of an inward current, depolarizing osmoreceptor potentials, and enhanced action potential discharge. Moreover, we found that this osmosensory signal transduction cascade was absent in OVLT neurons from TRPV1 knock-out (TRPV1-/-) mice and that responses of wild type (WT) OVLT neurons could be blocked by ruthenium red, an inhibitor of TRPV channels. Finally, TRPV1-/- mice showed significantly attenuated water intake in response to systemic hypertonicity compared with WT controls. These findings indicate that OVLT neurons act as primary osmoreceptors and that a product of the trpv1 gene is required for osmosensory transduction.
A central concept in neuroscience is that the CNS signals the sensory discrepancy between the predicted and actual sensory consequences of action. It has been proposed that the cerebellum and parietal cortex are involved in this process. A discrepancy will trigger preprogrammed corrective responses and update the engaged sensorimotor memories. Here we use functional magnetic resonance imaging with an event-related design to investigate the neuronal correlates of such discrepancies. Healthy adults repeatedly lifted an object between their right index fingers and thumbs, and on some lifting trials, the weight of the object was unpredictably changed between light (230 g) and heavy (830 g). Regardless of whether the weight was heavier or lighter than predicted, activity was found in the right inferior parietal cortex (supramarginal gyrus). This suggests that this region is involved in the comparison of the predicted and actual sensory input and the updating of the sensorimotor memories. When the object was lighter or heavier than predicted, two different types of preprogrammed force corrections occurred. There was a slow force increase when the weight of the object was heavier than predicted. This corrective response was associated with activity in the left primary motor and somatosensory cortices. The fast termination of the excessive force when the object was lighter than predicted activated the right cerebellum. These findings show how the parietal cortex, cerebellum, and motor cortex are involved in the signaling of the discrepancy between predicated and actual sensory feedback and the associated corrective mechanisms.
It has been shown previously in a number of systems that after an extended block of activity, synaptic strength is increased. We found that an extended block of synaptic activity at the mouse neuromuscular junction, using a tetrodotoxin cuff in vivo, increased synaptic strength by prolonging the evoked endplate current (EPC) decay. Prolongation of EPC decay was accompanied by only modest prolongation of spontaneous miniature EPC (MEPC) decay. Prolongation of EPC decay was reversed when quantal content was lowered by reducing extracellular calcium. These findings suggested that the cause of EPC prolongation was presynaptic in origin. However, when we acutely inhibited fetal-type acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) using a novel peptide toxin (alphaA-conotoxin OIVA[K15N]), prolongation of both EPC and MEPC decay were reversed. We also blocked synaptic activity in a mutant strain of mice in which persistent muscle activity prevents upregulation of fetal-type AChRs. In these mice, there was no prolongation of EPC decay. We conclude that upregulation of fetal-type AChRs after blocking synaptic activity causes modest prolongation of MEPC decay that is accompanied by much greater prolongation of EPC decay. This might occur if acetylcholine escapes from endplates and binds to extrajunctional fetal-type AChRs only during large, evoked EPCs. Our study is the first to demonstrate a functional role for upregulation of extrajunctional AChRs.
Cells in the pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPT) play a key role in the generation of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, but its intracellular signaling mechanisms remain unknown. In the current studies, the role of PPT intracellular protein kinase A (PKA) in the regulation of REM sleep was evaluated by comparing PKA subunit [catalytic (PKA(C alpha)) and regulatory (PKA(RI), PKA(RII alpha), and PKA(RII beta)) types] expression and activity in the PPT at normal, high, and low REM sleep conditions. To compare anatomical specificity, REM sleep-dependent expressions of these PKA subunits were also measured in the medial pontine reticular formation (mPRF), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and anterior hypothalamus (AHTh). The results of these PKA subunit expression and activity studies demonstrated that the expression of PKA(C alpha) and PKA activity in the PPT increased and decreased during high and low REM sleep, respectively. Conversely, PKA(C alpha) expression and PKA activity decreased with high REM sleep in the mPRF. Expression of PKA(C alpha) also decreased in the mPFC and remained unchanged in the AHTh with high REM sleep. These subunit expression and PKA activity data reveal a positive relationship between REM sleep and increased PKA activity in the PPT. To test this molecular evidence, localized activation of cAMP-dependent PKA activity was blocked using a pharmacological technique. The results of this pharmacological study demonstrated that the localized inhibition of cAMP-dependent PKA activation in the PPT dose-dependently suppressed REM sleep. Together, these results provide the first evidence that the activation of the PPT intracellular PKA system is involved in the generation of REM sleep.
The functional role of the human amygdala in the evaluation of emotional facial expressions is unclear. Previous animal and human research shows that the amygdala participates in processing positive and negative reinforcement as well as in learning predictive associations between stimuli and subsequent reinforcement. Thus, amygdala response to facial expressions could reflect the processing of primary reinforcement or emotional learning. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we tested the hypothesis that amygdala response to facial expressions is driven by emotional association learning. We show that the amygdala is more responsive to learning object-emotion associations from happy and fearful facial expressions than it is to the presentation of happy and fearful facial expressions alone. The results provide evidence that the amygdala uses social signals to rapidly and flexibly learn threatening and rewarding associations that ultimately serve to enhance survival.
EphB receptors and their ephrin-B ligands are required for midline guidance decisions at several rostrocaudal levels of the developing CNS. In the embryonic vertebrate spinal cord, ephrin-B3 is localized to the floor plate (FP) at the ventral midline (VM), ephrin-B1 and ephrin-B2 are expressed in the dorsal spinal cord, and decussated EphB receptor-bearing commissural axons navigate between these ventral and dorsal ephrin-B domains. Despite these compelling expression patterns, the in vivo role(s) for EphB and ephrin-B proteins in regulating the guidance of spinal commissural axons has not been established. Here, we use DiI (1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate) labeling to assess the pathfinding of commissural axons in the spinal cords of ephrin-B and EphB mutant mouse embryos. In mice lacking ephrin-B3 or multiple EphB receptors, a significant number of axons followed aberrant trajectories in the immediate vicinity of the VM. Furthermore, forked transverse commissural (FTC) axons, a unique class of commissural axons that continues to project in the transverse plane on the contralateral side of the FP, were present at a markedly higher frequency in ephrin-B3 and EphB mutants, compared with wild-type embryos. Neither the midline guidance errors nor excessive numbers of FTC axons were observed in the spinal cords of ephrin-B3(lacz) mice that express a truncated form of ephrin-B3, which is capable of forward but not reverse signaling. In contrast to the midline guidance defects observed in EphB and ephrin-B3 mutant embryos, wild-type-like contralateral projections were observed in mice lacking ephrin-B1 and/or ephrin-B2.
Accumulating evidence is redefining the importance of neuron-glial interactions at synapses in the CNS. Astrocytes form &quot;tripartite&quot; complexes with presynaptic and postsynaptic structures and regulate synaptic transmission and plasticity. Despite our understanding of the importance of neuron-glial relationships in physiological contexts, little is known about the structural interplay between astrocytes and synapses. In the past, this has been difficult to explore because studies have been hampered by the lack of a system that preserves complex neuron-glial relationships observed in the brain. Here we present a system that can be used to characterize the intricate relationship between astrocytic processes and synaptic structures in situ using organotypic hippocampal slices, a preparation that retains the three-dimensional architecture of astrocyte-synapse interactions. Using time-lapse confocal imaging, we demonstrate that astrocytes can rapidly extend and retract fine processes to engage and disengage from motile postsynaptic dendritic spines. Surprisingly, astrocytic motility is, on average, higher than its dendritic spine counterparts and likely relies on actin-based cytoskeletal reorganization. Changes in astrocytic processes are typically coordinated with changes in spines, and astrocyte-spine interactions are stabilized at larger spines. Our results suggest that dynamic structural changes in astrocytes help control the degree of neuron-glial communication at hippocampal synapses.
Genomic instability is observed in tumors and in a large fraction of the progeny surviving irradiation. One of the best-characterized phenotypic manifestations of genomic instability is delayed chromosome aberrations. Our working hypothesis for the current study was that if genomic instability is in part attributable to cis mechanisms, we should observe a non-random distribution of chromosomes or sites involved in instability-associated rearrangements, regardless of radiation quality, dose, or trans factor expression. We report here the karyotypic examination of 296 instability-associated chromosomal rearrangement breaksites (IACRB) from 118 unstable TK6 human B lymphoblast, and isogenic derivative, clones. When we tested whether IACRB were distributed across the chromosomes based on target size, a significant non-random distribution was evident (p&lt;0.00001), and three IACRB hotspots (chromosomes 11, 12, and 22) and one IACRB coldspot (chromosome 2) were identified. Statistical analysis at the chromosomal band-level identified four IACRB hotspots accounting for 20% of all instability-associated breaks, two of which account for over 14% of all IACRB. Further, analysis of independent clones provided evidence within 14 individual clones of IACRB clustering at the chromosomal band level, suggesting a predisposition for further breaks after an initial break at some chromosomal bands. All of these events, independently, or when taken together, were highly unlikely to have occurred by chance (p&lt;0.000001). These IACRB band-level cluster hotspots were observed independent of radiation quality, dose, or cellular p53 status. The non-random distribution of instability-associated chromosomal rearrangements described here significantly differs from the distribution that was observed in a first-division post-irradiation metaphase analysis (p=0.0004). Taken together, these results suggest that genomic instability may be in part driven by chromosomal cis mechanisms.
The central melanocortin (MC) system is one of the best-characterized neuropeptidergic systems involved in the regulation of energy balance. This short review describes the role of the central MC system in feeding behavior. Pharmacological, anatomical and genetic studies show that activation of the MC system reduces meal size, whereas de-activation of the MC system increases meal size. Several brain regions, including distinct hypothalamic nuclei and the hindbrain, are involved in this process. Further dissection of MC pathways in feeding behavior is the subject of recent and probably future studies. As the MC system is involved in animal models of obesity and (possibly) anorexia, it appears that this is a target system for development of drugs for the treatment of disturbed human eating behavior.
Glucocorticoids have major effects on food intake, however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. This article highlights data on the changes that occur when glucocorticoids are removed by adrenalectomy, and the effects of central and systemic administered glucocorticoids on feeding behavior in rats. Next, animal data on the interaction of glucocorticoids with insulin on intake of comfort foods are addressed and the hypothesis that glucocorticoids modify feeding behavior, whereas insulin modifies the choice of food is discussed. Finally a view is presented that hormonal and vagal signals generated when (comfort) food is consumed will affect the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) brain network important for the response to stress and the regulation of feeding. With a society, where stress is experienced daily and comfort food is found at every street corner, it will be vital to understand the interactions between the systems that react to stress and regulate feeding behavior to fight the obesity epidemic.

Blockade of presynaptic histamine H(3) receptors with potent and selective ligands improves cognitive function in rodents and there is significant interest in developing such drugs for long-term symptomatic treatment of CNS disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Unfortunately, little is known about the effects of repeated exposure to H(3) receptor antagonists/inverse agonists. We therefore investigated the effects of acute and repeated daily administration of two potent, brain penetrating H(3) receptor antagonists/inverse agonists, ciproxifan and A-304121, on rat body weight, food and water intake, core temperature and locomotor activity, as well as H(3) receptor density and gene expression levels. Methylphenidate, used clinically for the treatment of ADHD, was included as an additional comparator. Ciproxifan, an imidazole-based compound, decreased food intake over the first 10 days and locomotor activity acutely, but these effects were lost after further repeated administration. The ex vivo binding studies revealed increased H(3) receptor density in rats following repeated administration of ciproxifan for 10 or 15 days; however, H(3) receptor gene expression was not changed. In contrast, rats treated with the non-imidazole, A-304121, did not differ from controls on any measure during the observation period, while rats treated with methylphenidate exhibited hyperthermia and hyperactivity. The implications for potential long-term treatment with H(3) receptor antagonists in CNS disorders such as ADHD are discussed.
Although neurotrophins have been postulated to have antidepressant properties, their effect on anxiety is not clear. We find that transgenic overexpression of the neurotrophin BDNF has an unexpected facilitatory effect on anxiety-like behavior, concomitant with increased spinogenesis in the basolateral amygdala. Moreover, anxiogenesis and amygdalar spinogenesis are also triggered by chronic stress in control mice but are occluded by BDNF overexpression, thereby suggesting a role for BDNF signaling in stress-induced plasticity in the amygdala. BDNF overexpression also causes antidepressant effects, because transgenic mice exhibit improved performance on the Porsolt forced-swim test and an absence of chronic stress-induced hippocampal atrophy. Thus, structural changes in the amygdala and hippocampus, caused by genetic manipulation of the same molecule BDNF, give rise to contrasting effects on anxiety and depressive symptoms, both of which are major behavioral correlates of stress disorders.
Cognitive impairment has recently been found to correlate with changes in peripheral inflammatory signals such as TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. PKC isozymes regulate levels of TNF-alpha and IL-6 and the release of other cytokines and also show deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains and skin fibroblasts. Here, we investigate MAPK Erk1 and Erk2 phosphorylation in response to the inflammatory agonist bradykinin, which activates PKC pathways. An internally controlled comparison of Erk1 and Erk2 produced an AD index that accurately distinguished fibroblasts of AD from those of normal controls and of non-AD dementias. This accuracy was demonstrated for Coriell Cell Repository (Coriell Institute of Medical Research, Camden, NJ) samples, as well as for samples analyzed on gels with autopsy diagnostic confirmation. AD Erk1 and Erk2 index values were inversely correlated with disease duration, suggesting maximal efficacy for early diagnosis. Finally, the results also demonstrate that, when the AD index agreed with the clinical diagnosis on the presence of AD, there was a high probability of accuracy based on autopsy validation. Thus, this peripheral molecular biomarker, based on differential Erk1 and Erk2 phosphorylation, could have important clinical utility for providing increased certainty in the positive diagnosis of AD, particularly in the early phase of disease progression.
Obesity endangers the lives of millions of people worldwide, through comorbidities such as heart disease, cancers, type 2 diabetes, stroke, arthritis, and major depression. New approaches to control body weight remain a high priority. Vaccines traditionally have been used to protect against infectious diseases and, more recently, for unconventional targets such as drug addiction. Methodologies that could specifically modulate the bioavailability of an endogenous molecule that regulates energy balance might provide a new foundation for treating obesity. Here we show that active vaccination of mature rats with ghrelin immunoconjugates decreases feed efficiency, relative adiposity, and body weight gain in relation to the immune response elicited against ghrelin in its active, acylated form. Three active vaccines based on the 28-aa residue sequence of ghrelin, a gastric endocrine hormone, were used to immunize adult male Wistar rats (n = 17). Synthetic ghrelin analogs were prepared that spanned residues 1-10 [ghrelin (1-10) Ser-3(butanoyl) hapten, Ghr1], 13-28 [ghrelin (13-28) hapten, Ghr2], and 1-28 [ghrelin(1-28) Ser-3(butanoyl) hapten, Ghr3], and included n-butanoyl esters at Ser-3. Groups immunized with Ghr1 or Ghr3 showed greater and more selective plasma binding capacity for the active, Ser-3-(n-octanoyl) form of ghrelin as compared with Ghr2 or keyhole limpet hemocyanin vaccinated controls. Accordingly, they gained less body weight, with sparing of lean mass and preferential reduction of body fat, consistent with reduced circulating leptin levels. The ratio of brain/serum ghrelin levels was lower in rats with strong anti-ghrelin immune responses. Effects were not attributable to nonspecific inflammatory responses. Vaccination against the endogenous hormone ghrelin can slow weight gain in rats by decreasing feed efficiency.
Blood platelets are central to haemostasis, and reactions in platelets involving sulfhydryl groups play important roles in platelet function. Reduced glutathione (GSH) plays an important role in platelet aggregation and glutathione-depleting chemicals inhibit platelet aggregation. The lipophilic drug disulfiram, because of its affinity for sulfhydryl groups, is a highly thiol-reacting agent. As a consequence, GSH and sulfhydryl groups of protein cysteines in human platelets, in analogy to other components of human blood, are a potential target of disulfiram. In the present study, we have shown that exposure of human platelets to disulfiram causes the depletion of platelet GSH and augmentation of mixed disulfides between GSH and protein sulfhydryl groups to form protein-glutathione mixed disulfides (S-glutathionylated proteins). The depletion of platelet GSH and the increase in S-glutathionylated proteins occurred at concentrations of disulfiram that inhibited platelet aggregation, suggesting that protein S-glutathionylation is involved in the inhibition of platelet aggregation caused by disulfiram.
Neutrophils are highly motile leukocytes, and they play important roles in the innate immune response to invading pathogens. Neutrophil chemotaxis requires Rac activation, yet the Rac activators functioning downstream of chemoattractant receptors remain to be determined. We show that DOCK2, which is a mammalian homologue of Caenorhabditis elegans CED-5 and Drosophila melanogaster Myoblast City, regulates motility and polarity during neutrophil chemotaxis. Although DOCK2-deficient neutrophils moved toward the chemoattractant source, they exhibited abnormal migratory behavior with a marked reduction in translocation speed. In DOCK2-deficient neutrophils, chemoattractant-induced activation of both Rac1 and Rac2 were severely impaired, resulting in the loss of polarized accumulation of F-actin and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3) at the leading edge. On the other hand, we found that DOCK2 associates with PIP3 and translocates to the leading edge of chemotaxing neutrophils in a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent manner. These results indicate that during neutrophil chemotaxis DOCK2 regulates leading edge formation through PIP3-dependent membrane translocation and Rac activation.
The retinoblastoma gene product pRb and other members of the Rb family of pocket proteins have a central role in the regulation of cell cycle progression. Soon after its discovery, pRb was found to interact with the transforming oncoproteins of DNA tumor viruses and this led to rapid advances in our understanding of the mechanisms of viral transformation and cell cycle progression. DNA viruses of the polyomavirus family have small, circular, double-stranded DNA genomes contained within non-enveloped icosahedral capsids and are highly tumorigenic in experimental animals. At least three types of polyomavirus infect humans: JC virus (JCV), BK virus (BKV) and Simian Vacuolating virus-40. The early region of these viruses encodes the transforming proteins large T-antigen and small t-antigen, which are involved in viral replication and also promote transformation of cells in culture and oncogenesis in vivo. Binding of T-antigen to pRb promotes the activation of the E2F family of transcription factors, which induce the expression of cellular genes required for S phase. In the context of lytic infection, this cell cycle progression is necessary for viral replication because polyomaviruses rely on S phase-specific host factors for their DNA synthesis. In the context of cellular transformation and tumorigenesis, T-antigen/pRB interaction is an indispensable event.
Emerging data indicate the existence of multiple regulatory processes supporting serotonin (5HT) transporter (SERT) capacity including regulated trafficking and catalytic activation, influenced by post-translational modifications and transporter-associated proteins. In the present study, using differential extraction and sedimentation procedures optimized for the purification of cytoskeletal and membrane-skeletal associated proteins, we analyze SERT localization in platelets. We find that most of the plasma membrane SERT is associated with the membrane skeleton. This association can be enhanced by both transporter activation and 5HT2A receptor activation. Inactivation of transport activity by phorbol ester treatment of intact platelets relocates SERT to the cytoskeleton fraction, consequently leading to transporter internalization. The translocation of SERT between these compartments is correlated with changes in the interaction with the LIM domain adaptor protein Hic-5. Co-immunoprecipitation and uptake activity studies suggest that Hic-5 is a determinant of transporter inactivation and relocation to a compartment subserving endocytic regulation. Associations of SERT with Hic-5 are evident in brain synaptosomes, suggesting the existence of parallel mechanisms operating to regulate SERT at serotonergic synapses.
The yeast Hog1 protein is both functionally and structurally similar to the mammalian p38, belonging to the same family of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases and responding to extracellular changes in osmolarity. Since p38 mediates lipopolysaccharide (LPS) effects in mammalian cells, we now tested the responsiveness of Hog1 upon exposure of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to bacterial LPS. In the presence of Escherichia coli LPS (100 ng/ml) and an endotoxically active, hexaacylated, synthetic lipid A (compound 506; 100 ng/ml), Hog1 becomes phosphorylated with a maximum of phosphorylation between 3 and 6 h, whereas a tetraacylated, inactive form of lipid A (compound 406) did not cause any modification in the phosphorylation state of Hog1. A triple labeling immunocytochemical study showed that phosphorylated Hog1 translocates into the nucleus after a 90-min incubation and becomes sparsely located in the cytoplasm. The translocation of the phospho-Hog1 is preceded by an increased expression of the HOG1 gene and concomitant with the expression of the Hog1 target gene, GPD1. We also observed that cells unable to synthesize Hog1 do not resist LPS as efficiently as wild-type cells. We conclude that the yeast S. cerevisiae is able to respond to the presence of Gram-negative bacteria endotoxin and that Hog1 is involved in this response.
The adaptor protein FE65 interacts with the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) via its C-terminal phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain and affects APP processing and Abeta production. Our previous data demonstrate that the apoE receptor ApoEr2 co-precipitated with APP and suggest that there are extracellular and intracellular interactions between these two transmembrane proteins. We hypothesized that FE65 acts as an intracellular link between ApoEr2 and APP. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments in COS7 cells demonstrated an interaction between ApoEr2 and FE65 that depended on the N-terminal PTB domain of FE65. Full-length FE65 increased co-immunoprecipitation of ApoEr2 and APP. Full-length FE65 also increased surface expression of ApoEr2, as determined by surface protein biotinylation and live cell surface staining. Constructs containing both the C- and N-terminal PTB domains of FE65 increased secreted APP, secreted ApoEr2, APP C-terminal fragment, and ApoEr2 C-terminal fragment, but constructs containing only single PTB domains did not affect APP or ApoEr2 processing. In addition, full-length FE65 decreased Abeta to a significantly greater extent than individual FE65 domains. These data suggest that FE65 can bind APP and ApoEr2 at the same time and affect the processing of each.
Serotonin (5-HT) is implicated in several aspects of brain development, yet the ontogenetic expression patterns of 5-HT receptors responsible for transducing specific effects have largely not been characterized. Fifteen different 5-HT receptor genes have been cloned; therefore any spatial and/or temporal combination of their developmental expression could mediate a wide array of 5-HT effects. We undertook a detailed analysis of expression mapping of the Gi/o-coupled 5-HT1 (5-HT1A, 1B, 1D and 1F) receptor subtypes in the fetal and early postnatal mouse forebrain. Using receptor subtype-specific riboprobes and in situ hybridization, we observed that all 5-HT1 receptor subtypes are expressed as early as embryonic day (E) 14.5 in the forebrain, typically in gradients within specific structures. Among 5-HT1 receptors, the 5-HT1A receptor transcript is expressed densely in E14.5-16.5 thalamus, in hippocampus, and in a medial to lateral gradient in cortex, whereas the 5-HT1B receptor mRNA is expressed in more lateral parts of the dorsal thalamus and in the striatum at these ages. The 5-HT1D receptor transcript, which also is expressed heavily in E14.5-E16.5 thalamus, appears to be down-regulated at birth. The 5-HT1F receptor transcript is present in proliferative regions such as the cortical ventricular zone, ganglionic eminences, and medial aspects of the thalamus at E14.5-16.5, and otherwise presents similarities to the expression patterns of 5-HT1B and 1D receptor transcripts. Overall, the 5-HT1 subfamily of Gi/o-coupled 5-HT receptors displays specific and dynamic expression patterns during embryonic forebrain development. Moreover, all members of the 5-HT1 receptor class are strongly and transiently expressed in the embryonic dorsal thalamus, which suggests a potential role for serotonin in early thalamic development.
Aiming to gain insights into the mechanisms of neuronal differentiation, we describe the first differential expression profiles of purified homogenous neural precursors (CD133+ cells from human fetal brain) with those of differentiated neurons from human fetal brain. The purity of the two populations of cells was verified by flow cytometry and immunocytochemistry, and cells were then processed for DNA microarray analysis. We confirmed the expression of several previously reported genes (e.g. cell cycle-, DNA replication- and apoptosis-related genes). In addition, we identified, and confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization, significant differential expression of platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 4, indicating these factors as potential pro-neuronal differentiation factors. In summary, by using the microarray technique to perform a comparative analysis of the genes involved in the differentiation of neural precursors, enriched from the human fetus, we have identified hitherto unknown candidate genes and related signaling pathways that might play an essential role in neuronal differentiation.
Mitochondria have many roles critical to the function of neurons including the generation of ATP and regulation of intracellular Ca2+. Mitochondrial movement is highly dynamic in neurons and is thought to direct mitochondria to specific cellular regions of increased need and to transport damaged or old mitochondria to autophagosomes. Morphology also varies between individual mitochondria and is modulated by fusion and fission proteins such as mitofusin-1 and dynamin-related protein-1, respectively. Although mitochondrial movement and morphology are thought to be modulated to best meet cellular demands, few regulatory signals have been identified. In this study, we examined how the different cellular environments of synaptically immature and mature rat cortical neurons affect mitochondrial movement, morphology, distribution and function. In younger cells, mitochondria were more mobile, were shorter, occupied a smaller percentage of neuronal processes, and expressed greater mitofusin-1 and lower dynamin-related protein-1 protein levels compared with older cells. However, the number of mitochondria per mum of neuronal process, mitochondrial membrane potential and the amount of basally sequestered mitochondrial Ca2+ were similar. Our results suggest that while mitochondria in young neurons are functionally similar to mature neurons, their enhanced motility may permit faster energy dispersal for cellular demands, such as synaptogenesis. As cells mature, mitochondria in the processes may then elongate and reduce their motility for long-term support of synaptic structures.
The present study was designed to clarify an intensity-dependent effect of prenatal stress on the morphological development of hippocampal neurons in rats. In addition, the involvement of receptors for glucocorticoids, i.e. mineralocorticoid receptors and glucocorticoid receptors, in stress-induced changes in the morphology of hippocampal neurons was examined by an in vitro pharmacological approach. The effects of mild prenatal stress on neurogenesis and long-term potentiation in the hippocampus were also investigated in adult offspring. Prenatal stress affected the morphological development of the hippocampus in an intensity-dependent manner. Short-lasting, mild prenatal stress enhanced neonatal neurogenesis and differentiation of processes of hippocampal neurons, whereas long-lasting, severe stress impaired their morphology. Mineralocorticoid receptor was found to mediate enhancement of neurogenesis and differentiation of processes of cultured hippocampal neurons. In contrast, glucocorticoid receptor was involved in the suppression of their morphology. Short-lasting, mild prenatal stress, which has previously been shown to enhance learning performance in adult offspring, facilitated neurogenesis and long-term potentiation in the adult hippocampus. These findings suggest that prenatal stress has enhancing and suppressing effects on the development of hippocampal neurons depending on intensity, and that mineralocorticoid receptors and glucocorticoid receptors contribute to stress-induced morphological changes.
During local painful inflammation, axonal transport of opioid receptors from dorsal root ganglia toward the periphery is increased, associated with a higher receptor density and enhanced efficacy of opioid analgesics at the injured site. To examine whether this increase is related to transcription, mRNA of the kappa opioid receptor in lumbar dorsal root ganglia was quantified by real time light cycler polymerase chain reaction. In dorsal root ganglia of naive rats, kappa opioid receptor mRNA expression was three-fold higher than previously shown for delta opioid receptor and two times lower than mu opioid receptor mRNA, respectively. After induction of unilateral paw inflammation by Freund's complete adjuvant, kappa opioid receptor mRNA was significantly upregulated with a peak at 12 h in ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia. This effect could be mimicked by intraplantar injection of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 beta. Kappa opioid receptor mRNA upregulation lasted longer in interleukin-1 beta-treated rats compared with Freund's complete adjuvant-treated rats. Furthermore, a significant increase in kappa opioid receptor positive neurons was detected by immunohistochemistry 24 h after local injection of Freund's complete adjuvant or interleukin-1 beta. In Freund's complete adjuvant-induced inflammation, kappa opioid receptor upregulation was blocked by treatment with interleukin-1 receptor antagonist without changing the leukocyte infiltration in the paw. In conclusion, kappa opioid receptor mRNA and protein in dorsal root ganglia are upregulated in response to peripheral inflammation. This effect can be mimicked by a single local injection of interleukin-1 beta, and Freund's complete adjuvant-induced upregulation in kappa opioid receptor mRNA and protein can be prevented by treatment with interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. These data suggest that the peripheral production of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 beta is a specific inducer of kappa opioid receptor expression in the dorsal root ganglia.
The slow (&lt;1 Hz) rhythm is an electroencephalogram hallmark of resting sleep. In thalamocortical neurons this rhythm correlates with a slow (&lt;1 Hz) oscillation comprising recurring UP and DOWN membrane potential states. Recently, we showed that metabotropic glutamate receptor activation brings about an intrinsic slow oscillation in thalamocortical neurons of the cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in vitro which is identical to that observed in vivo. The aim of this study was to further assess the properties of this oscillation and compare them with those observed in thalamocortical neurons of three other thalamic nuclei in the cat (ventrobasal complex, medial geniculate body; ventral lateral nucleus) and two thalamic nuclei in rats and mice (lateral geniculate nucleus and ventrobasal complex). Slow oscillations were evident in all of these additional structures and shared several basic properties including, i) the stereotypical, rhythmic alternation between distinct UP and DOWN states with the UP state always commencing with a low-threshold Ca2+ potential, and ii) an inverse relationship between frequency and injected current so that slow oscillations always increase in frequency with hyperpolarization, often culminating in delta (delta) activity at approximately 1-4 Hz. However, beyond these common properties there were important differences in expression between different nuclei. Most notably, 44% of slow oscillations in the cat lateral geniculate nucleus possessed UP states that comprised sustained tonic firing and/or high-threshold bursting. In contrast, slow oscillations in cat ventrobasal complex, medial geniculate body and ventral lateral nucleus thalamocortical neurons exhibited such UP states in only 16%, 11% and 10% of cases, respectively, whereas slow oscillations in the lateral geniculate nucleus and ventrobasal complex of rats and mice did so in &lt;12% of cases. Thus, the slow oscillation is a common feature of thalamocortical neurons that displays clear species- and nuclei-related differences. The potential functional significance of these results is discussed.
The green fluorescent protein can be fused to the ends of a mature glutamate receptor subunit to produce functional, fluorescent receptors. However, there are good reasons to search for internal regions of receptor subunits that can tolerate green fluorescent protein insertion. First, internal insertions of green fluorescent protein may produce functional, fluorescent subunits that traffic more correctly. Second, fluorescent proteins inserted near interacting surfaces of subunits could potentially create reagents suitable for fluorescence resonance energy transfer measurements. Finally, internal green fluorescent protein insertions could potentially produce subunits capable of signaling conformational changes through intrinsic changes in fluorescence intensity. To identify regions of receptor subunits that are permissive for green fluorescent protein insertion, we used a series of recombinant transposons to create fluorescent protein insertions in three alpha-amino-5-methyl-3-hydroxy-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptor subunits. A combined analysis of the relative fluorescence intensity and glutamate-gated ion channel function of 69 different green fluorescent protein fusion proteins identified permissive zones for the creation of bright and fully functional receptor subunits in the C-terminal portion of the amino terminal domain, the intracellular tail of the carboxy terminal domain, and within the pore-forming regions of the channel.
Previous studies have revealed the presence of retinoid specific receptors in the hippocampus and have demonstrated that vitamin A deficiency produces a severe deficit in spatial learning and memory which are linked to a proper hippocampal functioning. It is also well known that the tetradecapeptide somatostatin binds to specific receptors in the hippocampus and, when injected into this brain area, facilitates the acquisition of spatial tasks. In addition, depletion of somatostatin by cysteamine impairs acquisition of these tasks. Taken together, these studies support the idea that the hippocampal somatostatinergic system might be regulated by vitamin A. Hence, we evaluated the effects of vitamin A deprivation and subsequent administration of vitamin A on the rat hippocampal somatostatinergic system. Rats fed a vitamin A-free diet exhibited a significant reduction of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity content in the hippocampus whereas the somatostatin mRNA levels were unaltered. Vitamin A deficiency increased the somatostatin receptor density and its dissociation constant. Functional Gi activity as well as the capacity of somatostatin to inhibit basal and forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was decreased in vitamin A deficiency rats as compared with the control animals. All these parameters were fully restored when vitamin A was replaced in the diet. Furthermore, we found that the Gialpha1, Gialpha2 and Gialpha3 protein levels were unaltered in hippocampal membranes from rats fed a vitamin A-free diet whereas subsequent vitamin A administration to these rats caused a significant increase in the levels of Gialpha1 and Gialpha2. Altogether, the present findings suggest that dietary vitamin A levels modulate the somatostatinergic system in the rat hippocampus.
Rapid eye movement sleep decreases between 10 and 30 days postnatally in the rat. The pedunculopontine nucleus is known to modulate waking and rapid eye movement sleep, and pedunculopontine nucleus neurons are thought to be hyperpolarized by noradrenergic input from the locus coeruleus. The goal of the study was to investigate the possibility that a change in alpha-2 adrenergic inhibition of pedunculopontine nucleus cells during this period could explain at least part of the developmental decrease in rapid eye movement sleep. We, therefore, recorded intracellularly in 12-21 day rat brainstem slices maintained in oxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Putative cholinergic vs. non-cholinergic pedunculopontine nucleus neurons were identified using nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase histochemistry and intracellular injection of neurobiotin (Texas Red immunocytochemistry). Pedunculopontine nucleus neurons also were identified by intrinsic membrane properties, type I (low threshold spike), type II (A) and type III (A+low threshold spike), as previously described. Clonidine (20 microM) hyperpolarized most cholinergic and non-cholinergic pedunculopontine nucleus cells. This hyperpolarization decreased significantly in amplitude (mean+/-S.E.) from -6.8+/-1.0 mV at 12-13 days, to -3.0+/-0.7 mV at 20-21 days. However, much of these early effects (12-15 days) were indirect such that direct effects (tested following sodium channel blockade with tetrodotoxin (0.3 microM)) resulted in hyperpolarization averaging -3.4+/-0.5 mV, similar to that evident at 16-21 days. Non-cholinergic cells were less hyperpolarized than cholinergic cells at 12-13 days (-1.6+/-0.3 mV), but equally hyperpolarized at 20-21 days (-3.3+/-1.3 mV). In those cells tested, hyperpolarization was blocked by yohimbine, an alpha-2 adrenergic receptor antagonist (1.5 microM). These results suggest that the alpha-2 adrenergic receptor on cholinergic pedunculopontine nucleus neurons activated by clonidine may play only a modest role, if any, in the developmental decrease in rapid eye movement sleep. Clonidine blocked or reduced the hyperpolarization-activated inward cation conductance, so that its effects on the firing rate of a specific population of pedunculopontine nucleus neurons could be significant. In conclusion, the alpha-2 adrenergic input to pedunculopontine nucleus neurons appears to consistently modulate the firing rate of cholinergic and non-cholinergic pedunculopontine nucleus neurons, with important effects on the regulation of sleep-wake states.
Stimulation of the anterior ethmoidal nerve or the nasal mucosa induces cardiorespiratory responses similar to those seen in diving mammals. We have utilized the transganglionic transport of a cocktail of horseradish peroxidase conjugates and anterograde and retrograde tract tracing techniques to elucidate pathways which may be important for these responses in the rat. Label was seen throughout the trigeminal sensory complex after the horseradish peroxidase conjugates were applied to the anterior ethmoidal nerve peripherally. Reaction product was most dense in the medullary dorsal horn, especially in laminae I and II. Injections were made of biotinylated dextran amine into the recipient zones of the medullary dorsal horn from the anterior ethmoidal nerve, and the anterogradely transported label documented. Label was found in many brainstem areas, but fibers with varicosities were noted in specific subdivisions of the nucleus tractus solitarii and parabrachial nucleus, as well as parts of the caudal and rostral ventrolateral medulla and A5 (noradrenergic cell group in ventrolateral pons) area. The retrograde transport of FluoroGold into the medullary dorsal horn after injections into these areas showed most neurons in laminae I, II, and V. Label was especially dense in areas which received primary afferent fibers from the anterior ethmoidal nerve. These data identify potential neural circuits for the diving response of the rat.
Corticocortical disconnection in Alzheimer's disease occurs by the progressive impairment and eventual loss of a small subset of pyramidal neurons in layers III and V of association areas of the neocortex. These neurons exhibit large somatic size, extensive dendritic arborization and high levels of nonphosphorylated neurofilaments of medium and high molecular weight that can be identified using a monoclonal SMI-32 antibody. It is thought that the accumulation of amyloid Abeta and neurofibrillary tangles may provoke metabolic disturbances that result in the loss of these SMI-32 immunoreactive neurons. The recent detection of increased levels of caspase-3 cleaved fodrin in frontal, temporal and parietal association areas in Alzheimer's disease brains suggests that programmed cell death may contribute to the destruction of SMI-32 positive neurons. In the present study, we utilized an antibody that selectively recognizes the 120 kDa breakdown product of alphaIIspectrin (fodrin) generated by caspase-3 to determine whether this protease is activated in vulnerable pyramidal neurons located in layers III and V of Alzheimer's disease brains. Neurons immunoreactive for caspase-3 cleaved alphaIIspectrin were located predominantly in layers III and V of the inferior frontal and superior temporal cortices of patients with Alzheimer's disease but not age-matched controls. Pyramidal neurons immunoreactive for caspase-3 cleaved alphaIIspectrin invariably displayed SMI-32 immunoreactivity suggesting that caspase-3 activation is a pathological event that may be responsible for the loss of a subset of pyramidal neurons that comprise corticocortical projections.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase, the major nitric oxide synthase isoform in the mammalian brain, is implicated in some developmental processes, including neuronal survival, precursor proliferation and differentiation. However, reports about the role of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus are conflicting. Here we show that 5-bromodeoxyuridine-labeled dividing progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus were significantly increased in mice receiving 7-nitroindazole, a selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, and in null mutant mice lacking neuronal nitric oxide synthase gene (nNOS-/-) 6 h and 4 weeks after 5-bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. The increase in 5-bromodeoxyuridine positive cells in 7-nitroindazole-treated mice was accompanied by activation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein phosphorylation in the dentate gyrus. Pretreatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 fully abolished the effects of 7-nitroindazole on neurogenesis and cyclic AMP response element binding protein phosphorylation. Furthermore, neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibition significantly enhanced the survival of newborn cells and the number of 5-bromodeoxyuridine positive/NeuN positive cells in the dentate gyrus. These results indicate that neuronal nitric oxide synthase-derived nitric oxide suppresses neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus, in which N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor functions and cyclic AMP response element binding protein phosphorylation may be involved.
We previously reported that male mice are more attracted to volatile odors from intact female mice than from ovariectomized female mice. In the present study, we investigated male attraction to volatile odors from soiled bedding collected from the cages of estrous or ovariectomized female mice. There was no difference in the total time spent sniffing volatile odors from estrous and ovariectomized female mice, suggesting that female mice emit volatile odors which are not excreted into bedding. To test this possibility, we investigated c-Fos expression in the mitral cell layer and granule cell layer of the accessory olfactory bulb 60 min after exposure of male mice to volatile odors without physical contact. Volatile odors from an estrous female mouse significantly increased the total number of c-Fos positive cells in each of the rostral and caudal granule cell layer, but not in the mitral cell layer. After exposure to volatile odors from estrous bedding, the total number of c-Fos positive cells did not increase. Volatile odors from a male mouse did not increase the total number of c-Fos positive cells. Volatile odors from an ovariectomized female mouse increased c-Fos expression only in the caudal granule cell layer. These results suggest that female mice emit specific volatile odors which are not excreted into bedding, and that the volatile odors activate the accessory olfactory system of male mice without physical contact. To characterize the female-specific volatile odors, we conducted habituation-dishabituation tests. Whereas sham-operated male mice discriminated between volatile odors of estrous and ovariectomized female mice, vomeronasal organ-removed male mice did not. These results suggest that male mice discriminated whether or not female mice were ovariectomized, by volatile odors via the accessory olfactory system, and that the female-specific volatile odors are involved in reproduction.
In the peripheral nervous system, utrophin and the short dystrophin isoform (Dp116) are co-localized at the outermost layer of the myelin sheath of nerve fibers; together with the dystroglycan complex. Dp116 is associated with multiple glycoproteins, i.e. sarcoglycans, and alpha- and beta-dystroglycan, which anchor the cytoplasmic protein subcomplex to the extracellular basal lamina. In peripheral nerve, matrix metalloproteinase activity disrupts the dystroglycan complex by cleaving the extracellular domain of beta-dystroglycan. Metalloproteinase creates a 30 kDa fragment of beta-dystroglycan, leading to a disruption of the link between the extracellular matrix and the cell membrane. Here we asked if the processing of the beta-dystroglycan could influence the anchorage of Dp116 and/or utrophin in normal and mdx Schwann cell membrane. We showed that metalloproteinase-9 was more activated in mdx nerve than in wild-type ones. This activation leads to an accumulation of the 30 kDa beta-dystroglycan isoform and has an impact on the anchorage of Dp116 and utrophin isoforms in mdx Schwann cells membrane. Our results showed that Dp116 had greater affinity to the full length form of beta-dystroglycan than the 30 kDa form. Moreover, we showed for the first time that the short isoform of utrophin (Up71) was over-expressed in mdx Schwann cells compared with wild-type. In addition, this utrophin isoform (Up71) seems to have greater affinity to the 30 kDa beta-dystroglycan which could explain the increased stabilization of this 30 kDa form at the membrane compartment. Our results highlight the potential participation of the short utrophin isoform and the cleaved form of beta-dystroglycan in mdx Schwann cell membrane architecture. We proposed that these two proteins could be implicated in Schwann cell proliferation in response to a microenvironment stress such as mediated by accumulating macrophages in mdx mouse muscle inflammation sites.
Numerous neurological diseases which include neuroinflammatory components exhibit an age-related prevalence. The aging process is characterized by an increase of inflammatory mediators both systemically and in the brain, which may prime glial cells. However, little information is available on age-related changes in the glial response of the healthy aging brain to an inflammatory challenge. This problem was here examined using a mixture of the proinflammatory cytokines interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, which was injected intracerebroventricularly in young (2-3.5 months), middle-aged (10-11 months) and aged (18-21 months) mice. Vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline) was used as control. After a survival of 1 or 2 days (all age groups) or 4 days (young and middle-aged animals), immunohistochemically labeled astrocytes and microglia were investigated both qualitatively and quantitatively. In all age groups, astrocytes were markedly activated in periventricular as well as in deeper brain regions 2 days following cytokine treatment, whereas microglia activation was already evident at 24 h. Interestingly, cytokine-induced activation of both astrocytes and microglia was significantly more marked in the brain of aged animals, in which it included numerous ameboid microglia, than of younger age groups. Moderate astrocytic activation was also seen in the hippocampal CA1 field of vehicle-treated aged mice. FluoroJade B histochemistry and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated UTP nick-end labeling technique, performed at 2 days after cytokine administration, did not reveal ongoing cell death phenomena in young or aged animals. This indicated that glial cell changes were not secondary to neuronal death. Altogether, the findings demonstrate for the first time enhanced activation of glial cells in the old brain, compared with young and middle-aged subjects, in response to cytokine exposure. Interestingly, the results also suggest that such enhancement does not develop gradually since youth, but appears characterized by relatively late onset.
Cerebellar Purkinje cells have the most elaborate dendritic trees among the neurons in the CNS. To investigate the dynamic aspects of dendritic morphogenesis of Purkinje cells, we performed a long-term analysis of living cells in cerebellar cell cultures derived from glutamate decarboxylase 67-green fluorescent protein mice. Most Purkinje cells had several primary dendrites during the 25-day culture period. Repeated observation of green fluorescent protein-expressing Purkinje cells over a period of 10-25 days in vitro demonstrated that not only extension, but also retraction of primary dendrites occurred during this culture period. Interestingly, both extension and retraction of primary dendrites were active between 10 and 15 days in vitro, and retraction of a primary dendrite occurred concomitantly with elongation of other primary dendrites in the same cell. Analysis of the morphological characteristics of the retracted primary dendrites demonstrated that shorter and less branched primary dendrites tended to retract. Furthermore, treatment with an inhibitor of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II reduced the number of primary dendrites specifically during 5-15 days in vitro, the culture period when the extension and retraction of primary dendrites occurred actively. Blockade of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate-type glutamate receptors also reduced the number of primary dendrites during the same culture period, while inhibition of glutamate transporters increased the number. These findings suggest that the final morphology of Purkinje cells is achieved not only through extension, but also through retraction of their dendrites, and that calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and neuronal activity are involved in this dendritic morphogenesis.
Nerve injury elicits both universal and limited responses. Among the former is regenerative growth, which occurs in most peripheral neurons, and among the latter is the long-term hyperexcitability that appears selectively in nociceptive sensory neurons. Since positive injury signals communicate information from the site of an injury to the cell body, we hypothesize that a nerve injury activates both universal and limited positive injury signals. Studies in Aplysia indicate that protein kinase G is a limited signal that is responsible for the induction of long-term hyperexcitability. Given that long-term hyperexcitability contributes to chronic pain after axotomy in rodent neuropathic pain models, we investigated its underlying basis in the rat peripheral nervous system. Using biochemical assays, Western blots, and immunocytochemistry we found that the Type 1alpha protein kinase G is the predominant isoform in the rat periphery. It is present primarily in axons and cell bodies of nociceptive neurons, including populations that are isolectin B4-positive, isolectin B4-negative, and those that express transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1. Surprisingly, protein kinase G is not present in the facial nerve, which overwhelmingly contains axons of motor neurons. Crushing the sciatic nerve or a cutaneous sensory nerve activates protein kinase G in axons and results in its retrograde transport to the neuronal somata in the DRG. Preventing the activation of protein kinase G by injecting Rp-8-pCPT-cGMPS into the crush site abolished the transport. The protein kinase A inhibitor Rp-8-pCPT-cAMPS had no effect. Extracellular signal-related kinases 42/44 are also activated and transported after nerve crush, but in both motor and sensory axons. Chronic pain has been linked to long-term hyperexcitability following a nerve inflammation in several rodent models. We therefore injected complete Freund's adjuvant into the hindpaw to induce an inflammation and found that protein kinase G was activated in the sural nerve and transported to the DRG. In contrast, the extracellular signal-related kinases in the sensory axons were not activated by the complete Freund's adjuvant. These studies support the idea that the extracellular signal-related kinases are universal positive axonal signals and that protein kinase G is a limited positive axonal signal. They also establish the association between protein kinase G, the induction of long-term hyperexcitability, and chronic pain in rodents.
Neurogenesis declines with advancing age. The mammalian achaete-scute homologue-1 encodes a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, which controls neuronal differentiation. In this study, we first tested whether atorvastatin treatment enhances neurological functional outcome and neuronal differentiation after stroke in retired breeder 12 month rats. Rats were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion and treated with or without atorvastatin (3 mg/kg) for 7 days. Atorvastatin significantly increased expression of mammalian achaete-scute homologue-1, beta-tubulin III, and vascular endothelial growth factor in the ischemic brain, and concomitantly improved functional outcome compared with middle cerebral artery occlusion control rats. Increased neurogenesis significantly correlated with functional recovery after stroke. To further investigate the mechanisms of atorvastatin-induced neuronal differentiation, experiments were performed on neurospheres derived from retired breeder rat subventricular zone cells. Atorvastatin increased neuronal differentiation and upregulated vascular endothelial growth factor and mammalian achaete-scute homologue-1 gene expression in cultured neurospheres. Vascular endothelial growth factor-treated neurospheres significantly increased mammalian achaete-scute homologue-1 and beta-tubulin III expression. Inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor decreased atorvastatin-induced mammalian achaete-scute homologue-1 and beta-tubulin III expression. These data indicate that atorvastatin increases neuronal differentiation in retired breeder rats. In addition, atorvastatin upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor expression, influences mammalian achaete-scute homologue-1 transcription factor, which in turn, facilitates an increase in subventricular zone neuronal differentiation. These atorvastatin-mediated molecular events may contribute to the improved functional outcome in retired breeder rats subjected to stroke.
Bone morphogenetic proteins play a key role in astrocytic differentiation. Astrocytes express the gap junctional protein connexin-43, which permits exchange of small molecules in brain and enhances synaptic efficacy. Bone marrow stromal cells produce soluble factors including bone morphogenetic protein 2 and bone morphogenetic protein 4 (bone morphogenetic protein 2/4) in ischemic brain. Here, we tested whether intra-carotid infusion of bone marrow stromal cells promotes synaptophysin expression and neurological functional recovery after stroke in rats. Adult male Wistar rats were subjected to 2 h of right middle cerebral artery occlusion. Rats were treated with or without bone marrow stromal cells at 24 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion via intra-arterial injection (n=8/group). A battery of functional tests was performed. Immunostaining of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine, Ki67, bone morphogenetic protein 2/4, connexin-43, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, neuronal nuclear antigen, and double staining of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine/glial fibrillary acidic protein, 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine/neuronal nuclear antigen, glial fibrillary acidic protein/bone morphogenetic protein 2/4 and glial fibrillary acidic protein/connexin-43 were employed. Rats treated with bone marrow stromal cells significantly (P&lt;0.05) improved functional recovery compared with the controls. 5-Bromo-2-deoxyuridine and Ki67 positive cells in the ipsilateral subventricular zone were significantly (P&lt;0.05) increased in bone marrow stromal cell treatment group compared with the controls, respectively. Administration of bone marrow stromal cells significantly (P&lt;0.05) promoted the proliferating cell astrocytic differentiation, and increased bone morphogenetic protein 2/4, connexin-43 and synaptophysin expression in the ischemic boundary zone compared with the controls, respectively. Bone morphogenetic protein 2/4 expression correlated with the expression of connexin-43 (r=0.84, P&lt;0.05) and connexin-43 expression correlated with the expression of synaptophysin (r=0.73, P&lt;0.05) in the ischemic boundary zone, respectively. Administration of bone marrow stromal cells via an intra-carotid route increases endogenous brain bone morphogenetic protein 2/4 and connexin-43 expression in astrocytes and promotes synaptophysin expression, which may benefit functional recovery after stroke in rats.
The effects of i.c.v. administration of prolactin-releasing peptide on neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of rats and plasma corticosterone levels were examined by measuring changes in Fos-like immunoreactivity, c-fos mRNA using in situ hybridization histochemistry, and plasma corticosterone using a specific radioimmunoassay. Approximately 80% of corticotropin-releasing hormone immunoreactive cells exhibited Fos-like immunoreactivity in the parvocellular division of the paraventricular nucleus 90 min after i.c.v. administration of prolactin-releasing peptide. The greatest induction of the c-fos mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus was observed 30 min after administration of prolactin-releasing peptide, and occurred in a dose-related manner. Plasma corticosterone levels were also significantly increased 30 min after administration of prolactin-releasing peptide. Next, the effects of restraint stress, nociceptive stimulus and acute inflammatory stress on the expression of the prolactin-releasing peptide mRNA in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract and ventrolateral medulla were examined using in situ hybridization histochemistry for prolactin-releasing peptide mRNA. Restraint stress and acute inflammatory stress upregulated the prolactin-releasing peptide mRNA expression in the nucleus of the solitary tract and ventrolateral medulla. Nociceptive stimulus upregulated the prolactin-releasing peptide mRNA expression in the ventrolateral medulla. Finally, we observed that pretreatment (i.c.v. administration) with an anti-prolactin-releasing peptide antibody significantly attenuated nociceptive stimulus-induced c-fos mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus. These results suggest that prolactin-releasing peptide is a potent and important mediator of the stress response in the brain through the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus.
In neurons of dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus that is involved in the gastric motility and possibly emesis, application of 5-hydroxytryptamine produces membrane depolarization, and suppresses spike-repolarization and spike-afterhyperpolarization, suggesting divergent effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine through activating multiple subtypes of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors. However, only the role of 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptors has been established to be responsible for the depolarization, and the mechanisms underlying the modulation of spikes remain unknown although a role of 5-hydroxytryptamine 4 receptors was implicated in modulations of spikes. There is now increasing evidence for the role of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors in neurons involved in generating emesis following administration of anticancer drug. Since antagonists of 5-hydroxytryptamine 3/4 receptors are widely used as anti-emetic drugs, we have reevaluated the functional roles of 5-hydroxytryptamine 3/4 receptors of dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus neurons, especially in modulating transient outward currents that are presumed to be involved in spike-repolarization and spike-afterhyperpolarization. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus neurons, which were identified by a retrograde tracing method with dextran-tetramethylrhodamine-lysine injected into a bundle of abdominal vagus nerves. Under a voltage-clamp condition, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus neurons expressed a prominent A-like current. The activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 receptors reversibly increased the resting membrane conductance while the activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 4 receptors led to an almost irreversible decrease in the A-like current. A long-lasting suppression of A-like current by transient activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 4 receptors would result in a long-lasting increase in the excitability of dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus neurons, which might be involved in generation of the long-lasting facilitation of gastric motility or in generation of the long-lasting gastric relaxation through the activation of enteric non-adrenergic non-cholinergic neurons as implicated in the delayed emesis induced by anticancer drugs.
Freezing injury to the developing cortical plate results in a neocortical malformation resembling four-layered microgyria. Previous work has demonstrated that following freezing injury to the somatosensory cortex, males (but not females) have more small and fewer large cells in the medial geniculate nucleus. In the first experiment, we examined the effects of induced microgyria to the somatosensory cortex on neuronal numbers, neuronal size, and nuclear volume of three sensory nuclei: ventrobasal complex, dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, and medial geniculate nucleus. We found that there was a decrease in neuronal number and nuclear volume in ventrobasal complex of microgyric rats when compared with shams, whereas there were no differences in these variables in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus or medial geniculate nucleus. We also found that there were more small and fewer large neurons in both ventrobasal complex and medial geniculate nucleus. In experiment 2, we attempted to determine the role of cell death in the thalamus on these histometric measures. We found that cell death peaked within 24 h of the freezing injury and was concentrated mostly in ventrobasal complex. In addition, there was evidence of greater cell death in males at this age. Taken together, these results support the notion that males are more severely affected by early injury to the cerebral cortex than females.
Previous reports have demonstrated that small- to medium-diameter dorsal root ganglia (DRG) cells in rats can be subgrouped into individual cell types by patterns of voltage-activated currents. These cell types have consistent responses to algesic compounds and maintain characteristic histochemical phenotypes. Using immunocytochemical methods, we have now examined expression of TWIK (tandem of P domains in a weak inwardly rectifying K+ channel)-related acid sensitive K+ (TASK) channels, TASK-1, TASK-2 and TASK-3, in nine electrophysiologically identified small- to medium-diameter DRG cell types. The immunoreactivity in DRG cells was diverse, with all nine cell types expressing one to all three TASK channels. Some cells expressed TASK-1 (types 1, 4, 6 and 9), some TASK-2 (types 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9), and some TASK-3 (types 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8). The co-expression of TASK-1 and TASK-3 in cell types 1, 4 and 6 suggests that these sensory afferents might contain functional heterodimeric channels. In peripheral sensory afferents, TASK channels have been implicated in the pain sensory transduction pathway, and can be modulated by anesthetics and neuroprotective agents. This study seeks to identify TASK channel populations in electrophysiologically characterized populations of putative nociceptive afferents.
Oxytocin and the nucleus accumbens have been extensively implicated in the regulation of maternal behavior, and the processing of pup-related stimuli relevant for this behavior. Oxytocin receptor density in the nucleus accumbens is highly variable in virgin female prairie voles, as is their behavioral response to pups, ranging from neglecting and infanticidal to full maternal behavior. We hypothesized that oxytocin receptor in the nucleus accumbens facilitates the expression of &quot;spontaneous&quot; maternal behavior in prairie voles. Forty sexually-naive adult females were exposed to pups for the first time and tested for maternal behavior. Oxytocin receptor binding in the nucleus accumbens and other brain regions was later determined using autoradiography. Females that showed maternal behavior (lick and groom the pups and hover over them for at least 30 s, n=24) had higher oxytocin receptor density in the nucleus accumbens (shell subregion) (P&lt;0.05) than females that did not show maternal behavior or attacked the pups (n=16). No differences were found in other brain regions (medial preoptic area, septum, prelimbic cortex). In a second experiment, we tested whether infusions of the oxytocin receptor antagonist (d(CH2)5(1),Tyr(Me)2,Orn8)-AVT into the nucleus accumbens would block &quot;spontaneous&quot; maternal behavior. As a control region, oxytocin receptor antagonist was also infused into the caudate putamen. Ten females were infused bilaterally into the nucleus accumbens or caudate putamen with either 2 ng/0.5 microl of oxytocin receptor antagonist or CSF (vehicle). While five of 10 nucleus accumbens CSF-infused animals showed maternal behavior, none of the nucleus accumbens oxytocin receptor antagonist-infused subjects did (0/10; chi2, P&lt;0.01). Nucleus accumbens oxytocin receptor antagonist-infused females recovered the next day and were not different from controls. Animals infused with CSF or oxytocin receptor antagonist into the caudate putamen did not differ (four/10, four/10). This is the first study to show that the nucleus accumbens is involved in the regulation of &quot;spontaneous&quot; maternal behavior and that oxytocin receptor in this brain region facilitates maternal responses.
The synaptic long-term potentiation between primary afferent C-fibers and spinal lamina I projection neurons is a cellular model for hyperalgesia [Ikeda H, Heinke B, Ruscheweyh R, Sandkhler J (2003) Synaptic plasticity in spinal lamina I projection neurons that mediate hyperalgesia. Science 299:1237-1240]. In lamina I neurons with a projection to the periaqueductal gray, this long-term potentiation is dependent on nitric oxide. In the present study, we used immunohistochemistry to detect possible sources and sites of action of the nitric oxide necessary for the long-term potentiation at lamina I spino-periaqueductal gray neurons in rats. None of the three isoforms of the nitric oxide synthase was expressed in a significant number of lamina I spino-periaqueductal gray neurons or primary afferent C-fibers (as evaluated by staining of their cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglia). However, endothelial and inducible nitric oxide synthase were found throughout the spinal cord vasculature and neuronal nitric oxide synthase was present in a number of neurons in laminae II and III. The nitric oxide target soluble guanylyl cyclase was detected in most lamina I spino-periaqueductal gray neurons and in approximately 12% of the dorsal root ganglion neurons, all of them nociceptive as evaluated by coexpression of substance P. Synthesis of cyclic 3',5'-guanosine monophosphate upon stimulation by a nitric oxide donor confirmed the presence of active guanylyl cyclase in at least a portion of the spino-periaqueductal gray neuronal cell bodies. We therefore propose that nitric oxide generated in neighboring neurons or blood vessels acts on the spino-periaqueductal gray neuron and/or the primary afferent C-fiber to enable long-term potentiation. Lamina I spino-parabrachial neurons were stained for comparison and yielded similar results.
The dorsolateral pons around the parabrachial nucleus including the Klliker-Fuse nucleus is closely linked with the medullary respiratory center and plays an important role in respiratory control. We aimed to elucidate the firing properties, detailed distributions, and medullary projections of pontine respiratory neurons in pentobarbitone-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated rats with intact vagi. A total of 235 respiratory neurons were recorded from the dorsolateral pons in and around the Klliker-Fuse nucleus. Six types of firing patterns were identified: inspiratory, expiratory-inspiratory phase spanning, inspiratory-expiratory phase spanning, decrementing expiratory, augmenting expiratory, and whole-phase expiratory patterns. Of these, the inspiratory neurons and the expiratory-inspiratory phase spanning neurons, which constituted the largest population (61%), were characterized most carefully by changing lung inflation levels, since under some conditions both showed similar firing patterns. Many (58%) of the 133 respiratory neurons examined were antidromically activated by electrical stimulation of the medulla. They were activated from the ventrolateral medulla around the ventral respiratory group and the Btzinger complex and from the dorsomedial medulla around the nucleus tractus solitarii and the hypoglossal nucleus. The projections to the dorsomedial medulla were bilateral in many cases, and those to the ventrolateral medulla were unilateral. Of these medullary projections, two specific projections could be characterized in detail. First, many expiratory-inspiratory phase spanning neurons projected to the hypoglossal nucleus, suggesting that these pontine neurons are important premotor neurons of the hypoglossal motoneurons. This projection explains well the hypoglossal inspiratory activity, which is often dissociated from the phrenic inspiratory activity. Second, most whole-phase expiratory neurons that were distributed medially to the KF nucleus sent their axons toward the spinal cord via the midline medulla. These findings provide a new insight into the pontine control of medullary and spinal respiratory function.
Local inflammatory responses play an important role in mediating secondary tissue damage in traumatic brain injury. Characterization of leukocytic subpopulations contributing to the early infiltration of the damaged tissue might aid in further understanding of lesion development and contribute to definition of cellular targets for selective immunotherapy. In a rat traumatic brain injury model, significant CD8+ cell accumulation was observed 3 days post-injury. The CD8+ cells were strictly distributed to the pannecrotic areas and around the pannecrotic perimeter. The morphology, time course of accumulation and distribution of CD8+ cells were similar to that of reactive ED1+ and endothelial monocyte-activating polypeptide II+ microglia/macrophages, but different from W3/13+ T cells. Further double-labeling experiments confirmed that the major cellular sources of CD8 were reactive macrophages/microglia. Both the location of these CD8+ macrophages/microglia to the border of the pannecrosis and their co-expression of endothelial monocyte-activating polypeptide II and P2X4 receptor suggest they might have a central role in lesion development and might thus be candidates for development of immunotherapeutic, anti-inflammatory strategies.
The study was aimed at investigating the expression and the activity of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, and of soluble guanylyl cyclase and phosphodiesterase activities that regulate guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate level in the midbrain, in a mouse model of PD using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine injections. Adult male mice of the C57/BL strain were given three i.p. injections of physiological saline or three i.p. injections of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine solution in physiological saline at 2 h intervals (summary 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine dose: 40 mg/kg), and were killed 3, 7, or 14 days later. mRNA, protein level, and/or activities of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, soluble guanylyl cyclase, phosphodiesterase and guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate were determined. Immunohistochemistry showed about 75% decrease in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Mice treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine showed increased midbrain guanylyl cyclase and total nitric oxide synthase activities at 3, 7, and 14 days post-treatment. The specific neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (10 microM) and the specific inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor 1400W (10 microM) inhibited the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced excess in nitric oxide synthase activity by 63-70 and 13-25%, respectively. The increases in total midbrain nitric oxide synthase activity were accompanied by elevated guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate, enhanced expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and of the beta1 subunit of guanylyl cyclase at both mRNA and protein levels that persisted up to the end of the observation period, and by enhanced neuronal nitric oxide synthase and guanylyl cyclase beta1 immunoreactivities in substantia nigra pars compacta 7 and 14 days after the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment. The increases in guanylyl cyclase activity were found to occur exclusively due to increased maximal enzyme activity. No 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced change in phosphodiesterase activity has been detected in any brain region studied. 7-Nitroindazole prevented a significant increase in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced midbrain guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate level and neurodegeneration of dopaminergic neurons. These results raise the possibility that the nitric oxide/guanylyl cyclase/guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate signaling pathway may play a role in maintaining dopaminergic neurons function in substantia nigra pars compacta.
Leukotriene B4 is a potent lipid mediator, which has been identified as a potent proinflammatory and immunomodulatory compound. Although there has been robust evidence indicating that leukotriene B4 is synthesized in the normal brain, detailed distribution and its functions in the nervous system have been unclear. To obtain insight into the possible neural function of leukotriene B4, we examined the immunohistochemical distribution of leukotriene A4 hydrolase, an enzyme catalyzing the final and committed step in leukotriene B4 biosynthesis, in the mouse nervous system. Immunoreactivity for leukotriene A4 hydrolase showed widespread distribution with preference to the sensory-associated structures; i.e. neurons in the olfactory epithelium and vomeronasal organ, olfactory glomeruli, possibly amacrine cells, neurons in the ganglion cell layer and three bands in the inner plexiform layer of the retina, axons in the optic nerve and tract up to the superior colliculus, inner and outer hair cells and the spiral ganglion cells in the cochlea, vestibulocochlear nerve bundle, spinal trigeminal tract, and lamina II of the spinal cord. Double immunofluorescence staining demonstrated that most of the leukotriene A4-hydrolase-immunopositive neurons coexpressed calretinin, a calcium-binding protein in neurons. The ubiquitous distribution of leukotriene A4 hydrolase was in sharp contrast with the distribution of leukotriene C4 synthase [Shimada A, Satoh M, Chiba Y, Saitoh Y, Kawamura N, Keino H, Hosokawa M, Shimizu T (2005) Highly selective localization of leukotriene C4 synthase in hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic vasopressin systems of mouse brain. Neuroscience 131:683-689] which was confined to the hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic vasopressinergic neurons. These results suggest that leukotriene B4 may exert some neuromodulatory function mainly in the sensory nervous system, in concert with calretinin.
Delta opioid receptor agonists produce only a moderate degree of antinociception, possibly reflecting the predominantly intracellular location of delta opioid receptor. However, recent studies suggest that short term morphine pretreatment can increase delta opioid receptor-mediated antinociception by promoting the translocation of delta opioid receptor to the cell surface. Even more striking sensitization has been reported after long term morphine pretreatment and withdrawal in locomotor tests. In the present study we therefore examined the effects of longer term morphine pretreatment and withdrawal on delta opioid receptor-mediated antinociception in the formalin test. Male adult rats were pretreated daily with morphine (10 mg/kg s.c.) or saline for 10 days, and were tested acutely with the delta opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala2,Glu4]-deltorphin (intrathecal) at 0, 7 and 14 days of withdrawal. Unexpectedly, chronic morphine pre-exposure resulted in tolerance to [D-Ala2,Glu4]-deltorphin-induced antinociception, and this occurred at 0 and 7 but not 14 days of morphine withdrawal. Morphine challenge at withdrawal day 7 confirmed the presence of tolerance to the antinociceptive effects of this drug. Chronic morphine pretreatment also resulted in tolerance to the locomotor stimulant effect of [D-Ala2,Glu4]-deltorphin (given i.c.v.), contrary to a previous report of sensitization. However, consistent with previous reports, short term (2 day) pretreatment with morphine did result in sensitization to [D-Ala2,Glu4]-deltorphin. Subsequent in vitro analysis, using [125I][D-Ala2,Glu4]-deltorphin or guanosine 5'(gamma-35S-thio) triphosphate autoradiography, did not reveal any changes in delta opioid receptor binding or function resulting from chronic morphine pretreatment. In conclusion, chronic morphine pretreatment caused tolerance to delta opioid receptor-mediated behavioral effects with no clear change at the receptor level.
The temporalis muscle is a common source of pain in headache and chronic craniofacial pain conditions such as temporomandibular disorders, which have an increased prevalence in women. The characteristics of slowly conducting temporalis afferent fibers have not been investigated. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine the characteristics of slowly conducting temporalis muscle afferent fibers and to determine whether these fibers are excited by activation of peripheral N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The response properties of a total of 117 temporalis afferent fibers were assessed in male and female rats. A majority of these fibers had high mechanical thresholds and slow conduction velocities (&lt;10 m/s). The mechanical threshold of the temporalis afferent fibers was inversely correlated with afferent conduction velocity, however, no sex-related differences in mechanical threshold were identified. There were also no sex-related differences in N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked afferent discharge. Indeed, injection of a high concentration (1600 mM) of N-methyl-D-aspartate into the temporalis muscle was necessary to evoke significant afferent discharge. Thirty minutes after the initial injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate into the temporalis muscle, a second injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate produced a response only about 50% as large as the initial injection. Co-injection of ketamine (20 mM) with the second injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate significantly decreased N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked afferent discharge in both sexes. This concentration of ketamine is greater than that needed to attenuate afferent discharge evoked by injection of glutamate into the masseter muscle. These results suggest that unlike masseter afferent fibers, temporalis afferent fibers are relatively insensitive to peripheral N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation.
Huntington's disease is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by a mutation of the huntingtin gene and involves progressive motor abnormalities (including chorea), cognitive deficits (dementia) as well as psychiatric symptoms. We have previously demonstrated that environmental enrichment slows the onset and progression of Huntington's disease in transgenic mice. Here, we investigated the effects of enhanced physical exercise on disease progression and brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression. Standard-housed Huntington's disease mice developed phenotypic rear-paw clasping by 16 weeks of age, displayed abnormal rearing behavior, deficits in motor co-ordination and of spatial working memory. Huntington's disease mice with access to running wheels exhibited delayed onset of rear-paw clasping, normalized levels of rearing behavior and amelioration of the cognitive deficits. However, in contrast to our previous environmental enrichment studies, there was no rescue of motor coordination deficits in wheel-running Huntington's disease mice. An abnormal accumulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein in the frontal cortex of Huntington's disease mice was unaffected by running. Striatal and hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein levels were unchanged. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA levels were reduced in the anterior cortex, striatum and hippocampus of Huntington's disease mice, and only striatal deficits were ameliorated by running. Overall, we show that voluntary physical exercise delays the onset of Huntington's disease and the decline in cognitive ability. In addition, our results reveal that some aspects of hippocampal dependent memory are not entirely reliant on sustained hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression.
Both the habenula and the nucleus accumbens, and especially the glutamatergic innervation of the latter from the hippocampus, have been hypothesized to be involved, in different ways, in the pathophysiology of cognitive disturbances in schizophrenia. Lesions of the habenula produce disturbances of memory and attention in experimental animals. As the habenular nuclei have been shown to influence the release of many neurotransmitters, both in the hippocampus and the nucleus accumbens, we examined in this study the effects of bilateral habenula lesions on the plasticity of the fimbria-nucleus accumbens pathway, by means of the long-term depression phenomenon in freely moving rats. Long-term depression, induced within the shell region of the nucleus accumbens by low-frequency stimulation of the fimbria, was exaggerated and showed greater persistence in habenula-lesioned rats compared with sham-operated animals. These results indicate that plasticity in the fimbria-nucleus accumbens pathway is altered by habenula lesions in a way similar to previously-reported effects of stress and the psychosis-provoking agent ketamine. Moreover, they strengthen the views that the habenula belongs to systems, mediating higher cognitive functions, which involve the hippocampus and the nucleus accumbens. Finally, this study suggests that dysfunction of the habenula could contribute to cognitive alterations in diseases such as schizophrenia, where the habenula is reported to exhibit exaggerated calcification.
The neurotransmitters serotonin and corticotrophin-releasing factor are thought to play an important role in fear and anxiety behaviors. This study aimed to determine the relationship between corticotrophin-releasing factor-evoked changes in serotonin levels within discrete regions of the limbic system and the expression of fear behavior in rats. The effects of corticotrophin-releasing factor administration to the serotonin cell body regions of the dorsal raphe nucleus on fear behavior, behavioral activity, and extracellular serotonin levels were assessed in freely moving rats with microdialysis probes implanted into the central nucleus of the amygdala and the medial prefrontal cortex. Infusion of corticotrophin-releasing factor (0.5 microg) into the dorsal raphe rapidly induced freezing behavior, which was positively correlated with an immediate increase in serotonin release in the central nucleus of the amygdala. In contrast, cessation of freezing behavior correlated with a delayed and prolonged increase in serotonin release within the medial prefrontal cortex. Our findings suggest that corticotrophin-releasing factor-induced freezing behavior is associated with regionally and temporally distinct serotonergic responses in the limbic system that may reflect differing roles for these regions in the expression of fear/anxiety behavior.
We have previously shown that age-related reduction of innervation and function in mesenteric perivascular calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing vasodilator nerves takes place in spontaneously hypertensive rats. The present study was performed to investigate innervation and functional changes in perivascular calcitonin gene-related peptide- and adrenergic neuropeptide Y-containing nerves after topical treatment with phenol, which damages nerve fibers, around the rat superior mesenteric artery. Under pentobarbital-Na anesthesia, 8-week-old Wistar rats underwent in vivo topical application of phenol (10% phenol in 90% ethanol) or saline (sham rats) to the superior mesenteric artery proximal to the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta. After the treatment, the animals were subjected to immunohistochemistry of the 3rd branch of small arteries proximal to the intestine and to vascular responsiveness testing on day 3 through day 14. The innervation levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity containing fibers and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity containing fibers were markedly reduced on day 3 to day 14 and on day 5 to day 14 after the treatment, compared with those in sham-operated rats, respectively. In perfused mesenteric vascular beds isolated from phenol-treated rats, adrenergic nerve-mediated vasoconstriction and calcitonin gene-related peptide nerve-mediated vasodilation in response to periarterial nerve stimulation (2-12 Hz) were significantly decreased on day 3 and day 7. Neurogenic release of norepinephrine in phenol-treated rats on day 7 was significantly smaller that that in sham-operated rats. Nerve growth factor content in the mesenteric arteries of phenol-treated rats was significantly lower than that in sham-operated rats. Administration of nerve growth factor using osmotic mini-pumps for 7 days after the phenol treatment resulted in greater density of calcitonin gene-related peptide- and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity fibers than in phenol-treated rats and restored decreased vascular responses to periarterial nerve stimulation. These results suggest that topical phenol-treatment of the mesenteric artery effectively induces functional denervation of perivascular nerves, which can be prevented or reversed by nerve growth factor treatment.
Perinatal brain injuries often result in irreversible learning disabilities, which manifest in early childhood. The molecular and cellular mechanisms of these injuries and potential pharmacological treatments are emerging, chiefly from studies in newborn rodents. In newborn mice, experimentally induced lesions can be dramatically reduced by appropriate neuroprotective treatments. However, the early effectiveness of these treatments in preserving cognition remained unknown. Here, we addressed this issue by using intracerebral ibotenate to induce excitotoxic brain lesions in 5-day-old mice (postnatal day 5). On postnatal days 6-7, we tested spontaneous preference for maternal odors, as an index of odor memory, and conditioned preference for an artificial odor previously paired with stroking, as an index of associative learning. Brain-lesioned newborn mice showed normal general status and preference for maternal odors. In contrast, odor conditioning was severely impaired. A previous study showed that fructose 1,6-biphosphate acted as a neuroprotective agent which significantly reduced neocortical lesion size. In the present study, treating the newborn mice with fructose 1,6-biphosphate 15 min before the ibotenate injection reduced neocortical lesion size and restored conditioning. This demonstrates, for the first time, that neuroprotective treatment can protect some features of early cognition.
Cardiorespiratory fitness and acute aerobic exercise effects on cognitive function were assessed for 28 higher- and lower-fit adults during a flanker task by comparing behavioral and neuroelectric indices of action monitoring. The error-related negativity, error positivity, and N2 components, as well as behavioral measures of response speed, accuracy, and post-error slowing were measured following a 30-minute acute bout of treadmill exercise or following 30-minutes of rest. A graded maximal exercise test was used to measure cardiorespiratory fitness by assessing maximal oxygen uptake. Results indicated that higher-fit adults exhibited reduced error-related negativity amplitude, increased error positivity amplitude, and increased post-error response slowing compared with lower-fit adults. However, acute exercise was not related to any of the dependent measures. These findings suggest that cardiorespiratory fitness, but not acute aerobic exercise, may be beneficial to behavioral and neuroelectric indices of action monitoring following errors of commission by increasing top-down attentional control.
There are increasing data in support of the hypothesis that inflammatory cytokines are involved in neonatal white matter damage. Despite extensive study of the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta, the role of interleukin-6 in the development of white matter damage is largely unknown. In the present study, the role(s) of interleukin-6 in mediating lipopolysaccharide-induced brain injury and behavioral changes was investigated by the intracerebral injection of lipopolysaccharide with interleukin-6 neutralizing antibody in the 5-day-old rat brain. Brain injury was examined in brain sections at postnatal day 8 and postnatal day 21. Behavioral tests including righting reflex, wire hanging maneuver, cliff avoidance, locomotor activity, gait analysis, responses in the elevated plus-maze and passive avoidance were performed from postnatal day 3 to postnatal day 21. Changes in astroglia, microglia and oligodendrocytes were studied using immunohistochemistry in the postnatal day 21 rat brain. Our results show that interleukin-6 antibody attenuated lipopolysaccharide-induced brain lateral ventricle dilation and improved neurobehavioral performance. Interleukin-6 antibody also suppressed lipopolysaccharide-induced astrogliosis and microglial activation, and increased the number of oligodendrocytes in white matter. However, no changes of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta were detected. In contrast, no histopathological changes and glial activation were observed in rats injected with only interleukin-6. The present study indicates that the contribution to brain injury by interleukin-6 depends on its interaction with other lipopolysaccharide-induced agents and not on interleukin-6 alone.
The finding that sensory neuron-specific G-protein-coupled receptor mRNA is solely expressed in small primary sensory neurons suggests involvement of the receptor in nociceptive modulation. The present study was designed to assess effects of intrathecal administration of bovine adrenal medulla 8-22 and (Tyr6)-gamma2-MSH-6-12, selective sensory neuron-specific receptor agonists, on nocifensive behaviors and expression of spinal c-Fos-like immunoreactivity evoked by intraplantar injection of 2.5% formalin in rats. The agonists were administered 10 min before (pretreatment) and/or after (post-treatment) injection of formalin. Pretreatment with bovine adrenal medulla 8-22 dose-dependently (3, 10 and 30 nmol) decreased time lifting and licking the paw mainly in the second phase. Intrathecal bovine adrenal medulla 8-22 (30 nmol) remarkably suppressed nocifensive behaviors in the first and second phases and the expression of formalin-evoked c-Fos-like immunoreactivity in laminae I-II and V-VI of the spinal dorsal horn at L4-5. Moreover, naloxone (20 microg, intrathecal) failed to antagonize the inhibitory effects of bovine adrenal medulla 8-22. Post-treatment with bovine adrenal medulla 8-22 also exerted inhibition on the second phase behaviors in a dose-dependent manner with a similar efficacy observed in pretreatment groups. Furthermore, post-treatment with (Tyr6)-gamma2-MSH-6-12 (0.5, 1.5 and 5 nmol) also suppressed formalin-evoked nocifensive behaviors in the second phase and c-Fos-like immunoreactivity in the spinal dorsal horn similar with bovine adrenal medulla 8-22. Our results suggest that sensory neuron-specific receptor may play an important role in modulation of spinal nociceptive transmission. This is the first to demonstrate that activation of sensory neuron-specific receptor produces analgesia in the persistent pain model.
Contrary to human and primate, working memory in the rodent is usually considered as a simple short term memory buffer and mainly investigated using delayed response paradigms. The aim of the present study was to further investigate the role of the rat prelimbic/infralimbic cortex in different spatial delayed tasks in order to dissociate its involvement in temporary storage from other information processes, such as behavioral flexibility and attention. In experiment 1 rats were trained in a standard elimination win-shift task in a radial-arm maze after which a 1-min delay was inserted mid trial. Prelimbic/infralimbic lesions induced only a transient disruption of performance following introduction of the delay. In experiment 2, rats were trained directly in a win-shift task with a 5-min delay that was subsequently extended to 30 min. Prelimbic/infralimbic lesions did not significantly affect behavior. Nevertheless, transient disruptions of performance (correlated with lesion extent) were noted repeatedly in lesioned rats when sets of interfering events were presented. The present findings indicate that prelimbic/infralimbic cortex is not directly involved in the short term maintenance of specific information but is implicated when changes, such as sudden introduction of a delay or exposure to unexpected interfering events, alter the initial situation. It appears that working memory in rodents should be considered, as in humans and primates, to encompass both storage and monitoring functions. The present results along with previous ones strongly suggest that prelimbic/infralimbic cortex is not involved in the temporary on-line storage but rather in the control of information required to prospectively organize the ongoing action.
Subjects with Parkinson's disease exhibit abnormally short compensatory steps in response to external postural perturbations. We examined whether: (1) Parkinson's disease subjects exhibit short compensatory steps due to abnormal central proprioceptive-motor integration, (2) this proprioceptive-motor deficit can be overcome by visual-motor neural circuits using visual targets, (3) the proprioceptive-motor deficit relates to the severity of Parkinson's disease, and (4) the dysfunction of central dopaminergic circuits contributes to the Parkinson's disease subjects' proprioceptive-motor deficit. Ten Parkinson's disease subjects and 10 matched control subjects performed compensatory steps in response to backward surface translations in five conditions: with eyes closed, with eyes open, to a remembered visual target, to a target without seeing their legs, and to a target while seeing their legs. Parkinson's disease subjects were separated into a moderate group and a severe group based on scores from the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and were tested off and on their dopamine medication. Parkinson's disease subjects exhibited shorter compensatory steps than did the control subjects, but all subjects increased their step length when stepping to targets. Compared with the other subject groups, the severe Parkinson's disease subjects made larger accuracy errors when stepping to targets, and the severe Parkinson's disease subjects' step accuracy worsened the most when they were unable to see their legs. Thus, Parkinson's disease subjects exhibited short compensatory steps due to abnormal proprioceptive-motor integration and used visual input to take longer compensatory steps when a target was provided. In severe Parkinson's disease subjects, however, visual input does not fully compensate because, even with a target and unobstructed vision, they still exhibited poor step accuracy. Medication did not consistently improve the length and accuracy of the Parkinson's disease subjects' compensatory steps, suggesting that degeneration of dopamine circuits within the basal ganglia is not responsible for the proprioceptive-motor deficit that degrades compensatory steps in Parkinson's disease subjects.
The mechanism of the propagation of spreading depression is unclear. Classical theories proposed a self-maintained cycle fed by elevated potassium and/or glutamate in the extracellular space. Earlier we found in vivo a characteristic oscillatory field activity that is synchronous in a strip of tissue ahead of the oncoming wave of neuron depolarization and that occurs before the extracellular potassium level begins to rise [Herreras O, Largo C, Ibarz JM, Somjen GG, Marrn del Ro R (1994) Role of neuronal synchronizing mechanisms in the propagation of spreading depression in the in vivo hippocampus. J Neurosci 14:7087-7098]. We investigated here the possible participation of glutamate and the role of glia in the prodromal field oscillations using extra and intracellular recordings and pharmacological manipulations in rat hippocampal slices. As earlier shown in vivo, field oscillations propagated ahead of the negative potential shift covering distances of up to 1 mm. The oscillatory prodromals were initially subthreshold but then each wave became crowned by a population spike. The frequency of the oscillatory prodromals was variable among slices (80-115 Hz), but constant in individual slices. The blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors decreased the frequency of prodromal oscillations, retarded spreading depression propagation, and shortened the duration of depolarization. Blocking the glutamate membrane transport increased the oscillatory frequency. The selective metabolic poisoning of astrocytes led to gradual disorganization of prodromal oscillations whose frequency first increased and then decreased. Also, the amplitude of the population spikes within the burst diminished as individual cells fired fewer action potentials, although still phase-locked with population spikes. The effects of glial metabolic impairment were observed within the period when neuron electrical properties were still normal, and were blocked by glutamate receptor antagonists. These data suggest that glutamate released from glial cells and possibly also from neurons has a role in the generation of oscillations and neuron firing synchronization that precede the spreading depression-related depolarization, but additional mechanisms are required to fully explain the onset and propagation of spreading depression.
Pre-exposure to the testing cage (habituation or familiarization) is a common procedure aimed at reducing the interference of novelty-induced arousal and drug-independent individual differences on neural and behavioral measures. However, recent results suggest that this procedure might exert a major influence on the effects of addictive drugs. The present experiments tested the effects of repeated exposure to a test cage (1 h daily for four consecutive days) on amphetamine-induced locomotion and Fos expression as well as on FosB/DeltaFosB-like immunoreactivity in mice of the C57BL/6J and DBA/2J inbred strains that differ for the response to amphetamine, stress and novelty. Daily experiences with the test cage increased FosB/DeltaFosB-like immunoreactivity in the medial-prefrontal cortex of both strains of mice and in the caudate of mice of the C57 strain, as reported for repeated stress in the rat. Moreover, previous habituation to the test cage reduced the locomotor response to a low dose of amphetamine only in DBA mice while it reduced amphetamine-induced Fos expression in medial-prefrontal cortex, dorsal caudate and the accumbens shell of mice of the C57 strain. These results demonstrate indexes of stress-like plasticity in the brains of mice exposed to a procedure of familiarization to the testing environment. Moreover, they suggest that the procedure of daily familiarization influences the pattern of brain Fos expression induced by amphetamine. Finally, they indicate complex interactions between experience with the testing environment, genotype and drug.
We investigated whether the non-toxic C fragment of tetanus toxin (TTC) fused to either beta-galactosidase or green fluorescent protein could be utilized to transsynaptically trace muscle-specific spinal circuitry in the neonatal mouse after i.m. injection into a single hindlimb muscle. We found that even with careful low volume injection (0.2-1.0 microl) into a single muscle (medial gastrocnemius), the TTC hybrid proteins spread rapidly to many other hindlimb muscles and to trunk musculature such that retrograde labeling of motoneurons could not be constrained to a single motoneuron pool. Retrogradely labeled motoneurons in the lower lumbar segments harboring the medial gastrocnemius motoneuron pool were first observed two hours after the medial gastrocnemius injection. Within the next 10 h, additional lumbar and lower thoracic motoneurons became labeled, and punctate labeling in the neuropil surrounding the motoneurons appeared. Many of the TTC hybrid protein-labeled puncta in the neuropil co-localized synaptotagmin, indicating that they represent presynaptic axon terminals onto motoneurons. Although this is consistent with retrograde transsynaptic passage, we found no evidence that the TTC hybrid proteins were transported further along premotor axons to label interneuron somata. The i.m. TTC injection procedure described here therefore provides an important tool for the study of presynaptic terminals onto motoneurons. However, additional technical modifications will be required to utilize TTC tracers for transsynaptic mapping of muscle-specific spinal motor circuitry in the neonatal mouse. We provide here a set of criteria for assessing the i.m. delivery of TTC tracers as a basis for future improvements in this technique.
The principal cells of the chick tangential nucleus are vestibular nucleus neurons participating in the vestibuloocular and vestibulocollic reflexes. In birds and mammals, spontaneous and stimulus-evoked firing of action potentials is essential for vestibular nucleus neurons to generate mature vestibular reflex activity. The emergence of spike-firing pattern and the underlying ion channels were studied in morphologically-identified principal cells using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from brain slices of late-term embryos (embryonic day 16) and hatchling chickens (hatching day 1 and hatching day 5). Spontaneous spike activity emerged around the perinatal period, since at embryonic day 16 none of the principal cells generated spontaneous action potentials. However, at hatching day 1, 50% of the cells fired spontaneously (range, 3 to 32 spikes/s), which depended on synaptic transmission in most cells. By hatching day 5, 80% of the principal cells could fire action potentials spontaneously (range, 5 to 80 spikes/s), and this activity was independent of synaptic transmission and showed faster kinetics than at hatching day 1. Repetitive firing in response to depolarizing pulses appeared in the principal cells starting around embryonic day 16, when &lt;20% of the neurons fired repetitively. However, almost 90% of the principal cells exhibited repetitive firing on depolarization at hatching day 1, and 100% by hatching day 5. From embryonic day 16 to hatching day 5, the gain for evoked spike firing increased almost 10-fold. At hatching day 5, a persistent sodium channel was essential for the generation of spontaneous spike activity, while a small conductance, calcium-dependent potassium current modulated both the spontaneous and evoked spike firing activity. Altogether, these in vitro studies showed that during the perinatal period, the principal cells switched from displaying no spontaneous spike activity at resting membrane potential and generating one spike on depolarization to the tonic firing of spontaneous and evoked action potentials.
The vulnerability of different dopaminergic cell populations to damage caused by the herbicide paraquat was assessed by stereological counts of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive and calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive neurons in A9 (substantia nigra pars compacta) and A10 (ventral tegmental area and other cell groups). In saline-treated control mice, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons represented 80% and 45% of the total neuronal population in A9 and A10, respectively, and the number of calbindin-D28k-positive neurons was five times greater in A10 than A9. Sequential injections with paraquat resulted in a significant loss of dopaminergic neurons in A9. In contrast, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in A10 were spared from paraquat-induced degeneration. Furthermore, expression of calbindin-D28k was consistently associated with neuronal resistance to the herbicide in both A9 and A10. Paraquat exposure also induced oxidative stress as indicated by an increase in the number of midbrain cells positive for 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, a marker of lipid peroxidation. Co-localization studies revealed that calbindin-D28k immunoreactivity overlapped with tyrosine hydroxylase labeling and that, after paraquat administration, (i) the vast majority of midbrain 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-immunoreactive cells were dopaminergic (tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive), (ii) tyrosine hydroxylase/4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-positive neurons were much more prevalent in A9 than A10, and (iii) all calbindin-D28k-containing neurons were characterized by lack of lipid peroxidation (4-hydroxy-2-nonenal immunoreactivity). Results in this paraquat model emphasize that, despite sharing a similar dopaminergic phenotype, different groups of midbrain neurons vary dramatically in their vulnerability to injury. Data also indicate that these differences are attributable, at least in part, to a varying susceptibility of dopaminergic cell populations to oxidative stress.
Ion channels are the building blocks of the information processing capability of neurons: any realistic computational model of a neuron must include reliable and effective ion channel components. Sophisticated statistical and computational tools have been developed to study the ion channel structure-function relationship, but this work is rarely incorporated into the models used for single neurons or small networks. The disjunction is partly a matter of convention. Structure-function studies typically use a single Markov model for the whole channel whereas until recently whole-cell modeling software has focused on serial, independent, two-state subunits that can be represented by the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. More fundamentally, there is a difference in purpose that prevents models being easily reused. Biophysical models are typically developed to study one particular aspect of channel gating in detail, whereas neural modelers require broad coverage of the entire range of channel behavior that is often best achieved with approximate representations that omit structural features that cannot be adequately constrained. To bridge the gap so that more recent channel data can be used in neural models requires new computational infrastructure for bringing together diverse sources of data to arrive at best-fit models for whole-cell modeling. We review the current state of channel modeling and explore the developments needed for its conclusions to be integrated into whole-cell modeling.

Attractive and repulsive signals guide migrating nerve cells in all directions when the nervous system starts to form. The neurons extend thin processes, axons, that connect over wide distances with other brain cells to form a complicated neuronal network. One of the most fascinating questions in neuroscience is how the correct wiring of billions of nerve cells in our brain is controlled. Several protein families are known to serve as guidance cues for navigating neurons and axons. Nevertheless, the combinatorial potential of these proteins seems to be insufficient to sculpt the entire neuronal network and the appropriate formation of connections. Recently, heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs), which are present on the cell surface of neurons and in the extracellular matrix through which neurons and axons migrate, have been found to play a role in regulating cell migration and axon guidance. Intriguingly, the large number of distinct modifications that can be put onto the sugar side chains of these PGs would in principle allow for an enormous diversity of HSPGs, which could help in regulating the vast number of guidance choices taken by individual neurons. In this review, we will focus on the role of the cell surface HSPGs syndecan and glypican and specific HS modifications in promoting neuronal migration, axon guidance, and synapse formation.
A new series of dopamine D4 receptor agonists, 1-aryl-3-(4-pyridinepiperazin-1-yl)propanone oximes, was designed through the modification of known dopamine D4 receptor agonist PD 168077. Replacement of the amide group with a methylene-oxime moiety produced compounds with improved stability and efficacy. Structure-activity relationsips (SAR) of the aromatic ring linked to the N-4-piperazine ring confirmed the superiority of 2-pyridine as a core for D4 agonist activity. A two-methylene linker between the oxime group and the N-1-piperazine ring displayed the best profile. New dopamine D4 receptor agonists, exemplified by (E)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(4-pyridin-2-ylpiperazin-1-yl)propan-1-one O-methyloxime (59a) and (E)-1-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-3-(4-pyridin-2-ylpiperazin-1-yl)propan-1-one O-methyloxime (64a), exhibited favorable pharmacokinetic profiles and showed oral bioavailability in rat and dog. Subsequent evaluation of 59a in the rat penile erection model revealed in vivo activity, comparable in efficacy to apomorphine. Our results suggest that the oximes provide a novel structural linker for 4-arylpiperazine-based D4 agonists, possessing leadlike quality and with potential to develop a new class of potent and selective dopamine D4 receptor agonists.
Mammals taste many compounds yet use a sensory palette consisting of only five basic taste modalities: sweet, bitter, sour, salty and umami (the taste of monosodium glutamate). Although this repertoire may seem modest, it provides animals with critical information about the nature and quality of food. Sour taste detection functions as an important sensory input to warn against the ingestion of acidic (for example, spoiled or unripe) food sources. We have used a combination of bioinformatics, genetic and functional studies to identify PKD2L1, a polycystic-kidney-disease-like ion channel, as a candidate mammalian sour taste sensor. In the tongue, PKD2L1 is expressed in a subset of taste receptor cells distinct from those responsible for sweet, bitter and umami taste. To examine the role of PKD2L1-expressing taste cells in vivo, we engineered mice with targeted genetic ablations of selected populations of taste receptor cells. Animals lacking PKD2L1-expressing cells are completely devoid of taste responses to sour stimuli. Notably, responses to all other tastants remained unaffected, proving that the segregation of taste qualities even extends to ionic stimuli. Our results now establish independent cellular substrates for four of the five basic taste modalities, and support a comprehensive labelled-line mode of taste coding at the periphery. Notably, PKD2L1 is also expressed in specific neurons surrounding the central canal of the spinal cord. Here we demonstrate that these PKD2L1-expressing neurons send projections to the central canal, and selectively trigger action potentials in response to decreases in extracellular pH. We propose that these cells correspond to the long-sought components of the cerebrospinal fluid chemosensory system. Taken together, our results suggest a common basis for acid sensing in disparate physiological settings.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the second most common cause of dementia in people under the age of 65 years. A large proportion of FTD patients (35-50%) have a family history of dementia, consistent with a strong genetic component to the disease. In 1998, mutations in the gene encoding the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) were shown to cause familial FTD with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17q21 (FTDP-17). The neuropathology of patients with defined MAPT mutations is characterized by cytoplasmic neurofibrillary inclusions composed of hyperphosphorylated tau. However, in multiple FTD families with significant evidence for linkage to the same region on chromosome 17q21 (D17S1787-D17S806), mutations in MAPT have not been found and the patients consistently lack tau-immunoreactive inclusion pathology. In contrast, these patients have ubiquitin (ub)-immunoreactive neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions and characteristic lentiform ub-immunoreactive neuronal intranuclear inclusions. Here we demonstrate that in these families, FTD is caused by mutations in progranulin (PGRN) that are likely to create null alleles. PGRN is located 1.7 Mb centromeric of MAPT on chromosome 17q21.31 and encodes a 68.5-kDa secreted growth factor involved in the regulation of multiple processes including development, wound repair and inflammation. PGRN has also been strongly linked to tumorigenesis. Moreover, PGRN expression is increased in activated microglia in many neurodegenerative diseases including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, motor neuron disease and Alzheimer's disease. Our results identify mutations in PGRN as a cause of neurodegenerative disease and indicate the importance of PGRN function for neuronal survival.
Tissue damage induces acute pain but also long-term central modifications that can affect the behavioral and neuronal responses to a second painful stimulus. To study the effects of female gonadal hormones on the responses to repetition of a nociceptive stimulus, we subjected adult female rats to the formalin test. Three weeks after gonadectomy (GDX) or sham-surgery (INT), animals were randomly divided into groups to be left in the home cage as controls (HC) or to be exposed to Sham (S) or Formalin (F) stimuli (s.c. formalin injection, 50 microl, 5%, in the dorsal hind paw) in the subsequent 2 weeks (Trial 1; Trial 2). The resulting groups were: INT or GDX SS (Sham-Sham), SF (Sham-Form) and FF (Form-Form). During Trial 1, licking duration was longer in the INT-FF group than in GDX-FF; during Trial 2, there was no difference between the two groups due to the decrease in INT-FF alone. c-Fos expression, determined in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus in the same animals 1 week after the last formalin test, was higher in GDX than INT animals; moreover, while in INT rats, c-Fos was higher in the formalin-injected animals (SF and FF) than in HC, in GDX, it did not differ among groups. These results show that female gonadal hormones affect the behavioral and neuronal responses to repeated nociceptive stimulation, indicating a possible role of ovarian hormones in determining sex differences in pain.
The proliferative activity of neural precursors from the subventricular zone (SVZ) was investigated after a unilateral lesion was formed in the nigrostriatal pathway in adult rats. The lesion was formed by unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the nigrostriatal pathway, and then bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was injected (ip) for 4 days or 2 weeks 10 days after the lesion was formed. The rats were killed, and the brain sections were immunohistochemically stained to detect the expression of BrdU, polysialylated neural-cell-adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the SVZ and the striatum (STR). The results showed that the BrdU(+) cells increased significantly in the SVZ, ipsilateral to the lesion at 2 weeks after the lesion. The PSA-NCAM(+) and GFAP(+) cells were also increased in the SVZ at this time. Some BrdU-labeled cells were seen in the same side of the STR and were double-labeled with PSA-NCAM. These cells had a tendency to migrate from the SVZ to the STR. The number of positive cells decreased at 4 weeks after the lesion was formed. The number of nigrostriatal projections with TH(+) decreased significantly in the STR on the lesion side, and the level of decrease was related to the quantity of BrdU-labeled cells at 2 weeks. These results indicate that the neural precursors in the SVZ of adult rats may increase after a lesion has been formed in the nigrostriatal pathway, and these cells might migrate into the STR on the same side.
In order to further examine the role of spontaneous action potential (SAP) discharges in neocortical development, amino-acid-mediated synaptic transmission was selectively blocked in an improved organotypic neocortex culture preparation. Contralateral occipital cortex slices from neonatal rats were co-cultured for several weeks in a ventricle-to-ventricle orientation known to greatly enhance cyto-morphological and electrophysiological maturation. Such preparations are highly resistant to attempts to suppress neuronal firing by blocking ionotropic glutamate receptors: not only can kainate receptors partly substitute for NMDA- and AMPA-mediated neurotransmission when these receptors are pharmacologically blocked, but (muscarinic) cholinergic receptors also begin to drive SAP activity when the kainate receptors, too, are chronically blocked. Only tetrodotoxin proved able to eliminate SAPs altogether in these co-cultures, while GABAergic receptor blockade (using bicucculine) led to persistent epileptiform discharges. Treatment effects were assayed upon transfer to control medium by means of a quantitative analysis of spontaneously occurring polyneuronal spike trains. Total suppression of action potentials for several weeks (by tetrodotoxin treatment) led, as in earlier experiments, to strongly intensified burst firing upon transfer to control medium. Chronic glutamate receptor blocked cultures, on the other hand, showed only minor deviations from control firing levels and patterns when assayed in normal medium. Protection against the development of hyperactivity despite partial blockade of synaptic transmission was roughly proportional to the degree to which spontaneous firing during the treatment period approximated normal SAP levels. This homeostatic response to chronically reduced excitatory drive thus differs from earlier results using isolated organotypic cortex cultures, in which the restoration of SAP activity failed to prevent the development of network hyperactivity. Chronic bicucculine treatment, in contrast, had little or no homeostatic effect on SAP firing patterns; on the contrary, opposite to earlier findings using isolated occipital cortex explants, paroxysmal discharges persisted even after transfer to control medium.
Human adults can assess the number of objects in a set (numerosity) by approximate estimation or by exact counting. There is evidence suggesting that numerosity estimation depends on a dedicated mechanism that is a-modal and non-verbal. By contrast, counting requires the coordination between the pre-existing numerosity estimation abilities with language and one-to-one correspondence principles. In this paper we investigate with fMRI the neural correlates of numerosity estimation and counting in human adults, using both visual and auditory stimuli. Results show that attending to approximate numerosity correlates with increased activity of a right lateralized fronto-parietal cortical network, and that this activity is independent of the stimuli presentation's modality. Counting activates additional left prefrontal, parietal, and bilateral premotor areas, again independently from stimulus modality. These results dissociate two neuronal systems that underlie different numerosity judgements.

Cannabinoids exert their psychomotor actions through the CB1 cannabinoid receptor in the brain. Genetic deletion of CB1 in mice causes various symptoms, including changes in locomotor activity, increased ring catalepsy, supraspinal hypoalgesia, and impaired memory extinction. Although the cerebellar cortex contains the highest level of CB1, severe cerebellum-related functional deficits have not been reported in CB1 knock-out mice. To clarify the roles of CB1 in cerebellar function, we subjected CB1 knock-out mice to a delay version of classical eyeblink conditioning. This paradigm is a test for cerebellum-dependent discrete motor learning, in which conditioned stimulus (CS) (352 ms tone) and unconditioned stimulus (US) (100 ms periorbital electrical shock) are coterminated. We found that delay eyeblink conditioning performance was severely impaired in CB1 knock-out mice. In contrast, they exhibited normal performance in a trace version of eyeblink conditioning with 500 ms stimulus-free interval intervened between the CS offset and the US onset. This paradigm is a test for hippocampus-dependent associative learning. Sensitivity of CB1 knock-out mice to CS or US was normal, suggesting that impaired delay eyeblink conditioning is attributable to defects in association of responses to CS and US. We also found that intraperitoneal injection of the CB1 antagonist SR141716A [N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-3-pyrazole carboxamide] to wild-type mice caused severe impairment in acquisition but not extinction of delay eyeblink conditioning. SR141716A treatment had no effect on trace eyeblink conditioning with a 500 or 750 ms trace interval. These results indicate that endogenous cannabinoid signaling through CB1 is essential for cerebellum-dependent discrete motor learning, especially for its acquisition.
Cell cycle regulators appear to play a paradoxical role in neuronal death. We have shown previously that cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), along with their downstream effectors, Rb (retinoblastoma) and E2F/DP1 (E2 promoter binding factor/deleted in polyposis 1), regulate neuronal death evoked by the DNA damaging agent camptothecin. However, the mechanism by which CDKs are activated in this model is unclear. The cell division cycle 25A (Cdc25A) phosphatase is a critical regulator of cell cycle CDKs in proliferating cells. In cortical neurons, we presently show that expression of Cdc25A promotes death even in the absence of DNA damage. Importantly, Cdc25A activity is rapidly increased during DNA damage treatment. Inhibition of Cdc25A blocks death and reduces cyclin D1-associated kinase activity and Rb phosphorylation. This indicates that endogenous Cdc25A activity is important for regulation of cell cycle-mediated neuronal death. We also examined how Cdc25A activity is regulated after DNA damage. Cultured embryonic cortical neurons have a significant basal activity of checkpoint kinase 1 (Chk1), a kinase that regulates cell cycle arrest. During camptothecin treatment of neurons, this activity is rapidly downregulated with a concomitant increase in Cdc25A activity. Importantly, expression of wild-type Chk1, but not kinase-dead Chk1, inhibits the camptothecin-induced increase in Cdc25A activity. In addition, Chk1 expression also promotes survival in the presence of the DNA-damaging agent. Together, our data suggest that a Chk1/Cdc25A activity participates in activation of a cell cycle pathway-mediated death signal in neurons. These data also define how a proliferative signal may be abnormally activated in a postmitotic environment.
The death of cranial and spinal motoneurons (MNs) is believed to be an essential component of the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We tested this hypothesis by crossing Bax-deficient mice with mice expressing mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), a transgenic model of familial ALS. Although Bax deletion failed to prevent neuromuscular denervation and mitochondrial vacuolization, MNs were completely rescued from mutant SOD1-mediated death. However, Bax deficiency extended lifespan and delayed the onset of motor dysfunction of SOD1 mutants, suggesting that Bax acts via a mechanism distinct from cell death activation. Consistent with this idea, Bax elimination delayed the onset of neuromuscular denervation, which began long before the activation of cell death proteins in SOD1 mutants. Additionally, we show that denervation preceded accumulation of mutant SOD1 within MNs and astrogliosis in the spinal cord, which are also both delayed in Bax-deficient SOD1 mutants. Interestingly, MNs exhibited mitochondrial abnormalities at the innervated neuromuscular junction at the onset of neuromuscular denervation. Additionally, both MN presynaptic terminals and terminal Schwann cells expressed high levels of mutant SOD1 before MNs withdrew their axons. Together, these data support the idea that clinical symptoms in the SOD1 G93A model of ALS result specifically from damage to the distal motor axon and not from activation of the death pathway, and cast doubt on the utility of anti-apoptotic therapies to combat ALS. Furthermore, they suggest a novel, cell death-independent role for Bax in facilitating mutant SOD1-mediated motor denervation.
Insect pheromones elicit stereotypic behaviors that are critical for survival and reproduction. Defining the relevant molecular mechanisms mediating pheromone signaling is an important step to manipulate pheromone-induced behaviors in pathogenic or agriculturally important pests. The only volatile pheromone identified in Drosophila is 11-cis-vaccenyl acetate (VA), a male-specific lipid that mediates aggregation behavior. VA activates a few dozen olfactory neurons located in T1 sensilla on the antenna of both male and female flies. Here, we identify a neuronal receptor required for VA sensitivity. We identified two mutants lacking functional T1 sensilla and show that the expression of the VA receptor is dramatically reduced or eliminated. Importantly, we show misexpression of this receptor in non-T1 neurons, normally insensitive to VA, confers pheromone sensitivity at physiologic concentrations. Sensitivity of T1 neurons to VA requires LUSH, an extracellular odorant-binding protein (OBP76a) present in the sensillum lymph bathing trichoid olfactory neuron dendrites. Here, we show LUSH are also required in non-T1 neurons misexpressing the receptor to respond to VA. These data provide new insight into the molecular components and neuronal basis of volatile pheromone perception.
Trace conditioning, a form of classical conditioning in which the presentation of the conditioned stimulus (CS) and the unconditioned stimulus (US) is separated in time by an interstimulus interval, requires an intact hippocampus. In contrast, classical conditioning procedures in which the CS and US are not separated by an interstimulus interval (i.e., delay conditioning procedures) typically do not (Solomon et al., 1986). However, why trace conditioning is dependent on the hippocampus is unknown. Several theories suggest that it is specifically the discontiguity between the CS and US in trace conditioning that critically engages the hippocampus. However, there are other explanations that do not depend on discontiguity. To determine whether the lack of contiguity renders trace conditioning hippocampal dependent, we designed a &quot;contiguous trace conditioning&quot; (CTC) paradigm in which CS-US contiguity is restored by re-presenting the CS simultaneously with the US. Although rats with excitotoxic lesions of the hippocampus could not learn a standard trace fear-conditioning paradigm, lesioned rats trained on CTC showed significant conditioning, at levels similar to those with sham surgeries. Importantly, lesioned rats trained solely with simultaneous CS-US presentations did not demonstrate conditioning. Together, these data suggest that rats with hippocampal lesions can form a memory of a trace CS-US association when contiguity is restored. Therefore, the dependence of traditional trace paradigms on the hippocampus can be attributed to the absence of temporal contiguity.
Hypersensitivity to mechanical stimulation is a well documented symptom of neuropathic pain, for which there is currently no effective therapy. Src-family kinases (SFKs) are involved in proliferation and differentiation and in neuronal plasticity, including long-term potentiation, learning, and memory. Here we show that activation of SFKs induced in spinal cord microglia is crucial for mechanical hypersensitivity after peripheral nerve injury. Nerve injury induced a striking increase in SFK phosphorylation in the ipsilateral dorsal horn, and SFKs were activated in hyperactive microglia but not in neurons or astrocytes. Intrathecal administration of the Src-family tyrosine kinase inhibitor 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine (PP2) suppressed nerve injury-induced mechanical hypersensitivity but not heat and cold hypersensitivity. Furthermore, PP2 reversed the activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK), but not p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, in spinal microglia. In contrast, there was no change in SFK phosphorylation in primary sensory neurons, and PP2 did not decrease the induction of transient receptor potential ion channel TRPV1 and TRPA1 in sensory neurons. Together, these results demonstrate that SFK activation in spinal microglia contributes to the development of mechanical hypersensitivity through the ERK pathway. Therefore, preventing the activation of the Src/ERK signaling cascade in microglia might provide a fruitful strategy for treating neuropathic pain.
Sensitivity to temporal information and the ability to adjust behavior to the temporal structure of the environment should be phylogenetically widespread. Some timing abilities, such as sensitivity to circadian cycles, appear in a wide range of invertebrate and vertebrate taxa [1,2]. Interval timing--sensitivity to the duration of time intervals--has, however, only been shown to occur in vertebrates [3,4]. Insect pollinators make a variety of decisions that would appear to require the ability to estimate elapsed durations. We exposed bumble bees to conditions in which proboscis extension was reinforced after a fixed duration had elapsed or after either of two fixed durations had elapsed. Two groups of bees were trained with a short duration (either 6 s or 12 s) and a long duration (36 s) in separate experimental phases (independent timing groups), whereas two other groups were trained with a short duration (either 6 s or 12 s) and long duration (36 s) always intermixed unpredictably (multiple timing groups). On long intervals, independent timing groups waited longer than mixed timing groups to generate the first response and responded maximally near the end of the interval. Multiple timing groups waited the same amount of time on average before generating the first response on both long and short intervals. On individual trials, multiple timing groups appeared to time either the long duration only or both the short and long durations: most trials were characterized by a single burst of responding that began between the short and long duration values or by two bursts of responding with the first burst bracketing the short value and the second burst beginning in anticipation of the long value. These results show that bumble bees learn to time interval durations and can flexibly time multiple durations simultaneously. The results indicate no phylogenetic divide between vertebrates and invertebrates in interval timing ability.


We conducted MR volumetry and voxel-based morphometry in 19 patients who had idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) with tonic clonic seizures as the only seizure type and 52 control subjects. Patients exhibited elevated frontal lobe fraction of CSF and reduced fraction of gray matter in the frontal, parietal, temporal cortex, thalamus, and cerebellum. The thalamus and cerebellum also showed reduced volumes, as did the caudate and putamen. Contrary to current diagnostic criteria, regional tissue abnormalities may be present in IGE.
Clinical trials are testing oncolytic viruses (OVs) as therapies for cancer. We have shown that animals that have brain tumors and are treated with a herpes simplex virus (HSV)-derived OV live significantly longer when cyclophosphamide (CPA) is preadministered. Here, we explore the mechanisms behind this finding. In a syngeneic rat glioma model, intratumoral HSV administration is associated with rapid increase of natural killer cells, microglia/macrophages (CD68+ and CD163+), and IFN-gamma. Pretreatment with CPA enhances HSV replication and oncolysis and reduces an HSV-mediated increase in CD68+ and CD163+ cells and intratumoral IFN-gamma. Molecular imaging shows CPA pretreatment to inhibit HSV-induced infiltration of tumor-associated phagocytic cells. Our results reveal molecular and cellular mechanisms that inhibit intratumoral spread of HSV and suggest a therapeutic path for improving the efficacy of virotherapy as a treatment for cancer.
Neurons of the cerebral neocortex in mammals, including humans, are generated during fetal life in the proliferative zones and then migrate to their final destinations by following an inside-to-outside sequence. The present study examined the effect of ultrasound waves (USW) on neuronal position within the embryonic cerebral cortex in mice. We used a single BrdU injection to label neurons generated at embryonic day 16 and destined for the superficial cortical layers. Our analysis of over 335 animals reveals that, when exposed to USW for a total of 30 min or longer during the period of their migration, a small but statistically significant number of neurons fail to acquire their proper position and remain scattered within inappropriate cortical layers and/or in the subjacent white matter. The magnitude of dispersion of labeled neurons was variable but systematically increased with duration of exposure to USW. These results call for a further investigation in larger and slower-developing brains of non-human primates and continued scrutiny of unnecessarily long prenatal ultrasound exposure.
The repeated administration of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) produces neurotoxicity in the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and dopamine systems of the brain. In this study, we investigated the effects of minocycline, a second-generation tetracycline derivative, on MDMA-induced neurotoxicity in the 5-HT and dopaminergic systems of the mouse brain. The repeated administration of MDMA (10 mg/kg x 3, 3-h intervals, s.c.) significantly decreased the contents of 5-HT and its major metabolite 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, and the density of the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum. The repeated administration of MDMA (10 mg/kg x 3, 3-h intervals, s.c.) significantly decreased the contents of the dopamine and the density of the dopamine transporter (DAT) in the striatum, but not the frontal cortex. Furthermore, pretreatment and the subsequent administration of minocycline (40 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly attenuated the reduction of 5-HT and dopamine as well as the density of 5-HTT and DAT in the mouse brain by the repeated administration of MDMA. Moreover, pretreatment and the subsequent administration of minocycline (40 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the increase of activated microglia in the hippocampus and striatum after the repeated administration of MDMA. Our findings suggest that minocycline protects the neurotoxicity of the 5-HT and dopamine systems in the mouse brain after the administration of MDMA.
Much current vision research is predicated on the idea--and a rapidly growing body of evidence--that visual percepts are generated according to the empirical significance of light stimuli rather than their physical characteristics. As a result, an increasing number of investigators have asked how visual perception can be rationalized in these terms. Here, we compare two different theoretical frameworks for predicting what observers actually see in response to visual stimuli: Bayesian decision theory and empirical ranking theory. Deciding which of these approaches has greater merit is likely to determine how the statistical operations that apparently underlie visual perception are eventually understood.
Sensory mechanical transduction - necessary for hearing, proprioception, and the senses of touch and pain - remains poorly understood. In somatosensation, even the basic properties of the mechanically sensitive excitatory ionic currents that are assumed to mediate mechanical transduction are largely undescribed. We have recorded, from the soma of rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in vitro, whole-cell ionic currents induced by the impact of a piezo-electrically driven glass probe. This transient mechanically activated current was observed in virtually all DRG neurons tested. In ion substitution experiments the current could be carried nonselectively by most cations, including divalent and organic cations, but not by chloride or sulfate ions. In addition, the mechanically activated current carried by monovalent cations was consistently blocked by millimolar concentrations of external calcium or magnesium. Based on these results, the transient mechanical transduction current observed in somatosensory neurons in vitro is mediated by large-pore mechanically gated channels nonselective for cations but impermeable to anions.
During cerebral ischemia, part of the damage associated with the hyperactivation of glutamate receptors results from the hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein Tau. Previous studies have shown that estradiol treatment reduces neural damage after cerebral ischemia. Here, we show that transient occlusion of the middle cerebral artery results in the hyperphosphorylation of Tau and in a significant increase in the association of Tau with glycogen synthase kinase-3beta and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid type glutamate receptor subunits 2/3 in the hippocampus. Estradiol treatment decreased hippocampal injury, inhibited glycogen synthase kinase-3beta and decreased the hyperphosphorylation of Tau and the interaction of Tau with glycogen synthase kinase-3beta and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor. These findings suggest that ischemia produces a strong association between Tau and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor, and estradiol can exert at least part of its neuroprotective activity through inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta.
General agreement exists that dorsal aspects of the temporal lobe support the perception of speech but there is less agreement regarding the mapping between levels of speech processing and neural regions within the dorsal temporal lobe. The present experiment sought to identify temporal lobe regions that support one such level, namely, lexical-phonological representation/processing. To do this, we manipulated phonological neighborhood density, a variable that affects processing within lexical-phonological networks. In a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment, 10 participants listened to blocks of either high-density or low-density words. High-density words produced significantly more activation in the posterior half of the superior temporal sulcus bilaterally, suggesting that these regions are involved in lexical-phonological processing networks.
Proteinase-activated receptor (PAR) 2 is expressed in a subset of primary afferent neurons and is involved in inflammatory nociception. The P2X3 ion channel is localized on nociceptors of sensory neurons. Using immunohistochemistry, we showed that many P2X3s are co-expressed with the PAR2 in rat dorsal root ganglia neurons. Nocifensive behavior induced by alphabeta-methylene adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) injection to the hind paw was significantly augmented after the application of PAR2 agonists. Fos expression induced by the alphabeta-methylene ATP injection in dorsal horn neurons was also increased after the pre-application of PAR2 agonists. These findings indicate that PAR2 agonists may potentiate the sensitivity of P2X3 ion channel to noxious stimuli, and the interaction between PAR2 and P2X3 may be an important mechanism underlying inflammatory pain.

To address the hypothesis that reactive astrocytes in the basal ganglia of an animal model of Parkinson's disease serve neurotrophic roles, we studied the expression pattern of neurotrophic factors in the basal ganglia of C57/Bl mice that had been treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to induce the degeneration of nigral dopamine neurons and parkinsonism. MPTP induced significant neuronal degeneration in the substantia nigra pars compacta as detected with Fluoro-Jade B staining, and this was accompanied by an increase in nestin-expressing astrocytes within the caudate-putamen. The number of nestin-positive reactive astrocytes in the caudate-putamen peaked within 3-5 days following MPTP treatment and then declined progressively toward the basal level by 21 days after treatment. Immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy confirmed coexpression of nestin or Ki-67 (cell proliferation marker) in glial fibrillary acid protein-positive astrocytes in the caudate-putamen. Double immunolabeling further revealed immunoreactivities for nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3 (NT3), and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in nestin-positive reactive astrocytes. Semiquantification of data obtained from mice 5 days after MPTP injection indicated that the majority of nestin-expressing cells expressed NGF (92%), NT3 (90%), or GDNF (86%). Our results present novel evidence of neurotrophic features among reactive astrocytes in the dopamine-depleted striatum. These nestin-expressing reactive astrocytes may therefore play neurotrophic roles in neural remodeling of the basal ganglia in Parkinson's disease.
Molecules involved in axon guidance have recently also been shown to play a role in blood vessel guidance. To examine whether axon guidance molecules, such as the EphA4 receptor tyrosine kinase, might also play a role in development of the central nervous system (CNS) vasculature and repair following CNS injury, we examined wild-type and EphA4 null mutant (-/-) mice. EphA4-/- mice exhibited an abnormal CNS vascular structure in both the cerebral cortex and the spinal cord, with disorganized branching and a 30% smaller diameter. During development, EphA4 was expressed on endothelial cells. This pattern of expression was not maintained in the adult. After spinal cord injury in wild-type mice, expression of EphA4 was markedly up-regulated on activated astrocytes, many of which were tightly associated with blood vessels. In EphA4-/- spinal cord following injury, astrocytes were not as tightly associated with blood vessels as the wild-type astrocytes. In uninjured EphA4-/- mice, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) appeared normal, but it showed prolonged leakage following spinal cord injury. These results support a role for EphA4 in CNS vascular formation and guidance during development and an additional role in BBB repair.
The lateral posterior (LP) nucleus is a higher order thalamic nucleus that is believed to play a key role in the transmission of visual information between cortical areas. Two types of cortical terminals have been identified in higher order nuclei, large (type II) and smaller (type I), which have been proposed to drive and modulate, respectively, the response properties of thalamic cells (Sherman and Guillery [1998] Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 95:7121-7126). The aim of this study was to assess and compare the relative contribution of driver and modulator inputs to the LP nucleus that originate from the posteromedial part of the lateral suprasylvian cortex (PMLS) and area 17. To achieve this goal, the anterograde tracers biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) or Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHAL) were injected into area 17 or PMLS. Results indicate that area 17 injections preferentially labelled large terminals, whereas PMLS injections preferentially labelled small terminals. A detailed analysis of PMLS terminal morphology revealed at least four categories of terminals: small type I terminals (57%), medium-sized to large singletons (30%), large terminals in arrangements of intermediate complexity (8%), and large terminals that form arrangements resembling rosettes (5%). Ultrastructural analysis and postembedding immunocytochemical staining for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) distinguished two types of labelled PMLS terminals: small profiles with round vesicles (RS profiles) that contacted mostly non-GABAergic dendrites outside of glomeruli and large profiles with round vesicles (RL profiles) that contacted non-GABAergic dendrites (55%) and GABAergic dendritic terminals (45%) in glomeruli. RL profiles likely include singleton, intermediate, and rosette terminals, although future studies are needed to establish definitively the relationship between light microscopic morphology and ultrastructural features. All terminals types appeared to be involved in reciprocal corticothalamocortical connections as a result of an intermingling of terminals labelled by anterograde transport and cells labelled by retrograde transport. In conclusion, our results indicate that the origin of the driver inputs reaching the LP nucleus is not restricted to the primary visual cortex and that extrastriate visual areas might also contribute to the basic organization of visual receptive fields of neurons in this higher order nucleus.
Recently, we have demonstrated the phosphorylation- and lipid raft-mediated internalization of the native norepinephrine transporter (NET) following protein kinase C (PKC) activation (Jayanthi, L. D., Samuvel, D. J., and Ramamoorthy, S. (2004) J. Biol. Chem. 279, 19315-19326). Here we tested an hypothesis that PKC-mediated phosphorylation of NET is required for transporter internalization. Phosphoamino acid analysis of 32P-labeled native NETs from rat placental trophoblasts and heterologously expressed wild type human NET (WT-hNET) from human placental trophoblast cells revealed that the phorbol ester (beta-PMA)-induced phosphorylation of NET occurs on serine and threonine residues. Beta-PMA treatment inhibited NE transport, reduced plasma membrane hNET levels, and stimulated hNET phosphorylation in human placental trophoblast cells expressing the WT-hNET. Substance P-mediated activation of the G alpha(q)-coupled human neurokinin 1 (hNK-1) receptor coexpressed with the WT-hNET produced effects similar to beta-PMA via PKC stimulation. In striking contrast, an hNET double mutant harboring T258A and S259A failed to show NE uptake inhibition and plasma membrane redistribution by beta-PMA or SP. Most interestingly, the plasma membrane insertion of the WT-hNET and hNET double mutant were not affected by beta-PMA. Although the WT-hNET showed increased endocytosis and redistribution from caveolin-rich plasma membrane domains following beta-PMA treatment, the hNET double mutant was completely resistant to these PKC-mediated effects. In addition, the PKC-induced phosphorylation of hNET double mutant was significantly reduced. In the absence of T258A and S259A mutations, alanine substitution of all other potential phosphosites within the hNET did not block PKC-induced phosphorylation and down-regulation. These results suggest that Thr-258 and Ser-259 serve as a PKC-specific phospho-acceptor site and that phosphorylation of this motif is linked to PKC-induced NET internalization.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are the two most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases of the central nervous system. These two diseases share a common feature in that a normally soluble peptide (amyloid-beta) or protein (alpha-synuclein) aggregates into an ordered fibrillar structure. As well as structural similarities observed between fibrillar aggregates related to these diseases, common pathological processes of increased oxidative injury, excitotoxicity and altered cell cycle are also evident. It was the aim of this study to identify novel interacting proteins to the amyloid-like motif and therefore identify common potential pathways between neurodegenerative diseases that share biophysical properties common to classical amyloid fibrils. Optimal ageing of recombinant proteins to form amyloid-like fibrils was determined by electron microscopy, Congo red birefringement and photo-induced cross-linking. Using pull-down assays the strongest detected interacting protein to the amyloid-like motifs of amyloid-beta, alpha-synuclein and lysozyme was identified as histone H1. The interaction with the amyloid-like motif was confirmed by techniques including surface plasmon resonance and immunohistochemistry. Histone H1 is known to be an integral part of chromatin within the nucleus, with a primary role of binding DNA that enters and exits from the nucleosome, and facilitating the shift in equilibrium of chromatin towards a more condensed form. However, phosphorylated histone H1 is predominantly present in the cytoplasm and as yet the functional significance of this translocation is unknown. This study also found that histone H1 is localised within the cytoplasm of neurons and astrocytes from areas affected by disease as well as amyloid plaques, supporting the hypothesis that histone H1 favoured binding to an ordered fibrillar motif. We conclude that the binding of histone H1 to a general amyloid-like motif indicates that histone H1 may play an important common role in diseases associated with amyloid-like fibrils.

Peripheral nerve injury is known to up-regulate the expression of rapidly-repriming Nav1.3 sodium channel within first-order dorsal root ganglion neurons and second-order dorsal horn nociceptive neurons, but it is not known if pain-processing neurons higher along the neuraxis also undergo changes in sodium channel expression. In this study, we hypothesized that after peripheral nerve injury, third-order neurons in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus undergo changes in expression of sodium channels. To test this hypothesis, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve. Ten days after CCI, when allodynia and hyperalgesia were evident, in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical analysis revealed up-regulation of Nav1.3 mRNA, but no changes in expression of Nav1.1, Nav1.2, or Nav1.6 in VPL neurons, and unit recordings demonstrated increased background firing, which persisted after spinal cord transection, and evoked hyperresponsiveness to peripheral stimuli. These results demonstrate that injury to the peripheral nervous system induces alterations in sodium channel expression within higher-order VPL neurons, and suggest that misexpression of the Nav1.3 sodium channel increases the excitability of VPL neurons injury, contributing to neuropathic pain.

WAVE1--the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP)--family verprolin homologous protein 1--is a key regulator of actin-dependent morphological processes in mammals, through its ability to activate the actin-related protein (Arp2/3) complex. Here we show that WAVE1 is phosphorylated at multiple sites by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) both in vitro and in intact mouse neurons. Phosphorylation of WAVE1 by Cdk5 inhibits its ability to regulate Arp2/3 complex-dependent actin polymerization. Loss of WAVE1 function in vivo or in cultured neurons results in a decrease in mature dendritic spines. Expression of a dephosphorylation-mimic mutant of WAVE1 reverses this loss of WAVE1 function in spine morphology, but expression of a phosphorylation-mimic mutant does not. Cyclic AMP (cAMP) signalling reduces phosphorylation of the Cdk5 sites in WAVE1, and increases spine density in a WAVE1-dependent manner. Our data suggest that phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of WAVE1 in neurons has an important role in the formation of the filamentous actin cytoskeleton, and thus in the regulation of dendritic spine morphology.
Dexras1 is a 30 kDa G protein in the Ras subfamily whose discovery was based on its pronounced inducibility by the glucocorticoid dexamethasone. It binds to neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) via the adaptor protein CAPON, eliciting S-nitrosylation and activation of Dexras1. We report that Dexras1 binds to the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor-associated protein (PAP7), a protein of unknown function that binds to cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase and the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor. PAP7 in turn binds to the divalent metal transporter (DMT1), an iron import channel. We have identified a signaling cascade in neurons whereby stimulation of NMDA receptors activates nNOS, leading to S-nitrosylation and activation of Dexras1, which, via PAP7 and DMT1, physiologically induces iron uptake. As selective iron chelation prevents NMDA neurotoxicity in cortical cultures, the NMDA-NO-Dexras1-PAP7-DMT1-iron uptake signaling cascade also appears to mediate NMDA neurotoxicity.
Signaling through G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) underlies many cellular processes, yet it is not known which molecules determine the duration of signaling in intact cells. Two candidates are G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) and Regulators of G protein signaling (RGSs), deactivation enzymes for GPCRs and G proteins, respectively. Here we investigate whether GRK or RGS governs the overall rate of recovery of the light response in mammalian rod photoreceptors, a model system for studying GPCR signaling. We show that overexpression of rhodopsin kinase (GRK1) increases phosphorylation of the GPCR rhodopsin but has no effect on photoresponse recovery. In contrast, overexpression of the photoreceptor RGS complex (RGS9-1.Gbeta5L.R9AP) dramatically accelerates response recovery. Our results show that G protein deactivation is normally at least 2.5 times slower than rhodopsin deactivation, resolving a long-standing controversy concerning the mechanism underlying the recovery of rod visual transduction.
Intracellular recording, which allows direct measurement of the membrane potential and currents of individual neurons, requires a very mechanically stable preparation and has thus been limited to in vitro and head-immobilized in vivo experiments. This restriction constitutes a major obstacle for linking cellular and synaptic physiology with animal behavior. To overcome this limitation we have developed a method for performing whole-cell recordings in freely moving rats. We constructed a miniature head-mountable recording device, with mechanical stabilization achieved by anchoring the recording pipette rigidly in place after the whole-cell configuration is established. We obtain long-duration recordings (mean of approximately 20 min, maximum 60 min) in freely moving animals that are remarkably insensitive to mechanical disturbances, then reconstruct the anatomy of the recorded cells. This head-anchored whole-cell recording technique will enable a wide range of new studies involving detailed measurement and manipulation of the physiological properties of identified cells during natural behaviors.
Endocannabinoids can mediate neuroprotection, but it is not known how. In this issue of Neuron, Monory et al. use mutant mice and localized viral targeting to produce conditional knockouts of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor. They show that protection against kainic acid-induced seizures and cell death is conferred by CB1Rs on hippocampal glutamatergic nerve terminals.

Drosophila visual signaling is one of the fastest G-protein-coupled transduction cascades, because effector and modulatory proteins are organized into a macromolecular complex (&quot;transducisome&quot;). Assembly of the complex is orchestrated by inactivation no afterpotential D (INAD), which colocalizes the transient receptor potential (TRP) Ca2+ channel, phospholipase Cbeta, and eye protein kinase C (eye-PKC), for more efficient signal transduction. Eye-PKC is critical for deactivation of vision. Moreover, deactivation is regulated by the interaction between INAD and TRP, because abrogation of this interaction in InaD(p215) results in slow deactivation similar to that of inaC(p209) lacking eye-PKC. To elucidate the mechanisms whereby eye-PKC modulates deactivation, here we demonstrate that eye-PKC, via tethering to INAD, phosphorylates TRP in vitro. We reveal that Ser982 of TRP is phosphorylated by eye-PKC in vitro and, importantly, in the fly eye, as shown by mass spectrometry. Furthermore, transgenic expression of modified TRP bearing an Ala substitution leads to slow deactivation of the visual response similar to that of InaD(p215). These results suggest that the INAD macromolecular complex plays an essential role in termination of the light response by promoting efficient phosphorylation at Ser982 of TRP for fast deactivation of the visual signaling.
Blockade of cannabinoid CB1 receptors has been reported to inhibit cocaine- or cocaine cue-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. However, the mechanisms underlying this action are poorly understood. Given the importance of dopamine, glutamate, and GABA in cocaine reward and relapse, we studied the effects of AM251 [N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophonyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide], a novel highly selective CB1 receptor antagonist, on cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior and on cocaine-induced changes in extracellular DA, glutamate, and GABA in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) under reinstatement conditions. We found that systemic administration of AM251 selectively inhibited cocaine-induced, but not sucrose plus sucrose cue-induced, reinstatement of reward-seeking behavior. AM251 alone did not trigger reinstatement. Local perfusion of AM251 into the NAc or the dorsal striatum also inhibited cocaine-triggered reinstatement. AM251 alone dose dependently elevated NAc glutamate in a voltage-dependent Na+ channel-dependent manner. AM251 did not affect NAc DA or GABA. Pretreatment with AM251 dose dependently inhibited cocaine-induced increases in NAc glutamate but not in DA. Blockade of NAc metabotropic glutamate mGluR2/3 receptors by LY341495 [(2S)-2-amino-2-[(1S,2S)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid] slightly facilitated cocaine-enhanced glutamate release but blocked the antagonism of cocaine-induced reinstatement by AM251. These data suggest the following: (1) CB1 receptors exert tonic inhibition over NAc glutamate release under cocaine-extinction conditions; (2) blockade of CB1 receptors by AM251 inhibits cocaine-enhanced NAc glutamate release and cocaine-triggered reinstatement; and (3) these effects appear to be mediated by activation of presynaptic mGluR2/3 autoreceptors secondary to AM251-induced increase (disinhibition) of NAc glutamate release.
Homer is a crucial postsynaptic scaffolding protein involved in both maintenance and activity-induced plasticity of the synapse. However, its quaternary structure has yet to be determined. We conducted a series of biophysical experiments that provide the first evidence that Homer forms a tetramer via its coiled-coil domain, in which all subunits are aligned in parallel orientation. To test the importance of the tetrameric structure for functionality, we engineered dimeric and tetrameric Homer by deleting a part of coiled-coil domain or replacing it with artificially engineered dimeric or tetrameric coiled-coil domain from a yeast protein. The structure-activity relationship was determined by assaying cocluster formation with its ligand in heterologous cells, distribution in dendritic spines, and turnover rate of protein exist in dendritic spines. Our results provide the first insight into the structure of native Homer protein as a tetramer and the functional significance conferred by that structure.
Locomotor rhythm generation is a fundamental characteristic of neural networks in the spinal cord. Identifying the synaptic interactions between neurons in the locomotor circuitry is key to our understanding of the mechanisms that underlie the production of rhythmic motor outputs. Using transgenic mice in which the homeobox gene HB9 drives the reporter green fluorescent protein (GFP), we have demonstrated that a genetically distinct cluster of Hb9/GFP-expressing interneurons (Hb9 INs) can generate locomotor-like rhythms in the newborn mouse spinal cord (Hinckley et al., 2005b). Processes of Hb9 INs are in close apposition to adjacent Hb9 INs, raising the possibility that the interneurons are synaptically interconnected. To test this hypothesis, whole-cell paired recordings were performed from visually identified Hb9 INs. High-incidence bidirectional electrical coupling was evident between Hb9 INs in spinal cords of newborn and juvenile mice. The coupling strength varied from 2 to 32% with an average of 12%. Our data suggested that the variability was not correlated with the distribution of electrical synapses at different electronic distances. Electrical synapses behaved as low-pass filters, reducing currents passing at frequencies &gt;3 Hz. Episodes of spontaneous bursts of EPSCs were synchronous in coupled Hb9 INs, indicating that common synaptic inputs coordinated their activity. However, non-NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission was not required to synchronize neurochemically induced membrane oscillations between electrically coupled interneurons. The finding that electrical transmission persists in mice that can walk is indicative of its importance in coordinating the activity of this neuronal population in functionally mature spinal networks.
Among various machineries occurring in the experimental neuropathic pain model, there exists the loss of pain transmission through C-fiber neurons as well as the hypersensitivity through A-fibers. The current study reveals that molecular machineries underlying the latter hypersensitivity are derived from the events through LPA1 receptor and its downstream RhoA-activation following peripheral nerve injury. The loss of C-fiber responses, which are mediated by spinal substance P (SP) pain transmission was observed with the nociceptive flexor responses by intraplantar injection of SP in nerve-injured mice. The immunohistochemistry revealed that SP signal in the dorsal horn was markedly reduced in such mice. All these changes were completely abolished in LPA1-/- mice or by the pretreatment with BoNT/C3, a RhoA inhibitor. In addition, the loss of C-fiber responses and the down-regulation of spinal SP signal induced by single intrathecal LPA injection were also abolished in such treatments. All these results suggest that the loss of pain transmission through polymodal C-fiber neurons is also mediated by the LPA1 activation following nerve injury.
The prevailing neurocircuitry models of anxiety disorders have been amygdalocentric in form. The bases for such models have progressed from theoretical considerations, extrapolated from research in animals, to in vivo human imaging data. For example, one current model of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has been highly influenced by knowledge from rodent fear conditioning research. Given the phenomenological parallels between fear conditioning and the pathogenesis of PTSD, we have proposed that PTSD is characterized by exaggerated amygdala responses (subserving exaggerated acquisition of fear associations and expression of fear responses) and deficient frontal cortical function (mediating deficits in extinction and the capacity to suppress attention/response to trauma-related stimuli), as well as deficient hippocampal function (mediating deficits in appreciation of safe contexts and explicit learning/memory). Neuroimaging studies have yielded convergent findings in support of this model. However, to date, neuroimaging investigations of PTSD have not principally employed conditioning and extinction paradigms per se. The recent development of such imaging probes now sets the stage for directly testing hypotheses regarding the neural substrates of fear conditioning and extinction abnormalities in PTSD.
Many accounts of memory suggest that an initial learning experience initiates a cascade of cellular and molecular events that are required for the consolidation of memory from a labile into a more permanent state. Studies of memory in many species have routinely found that altered gene activity and new protein synthesis are the critical components of this memory consolidation process. During extinction, when organisms learn that previously established relations between stimuli have been severed, new memories are formed and consolidated. However, the nature of the learning that underlies extinction remains unclear and there are many processes that may contribute to the weakening of behavior that occurs during extinction. In this review, we suggest that the molecular mechanisms that underlie extinction may differ depending on the learning process that is engaged by extinction. We review evidence that extinction, like initial learning, requires transcription and translation, as well as evidence that extinction occurs when protein synthesis is inhibited. We suggest that extinction occurs through the interaction of multiple behavioral and molecular mechanisms.
In vertebrate embryos, commissural axons extend toward and across the floor plate (FP), an intermediate target at the ventral midline (VM) of the spinal cord. After decussating, many commissural axons turn into the longitudinal plane and elaborate diverse projections. FP contact is thought to alter the responsiveness of these axons so that they can exit the FP and adopt new trajectories. However, a requirement for the FP in shaping contralateral commissural projections has not been established in higher vertebrates. Here we further analyze to what extent FP contact is necessary for the elaboration of decussated commissural projections both in cultured, FP-excised spinal cord preparations and in gli2-deficient mice, which lack a FP. In FP-lacking spinal cords, we observe a large number of appropriately projecting contralateral commissural projections in vivo and in vitro. Surprisingly, even though gli2 mutants lack a FP, slit1-3 mRNA and their receptors (Robo1/2) are expressed in a wild-type-like manner. In addition, blocking Robo-Slit interactions in FP-lacking spinal cord explants prevents commissural axons from leaving the VM and turning longitudinally. Thus, compared to FP contact, Slit-Robo interactions are more critical for driving commissural axons out of the VM and facilitating the elaboration of a subset of contralateral commissural projections.
This study explores subtle defects in the myelin of proteolipid protein (PLP)-null mice that could potentially underlie the functional losses and axon damage known to occur in this mutant and in myelin diseases including multiple sclerosis. We have compared PLP-null central nervous system (CNS) myelin with normal myelin using ultrastructural methods designed to emphasize fine differences. In the PLP-null CNS, axons large enough to be myelinated often lack myelin entirely or are surrounded by abnormally thin sheaths. Short stretches of cytoplasm persist in many myelin lamellae. Most strikingly, compaction is incomplete in this mutant as shown by the widespread presence of patent interlamellar spaces of variable width that can be labeled with ferricyanide, acting as an aqueous extracellular tracer. In thinly myelinated fibers, interlamellar spaces are filled across the full width of the sheaths. In thick myelin sheaths, they appear filled irregularly but diffusely. These patent spaces constitute a spiral pathway through which ions and other extracellular agents may penetrate gradually, possibly contributing to the axon damage known to occur in this mutant, especially in thinly myelinated fibers, where the spiral path length is shortest and most consistently labeled. We show also that the &quot;radial component&quot; of myelin is distorted in the mutant (&quot;diagonal component&quot;), extending across the sheaths at 45 degrees instead of 90 degrees. These observations indicate a direct or indirect role for PLP in maintaining myelin compaction along the external surfaces of the lamellae and to a limited extent, along the cytoplasmic surfaces as well and also in maintaining the normal alignment of the radial component.
HIV-1 uses mononuclear phagocytes (monocytes, tissue macrophages, and dendritic cells) as a vehicle for its own dissemination and as a reservoir for continuous viral replication. The mechanism by which the host immune system clears HIV-1-infected macrophages is not understood. TRAIL may play a role in this process. TRAIL is expressed on the cell membrane of peripheral immune cells and can be cleaved into a soluble, secreted form. The plasma level of TRAIL is increased in HIV-1-infected patients, particularly those with high viral loads. To study the effect of elevated TRAIL on mononuclear phagocytes, we used recombinant human (rh) TRAIL and human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) as an in vitro model. Our results demonstrated rhTRAIL-induced apoptosis in HIV-1-infected MDM and inhibited viral replication, while having a reduced effect on uninfected MDM. HIV-1 infection significantly decreased Akt-1 phosphorylation; rhTRAIL exposure further decreased Akt-1 phosphorylation. Infection with a dominant-negative Akt-1 adenovirus potentiated rhTRAIL-induced apoptosis, while constitutively active Akt-1 blocked rhTRAIL-induced apoptosis in HIV-1-infected MDM. From this data we conclude the death ligand TRAIL preferentially provokes apoptosis of HIV-1-infected MDM, and the mechanism is reliant upon the inhibition of Akt-1 phosphorylation. Understanding this mechanism may facilitate the elimination of HIV-1-infected macrophages and lead to new therapeutic avenues for treatment of HIV-1 infection.



According to the findings obtained in the context of a Global Initiative on Neurology and Public Health carried out by the World Health Organization (WHO), there has been a lack of reliable and comparative data on services and other resources for neurological disorders in many parts of the world. In view of these findings and in collaboration with the World Federation of Neurology (WFN), WHO has recently organized an international Survey of Country Resources for Neurological Disorders, which involved 109 countries and covered over 90% of the world's population. This large WHO/WFN collaborative endeavour collected expert information on a number of aspects of neurological care provision around the world including availability of neurological services in primary care; human resources for neurological disorders; sub-specialized neurological services; primary method of financing of neurological care; and disability benefits for patients with neurological disorders. The WHO/WFN Survey results clearly demonstrate that there are inadequate resources for patients with neurological disorders in most parts of the world, and highlight inequalities in the access to neurological care across different populations, and in particular in those living in low-income countries and in developing regions of the world. The key findings of the WHO/WFN Survey including their impact on delivery of neurological care around the world are presented and discussed in this paper. The entire set of WHO/WFN Survey results including numerous tables, graphs and accompanying commentaries can be found in the WHO/WFN Atlas of Country Resources for Neurological Disorders, which is available on request from WHO or at http://www.who.int/mental_health/neurology/ .
There is controversy whether the amount of autoantigens expressed in the thymus regulates negative selection of autoreactive T cells and determine susceptibility or resistance to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). In the present study, we have addressed this issue by quantifying neuroantigens in the thymus of two EAE-susceptible (LEW and LEW.1AV1) and one EAE-resistant (BN) rat strains. We further examined whether amounts of neuroantigens in various parts of the central nervous system (CNS) affect the clinical course and lesion distribution of acute and chronic EAE. Real-time PCR and histologic analyses showed that there was no significant difference in the amount and distribution of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein and myelin basic protein in the thymus and CNS among the three strains and that both acute and chronic EAE lesions in the CNS were preferentially distributed in the area where neuroantigens were abundantly present. These findings suggest that susceptibility or resistance to EAE is not regulated by the amount of the neuroantigens expressed in the thymus. Furthermore, the lesion distribution, but not the clinical course, of EAE is related to the neuroantigen expression in the CNS.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in brain plasticity and neuronal survival. Generally, BDNF enhances synaptic activity and neurite growth, although the effect of BDNF on neuronal survival and brain plasticity following injury is equivocal. Housing rats in an enriched environment after experimental stroke enhances recovery of sensory-motor function, which is associated with a decrease in the BDNF mRNA and protein levels. We used BDNF(+/-) mice and wild-type littermate mice to investigate whether the decrease in the brain levels of BDNF affected motor function or infarct volume following transient occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (tMCAO) for 40 min. We found that the BDNF(+/-) mice had a significantly improved motor function on the rotating pole test 2 weeks after tMCAO compared with wild-type mice. When intermittently exposed to an enriched environment following tMCAO, the wild-type mice improved motor function to the same degree as BDNF(+/-) mice. There was no effect of BDNF reduction on infarct volume. Neurogenesis is induced following experimental stroke, and in the striatum of BDNF(+/-) mice significantly increased numbers of neuroblasts compared with wild-type mice were seen, both in standard and in enriched conditions. We conclude that decreasing brain levels of BDNF enhances the recovery of function following experimental stroke.
Soluble amyloid beta protein (Abeta) oligomers have been considered recently to be responsible for the cognitive dysfunction that sets in prior to senile plaque formation in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. By using the newly prepared antibody against oligomer Abeta, rather than fibrillar or monomer Abeta, we observed that oligomer Abeta in AD brains was localized as clusters ofdot-likeimmunostains in the neurons in a manner different from that in senile plaques. The relationship of oligomer Abeta with synaptophysin, a synaptic molecular marker, was examined because oligomer Abeta is widely believed to be related to synaptic failure. We observed that immunostainings for synaptophysin were absent near neurons bearing clusters of oligomer Abeta. The present study provides morphological evidence to support the idea that accumulated oligomer Abeta, but not fibrillar Abeta, is closely associated with synaptic failure, which is the major cause of cognitive dysfunction.
Activation of the stress axis by glucocorticoids suppresses reproductive function in many species. Here, we performed studies to determine whether these effects are mediated at the level of the hypothalamus or pituitary or both, and to dissect the underlying molecular mechanisms, using two established rodent models. Rats were treated either chronically or acutely with glucocorticoids, and circulating gonadotropins, GnRH mRNA levels, and gonadotropin subunit mRNAs levels were measured. In model I, chronic treatment for 6 days with corticosterone (CORT) was used in adult intact male rats. CORT caused a significant decrease in serum LH but not FSH secretion compared to vehicle. Whereas pituitary LHbeta and FSHbeta mRNA levels were not affected by CORT treatment, hypothalamic GnRH mRNA was significantly decreased by 35-40%. In model II, acute blockade of the estradiol (E(2))-induced gonadotropin surge by dexamethasone (DEX) was used in 28-day-old female rats. DEX treatment resulted in substantially lower serum LH and FSH concentrations compared to vehicle, although DEX had no effect on GnRH mRNA and LHbeta mRNA levels. By contrast, FSHbeta mRNA levels were about 14-fold lower in DEX-treated females. Taken together, these results indicate that suppression of gonadotropin levels by chronic elevations in glucocorticoids/stress may be accounted for in part by suppression of GnRH mRNA levels, whereas short-term glucocorticoid treatment to block the gonadotropin surge appears to involve other mechanisms including decreased FSHbeta mRNA levels.
Studies of memory retrieval have identified electroencephalographic (EEG) correlates of a test item's old-new status, reaction time, and memory load. In the current study, we used a multivariate analysis to disentangle the effects of these correlated variables. During retrieval, power of left-parietal theta (4-8 Hz) oscillations increased in proportion to how well a test item was remembered, and theta in central regions correlated with decision making. We also studied how these oscillatory dynamics complemented event-related potentials. These findings are the first to demonstrate that distinct patterns of theta oscillations can simultaneously relate to different aspects of behavior.
Pathophysiological changes in neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases are increasingly described in terms of abnormal network connectivity. However, the anatomical integrity and efficacy of connections among multiple brain regions change with aging, even in healthy adults. We combined low-frequency transcranial magnetic stimulation and positron emission tomography to study the age-related changes in regional activation and effective connectivity, associated with voluntary action by healthy adults between 22 and 68 years old. Contrasting effects of aging on the motor network were seen using analyses of regional activation, effective connectivity mediating task-related neuronal activation and effective connectivity in response to transcranial magnetic stimulation. Low-frequency rTMS reduced cerebral blood flow during both movement and resting conditions, at the site of stimulation and neighboring frontal cortex. Aging was associated with increased movement-related activation in premotor cortex, bilaterally. Increasing age also increased the susceptibility of the cortex to the inhibitory effects of rTMS, at the site of stimulation and its contralateral homologue. Moreover, older subjects showed enhanced local effective connectivity, centered on the left premotor cortex, but reduced effective connectivity between distant motor-related cortical areas. We discuss these results in relation to the HAROLD model of aging and propose that there are differential effects of aging on local and distributed neuronal subpopulations in the motor network. This differential effect of aging has important implications for the study of neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular diseases that primarily affect older people, as well as our understanding of the normal aging process.
Some of the symptoms of schizophrenia may reflect a difficulty discriminating between information that was perceived from the outside world and information that was imagined. This study used fMRI to examine the brain regions associated with this reality monitoring ability in healthy volunteers, who recollected whether information had previously been perceived or imagined, or whether information had been presented on the left or right of a monitor screen. Recent studies have suggested that schizophrenia may be associated particularly with dysfunction in medial anterior prefrontal cortex, thalamus, and cerebellum. In our data, activation in all three of these regions of interest was significantly greater during recollection of whether stimuli had been perceived or imagined versus recollection of stimulus position. In addition, reduced prefrontal activation was associated with the same misattribution error that has been observed in schizophrenia. These results indicate a possible link between the brain areas implicated in schizophrenia and the regions supporting the ability to discriminate between perceived and imagined information.
One of the most consistently activated regions during verbal short-term memory (STM) tasks is the left intraparietal sulcus (IPS). However, its precise role remains a matter of debate. While some authors consider the IPS to be a specific store for serial order information, other data suggest that it serves a more general function of attentional focalization. In the current fMRI experiment, we investigated these two hypotheses by presenting different verbal STM conditions that probed recognition for word identity or word order and by assessing functional connectivity of the left IPS with distant brain areas. If the IPS has a role of attentional focalization, then it should be involved in both order and item conditions, but it should be connected to different brain regions, depending on the neural substrates involved in processing the different types of information (order versus phonological/orthographic) to be remembered in the item and order STM conditions. We observed that the left IPS was activated in both order and item STM conditions but for different reasons: during order STM, the left IPS was functionally connected to serial/temporal order processing areas in the right IPS, premotor and cerebellar cortices, while during item STM, the left IPS was connected to phonological and orthographic processing areas in the superior temporal and fusiform gyri. Our data support a position considering that the left IPS acts as an attentional modulator of distant neural networks which themselves are specialized in processing order or language representations. More generally, they strengthen attention-based accounts of verbal STM.
The present study aimed at characterizing the neural correlates of conflict resolution in two variations of the Simon effect. We introduced two different Simon tasks where subjects had to identify shapes on the basis of form-from-motion perception (FFMo) within a randomly moving dot field, while (1) motion direction (motion-based Simon task) or (2) stimulus location (location-based Simon task) had to be ignored. Behavioral data revealed that both types of Simon tasks induced highly significant interference effects. Using event-related fMRI, we could demonstrate that both tasks share a common cluster of activated brain regions during conflict resolution (pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA), superior parietal lobule (SPL), and cuneus) but also show task-specific activation patterns (left superior temporal cortex in the motion-based, and the left fusiform gyrus in the location-based Simon task). Although motion-based and location-based Simon tasks are conceptually very similar (Type 3 stimulus-response ensembles according to the taxonomy of [Kornblum, S., Stevens, G. (2002). Sequential effects of dimensional overlap: findings and issues. In: Prinz, W., Hommel., B. (Eds.), Common mechanism in perception and action. Oxford University Press, Oxford, pp. 9-54]) conflict resolution in both tasks results in the activation of different task-specific regions probably related to the different sources of task-irrelevant information. Furthermore, the present data give evidence those task-specific regions are most likely to detect the relationship between task-relevant and task-irrelevant information.
Neuroimaging techniques are among the most important tools for investigating the function of the human nervous system and for improving the clinical diagnosis of neurological disorders. However, most commonly used techniques are limited by their invasiveness or their inability to accurately localize neural activity in space or time. Previous attempts at using MRI to directly image neuroelectric activity in vivo through the detection of magnetic field changes induced by neuronal currents have been challenging because of the extremely small signal changes and confounding factors such as hemodynamic modulations. Here we describe an MRI technique that uses oscillating magnetic field gradients to significantly amplify and detect the Lorentz effect induced by neuroelectric activity, and we demonstrate its effectiveness in imaging sensory nerve activation in vivo in the human median nerve during electrical stimulation of the wrist. This direct, real-time, and noninvasive neuroimaging technique may potentially find broad applications in neurosciences.
A current debate is whether increased looking time in infancy is related to violation of expectations. In this study, 6- to 9-month-old infants' brain activity was analyzed during presentation of correct and incorrect solutions to simple arithmetic equations [(e.g., presentation of 1 + 1; one doll on a TV monitor, with another doll added from behind a screen, followed by a solution of 2 (correct) or 1 (incorrect)]. Infants looked longer at incorrect solutions than at correct ones. Event-related potentials, time-locked to the presentation of the solution, also differed between conditions, with greater negative activity for the incorrect solution condition. Spectral analysis showed a similar pattern to that of adults observing correct and incorrect arithmetical equations. These findings show (i) that the brain network involved in error detection can be identified in infancy and (ii) that this network can support an association between looking time and violation of expectations.

Despite the lack of direct evidence, it is generally believed that top-down signals are mediated by the abundant feedback connections from higher- to lower-order sensory areas. Here we provide direct evidence for a top-down mechanism. We stained the visual cortex of the ferret with a voltage-sensitive dye and presented a short-duration contrast square. This elicited an initial feedforward and lateral spreading depolarization at the square representation in areas 17 and 18. After a delay, a broad feedback wave (FBW) of neuron peak depolarization traveled from areas 21 and 19 toward areas 18 and 17. In areas 18 and 17, the FBW contributed the peak depolarization of dendrites of the neurons representing the square, after which the neurons decreased their depolarization and firing. Thereafter, the peak depolarization surrounded the figure representation over most of areas 17 and 18 representing the background. Thus, the FBW is an example of a well behaved long-range communication from higher-order visual areas to areas 18 and 17, collectively addressing very large populations of neurons representing the visual scene. Through local interaction with feedforward and lateral spreading depolarization, the FBW differentially activates neurons representing the object and neurons representing the background.

A variety of rare clinical syndromes are seen with strikingly increased prevalence in HIV-1-infected individuals, many with underlying viral etiologies. The emergence of these diseases in AIDS reflects a reduction in the ability of the immune system to mount an adequate defense against viruses in general due to the damage inflicted to the immune system by HIV-1 infection. However, in many cases, it has been found that HIV-1 can enhance the level of expression and hence the life cycle of other viruses independently of immunosuppression through specific interactions with the viruses. This can occur either directly by HIV-1 proteins such as Tat enhancing the activity of heterologous viral promoters, and/or indirectly by HIV-1 inducing the expression of cytokines and activation of their downstream signaling that eventually promotes the multiplication of the other virus. In a reciprocal manner, the effects of other viruses can enhance the pathogenicity of HIV-1 infection in individuals with AIDS through stimulation of the HIV-1 promoter activity and genome expression. The purpose of this review is to examine the cross-interactions between these viruses and HIV-1.
N-syndecan (syndecan-3) is a transmembrane proteoglycan that is abundantly expressed in the major axonal pathways and in the migratory routes of the developing brain. When ligated by heparin-binding (HB) growth-associated molecule (GAM; pleiotrophin), N-syndecan mediates cortactin-Src kinase-dependent neurite outgrowth. However, the functional role of N-syndecan in brain development remains unexplored. In this study, we show that N-syndecan deficiency perturbs the laminar structure of the cerebral cortex as a result of impaired radial migration. In addition, neural migration in the rostral migratory stream is impaired in the N-syndecan-null mice. We suggest that the migration defect depends on impaired HB-GAM-induced Src kinase activation and haptotactic migration. Furthermore, we show that N-syndecan interacts with EGF receptor (EGFR) at the plasma membrane and is required in EGFR-induced neuronal migration.
Oxidative stress contributes to changes in neurosensory processing, including pain, that occur during aging and neurodegeneration. The effects of neuronal oxidation on the opioid system are poorly understood. In this in vitro study, oxidative stress was induced by 3-nitroproprionic acid (3-NPA) in opioid-responsive differentiated SK-N-SH cells. Changes in the inhibitory effects of opioid receptor agonists on intracellular cAMP were used as a marker of the function of mu and delta opioid receptors (MOR and DOR, respectively). Cells were treated with morphine and selective MOR and DOR agonists and antagonists to characterize the function of each receptor subtype. Cyclic AMP (cAMP) was measured by enzyme immunoassay. Levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were assessed using the 2',7'-dichlorofluorescin diacetate assay. Exposure of cells to 3-NPA resulted in an increase in ROS. After 3-NPA exposure, there was a significant attenuation of the inhibitory effect of morphine and DAMGO but not of DPDPE on cAMP. In cells pretreated with CTOP, 3-NPA did not change the inhibitory effect on cAMP. These findings demonstrate for the first time that under conditions of mitochondrial damage, the function of MOR is significantly decreased, while the function of DOR does not change, suggesting that the effect of 3-NPA on opioid receptors is subtype-specific.
Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) is a devastating event. Following the bleeding, a number of pathophysiological changes and clinical factors determine outcome. Not surprisingly, attempts to predict outcome based on a single factor have failed. The neurological status graded at admission to hospital and distributions of the blood on CT are the strongest predictors. There is evidence that cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteins may serve as markers of the extent of brain damage. The present study is focused on the light unit of neurofilament protein (NFL), previously not evaluated in aSAH. Lumbar puncture (LP), neurological grading according to World Federation of Neurological Surgeons (WFNS) and neurological examination according to the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) were performed in 48 consecutive patients with aSAH 10-14 days after the hemorrhage. CSF-NFL concentrations were analyzed using an ELISA. Outcome was assessed after 1 year and categorised according to the extended Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOSE). A significant correlation between CSF-NFL and GOSE was detected at follow up after 1 year. CSF-NFL also correlated with WFNS and NIHSS on the day of the lumbar puncture. CSF-NFL is a biochemical marker of brain damage correlating to neurological status and long-term outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Obestatin is a recently identified peptide derived from the ghrelin gene. Ghrelin stimulates food intake whereas obestatin has an opposite effect in rats. Previous experiments in our laboratory revealed that ghrelin also induces wakefulness in rats. The aim of the present experiments was to study the effect of obestatin on sleep. Rats received intraperitoneal (n = 7; 16 or 64 microg/kg) or intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.; n = 11) injection of pyrogen-free isotonic NaCl or obestatin (1, 4 and 16 microg in a volume of 4 microl) at dark onset. Sleep-wake activity was recorded for 23 h. I.c.v. administration of 16 microg obestatin induced a significant increase (approximately 58%) in the time spent in non-rapid-eye-movement sleep (NREMS) in the first hour after the injection. This resulted from an increase in the number of NREMS episodes and shortened sleep latency. Electroencephalographic (EEG) slow-wave activity (0.5-4 Hz) was reduced by obestatin treatment. The initial increase in NREMS time was followed by a decrease in both NREMS and REMS in the second hour after the injection. Peripheral injection of obestatin did not induce significant changes in sleep in any post-injection hours. Results suggest that the sleep-promoting effect of centrally administered obestatin may be part of the behavioral manifestation of satiety elicited by the peptide. Current results confirm the finding that two regulatory peptides derived from the same gene have opposite actions in the same species.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a gas molecule to signal neurotransmission in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system during osmotic regulation. We previously reported that osmotic stimulation increased nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity in the supraoptic nuclei (SON) and neural lobe. The aim of this study is to define the role of NO in the regulation of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (BK channels) expression in the magnocellular system following dehydration. We used Western blot analysis and quantitative immunocytochemistry to conduct the experiment in rats. In the immunoblot study, we found that water deprivation significantly increased the expression of BK channels in the SON and neural lobes. Dehydration also enhanced the profiles of neurons expressing vasopressin and oxytocin significantly. In about 70% of these neurons, BK channels were co-localized in the same neuron, and their expression increased significantly during dehydration. We further examined the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of sodium nitroprusside (a donor of NO) and L-NAME (an inhibitor of NO synthase) on expression of BK channels in the SON. We found that compared to animals treated with the donor of NO, there were significant decreases in the expression of BK proteins in animals receiving L-NAME. These results suggest that NO may enhance the expression of BK channels in the supraoptic nuclei and neural lobe of rats following dehydration.
Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) is a phenomenon whereby an organ's adaptive transient resistance to a lethal ischemic insult occurs by preconditioning this organ with a sub-lethal/mild ischemic insult of short duration. Besides IPC, recent studies reported that a short sub-lethal ischemia and reperfusion in various organs can induce ischemic tolerance in another organ as well. This phenomenon is known as remote ischemic preconditioning (RPC). In the present study we tested the hypothesis that tolerance for ischemia can be induced in brain by RPC and IPC in a rat model of asphyxial cardiac arrest (ACA). RPC was induced by tightening the upper two-thirds of both hind limbs using a tourniquet for 15 or 30 min and IPC was induced by tightening bilateral carotid artery ligatures for 2 min. Eight minutes of ACA was induced 48 h after RPC or IPC. After 7 day of resuscitation, brains were extracted and examined for histopathological changes. In CA1 hippocampus, the number of normal neurons was 63% lower in cardiac-arrested rats as compared to the control group. The number of normal neurons in the 15 min RPC, 30 min RPC, and IPC groups was higher than the ACA group by 54, 70, and 67%, respectively. This study demonstrates that RPC and IPC are able to provide neuroprotection in a rat model of ACA. Besides direct application of RPC or IPC paradigms, the exploration of the mechanisms of observed neuroprotection by RPC and IPC may also lead to a possible therapy for CA patients.
It has been shown that global anoxia leads to dramatic changes in the diffusion properties of the extracellular space (ECS). In this study, we investigated how changes in ECS volume and geometry in the rat somatosensory cortex during and after transient hypoxia/ischemia correlate with extracellular concentrations of energy-related metabolites and glutamate. Adult male Wistar rats (n = 12) were anesthetized and subjected to hypoxia/ischemia for 30 min (ventilation with 10% oxygen and unilateral carotid artery occlusion). The ECS diffusion parameters, volume fraction and tortuosity, were determined from concentration-time profiles of tetramethylammonium applied by iontophoresis. Concentrations of lactate, glucose, pyruvate and glutamate in the extracellular fluid (ECF) were monitored by microdialysis (n = 9). During hypoxia/ischemia, the ECS volume fraction decreased from initial values of 0.19 +/- 0.03 (mean +/- S.E.M.) to 0.07 +/- 0.01 and tortuosity increased from 1.57 +/- 0.01 to 1.88 +/- 0.03. During reperfusion the volume fraction returned to control values within 20 min and then increased to 0.23 +/- 0.01, while tortuosity only returned to original values (1.53 +/- 0.06). The concentrations of lactate and glutamate, and the lactate/pyruvate ratio, substantially increased during hypoxia/ischemia, followed by continuous recovery during reperfusion. The glucose concentration decreased rapidly during hypoxia/ischemia with a subsequent return to control values within 20 min of reperfusion. We conclude that transient hypoxia/ischemia causes similar changes in ECS diffusion parameters as does global anoxia and that the time course of the reduction in ECS volume fraction correlates with the increase of extracellular concentration of glutamate. The decrease in the ECS volume fraction can therefore contribute to an increased accumulation of toxic metabolites, which may aggravate functional deficits and lead to damage of the central nervous system (CNS).
The effect of the opiate morphine, on penile erection induced by the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and on the increase in the concentration of glutamic acid and of NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-), which occurs concomitantly in the paraventricular dialysate obtained by intracerebral microdialysis, was studied in male rats. Morphine (0.5, 1 and 5 microg), given into the paraventricular nucleus, reduced dose-dependently penile erection induced by SR 141716A (2 microg) injected into the paraventricular nucleus. The reduction of penile erection was parallel to a decrease of the concomitant glutamic acid and NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-) increase that occurs in the paraventricular dialysate in these experimental conditions. Morphine effects on SR 141716A-induced penile erection, glutamic acid and NO(2)(-) increase were prevented by the prior administration of naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist (5 microg) given into the paraventricular nucleus. The present results show that the activation of opioid receptors in the paraventricular nucleus impairs penile erection induced by SR 141716A, by reducing the increase in glutamic acid and in NO activity that occurs in this hypothalamic nucleus in these experimental conditions.
We combined the data of five event-related fMRI studies of response inhibition. The re-analysis (n = 71) revealed response inhibition to be accomplished by a largely right hemisphere network of prefrontal, parietal, subcortical and midline regions, with converging evidence pointing to the particular importance of the right frontal operculum. Functional differences were observed between the sexes with greater activity in females in many of these cortical regions. Despite the relatively narrow age range (18-46), cortical activity, on the whole, tended to increase with age, echoing a pattern of functional recruitment often observed in the elderly. More absent minded subjects showed greater activity in fronto-parietal areas, while speed of Go trial responses produced a varied pattern of activation differences in more posterior and subcortical areas. Although response inhibition produces robust activation in a discrete network of brain regions, these results reveal that individual differences impact on the relative contribution made by the nodes of this network.
In this introductory article of the special issue of Brain Research, we first present an overview of some general questions relating to cognitive control. For instance, one of the questions that remain to be answered is what control mechanisms and their neural underpinnings really 'do', beyond what is done by more basic 'computational' or data processing systems in the brain. We then briefly describe the four major issues addressed in the separate articles of this issue, namely attentional orienting, task set switching, performance and error monitoring, and response inhibition. In conclusion, we focus on some new methodological directions and illustrate how the study of cognitive control may be augmented by relatively newly emerging theoretical and empirical perspectives.
Lateralized readiness potential (LRP) and time-frequency domain LRP-type measures, called motor-related amplitude asymmetries (MRAA), in the mu band (9-13 Hz; mu-MRAA) and the beta band (18-26 Hz; beta-MRAA) were used to study the time course of preparation in a task-switching task and a response precuing task. Several dissociations between LRP and mu-MRAA and beta-MRAA were found. Mu-MRAA and beta-MRAA, but not LRP, exhibited an early and strong reversal in cortical lateralization when advance preparation for a switch of response hand was required. LRP, but not mu-MRAA or beta-MRAA, was sensitive to manipulation of the probability that advance preparation of response hand would be useful in a response precuing task. These dissociations replicate earlier findings and suggest that movement-related cortical rhythms and cortical potentials are associated with distinct preparatory component processes that differ in terms of level of abstraction and effort, in line with similar functional distinctions between component processes underlying executive control in task switching. This suggests that a fine-grained analysis of subprocesses involved in motor control may provide important guiding principles for the study and understanding of levels and mechanisms of cognitive control.
Gap junctional hemichannels mediate cell-extracellular communication. A hemichannel is made of six connexin (Cx) subunits; each connexin has four transmembrane domains, two extracellular loops, and cytoplasmic amino- and carboxyl-terminals (CTs). The extracellular domains are arranged differently at non-junctional and junctional (gap junction) regions, although very little is known about their flexibility and conformational energetics. The cytoplasmic tail differs considerably in the size and amino acid sequence for different connexins and is predicted to be involved in the channel open and closed conformations. For large connexins, such as Cx43, the CT makes large cytoplasmic fuzz visible under electron microscopy. If this CT domain controls channel permeability by physical occlusion of the pore mouth, movement of this portion could open or close the channel. We used atomic force microscopy-based single molecule spectroscopy with antibody-modified atomic force microscopy tips and connexin mimetic peptide modified tips to examine the flexibility of extracellular loop and CT domains and to estimate the energetics of their movements. Antibody to the CT portion closer to the membrane stretches the tail to a shorter length, and the antibody to CT tail stretches the tail to a longer length. The stretch length and the energy required for stretching the various portions of the carboxyl tail support the ball and chain model for hemichannel conformational changes.

Cerebellar Purkinje neurons are among the most vulnerable neurons in the CNS. Impairment in Purkinje neurons has consequences for cerebellar cortical-dependent forms of behavior. The primary aim of this study was to evaluate Purkinje neuron number over the lifespan of C57BL/6 mice. Stereological estimates of the total number of Purkinje neurons in cerebellar cortex were made in 25 C57BL/6 mice aged 4, 8, 12, 18, and 24 months. Delay eyeblink classical conditioning to a white noise conditioned stimulus was also assessed for 10 daily sessions. Statistically significant age differences in Purkinje neuron number were observed beginning at 18 months. Delay eyeblink conditioning also showed significant age-related impairment, at least some of which resulted from age-related deficits in hearing. Eliminating the hearing-impaired 18- and 24-month-old mice from the analysis, the correlation between Purkinje neuron number and rate of conditioning was -0.435 (P=0.053) in 15 younger mice aged 4-12 months. Purkinje neurons are one of the few types of neurons showing significant age-associated loss. Results indicate that individual variation in Purkinje neuron number is related to eyeblink conditioning in young organisms suggesting that reserves of neuron numbers against which individuals draw are defined early in life.
Conversion of normal cellular prion protein to the diseased form plays an essential role in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies such as mad cow disease and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. However, the normal physiological function of prion protein remains elusive. Doppel, a German synonym of double, was initially identified as a prion-like protein due to its structural and biochemical similarities. However, emerging evidence suggests that function of prion protein is more antagonistic to Doppel than synergistic. In this review, basic biochemical and structural similarities of prion protein and Doppel are introduced; evidence demonstrating antagonistic interaction of prion protein with Doppel is presented; and a potential novel activity of Doppel and prion protein in spermatogenesis, which could stimulate new avenues for research, is discussed.
A great deal is known about the initial steps of visual processing. We know that humans have neural mechanisms selectively tuned to simple patterns of particular spatial frequencies and orientations. We also know that much later in the visual pathway, in inferotemporal cortex, cells respond to extremely complex visual patterns such as images of faces. Very little is known about intermediate levels of visual processing, where early visual signals are presumably combined to represent increasingly complex visual features. Here we show the existence of visual mechanisms in humans, tuned and selective to particular combinations of simple sinusoidal patterns, using a novel method of compound adaptation.
Adenosine is known to modulate the function of neostriatal neurons. Adenosine acting on A(2A) receptors increases the phosphorylation of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of M(r) 32 kDa (DARPP-32) at Thr34 (the cAMP-dependent protein kinase [PKA] site) in striatopallidal neurons, and opposes dopamine D2 receptor signaling. In contrast, the role of adenosine A(1) receptors in the regulation of dopamine/DARPP-32 signaling is not clearly understood. Here, we investigated the effect of adenosine A(1) receptors on D(1), D(2) and A(2A) receptor signaling using mouse neostriatal slices. An A(1) receptor agonist, 2-chloro-N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (100 nM), caused a transient increase, followed by a transient decrease, in DARPP-32 Thr34 phosphorylation. Our data support the following model for the actions of the A(1) receptor agonist. The A(1) receptor-induced early increase in Thr34 phosphorylation was mediated by presynaptic inhibition of dopamine release, and the subsequent removal of tonic inhibition by D(2) receptors of A(2A) receptor/G(olf)/cAMP/PKA signaling. The A(1) receptor-induced late decrease in Thr34 phosphorylation was mediated by a postsynaptic G(i) mechanism, resulting in inhibition of D(1) and A(2A) receptor-coupled G(olf)/cAMP/PKA signaling in direct and indirect pathway neurons, respectively. In conclusion, A(1) receptors play a major modulatory role in dopamine and adenosine receptor signaling.
In a single trial discrimination avoidance learning task, chicks learn to distinguish between beads of two colors, which are dipped in either a strong or weak tasting aversant (methyl anthranilate) to induce strongly-reinforced and weakly-reinforced learning, respectively. Consolidation of strongly-reinforced learning can be prevented by inhibitors of glycolysis, such as 2-deoxyglucose and iodoacetate and by inhibitors of oxidative metabolism and the consolidation of weakly-reinforced learning can be promoted by administration of glucose. In the present study we show that bilateral, intracerebral injection of 30 nmol acetate can act like glucose to consolidate labile memory and to restore memory impaired by 2-deoxyglucose administration. Acetate is a metabolic substrate that feeds into the tricarboxylic acid cycle, it is oxidized in astrocytes, but not in neurones. Our data suggest that effects of glucose administered 15-25 min post-training on memory consolidation are mediated via astrocytes not neurons.
The pontine parabrachial nucleus is a major relay area for visceral and other interoceptive information, and has been implicated in mechanisms underlying anorexia and food aversion during disease. Thus, physiological studies have shown that peripheral immune stimuli, as well as the administration of aversive substances such as lithium chloride, evoke a prominent Fos-expression in the lateral parabrachial nucleus and behavioral experiments have demonstrated that this structure is critical for the acquisition of conditioned taste aversion. The present study examined in rats the relationship between parabrachial neurons activated by systemic administration of bacterial cell-wall lipopolysaccharide or lithium chloride and the melanocortin system, a major regulator of feeding and energy homeostasis that also has been implicated in aversive behavior. Dual-labeling in situ hybridization showed melanocortin-4 receptor expression on neurons in the external lateral parabrachial subnucleus that displayed lipopolysaccharide- or lithium chloride-induced expression of c-fos mRNA. Melanocortin-4 receptor mRNA was also co-expressed with mRNA for calcitonin gene-related peptide in this subnucleus. Taken together with previous observations showing that calcitonin gene-related peptide expressing neurons in the external lateral parabrachial subnucleus are activated by peripheral immune challenge, that lipopolysaccharide-activated external lateral parabrachial subnucleus neurons project to the amygdala, and that the amygdala-projecting neurons in the external lateral parabrachial subnucleus are calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive, the present findings suggest the presence of a melanocortin-regulated calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive pathway from the external lateral parabrachial subnucleus to the amygdala that relays information of importance to forebrain responses to certain aspects of sickness behavior. These observations may thus help explain how melanocortins can reduce feeding and influence conditioned taste aversion during inflammation and other disease conditions.
Extracellular ATP has been reported to potentiate the neurite outgrowth induced by nerve growth factor. In the present study the neurotrophic effect of ATP and other nucleotides was examined in mouse neuroblastoma neuro2a cells which lack nerve growth factor receptor. Exposure of neuro2a cells to ATP resulted in a dramatic increase in neurite bearing cells as compared with untreated control cells. Experiments performed with purinergic receptor agonists and antagonists suggest that the ATP stimulates neurite outgrowth via P2 receptors. Neurite outgrowth was completely blocked by P2 receptor antagonist suramin whereas the P1 receptor antagonist CGS15943 was ineffective. P1 receptor agonist 5'-(N-ethylcarboxamido)adenosine failed to induce neurite outgrowth. The potency order of different P2 receptor agonists was ATP=ATPgammaS&gt;ADP&gt;2Me-S-ATP. It was insensitive to UTP and antagonist pyridoxal phosphate-6-azo (benzene-2,4-disulfonic acid) suggesting the involvement of P2Y11 receptor in the observed neuritogenic effect. The signaling pathway leading to ATP-induced neuritogenesis was investigated. The neuritogenic effect of ATP is independent of rise in intracellular Ca(2+) as pharmacological profile of neuritogenic P2Y receptor does not match with that of P2Y2 receptor associated with [Ca(2+)](i) signaling cascade. Exposure of cells to ATP caused activation of Src kinase, phospholipase Cgamma and extracellular signal-regulated kinases ERK1/2. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor U0126 drastically reduced the number of neurite bearing cells in ATP-treated cultures implying that the neurotrophic effect of ATP is mediated by MAPK. Our results demonstrate that ATP can stimulate neurite outgrowth independent of other neurotrophic factors and can be an effective trophic agent.
Relaxin is a polypeptide hormone with established actions associated with reproductive physiology, but until recently the precise nature of the relaxin receptor and its transmembrane signaling mechanisms had remained elusive. In 2002 however, the leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor-7 (now classified as RXFP1) was identified as a cognate receptor for relaxin, with activation resulting in stimulation of intracellular cAMP production. These findings, along with the presence and putative actions of relaxin within the CNS and earlier descriptions of relaxin binding sites in brain, suggest the importance and feasibility of determining if these relaxin binding sites represent leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor-7 and their precise comparative distribution. Thus, the current study reports the distribution of leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor-7 mRNA throughout the rat brain using in situ hybridization histochemistry of [(35)S]-labeled oligonucleotides and the comparative distribution of [(33)P]-human relaxin binding sites. The extensive, topographical distribution of leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor-7 mRNA throughout the adult rat brain correlated very closely to that of [(33)P]-relaxin binding sites. Leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor-7 mRNA was expressed by neurons in several brain regions, including the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, thalamus, hippocampus, hypothalamus, midbrain, pons and medulla. Receptor transcripts were most abundant in areas such as the basolateral amygdala, subiculum, deep layers of the cingulate, somatosensory and motor cortices and intralaminar/midline thalamic nuclei. These areas also contained very high densities of [(33)P]-relaxin binding sites, suggesting a largely somatic localization of leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor-7 protein and site of action for relaxin peptide. The central distribution of relaxin-producing neurons has been described, while data on the topography of nerve terminals that contain and secrete the peptide are currently lacking; but overall these findings strongly suggest that leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor-7 is the cognate receptor for relaxin in the rat brain, and support a role for relaxin-leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor-7 signaling in various somatosensory, autonomic and neurohumoral pathways, which warrants further investigation.
We sought to determine the impact of 17beta-estradiol throughout the hippocampal trisynaptic pathway and to investigate the afferent fiber systems within CA1 and CA3 in detail. To achieve this objective, we utilized multielectrode arrays to simultaneously record the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials from the CA1, dentate gyrus, and CA3 of rat hippocampal slices in the presence or absence of 100 pM 17beta-estradiol. We confirmed our earlier findings in CA1, where 17beta-estradiol significantly increased field excitatory postsynaptic potentials amplitude (20%+/-3%) and slope (22%+/-7%). 17beta-Estradiol significantly potentiated the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in dentate gyrus, amplitude (15%+/-4%) and slope (17%+/-5), and in CA3, amplitude (15%+/-4%) and slope (19%+/-5%). Using a high-density multielectrode array, we sought to determine the source of potentiation in CA1 and CA3 by determining the impact of 17beta-estradiol on the apical afferents and the basal afferents within CA1 and on the mossy fibers and the associational/commissural fibers within CA3. In CA1, 17beta-estradiol induced a modest increase in the amplitude (7%+/-2%) and slope (9%+/-3%) following apical stimulation with similar magnitude of increase following basal stimulation amplitude (10%+/-2%) and slope (12%+/-3%). In CA3, 17beta-estradiol augmented the mossy fiber amplitude (15%+/-3%) and slope (18%+/-6%) and the associational/commissural fiber amplitude (31%+/-13%) and slope (40%+/-15%). These results indicate that 17beta-estradiol potentiated synaptic transmission in each subfield of the hippocampal slice, with the greatest magnitude of potentiation at the associational/commissural fibers in CA3. 17beta-Estradiol regulation of CA3 responses provides a novel site of 17beta-estradiol action that corresponds to the density of estrogen receptors within the hippocampus. The implications of 17beta-estradiol potentiation of the field potential in each of the hippocampal subfields and in particular CA3 associational/commissural fibers for memory function and clinical assessment are discussed.
The adult subventricular zone produces neuroblasts that migrate to the main olfactory bulb, where they differentiate into interneurons in the glomerular and granular layers. Using bromodeoxyuridine labeling, the survival of newborn cells was assessed in these two layers of the MOB in control mice and in mice unilaterally deprived from sensory input by naris occlusion. In control main olfactory bulbs, bromodeoxyuridine-positive cell density decreased about 70% between 15 and 180 days post-bromodeoxyuridine administration but earlier in the glomerular layer than in the granular layer. At all time points examined, newborn cell density was higher in the deep granular layer than in the superficial granular layer. Occlusion started at the age of 2 months and lasted for 15, 30, 45, 60 or 180 days. The newborn cell survival was similarly reduced in both layers by occlusion, during a critical period 15 and 45 days post-occlusion. Interestingly, olfactory deprivation decreased bromodeoxyuridine-positive cell density in the deep granular layer only, indicating a greater dependence of cell fate on sensory input in this sub-layer. Neuronal differentiation was assessed in the granular layer and glomerular layer by multiple double-labeling 45 days post-bromodeoxyuridine-injections, the time point at which the proportion of bromodeoxyuridine-positive cells expressing a neuronal marker reached approximately 85% in the granular layer and approximately 50% in the glomerular layer. Naris occlusion did not significantly affect these proportions. Taken together, our results reveal that the survival of newborn cells has a different time course in the glomerular layer and in the granular layer, but is similarly decreased in each layer by olfactory deprivation. In addition, our data suggest a functional heterogeneity of neurogenesis within the granular layer.
GABA has been shown to play an important role in the control of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and luteinizing hormone secretion in many mammals. In sheep, seasonal differences in the ability of GABA-B receptor antagonists to alter pulsatile luteinizing hormone secretion have led to the hypothesis that this receptor subtype mediates the increased inhibitory effects of estradiol on GnRH and luteinizing hormone pulse frequency seen during the non-breeding season (anestrus). The aim of the present study was to use multiple-label immunocytochemistry to determine if ovine GnRH neurons contain the GABA-B receptor subunits R1 and/or R2, and to determine whether there are seasonal differences in the colocalization of these subunits in GnRH neurons. A majority of GnRH cells in the preoptic area, anterior hypothalamic area, and medial basal hypothalamus of both breeding season and anestrous ewes contained either GABA-B R1 or R2 subunits; a subset of GnRH neurons in breeding season (42%) and anestrous ewes (60%) contained both subunits. In contrast to colocalization within cell bodies, GnRH fibers in the median eminence did not colocalize GABA-B receptor subunits. Although the percentage of GnRH neurons expressing GABA-B receptor subunits tended to be higher in anestrus than in the breeding season, there were no significant seasonal differences in R1 and R2 subunit colocalization in GnRH cell bodies. Thus, while GABA may act directly on GnRH cell bodies via GABA-B receptors in the sheep, any role that GABA-B receptors may play in seasonal reproductive changes is likely mediated by other neurons afferent to GnRH cells.
This study examines the role of glucose and lactate as energy substrates to sustain synaptic vesicle cycling. Synaptic vesicle turnover was assessed in a quantitative manner by fluorescence microscopy in primary cultures of mouse cortical neurons. An electrode-equipped perfusion chamber was used to stimulate cells both by electrical field and potassium depolarization during image acquisition. An image analysis procedure was elaborated to select in an unbiased manner synaptic boutons loaded with the fluorescent dye N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino)styryl)pyridinium dibromide (FM1-43). Whereas a minority of the sites fully released their dye content following electrical stimulation, others needed subsequent K(+) depolarization to achieve full release. This functional heterogeneity was not significantly altered by the nature of metabolic substrates. Repetitive stimulation sequences of FM1-43 uptake and release were then performed in the absence of any metabolic substrate and showed that the number of active sites dramatically decreased after the first cycle of loading/unloading. The presence of 1 mM glucose or lactate was sufficient to sustain synaptic vesicle cycling under these conditions. Moreover, both substrates were equivalent for recovery of function after a phase of decreased metabolic substrate availability. Thus, lactate appears to be equivalent to glucose for sustaining synaptic vesicle turnover in cultured cortical neurons during activity.
Movement control requires continuous and reciprocal exchange of information between activities of motor areas involved in the task program execution and those elaborating proprioceptive sensory information. Our aim was to investigate the sensorimotor interactions in the region dedicated to hand control in healthy humans, focusing onto primary sensory and motor cortices, by selecting the time window at very early latencies. Through magnetoencephalographic recordings, we obtained a simultaneous assessment of sensory cortex activity modulation due to movement and of motor cortex activity modulation due to sensory stimulation, by eliciting a galvanic stimulation to the nerve (the median nerve) innervating a muscle (the opponens pollicis), at rest or during voluntary contraction. The primary sensory and motor cortices activities were investigated respectively through excitability in response to sensory stimulation and the cortico-muscular coherence. The task was performed bilaterally. A clear reduction of the cortico-muscular coherence was found in the short time window following stimuli (between around 150-450 ms). In the same time period, the motor control of isometric contraction was preserved. This could suggest that cortical component of voluntary movement control was transiently mediated by neuronal firing rate tuning more than by cortico-muscular synchronization. In addition to the known primary sensory cortex inhibition due to movement, a more evident reduction was found for the component known to include a contribution from primary motor areas. Gating effects were lower in the dominant left hemisphere, suggesting that sensorimotor areas dominant for hand control benefit of narrowing down gating effects.
Nicotine has been shown to specifically reduce reaction times to invalidly cued targets in spatial cueing paradigms. In two experiments, we used event-related potentials to test whether the facilitative effect of nicotine upon the detection of invalidly cued targets is due to a modulation of perceptual processing, as indexed by early attention-related event-related potential components. Furthermore, we assessed whether the effect of nicotine on such unattended stimuli depends upon the use of exogenous or endogenous cues. In both experiments, the electroencephalogram was recorded while non-smokers completed discrimination tasks in Posner-type paradigms after chewing a nicotine polacrilex gum (Nicorette 2 mg) in one session and a placebo gum in another session. Nicotine reduced reaction times to invalidly cued targets when cueing was endogenous. In contrast, no differential effect of nicotine on reaction times was observed when exogenous cues were used. Electrophysiologically, we found a similar attentional modulation of the P1 and N1 components under placebo and nicotine but a differential modulation of later event-related potential components at a frontocentral site. The lack of a drug-dependent modulation of P1 and N1 in the presence of a behavioral effect suggests that the effect of nicotine in endogenous visuo-spatial cueing tasks is not due to an alteration of perceptual processes. Rather, the differential modulation of frontocentral event-related potentials suggests that nicotine acts at later stages of target processing.
The ventral tegmental area (catecholaminergic group A10) is a midbrain region characterized by concentrated dopaminergic immunoreactivity. Previous studies in pigeons show that the ventral tegmental area provides a robust projection to the hippocampal formation and to the medial column of the inferior olive. However, the distribution, morphology, and neurochemical content of the neurons that constitute these projections have not been resolved. In this study, we used a combination of retrograde tracing techniques and immunofluorohistochemistry to address these issues. Retrograde tracers were used to demonstrate that the distribution of ventral tegmental area neurons projecting to the hippocampus and the inferior olive overlap in the caudo-ventral ventral tegmental area. The hippocampus- and inferior olive-projecting ventral tegmental area neurons could not be distinguished based on morphology: most neurons had small- to medium-sized multipolar or fusiform soma. Double-labeling with fluorescent retrograde tracers revealed that the hippocampus- and medial column of the inferior olive-projecting neurons were found intermingled in the ventral tegmental area, but no cells were double labeled; i.e. individual ventral tegmental area neurons do not project to both the hippocampal formation and medial column of the inferior olive. Finally, we found that a minority (8.2%) of ventral tegmental area neurons providing input to the hippocampus were tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive, whereas none of the inferior olive-projecting neurons were tyrosine hydroxylase positive. Combined, our findings show that the projections to the hippocampus and olivocerebellar pathway arise from intermixed subpopulations of ventral tegmental area neurons with indistinguishable morphology but only the hippocampal projection involves dopaminergic neurons. We suggest that equivalent projections from the ventral tegmental area to the hippocampal formation and inferior olive exist in mammals and discuss their potential role in the processing of optic flow and the analysis of self-motion.
When excitotoxic mechanisms are blocked, severe or prolonged hypoxia and hypoxia-ischemia can still kill neurons, by a mechanism which is poorly understood. We studied this &quot;non-excitotoxic hypoxic death&quot; in primary cultures of rat dentate gyrus neurons. Many neurons subjected to hypoxia in the presence of blockers of ionotropic glutamate receptors developed the electron microscopic features of necrosis. They showed early mitochondrial swelling, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and cytoplasmic release of cytochrome c, followed by activation of caspase-9, and by caspase-9-dependent activation of caspase-3. Caspase inhibitors were neuroprotective. These results suggest that &quot;non-excitotoxic hypoxic neuronal death&quot; requires the activation in many neurons of a cell death program originating in mitochondria and leading to necrosis.
Functional recovery following intrastriatal transplantation of fetal dopaminergic neurons in animal models of Parkinson's disease is, at least in part, dependent on the number of surviving dopaminergic neurons and the degree of graft-derived dopaminergic reinnervation of the host striatum. In the present study, we analyzed whether continuous exposure of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) to mature dopaminergic grafts could further boost the functional outcome of widespread intrastriatal dopaminergic grafts. Rats with dopamine-denervating lesions received multiple intrastriatal transplants of fetal dopaminergic cells and graft-induced behavioral effects were analyzed in drug-induced and spontaneous motor behaviors. At three months after grafting, animals received intrastriatal injections of recombinant lentiviral vectors encoding for either human GDNF or the green fluorescent protein. Continuous exposure of GDNF to the grafts did not boost the functional recovery beyond what was observed in the control animals. Rather, in some of the spontaneous motor behaviors, animals in the GDNF-group showed deterioration as compared with control animals, and this negative effect of GDNF was associated with a down-regulation of the tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme. Based on these and our earlier results, we propose that intrastriatal administration of GDNF at the time of or shortly after grafting is highly effective in initially promoting the cell survival and fiber outgrowth from the grafts. However, once the grafts are mature, GDNF's ability to boost dopaminergic neurotransmission follows the same dynamics as for the native nigral dopaminergic neurons, which appears to be dependent on the concentration of GDNF. Since rather low doses of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor at nanogram levels appear to saturate these effects, it may be critical to adjust GDNF levels using tightly regulated gene expression systems.
Knowledge about the noradrenergic system in birds is very scarce even though their biological diversity and complex social behavior make them an excellent model for studying neuronal functions and developmental biology. While the role of norepinephrine has been described in depth in a large number of central and peripheral functions in mammals, reports for avian species are limited. The radioligand [(3)H]RX 821002 ([(3)H]1,4-[6,7(n)3H]-benzodioxan-2-methoxy-2-yl)-2-imidazol) has been used to map and characterize alpha(2)-adrenoceptors through the chicken brain using in vitro autoradiography and membrane homogenates binding assays. [(3)H]RX 821002 showed a saturable and high affinity binding to a site compatible with alpha(2)-adrenoceptor, and to a serotonergic component. The autoradiographic assays displayed a similar alpha(2)-adrenoceptor distribution than those previously reported in birds using other radioligands such as [(3)H]UK 14304 ([(3)H]5-bromo-N-(4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazol-2-yl)-6-quinoxalinamine) or [(3)H]clonidine. [(3)H]RX 821002 binding pharmacological characterization was carried out in different chicken brain regions using membrane homogenates for competition assays with different alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists drugs (oxymetazoline, BRL 44408 [2-(2H-(1-methyl-1,3-dihydroisoindole)methyl)-4,5-dihydroimidazole] ARC 239 [2-(2-4-(O-methoxyphenyl)-piperazin-1-yl)-ethyl-4,4-dimethyl-1,3-(2H,4H)-isoquinolindione], prazosin, UK 14304 and RX 821002). The results showed alpha(2A) as the predominant alpha(2)-adrenoceptor subtype in the chicken brain while alpha(2B)- and/or alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor subtypes were detected only in the telencephalon. RX 821002, serotonin (5-HT) and 8-OH-DPAT [8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin] competition assays, and competition binding assays performed in the presence of serotonin demonstrated that [(3)H]RX 821002 binds with higher affinity to a serotonergic component, probably 5-HT(1A) receptors, than to the alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. Similar pharmacological properties for the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor component were observed both in rat and chicken brain. The results demonstrate that the different alpha(2)-adrenoceptor subtypes are present in chicken brain and suggest that these receptors are highly conserved through evolution.
Temporomandibular disorder is a major health problem associated with chronic orofacial pain in the masticatory muscles and/or temporomandibular joint. Evidence suggests that changes in primary afferents innervating the muscles of mastication may contribute to temporomandibular disorder. However, there has been little systematic study of the mechanisms controlling the excitability of these muscle afferents, nor their response to inflammation. In the present study, we tested the hypotheses that inflammation increases the excitability of sensory neurons innervating the masseter muscle of the rat and that the ionic mechanisms underlying these changes are unique to these neurons. We examined inflammation-induced changes in the excitability of trigeminal ganglia muscle neurons following intramuscular injections of complete Freund's adjuvant. Three days after complete Freund's adjuvant injection acutely dissociated, retrogradely labeled trigeminal ganglia neurons were studied using whole cell patch clamp techniques. Complete Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammation was associated with an increase in neuronal excitability marked by a significant decrease in rheobase and increase in the slope of the stimulus response function assessed with depolarizing current injection. The increase in excitability was associated with significant decreases in the rate of action potential fall and the duration of the action potential afterhyperpolarization. These changes in excitability and action potential waveform were associated with significant shifts in the voltage-dependence of activation and steady-state availability of voltage-gated K(+) current as well as significant decreases in the density of voltage-gated K(+) current subject to steady-state inactivation. These data suggest that K(+) channel subtypes may provide novel targets for the treatment of pain arising from inflamed muscle. These results also support the hypothesis that the underlying mechanisms of pain arising from specific regions of the body are unique suggesting that it may be possible, if not necessary to treat pain originating from different parts of the body with specific therapeutic interventions.
The thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) is a sheet of GABAergic neurons that project to other TRN neurons and to associated thalamocortical relay nuclei. The TRN receives glutamatergic synaptic inputs from cortex as well as reciprocal inputs from the collaterals of thalamocortical neurons. In addition to ionotropic glutamate receptors, metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are present in the TRN circuitry. Using whole cell voltage clamp recordings, we pharmacologically characterized unique pre- and postsynaptic functions for Group II mGluRs (mGluR 2 and mGluR 3) within the TRN circuitry in ferrets. mGluR 2 was found on presynaptic cortical axon terminals in the TRN, where it reduced glutamate release, while mGluR 3 acted postsynaptically on TRN cells to increase membrane conductance. Using miniature inhibitory postsynaptic current analysis, we also found that picrotoxin-sensitive intra-TRN GABA-mediated neurotransmission was not affected by administration of a Group II mGluR agonist, indicating that neither mGluR 2 nor 3 acts on presynaptic GABA-containing terminals within the TRN. Because strong corticothalamic activation is implicated in abnormal thalamic rhythms, we used extracellular recordings in the lateral geniculate nucleus to study the effect of Group II mGluR agonists upon these slow oscillations. We induced approximately 3 Hz spike-and-wave discharge activity through corticothalamic stimulation, and found that such activity was reduced in the presence of the Group II mGluR agonist, (-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate (LY379268). These data indicate that Group II mGluR reduce the impact of corticothalamic excitation, and that they may be a useful target in the reduction of absence-like rhythms.
Entorhinal and commissural/associational projections show a non-overlapping distribution in the hippocampus proper and the dentate gyrus. The expression of Ephrins and their Eph receptors in the developing hippocampus indicates that this family of axonal guidance molecules may modulate the formation of these connections. Here we focused on the role of the ephrin-A5 ligand in the development of the main hippocampal afferents. In situ hybridization showed that ephrin-A5 mRNA was detected mainly in the principal cells of the hippocampus proper and in the dentate gyrus throughout postnatal development. Immunocytochemical analyses revealed prominent expression of the EphA3 receptor, a putative receptor for ephrin-A5, in the main cells and the neuropil of the developing hippocampus. Tracing experiments in ephrin-A5(-/-) mice showed that commissural projections were transiently altered in the hippocampus proper at P5, but they were mistargeted throughout the postnatal development in the dentate gyrus. Immunocytochemistry with anti-calbindin antibodies revealed that the dentate mossy fiber projection was not altered in ephrin-A5(-/-) mice. Electron microscopy studies showed alterations in the density of synapses and spines in commissural/associational layers, but not in entorhinal layers, and in the mossy fibers in these animals. Taken together, these findings indicate that ephrin-A5 signaling is involved in the formation and maturation of synapses in the hippocampus.
The absence of effective treatments for stroke presents a critical need for novel strategies that can reduce ischemic injury. Neuroinflammation following focal ischemia induces secondary injury in the region surrounding the insult, thus anti-inflammatory agents are potential neuroprotectants. Minocycline is one such agent possessing neuroprotective properties, however many studies examining minocycline after ischemia have used minimal delays between ischemia and treatment, short survival periods, and lack measures of functional outcome. Such studies do not distinguish whether minocycline provides sustained protection or merely delays cell death. This study was designed to address some of these concerns. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with multiple doses of minocycline (45 mg/kg i.p.) or vehicle beginning 2.5 h after endothelin-1-induced focal ischemia. Measures of forelimb asymmetry and skilled reaching (staircase test) were used to determine functional outcome 7, 15 and 28 days after ischemia. Long-term functional assessment indicates that minocycline provides limited benefit in the staircase test, but confers long-term benefit in the forelimb asymmetry test. Subcortical and whole hemisphere infarct volumes were reduced by 41 and 39% respectively in minocycline-treated animals. Further analysis revealed that minocycline attenuated long-term white matter damage adjacent to the striatal injury core, which correlated with sustained functional benefits. This study indicates that delayed minocycline treatment improves long-term functional outcome which is linked to protection of both white and gray matter.
Most hypnotic medications currently on the market target some aspect of GABAergic neurotransmission. Although all such compounds increase sleep, these drugs differentially affect the activity of the cerebral cortex as measured by the electroencephalogram. Whereas benzodiazepine medications such as triazolam tend to suppress slow wave activity in the cortex, the GABA(B) ligand gamma-hydroxybutyrate greatly enhances slow wave activity and the non-benzodiazepine, zolpidem, which binds to the omega1 site on the GABA(A) receptor/Cl(-) ionophore complex, is intermediate in this regard. Our previous studies have demonstrated that a small number of genes exhibit increased expression in the cerebral cortex of the mouse and rat during recovery sleep after sleep deprivation: egr-3, fra-2, grp78, grp94, ngfi-b, and nr4a3. Using these genes as a panel of biomarkers associated with sleep, we asked whether hypnotic medications induce similar molecular changes in the rat cerebral cortex to those observed when both sleep continuity and slow wave activity are enhanced during recovery sleep. We find that, although each drug increases the expression of a subset of genes in the panel of biomarkers, no drug fully replicates the molecular changes in the cortex associated with recovery sleep. Furthermore, high levels of slow wave activity in the cortex are correlated with increased expression of fra-2 whereas the expression of grp94 is correlated with body temperature. These results demonstrate that sleep-related changes in gene expression may be affected by physiological covariates of sleep and wakefulness rather than by vigilance state per se.
The generation of thalamic bursts depends upon calcium currents that flow through transiently open (T)-type calcium channels. In this study, we characterized the native T-type calcium current underlying thalamic burst responses in the macaque monkey. Current clamp recordings from lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) slices showed characteristic burst responses when relay cells were depolarized from relatively hyperpolarized membrane potentials. These bursts could also be elicited by stimulation of excitatory synaptic inputs to LGN cells. Under voltage clamp conditions, the inactivation kinetics of native currents recorded from primate LGN neurons showed consistency with T-type currents recorded in other mammals and in expression systems. Real-time reverse transcriptase PCR performed on RNA isolated from the LGN (including tissues isolated from magnocellular and parvocellular laminae) detected voltage-dependent calcium channel (Ca(v)) 3.1, Ca(v) 3.2, and Ca(v) 3.3 channel transcripts. Ca(v) 3.1 occurred at relatively higher expression than other isoforms, consistent with in situ hybridization studies in rats, indicating that the molecular basis for burst firing in thalamocortical systems is an important conserved property of primate physiology. Since thalamic bursts have been observed during visual processing as well as in a number of CNS disorders, studies of the expression and modulation of these currents at multiple levels are critical for understanding their role in vision and for the discovery of new treatments for disruptions of thalamic rhythms.
The expression pattern of pannexin1, a gene coding for a protein that forms gap junction channels, was studied as both mRNA and protein in the CNS of adult mouse. Pannexin1 was widely expressed in the CNS by neuronal cell types but not glial cells, except for Bergmann glial cells of the cerebellar cortex. Cells positive to Ca-binding proteins, principally parvalbumin, but also calbindin and calretinin, as well as glutamate decarboxylase 67 kDa isoform, were pannexin1-positive. Pannexin1 labeling was found in cells which are known to exhibit spontaneous and synchronous discharge, such as neurons of the inferior olivary complex and the reticular thalamic nucleus, and also in neurons whose electrical activity is not coupled with neighboring cells, such as motoneurons of the spinal cord. The analysis of cellular localization showed puncta that surrounded cell bodies (e.g. the pyramidal cells of hippocampus) or restricted areas inside the cell bodies (e.g. the spinal motoneurons). In Bergmann glial cells the staining was present as fine grains that covered a large part of the cellular surface. Pannexin1 stained cells that previous studies have reported as expressing connexin36, another protein forming gap junction channels. Thus, it was possible that these two proteins could be integrated in the same functions. Since connexin36 expression levels change after seizures, we examined the expression of both pannexin1 and connexin36 in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum and brain stem at different time intervals (2, 4 and 8 h) after i.p. injection of 4-aminopyridine, which resulted in systemic seizures. The only modification of the expression levels observed in this study concerned the progressive decrement of the connexin36 in the hippocampus, while pannexin1 expression was unchanged. This finding suggested that pannexin1 and connexin36 are involved in different functional roles or that they are expressed in different cell types and that only those expressing the Cx36 are induced to apoptosis by epileptic seizures.
Vertebrate photoreceptors consist of strictly delimited subcellular domains: the outer segment, ellipsoid, cell body and synaptic terminal, each hosting crucial cellular functions, including phototransduction, oxidative metabolism, gene expression and transmitter release. We used optical imaging to explore the spatiotemporal dynamics of Ca(2+) signaling in non-outer segment regions of rods and cones. Sustained depolarization, designed to emulate photoreceptor activation in the darkness, evoked a standing Ca(2+) gradient in tiger salamander photoreceptors with spatially-averaged intracellular Ca(2+) concentration within synaptic terminals of approximately 2 microM and lower (approximately 750 nM) intracellular calcium concentration in the ellipsoid. Measurements from axotomized cell bodies and isolated ellipsoids showed that Ca(2+) enters the two compartments via both local L-type Ca(2+) channels and diffusion. The results from optical imaging studies were supported by immunostaining analysis. L-type voltage-operated Ca(2+) channels and plasma membrane Ca(2+) ATPases were highly expressed in synaptic terminals with progressively lower expression levels in the cell body and ellipsoid. These results show photoreceptor Ca(2+) homeostasis is controlled in a region-specific manner by direct Ca(2+) entry and diffusion as well as Ca(2+) extrusion. Moreover, quantitative measurement of intracellular calcium concentration levels in different photoreceptor compartments indicates that the dynamic range of Ca(2+) signaling in photoreceptors is approximately 40-fold, from approximately 50 nM in the light to approximately 2 microM in darkness.
A decrease in transient-type calcium channel current, Ca(v)3.1 protein and the mRNA encoding these channels has been reported during differentiation of human retinoblastoma cells. In this study, we examined splice variants of Ca(v)3.1 before and after neuronal differentiation of the Y-79 retinoblastoma cell line to investigate the potential contribution of Ca(v)3.1 to Y-79 differentiation. In Ca(v)3.1, alternative splicing induces variations in three cytoplasmic regions, e.g. the link between domains II and III (producing isoforms e+ and e-), the link between domains III and IV (producing isoforms a, b, ac and bc) and the carboxy terminal region (producing isoforms f and d). Our results demonstrate that Ca(v)3.1e was not expressed in either undifferentiated or differentiated retinoblastoma cells. Splice variants Ca(v)3.1ac; Ca(v)3.1bc and Ca(v)3.1b were all identified in undifferentiated retinoblastoma cells, while expression of these variants in differentiated cells was restricted to the Ca(v)3.1bc isoform. The carboxy terminal variant Ca(v)3.1f is expressed independently of the differentiation status of retinoblastoma cells with or without Ca(v)3.1d. Examination of the functional contribution of Ca(v)3.1 protein to Y-79 cell differentiation revealed that in Y-79 cells transfected with Ca(v)3.1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides, knockdown of Ca(v)3.1 did not alter the time-course of differentiation or neuritogenesis. The changes in Ca(v)3.1 splice variants were not required for the initiation of differentiation but may be associated with tissue-specific expression or localized alterations in Ca(2+) signaling that are essential for establishment of the mature differentiated phenotype.
Olvanil ((N-vanillyl)-9-oleamide), a non-pungent transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 agonist, desensitizes nociceptors and alleviates pain. But its molecular targets and signaling mechanisms are little known. Calcium influx through voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels plays an important role in neurotransmitter release and synaptic transmission. Here we determined the effect of olvanil on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel currents and the signaling pathways in primary sensory neurons. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were performed in acutely isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. Olvanil (1 microM) elicited a delayed but sustained inward current, and caused a profound inhibition (approximately 60%) of N-, P/Q-, L-, and R-type voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. Pretreatment with a specific transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 antagonist or intracellular application of 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid abolished the inhibitory effect of olvanil on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. Calmodulin antagonists (ophiobolin-A and calmodulin inhibitory peptide) largely blocked the effect of olvanil and capsaicin on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. Furthermore, calcineurin (protein phosphatase 2B) inhibitors (deltamethrin and FK-506) eliminated the effect of olvanil on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. Notably, 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid, calmodulin antagonists, and calcineurin inhibitors each alone significantly increased the amplitude of voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. In addition, double immunofluorescence labeling revealed that olvanil induced a rapid internalization of Ca(V)2.2 immunoreactivity from the membrane surface of dorsal root ganglion neurons. Collectively, this study suggests that stimulation of non-pungent transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 inhibits voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels through a biochemical pathway involving intracellular Ca(2+)-calmodulin and calcineurin in nociceptive neurons. This new information is important for our understanding of the signaling mechanisms of desensitization of nociceptors by transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 analogues and the feedback regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) and voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels in nociceptive sensory neurons.
Spinal plasticity is known to play a role in central neurogenic pain. Over the last 100 years researchers have found that the spinal cord is also capable of supporting other forms of plasticity including several forms of learning. To study instrumental (response-outcome) learning in the spinal cord, we use a preparation in which spinally transected rats are given shock to the hind leg when the leg is extended. The spinal cord rapidly learns to hold the leg in a flexed position when given this controllable shock. However, if shock is independent of leg position (uncontrollable shock), subjects fail to learn. Uncontrollable shock also impairs future learning. As little as 6 min of uncontrollable shock to either the leg or the tail generates a learning deficit that lasts up to 48 h. Recent data suggest links between the learning deficit and the sensitization of pain circuits associated with inflammation or injury (central sensitization). Here, we explored whether central sensitization and the spinal learning deficit share pharmacological and behavioral features. Central sensitization enhances reactivity to mechanical stimulation (allodynia) and depends on the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). The uncontrollable shock stimulus that generates a learning deficit produced a tactile allodynia (Exp. 1) and administration of the NMDAR antagonist MK-801 blocked induction of the learning deficit (Exp. 2). Finally, a treatment known to induce central sensitization, intradermal carrageenan, produced a spinal learning deficit (Exp. 3). The findings suggest that the induction of central sensitization inhibits selective response modifications.
Astrocytes are thought to be critical to neurons' surviving damage caused by ischemic stroke or other injury. Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 is one of the active soluble factors released by astrocytes and regulates plasminogen activator-plasmin proteolytic sequence in the CNS as a serpin. In this study, we show that plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 can promote neurite outgrowth and survival of rat pheochromocytoma cells in serum-deprived conditions, and that this neuroprotective activity is correlated with enhanced activation of both extracellular signal-regulated kinases following a direct phosphorylation of nerve growth factor receptor, Trk A, and of c-Jun. Our results suggest that plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 can act as a neurotrophic factor, protecting neurons from serum deprivation-induced neuron death not only by compensating for nerve growth factor functions, but also by activating the c-Jun/activating protein-1 pathway.
The nucleus accumbens may play a role in acquisition and expression of behavioral depression as measured using the inescapable swim test. Previous work shows that a local injection of a cholinergic muscarinic-1 receptor agonist increases immobility and a specific muscarinic-1 antagonist acts as an antidepressant-like drug by increasing swimming escape efforts. The present study used microdialysis to monitor extracellular acetylcholine levels in the accumbens, fluorescent labeled toxins to monitor changes in acetylcholinesterase and muscarinic-1 receptors, and semiquantitative-polymerase chain reaction to detect changes in gene expression for the muscarinic-1 receptor. Microdialysis showed that acetylcholine levels did not change while an animal was swimming; however, a significant transient decrease occurred when the rat was returned to the dialysis cage, followed by a long-lasting increase that reached a maximum three hours after the test. Acetylcholine levels stayed high even 24 h after the initial test as evidenced by a significant elevation in basal level prior to the second swim. This increase in neurotransmitter may have been partially compensated by a significant increase in the degradative enzyme, acetylcholinesterase, and by a decrease in muscarinic-1 receptors and their gene expression. These results further demonstrate the importance of accumbens cholinergic function in the appearance of a depression-like state.
To investigate the interaction between vomeronasal receptor neurons and accessory olfactory bulb neurons during pheromonal signal processing and specific synapse formation, partially dissociated rat vomeronasal receptor neurons were co-cultured with accessory olfactory bulb neurons. Between 7 and 14 days in co-culture, a few bundles of fibers from a spherical structure, termed the vomeronasal pocket, of cultured vomeronasal receptor neurons extended to the accessory olfactory bulb neurons. An optical recording of the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration was used to monitor the synaptic activation of cultured accessory olfactory bulb neurons. Electrical stimulation of the vomeronasal pocket between 7 and 14 days in co-culture had no effects on most of the cultured neurons tested, although it occasionally evoked weak responses in a small number of neurons. In contrast, vomeronasal pocket stimulation after 21 days in co-culture evoked clear calcium transients in a substantial number of cultured accessory olfactory bulb neurons. These responses of accessory olfactory bulb neurons were reversibly suppressed by the application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione; the calcium transients disappeared in most of the neurons and were diminished in the others. The application of d-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid partially affected the calcium transients, but blocked spontaneous calcium increases, which were observed repeatedly in accessory olfactory bulb-alone cultures. The application of both 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and d-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid completely blocked the evoked calcium transients. These results suggest that functional glutamatergic synapses between vomeronasal receptor neurons and accessory olfactory bulb neurons were formed at around 21 days in co-culture.
In Aplysia, persistent increases in synaptic strength are paralleled by the persistent activation of the novel protein kinase C Apl II. We raised a phosphospecific antibody against serine 725, the hydrophobic motif in protein kinase C Apl II. Phosphorylation of serine 725 increased in parallel to the persistent activation of the kinase. We expressed protein kinase C where this site was mutated to an alanine to prevent phosphorylation. The mutated protein kinase C showed decreased specific activity consistent with a model where the kinase is less stable in the absence of phosphorylation of this site. Endogenous phosphorylation of protein kinase C Apl II at serine 725 was unaffected by either activation of protein kinase C by phorbol esters, or inhibition of protein kinase C using two distinct inhibitors, suggesting the site is not autophosphorylated. Consistent with this, overexpressed kinase-dead protein kinase C Apl II still was phosphorylated at serine 725, although to a lesser extent than wild-type protein kinase C Apl II. While PDK appears to interact with the serine 725 site, it is not responsible for its phosphorylation. Finally inhibition of phosphoinositide-3 kinase or the target of rapamycin by pharmacological agents did not block basal phosphorylation of serine 725 in Aplysia ganglia. Our results suggest trans-phosphorylation of protein kinase C Apl II as Ser 725 occurs during persistent activation of the kinase, but this does not appear to be downstream of phosphoinositide-3 kinase.
Classically, the Edinger-Westphal nucleus is described as containing neurons controlling accommodation and pupillary constriction via projections to the ciliary ganglion. However, in several species including rat, some Edinger-Westphal neurons have ascending or descending CNS projections suggesting that the Edinger-Westphal nucleus might also have non-ocular functions. To further characterize the function of this nucleus we studied the electrophysiological properties of Edinger-Westphal neurons in a slice preparation from juvenile rats. The position of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus was determined using an immunohistochemical procedure directed at the peptide Urocortin, which is expressed in Edinger-Westphal neurons. Passive and active membrane responses were investigated and two different neuron types were identified. One type had a transient firing response to 400 ms depolarizing current pulses and one type had a repetitive firing response. Transient-firing neurons had an outward rectifying response inhibiting firing, possibly due to slowly inactivating I(D)-like potassium channels since low concentrations (200 microM) of the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine elicited repetitive firing. In all neurons, low threshold Ca(2+) spikes were seen and these were blocked by nickel(II) chloride hexahydrate, suggesting that they are mediated via low voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels. Some biocytin-labeled neurons had axons or axonal collaterals projecting laterally or dorsally, suggesting possible non-ocular targets. In conclusion, the rat Edinger-Westphal nucleus contains two separate types of neurons with distinct electrophysiological properties.
Basic fibroblast growth factor-2 is a trophic molecule involved in a number of functions within the CNS, including the regulation of CNS responses to injury. Prior studies suggest that rats recover differently from injury inflicted to different regions and at different ages throughout development, and that basic fibroblast growth factor-2 may, at least in part, underlie this phenomenon. In the present study, we describe the distribution of basic fibroblast growth factor-2 at postnatal days 0, 2, 6, 10, 12, 14, 18, 21 and 30 in the indusium griseum, the external capsule, the hippocampus, the medial prefrontal cortex, the motor cortex, the rostral migratory stream, and the subventricular zone. Our results suggest a differential temporal and spatial expression of basic fibroblast growth factor-2 throughout development, which may explain the differential recovery observed from cortical lesions inflicted at different time points after birth.
Clustering of acetylcholine receptors at the developing vertebrate neuromuscular junction is initiated by neural agrin, which stimulates the activity of the muscle-specific kinase (MuSK). Acetylcholine receptor clustering is also dependent on the postsynaptic scaffolding protein, rapsyn, which binds to acetylcholine receptors. Here, we address the possibility that MuSK and rapsyn bind directly to each other by coexpressing sequences of the cytoplasmic domain of MuSK with rapsyn in COS-7 cells and assaying for codistribution and biochemical interaction. Sequences constituting the bulk of the kinase domain can interact with rapsyn. This interaction is mediated by the tetratricopeptide repeat domains, but not the coiled coil or zinc finger domains, of rapsyn. This interaction does not require tyrosine phosphorylation of the MuSK sequences. Binding is direct, as indicated by blot overlay and surface plasmon resonance experiments. The sequence of the cytoplasmic domain of MuSK that most effectively codistributes with rapsyn confers the ability of an otherwise inactive receptor tyrosine kinase, TrkA, to associate with rapsyn. Our results support a model in which the tetratricopeptide repeat domains of rapsyn bind directly to the cytoplasmic portion of MuSK, which could thereby serve as an initial scaffold for the clustering of acetylcholine receptors.
Medial prefrontal cortex is a crucial region involved in inhibitory processes. Damage to the medial prefrontal cortex can lead to loss of normal inhibitory control over motor, sensory, emotional and cognitive functions. The goal of the present study was to examine the basic properties of inhibitory gating in this brain region in rats. Inhibitory gating has recently been proposed as a neurophysiological assay for sensory filters in higher brain regions that potentially enable or disable information throughput. This perspective has important clinical relevance due to the findings that gating is dramatically impaired in individuals with emotional and cognitive impairments (i.e. schizophrenia). We used the standard inhibitory gating two-tone paradigm with a 500 ms interval between tones and a 10 s interval between tone pairs. We recorded both single unit and local field potentials from chronic microwire arrays implanted in the medial prefrontal cortex. We investigated short-term (within session) and long-term (between session) variability of auditory gating and additionally examined how altering the interval between the tones influenced the potency of the inhibition. The local field potentials displayed greater variability with a reduction in the amplitudes of the tone responses over both the short and long-term time windows. The decrease across sessions was most intense for the second tone response (test tone) leading to a more robust gating (lower T/C ratio). Surprisingly, single unit responses of different varieties retained similar levels of auditory responsiveness and inhibition in both the short and long-term analysis. Neural inhibition decreased monotonically related to the increase in intertone interval. This change in gating was most consistent in the local field potentials. Subsets of single unit responses did not show the lack of inhibition even for the longer intertone intervals tested (4 s interval). These findings support the idea that the medial prefrontal cortex is an important site where early inhibitory functions reside and potentially mediate psychological processes.
Neural inhibition in the brain is mainly mediated by ionotropic GABA type A receptors. Apart from the GABA type A receptors, both K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter isoform 2 and the GABA-synthesizing enzyme, glutamic acid decarboxylase, are essential determinants for GABA type A receptor-mediated inhibition. By using immunofluorescent staining, we observed that K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter isoform 2, GABA type A receptor beta2/3 subunits and a presynaptically localized glutamic acid decarboxylase isoform, glutamic acid decarboxylase 65, were all absent in adult Sprague-Dawley rat medial habenular nucleus, while immunopositive staining for glutamic acid decarboxylase 67, GABA and GABA type B receptor type 2 subunit were present in the medial habenular nucleus. Consistent with the lack of GABA type A signaling as detected by immunohistochemistry, GABA (100 muM) evoked no measurable currents in the medial habenular nucleus but induced bicuculline-sensitive currents in the lateral habenular nucleus and in the CA1 area of hippocampus. We also failed to record miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents in medial habenular nucleus neurons. These results support the idea that GABAergic transmission in medial habenular nucleus is probably not mediated by any of the most common GABA type A receptor subtypes. Our data suggest that GABA type B receptor-mediated inhibition may play a role in balancing neuronal excitation in this special region. Further exploration for factors determining medial habenular nucleus neural inhibition will lead to a more complete understanding of control of synaptic balance in the CNS.
Behavioral and neuronal abnormalities observed in mice exhibiting a reduced expression of the dopamine transporter model important aspects of schizophrenia, addiction, and attentional disorders. As the consequences of a chronic hyperdopaminergic tone for striatal output regulation have remained poorly understood, the present experiments were designed to determine the status of striatal interneuronal cholinergic neurotransmission in dopamine transporter knockdown animals. The high-affinity choline transporter represents the rate-limiting step of acetylcholine synthesis and release. Compared with wild type mice, striatal high-affinity choline transporter expression in dopamine transporter knockdown mice was significantly decreased. As in vivo basal striatal acetylcholine release did not differ between the strains, reduced high-affinity choline transporter expression in dopamine transporter knockdown mice was not due to reduced basal cholinergic activity. Furthermore, the proportion of high-affinity choline transporters expressed in plasma membrane-enriched versus vesicular membrane-enriched fractions did not differ from wild type animals, suggesting that changes in intracellular high-affinity choline transporter trafficking were not associated with lower overall levels of striatal high-affinity choline transporters. Synaptosomal choline uptake assays indicated a reduced capacity of striatal high-affinity choline transporters in dopamine transporter knockdown mice, and thus the functional significance of the reduced level of high-affinity choline transporter expression. Likewise, in vivo measures of the capacity of striatal high-affinity choline transporters to clear increases in extracellular choline concentrations, using choline-sensitive microelectrodes, revealed a 37-41% reduction in hemicholinium-sensitive clearance of exogenous choline in dopamine transporter knockdown mice. Furthermore, clearance of potassium-evoked choline signals was reduced in dopamine transporter knockdown mice (1.63+/-0.15 microM/s) compared with wild type animals (2.29+/-0.21 microM/s). Dysregulated striatal cholinergic neurotransmission is hypothesized to disrupt the integration of thalamic and cortical information at spiny projection neurons and thus to contribute to abnormal striatal information processing in dopamine transporter knockdown mice.
Neuropeptides are crucial mediators in nervous and endocrine systems. Processing and degradation, the major regulatory mechanisms, of enzymes are essential for the control of these peptidergic intercellular signaling systems. Damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase (or endothelin converting enzyme-like1), a member of the neprilysin family, has recently been identified as an M13 zinc metalloprotease. Damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase mRNA expression is strikingly restricted to neurons, and is remarkably induced in response to various types of neuronal injuries, although its function and substrate remain unknown. To clarify the role of damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase, we examined the localization and ontogeny of damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase mRNA expression in the rat nervous system using in situ hybridization. Damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase mRNA was detected at embryonic day 12, and its expression restricted to the ventral region of the neural tube. Subsequently, expression was also apparent in primordia of the striatum, hypothalamus, and cranial motor nuclei during neural development. This specific distribution was relatively maintained in the adult brain, although expression levels became weaker. Expression of damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase was absent in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. In addition to prominent expression in CNS, intestinal and sensory ganglia and retina demonstrated transient intense damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase mRNA expression during the embryonic period that then declined, and disappeared after birth. The results indicated that damage-induced neuronal endopeptidase might play an important role in embryonic neural development, in particular in peripheral ganglia derived from the neural crest, and in some neurons originating from the basal plate such as the hypothalamus and cranial motor neurons.
In newborn and adult mammals, chemosensory drive exerted by CO(2) and H(+) provides an essential tonic input: without it the rhythm of respiration is abolished. It is not known, however, whether this chemosensory drive and the respiratory rhythm appear simultaneously during development. In isolated brainstem-spinal cord preparations from fetal mice, we determined at what stage of fetal life the respiratory rhythm appeared in third to fifth cervical ventral roots (phrenic motoneurons) and whether this fetal rhythm was sensitive to chemosensory inputs. A respiratory-like rhythm consisting of short duration bursts of discharges recurring at 2-16 min(-1) was detected in two of nine embryonic day 13 fetuses; it was abolished by transection of the spinal cord between the first to second cervical segments and was phase-related to rhythmic activity from medullary units of the ventral respiratory group. At embryonic day 13, it coexisted with a slow rhythm (0.1-2.0 min(-1)) of long duration bursts of action potentials which was generated by the spinal cord. At later fetal stages, the respiratory-like rhythm became more robust and of higher frequency, while the spinal cord rhythm became less obvious. At all fetal stages, acidification of the superfusion medium from pH 7.5-7.2 or 7.4-7.3 or 7.4 to 7.2 increased the frequency of both the respiratory-like and the spinal cord rhythms. In addition, acidification reduced the amplitude of the integrated burst activity of the spinal cord rhythm of embryonic day 13-embryonic day 16 fetuses and the respiratory-like rhythm of embryonic day 17 and older fetuses. Our results indicate that the rhythms transmitted by phrenic motoneurons during fetal development are chemosensitive from early fetal stages. Through its effects on induction and patterning of the rhythm, chemosensory drive may play a role in activity-dependent formation of respiratory neural networks.
gamma-Hydroxybutyrate is a widely used recreational drug. Its abuse has been associated with cognitive impairments and development of tolerance and dependence. However, the neural mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. In the present study we investigated the possible cellular signaling mechanisms that might mediate gamma-hydroxybutyrate's action. Acute administration of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (500 mg/kg, i.p.) was found to cause a rapid and long-lasting increase in the phosphorylation level of the cAMP-responsive element-binding protein in mouse (C57/BL6) hippocampus. Pretreatment with the specific GABA(B) receptor antagonist [3-[1-(R)-[(3-cyclohexylmethyl)hydroxyphosphinyl]-2-(S)-hydroxy-propyl]amino]ethyl]-benzoic acid (20 mg/kg, i.p.) prevented the action of gamma-hydroxybutyrate, confirming a GABA(B) receptor-mediated mechanism. In addition, acute gamma-hydroxybutyrate administration induced a significant increase in cytosolic cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity in the hippocampus, and pretreatment with the cAMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor H-89 could prevent the effect of gamma-hydroxybutyrate on cAMP-responsive element-binding protein phosphorylation, indicating a direct involvement of cAMP-dependent protein kinase in gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced cAMP-responsive element-binding protein phosphorylation. On the other hand, the increased expression of phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element-binding protein was not observed in the hippocampus of mice subjected to repeated gamma-hydroxybutyrate exposure, suggesting the development of a gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced desensitization of the signaling pathway leading to cAMP-responsive element-binding protein activation. Since cAMP-responsive element-binding protein activation has been implicated in a variety of neural plasticities, our findings may have revealed a new mechanism underlying gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced neuroadaptations.
Spontaneous and rhythmic neuronal activity in dorsal column nuclei has long been identified in anesthetized cats. Here, we have studied the spontaneous behavior of cuneate cells in anesthetized rats through extracellular recording, showing that most cuneate neurones recorded (155 of 185) fired spontaneously. Overall, 74% of these spontaneously firing neurones were single-spiking and 26% were bursting. Cells were considered &quot;bursting&quot; when more than 50% of the spontaneous spikes belonged to bursts. Nevertheless, occasional bursts were seen in 33% of spontaneous cuneate cells which were classified as single-spiking. Rhythmic firing was observed in about 14% of both spontaneously bursting and single-spiking cells, and these cells were located close to the obex (+/-0.5 mm). Although the spike-frequency was mostly in the range 0-15 spikes/s, spontaneous rhythmic activity was circumscribed mainly to the alpha/beta-like range, both in single-spiking (26.1+/-3.6 Hz, n=16) and bursting cells (19.5+/-4.1 Hz, n=6). Lemniscal stimulation often activated several antidromic units with the same latency. About 65% of cuneolemniscal cells were spontaneously active and of these, 83% were single-spiking and 11% rhythmic (all single-spiking). In cells that were not antidromically activated from the medial lemniscus, short latency orthodromic responses consistent with excitation by recurrent lemniscal collaterals were often observed following lemniscal activation. Interestingly, only cells completely unresponsive to lemniscal stimulation showed rhythmic bursting. Most spontaneous cells responded with a burst to natural receptive field stimulation, while rhythmic cells became temporally arrhythmic. These results demonstrate, for the first time, that rat cuneate neurones can fire bursts spontaneously. Besides, this bursting activity can be rhythmic. These two properties, and the fact that groups of cuneolemniscal cells share the same conduction velocity, probably imply the reinforcement of temporal and spatial summation at their targets when they are synchronously recruited by the stimulation of overlapping receptive fields.
Atp2b2 encodes the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase type 2 (PMCA2) expressed in various tissues, including stereocilia of cochlear and vestibular hair cells, cerebellar Purkinje cells, and lactating mammary epithelia. Mutations of the gene lead to deafness, ataxia, and reduced Ca(2+) levels in milk. Heterozygous mutants also have abnormal hearing, suggesting that precise regulation of Atp2b2 is required for normal function. In this study, we describe Atp2b2 5'-untranslated region genomic structure and transcript usage in mice. Using 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends, we observed four transcripts: types alpha, beta, mu and delta, each splicing into a common ATG-containing exon. Types alpha and beta correspond to previously published mammalian cDNA sequences. Types mu and delta constitute novel 5'-untranslated region sequences, and were observed at high levels only in lactating mammary gland. Using real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, we quantified relative transcript usage across several tissues. We show that alpha and beta are abundant throughout the CNS, as well as the cochlea. When we microdissected the cochlea into hair cell and spiral ganglion containing fractions, we found that cochlear hair cell expression is mediated through the type alpha transcript. In situ hybridization studies in cerebellum using exon-specific probes revealed that alpha dominates in Purkinje neurons, while beta is enriched in cerebellar granule neurons. We compared 5'-untranslated region sequence across multiple species, and found high conservation around the first exons for alpha and beta in mammals, but not other species. The regions around the mu and delta first exons are highly conserved between rat and mouse, but less so with other species. Our results show that expression of Atp2b2 is highly regulated, using four different transcriptional start regions, two of which are differentially expressed in neuronal tissue. This suggests that unique regulatory mechanisms are used to control Atp2b2 expression in different types of cells.
We investigated whether enhancing locomotory activity could accelerate the axonal growth underlying the significant recovery of function after a complete spinal transection in the eel, Anguilla. Eels with low spinal transections (at about 60% body length) were kept in holding tanks, where they were inactive, or made to swim continually against a water current at about one body length/s. Their locomotion was periodically assessed by measuring tail beat frequencies at different swimming speeds. Axonal growth was determined from anterograde labeling with 1,1'-diotadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate, inserted postmortem into the spinal cord, just rostral to the transection. Twenty days after surgery, there were significantly more labeled growth cones more than 2 mm caudal from the transection in the exercised fish (74.6+/-2.3%; cf. 34.5+/-1.1%). This difference was still observed at 40 days (57.9+/-1.6% cf. 42.1+/-2% &gt;2 mm), but the regenerated axons were of similar maximum lengths by 120 days (9.8+/-0.3 cf. 7.7+/-2.8 mm). After surgery, each eel undulated its whole body faster at any given swimming speed, thus changing the linear relationship between tail beat frequency and forward speed established before transection. The slope increased by up to 112.5+/-27.4% over the first 8 days post-surgery in inactive animals, while a smaller rise (45.6+/-10.5%) was observed in exercised fish during this period. Thereafter, the slope progressively declined to pre-surgery levels in both groups of animals, but the recovery occurred within 20+/-4 days in exercised eels, as opposed to 40+/-5 days in inactive fish. The locomotory performance of sham-operated fish was unaffected by 10 days of continual locomotion and remained similar to that of nave eels, pre-transection. These data show that elevated locomotory activity enhances axonal growth and accelerates recovery of locomotory function.
Efficient synaptic vesicle membrane recycling is one of the key factors required to sustain neurotransmission. We investigated potential differences in the compensatory endocytic machineries in two glutamatergic synapses with phasic and tonic patterns of activity in the lamprey spinal cord. Post-embedding immunocytochemistry demonstrated that proteins involved in synaptic vesicle recycling, including dynamin, intersectin, and synapsin, occur at higher levels (labeling per vesicle) in tonic dorsal column synapses than in phasic reticulospinal synapses. Synaptic vesicle protein 2 occurred at similar levels in the two types of synapse. After challenging the synapses with high potassium stimulation for 30 min the vesicle pool in the tonic synapse was maintained at a normal level, while that in the phasic synapse was partly depleted along with expansion of the plasma membrane and accumulation of clathrin-coated intermediates at the periactive zone. Thus, our results indicate that an increased efficiency of the endocytic machinery in a synapse may be one of the factors underlying the ability to sustain neurotransmission at high rates.
The kindling model of epilepsy is a form of neuronal plasticity induced by repeated induction of pathological activity in the form of focal seizures. A causal role for the neurotrophin receptor, tyrosine receptor kinase B, in epileptogenesis is supported by multiple studies of the kindling model. Not only is tyrosine receptor kinase B required for epileptogenesis in this model but enhanced activation of tyrosine receptor kinase B has been identified in the hippocampus in multiple models of limbic epileptogenesis. The neurotrophin ligand mediating tyrosine receptor kinase B activation during limbic epileptogenesis is unknown. We hypothesized that neurotrophin-4 (NT4) activates tyrosine receptor kinase B in the hippocampus during epileptogenesis and that NT4-mediated activation of tyrosine receptor kinase B promotes limbic epileptogenesis. We tested these hypotheses in NT4-deficient mice with a targeted deletion of NT4 gene using the kindling model. The development and persistence of amygdala kindling were examined in wild type (+/+) and NT4 null mutant (-/-) mice. No differences were found between +/+ and -/- mice with respect to any facet of the development or persistence of kindling. Despite the absence of NT4, activation of the tyrosine receptor kinase B receptor in the mossy fiber pathway as assessed by phospho-trk immunohistochemistry was equivalent to that of +/+ mice. Together these findings demonstrate that NT4 is not required for limbic epileptogenesis nor is it required for activation of tyrosine receptor kinase B in hippocampus during limbic epileptogenesis.
Retrieving the memory of a conditioned taste aversion involves multiple forebrain areas. Although the amygdala clearly plays a role in the expression of a conditioned taste aversion, critical regions, downstream from the amygdala remain to be defined. To this end, Fos immunoreactivity was used in the rat to explore forebrain structures associated with retrieval that have an anatomical relationship with the amygdala. The results showed that expression of a conditioned taste aversion to 0.5 M sucrose elicited neuronal activation in the nucleus accumbens and in a complex of structures collectively referred to as the extended amygdala. The posterior hypothalamus and parasubthalamic nucleus, which receive inputs from the extended amygdala, were also activated upon re-exposure to the sucrose conditioned stimulus. Fos immunoreactivity did not increase in these regions in response to an innately aversive tastant, quinine hydrochloride (conditioned stimulus control), nor to LiCl-induced visceral stimulation in unconditioned animals (unconditioned stimulus control). In addition, these regions did not respond to the sucrose conditioned stimulus in sham-conditioned animals. These results suggest that conditioned and innately aversive tastes are differentially processed in the forebrain circuitry that includes the nucleus accumbens and extended amygdala.
Enaminones are a novel group of compounds some of which possess anticonvulsant activity in in vivo animal models of seizures. We recently reported that some enaminones, including methyl 4-(4'-bromophenyl)aminocyclohex-3-en-6-methyl-2-oxo-1-oate, depress glutamate-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission and that this may contribute to their anticonvulsant activity [Kombian SB, Edafiogho IO, Ananthalakshmi KVV (2005) Anticonvulsant enaminones depress excitatory synaptic transmission in the rat brain by enhancing extracellular GABA levels. Br J Pharmacol 145:945-953]. Here we studied the effects of methyl 4-(4'-bromophenyl)aminocyclohex-3-en-6-methyl-2-oxo-1-oate, on the excitability of male rat (Sprague-Dawley) nucleus accumbens and hippocampal cells in vitro using whole-cell patch clamp recording techniques. At low, therapeutically relevant concentrations (0.3-10 microM), methyl 4-(4'-bromophenyl)aminocyclohex-3-en-6-methyl-2-oxo-1-oate reversibly suppressed action potential firing rate in a concentration-dependent manner. This action potential suppression was present when GABA(A), GABA(B) and glutamate receptors were blocked with their antagonists. Furthermore, methyl 4-(4'-bromophenyl)aminocyclohex-3-en-6-methyl-2-oxo-1-oate suppressed tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium currents in these cells. At concentrations &gt;/=100 microM, it induced inward currents and increased action potential firing frequency. The inward currents were without changes in input resistance and did not reverse polarity between -120 and -40 mV. These currents were independent of extracellular potassium, but were absent when extracellular sodium was replaced by choline and finally, were occluded by pretreatment with ouabain (200 microM). We conclude that methyl 4-(4'-bromophenyl)aminocyclohex-3-en-6-methyl-2-oxo-1-oate directly inhibits action potential firing at therapeutically relevant concentrations by suppressing tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium currents, while inducing an ouabain-sensitive current at high concentrations to excite neurons. These two actions of methyl 4-(4'-bromophenyl)aminocyclohex-3-en-6-methyl-2-oxo-1-oate on neuronal excitability would have therapeutic implications in future clinical use of enaminones as anticonvulsants in seizure disorders.
Mice are uniquely suited as experimental subjects for various approaches to the study of the molecular and genetic basis of behavior, and there has been a corresponding explosion in the use of mice in behavioral neuroscience. Rats and monkeys, however, remain the preferred species for high-order cognitive models largely due to the unavailability of valid, reliable and translatable endpoint measures of behavior in the mouse. Here we present further development and validation of a touchscreen-based operant method for measuring cognition that is comparable to methods used in other species and human patients. C57BL/6J mice were found to show good performance on visual discrimination and reversal learning using this method. Demonstrating the sensitivity of the paradigm to genetic factors, C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice exhibited marked differences in discrimination and reversal learning. Systemic treatment with the selective D1-like agonist, SKF81297, produced an impairment in the early phase of reversal learning, but did not alter visual discrimination, in C57BL/6J mice. The same treatment impaired spatial working memory on the T-maze delayed alternation task, but did not alter control measures of behavior including motivation and locomotor activity. These data demonstrate the sensitivity of visual discrimination and reversal learning measured by this method to genetic factors and pharmacological challenge, and thereby provide an extension and further validation of the method for measuring cognition in mice. When combined with emerging molecular techniques uniquely suited to this species such as genetic engineering and RNA modification this paradigm could provide a powerful new tool for behavioral neuroscience.
It has been shown that L-type voltage dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) have important role in learning and memory. In vivo and in vitro electrophysiological recordings of hippocampal neurons have demonstrated their involvement in long-term potentiation (LTP), which considers being one possible cellular mechanism underlying learning and memory. The long-term effect of VDCCs of hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) so far on synaptic plasticity has not received much attention. In this study, the effect of chronic (60 days) oral administration of L-type calcium channel blocker verapamil on learning and memory and synaptic plasticity of hippocampal dentate gyrus in rats has been investigated. L-type calcium channel antagonist, verapamil chronically and orally at different doses (10, 20 and 50 mg/kg) was used to investigate learning and memory by passive avoidance learning. LTP in perforant-DG synapses was assessed (by either 200 or 400 Hz tetanization) in order to investigate long-term effect of verapamil on synaptic plasticity. In this case, field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) slope and population spike (PS) amplitude were measured. Our behavioral study has shown that chronic oral treatment of verapamil has no effect on learning whereas verapamil (50 mg/kg) decreased memory retrieval. Verapamil (20 and 50 mg/kg) inhibited EPSP-LTP induction at 400 Hz but not at 200 Hz tetanization. Furthermore, only verapamil (50mg/kg) decreased PS-LTP with respect to control group. These data suggest that 400 Hz LTP is required for activation of L-type VDCCs and it seems that verapamil is more effective on L-type calcium channels of DG dendrites than their soma.
Amphetamine has been shown to enhance consolidation in a variety of memory paradigms. However, it is not known if amphetamine can modulate the consolidation of the types of context-reward associations involved in drug addiction, such as those formed in the conditioned place preference (CPP) task. Also, some types of memory exhibit a second period of lability following memory reactivation, and it is not known whether amphetamine administered during this period can modulate CPP. Our study investigated whether amphetamine can enhance morphine CPP when administered during the consolidation period or the post-reactivation period. Subjects were trained in the CPP task and injected with amphetamine or vehicle immediately or 6 h after each training session. The day after the completion of training, they were tested. Amphetamine injected immediately but not 6 h after training enhanced morphine CPP. In separate experiments, subjects were first trained in the CPP task. The day following the completion of training, subjects were given a memory reactivation session and injected with amphetamine or vehicle immediately or 6 h after reactivation. Subjects were tested the next day. Amphetamine injected immediately but not 6 h after memory reactivation enhanced morphine CPP. However, amphetamine injected without memory reactivation had no effect on the expression of morphine CPP. Our results suggest that amphetamine enhances the consolidation of morphine CPP and that morphine CPP exhibits a temporally limited period of post-reactivation lability during which the memory can be modulated.
The therapeutic properties of typical antipsychotic drugs (APDs) such as haloperidol in schizophrenia treatment are mainly associated with their ability to block dopamine D2 receptors. This blockade is accompanied by side effects such as extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Atypical APDs such as risperidone have superior therapeutic efficacy possibly due to their activity at multiple receptors (in particular 5-HT2A receptors). Although the risk of EPS is significantly lower in atypical than in typical APDs, it is not negligible. To investigate and compare the behavioural profile and EPS-asssociated side effects of haloperidol and risperidone APD treatment we applied a multi-tiered, comprehensive behavioural phenotyping approach. Sprague-Dawley rats were treated chronically (28 days) with supratherapeutic EPS-inducing doses of haloperidol and risperidone using osmotic minipumps. Domains such as motor activity, exploration, memory, and anxiety were analysed together with EPS assessment (&quot;early onset&quot; vacuous chewing movements and catalepsy). Both APDs produced diminished motor activity and exploration, impaired working memory performances, and increased anxiety levels. These effects were more pronounced in haloperidol-treated animals. Chronic APD treatment also caused a time-course dependent elevation of EPS-like symptoms. Risperidone-treated animals showed a catalepsy-like phenotype, which differed to that of haloperidol-treated rats, indicating that processes other than the anticipated dopaminergic mechanisms are underlying this phenomenon. These EPS-related phenotypes are consistent with reported EPS-inducing D2 receptor occupancies of around 80%. Differences in the behavioural profile of haloperidol and risperidone, which were revealed by a comprehensive phenotyping strategy, are likely due to the unique receptor activation profiles of these APDs.
When given a locomotor/exploratory test in the laboratory, rats form one or more home bases, operationally defined as places where they spend a disproportionate period of their time and from which they make excursions. Because exploratory tests in the laboratory necessarily restrict the animals' movements, the cause of exploration (e.g., fear, curiosity, innate disposition) and the extent to which organization is imposed by the restriction of the testing environment has not been fully examined. In the present study, rats received exploratory tests in environments in which restrictions were remote; in a parking lot or on a playing field. Each rat began a test in one of three conditions: in a small refuge, within a transparent open home cage, or beside a landmark. In the parking lot, the rats failed to leave the small refuge, made excursions from the home cage, and left the landmark, usually at a gallop, and made no movements of returning. On the playing field they remained in the small refuge, left and returned to the open home cage, and were more likely to permanently leave the landmark at a gallop. Rats that displayed a strong preference for the landmark over three test sessions in a laboratory, also immediately left the same landmark when tested on the playing field. The pattern of behavior, in which the rats failed to explore from a secure starting position and were increasingly likely to run away as security decreased, suggests that a primary function of locomotor behavior in a novel environment is to optimize security. The results are discussed in relation to the advantages of investigating the influence of neural processes on exploration in terms optimization theory versus motivational theory.

To evaluate whether the organization of glutamatergic fibers systems in the lumbar cord is also evident at other spinal levels, we examined the immunocytochemical distribution of vesicle glutamate transporters 1 and 2 (VGLUT1, VGLUT2) at several different levels of the rat spinal cord. We also examined the expression of VGLUTs in an ascending sensory pathway, the spinocervical tract, and colocalization of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2. Mainly small VGLUT2-immunoreactive varicosities occurred at relatively high densities in most areas, with the highest density in laminae I-II. VGLUT1 immunolabeling, including small and medium-sized to large varicosities, was more differentiated, with the highest density in the deep dorsal horn and in certain nuclei such as the internal basilar nucleus, the central cervical nucleus, and the column of Clarke. Lamina I and IIo displayed a moderate density of small VGLUT1 varicosities at all spinal levels, although in the spinal enlargements a uniform density of such varicosities was evident throughout laminae I-II in the medial half of the dorsal horn. Corticospinal tract axons displayed VGLUT1, indicating that the corticospinal tract is an important source of small VGLUT1 varicosities. VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 were cocontained in small numbers of varicosities in laminae III-IV and IX. Anterogradely labeled spinocervical tract terminals in the lateral cervical nucleus were VGLUT2 immunoreactive. In conclusion, the principal distribution patterns of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 are essentially similar throughout the rostrocaudal extension of the spinal cord. The mediolateral differences in VGLUT1 distribution in laminae I-II suggest dual origins of VGLUT1-immunoreactive varicosities in this region.
Nitric oxide (NO) is critical for the normal physiological regulation of the nervous system and other tissues. L-Arginine, but not D-arginine, is the natural substrate for nitric oxide synthase (NOS), for it is enzymatically converted to NO and L-citrulline. However, recent evidence suggests that D-arginine can also produce NO and NO-derivatives via a different pathway. The aim of the present paper was to raise NO levels in the cells by increasing the cell permeation of its precursors. To this aim, two galactosyl prodrugs, L-arginine-D-galactos-6'-yl ester (L-ArgGal) and D-arginine-D-galactos-6'-yl ester (D-ArgGal) were synthesized. Remarkably, using the HPLC-ESI/MS technique, we found that L-ArgGal and D-ArgGal prodrugs both increased the concentration levels of L- and D-arginine and their derivatives in pituitary GH3 cells. Furthermore, we found that D-ArgGal (1) penetrated cell membranes more rapidly than its precursor D-arginine, (2) released arginine more slowly and in greater amounts than L-ArgGal, and (3) produced much higher levels of DAF-2 monitored NO and nitrite than did L-ArgGal under the same experimental conditions. In conclusion, these results indicate that an increase in the cell permeation of L- and D-arginine by L-ArgGal and D-ArgGal can lead to an increase in NO levels.
What is the time frame in which perceptual memory guides attention? Current estimates range from a few hundred milliseconds to several seconds, minutes, or even days. Here, we answer this question by establishing the time course of attentional selection in realistic viewing conditions. First, we transformed continuous video clips into MTV-style video clips by stringing together continuous clip segments using abrupt transitions (jump cuts). We then asked participants to visually explore either continuous or MTV-style clips and recorded their saccades as objective behavioral indicators of attentional selections. The utilization of perceptual memory was estimated across viewing conditions and over time by quantifying the agreement between human attentional selections and predictions made by a neurally grounded computational model. In the critical condition, jump cuts led to sharp declines in the impact of perceptual memory on attentional selection, followed by monotonic increases in memory utilization across seven consecutive saccades and 2.5 s. These results demonstrate that perceptual memory traces play an important role in guiding attention across several saccades during natural vision. We propose novel hypotheses and experiments using hybrid natural-artificial stimuli to further elucidate neurocomputational mechanisms of attentional selection.


This study was undertaken to explore the possibility that cholesterol deficiency may perturb the physiological functions of astrocytes, thus rendering cells vulnerable to the cytotoxicity induced by glutamate (Glu). Cholesterol deprivation induces astrocyte stellation, which is accompanied by disruption of cortical actin, and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in an astrocyte-specific manner. Moreover, cholesterol reduction decreases the activity of glutamine synthetase (GS) while enhancing the capacity of Glu transporter. Using [(3)H]d-aspartate as a tracer, we found a marked efflux of [(3)H]d-aspartate from cholesterol-deficient astrocytes after Glu stimulation. Changes in the actin cytoskeleton, cell morphology, ERK phosphorylation and GS level gradually recovered in astrocytes after the withdrawal of cholesterol depletion. Moreover, withdrawal of cholesterol deprivation attenuated cell loss in cholesterol-deficient astrocytes during Glu exposure. Taken together, our data suggest that, upon Glu exposure, there would be an increase in intracellular Glu as a consequence of enhanced Glu uptake and reduced degradation of Glu by GS in cholesterol-deficient astrocytes. This in turn leads to a concentration gradient favoring Glu release, thereby causing the accumulation of cytotoxic levels of Glu extracellularly. It is thus concluded that the detrimental effect of cholesterol deprivation may, in part, arise from the impairment in Glu homeostasis.
Tripeptidyl peptidase II (TPPII) is a high molecular weight exopeptidase important in inactivating extracellular cholecystokinin (CCK). Our aims were to study the anatomical localization of TPPII and CCK mRNA in the Cynomolgus monkey brain as a basis for a possible functional anatomical connection between enzyme (TPPII) and substrate (CCK) and examine if indications of changes in substrate availability in the human brain might be reflected in changes of levels of TPPII mRNA. Methods: mRNA in situ hybridization on postmortem brain from patients having had a schizophrenia diagnosis as compared to controls and on monkey and rat brain slices. Results: overlapping distribution patterns of mRNAs for TPPII and CCK in rat and monkey. High amounts of TPPII mRNA are seen in the neocortex, especially in the frontal region and the hippocampus. TPPII mRNA is also present in the basal ganglia and cerebellum where CCK immunoreactivity and/or CCK B receptors have been found in earlier studies, suggesting presence of CCK-ergic afferents from other brain regions. Levels of mRNAs for CCK and TPPII show a positive correlation in postmortem human cerebral cortex Brodmann area (BA) 10. TPPII mRNA might be affected following schizophrenia. Discussion: overall TPPII and CCK mRNA show a similar distribution in rat and monkey brain, confirming and extending earlier studies in rodents. In addition, correlated levels of TPPII and CCK mRNA in human BA 10 corroborate a functional link between CCK and TPPII in the human brain.
The visceral sensory information from the internal organs is conveyed via the vagus and glossopharyngeal primary afferent fibers and transmitted to the second-order neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). The glutamate release from the solitary tract (TS) axons to the second-order NTS neurons remains even in the presence of toxins that block N- and P/Q-type voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels (VDCCs). The presynaptic VDCC playing the major role at this synapse remains unidentified. To address this issue, we examined two hypotheses in this study. First, we examined whether the remaining large component occurs through activation of a omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTX)-insensitive variant of N-type VDCC by using the mice genetically lacking its pore-forming subunit alpha(1B). Second, we examined whether R-type VDCCs are involved in transmitter release at the TS-NTS synapse. The EPSCs evoked by stimulation of the TS were recorded in medullary slices from young mice. omega-Agatoxin IVA (omega-AgaIVA; 200 nM) did not significantly affect the EPSC amplitude in the mice genetically lacking N-type VDCC. SNX-482 (500 nM) and Ni(2+) (100 microM) did not significantly reduce EPSC amplitude in ICR mice. These results indicate that, unlike in most of the brain synapses identified to date, the largest part of the glutamate release at the TS-NTS synapse in mice occurs through activation of non-L, non-P/Q, non-R, non-T and non-N (including its posttranslational variants) VDCCs at least according to their pharmacological properties identified to date.
Rho GTPases are key regulators of the actin cytoskeleton in membrane trafficking events. We previously reported that Cdc42 facilitates exocytosis in neuroendocrine cells by stimulating actin assembly at docking sites for secretory granules. These findings raise the question of the mechanism activating Cdc42 in exocytosis. The neuronal guanine nucleotide exchange factor, intersectin-1L, which specifically activates Cdc42 and is at an interface between membrane trafficking and actin dynamics, appears as an ideal candidate to fulfill this function. Using PC12 and chromaffin cells, we now show the presence of intersectin-1 at exocytotic sites. Moreover, through an RNA interference strategy coupled with expression of various constructs encoding the guanine nucleotide exchange domain, we demonstrate that intersectin-1L is an essential component of the exocytotic machinery. Silencing of intersectin-1 prevents secretagogue-induced activation of Cdc42 revealing intersectin-1L as the factor integrating Cdc42 activation to the exocytotic pathway. Our results extend the current role of intersectin-1L in endocytosis to a function in exocytosis and support the idea that intersectin-1L is an adaptor that coordinates exo-endocytotic membrane trafficking in secretory cells.
Glutamate receptor interacting protein (GRIP) homologues, initially characterized in synaptic glutamate receptor trafficking, consist of seven PDZ domains (PDZDs), whose conserved arrangement is of unknown significance. The Drosophila GRIP homologue (DGrip) is needed for proper guidance of embryonic somatic muscles towards epidermal attachment sites, with both excessive and reduced DGrip activity producing specific phenotypes in separate muscle groups. These phenotypes were utilized to analyze the molecular architecture underlying DGrip signaling function in vivo. Surprisingly, removing PDZDs 1-3 (DGripDelta1-3) or deleting ligand binding in PDZDs 1 or 2 convert DGrip to excessive in vivo activity mediated by ligand binding to PDZD 7. Yeast two-hybrid screening identifies the cell adhesion protein Echinoid's (Ed) type II PDZD-interaction motif as binding PDZDs 1, 2 and 7 of DGrip. ed loss-of-function alleles exhibit muscle defects, enhance defects caused by reduced DGrip activity and suppress the dominant DGripDelta1-3 effect during embryonic muscle formation. We propose that Ed and DGrip form a signaling complex, where competition between N-terminal and the C-terminal PDZDs of DGrip for Ed binding controls signaling function.

Lasting changes in neuronal connectivity require calcium-dependent gene expression. Here we report the identification of LIM domain-only 4 (LMO4) as a mediator of calcium-dependent transcription in cortical neurons. Calcium influx via voltage-sensitive calcium channels and NMDA receptors contributes to synaptically induced LMO4-mediated transactivation. LMO4-mediated transcription is dependent on signaling via calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein (CaM) kinase IV and microtubule-associated protein (MAP) kinase downstream of synaptic stimulation. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments indicate that LMO4 can form a complex with cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and can interact with cofactor of LIM homeodomain protein 1 (CLIM1) and CLIM2. To evaluate the role of LMO4 in vivo, we examined the consequences of conditional loss of lmo4 in the forebrain, using the Cre-Lox gene-targeting strategy. The organization of the barrel field in somatosensory cortex is disrupted in mice in which lmo4 is deleted conditionally in the cortex. Specifically, in contrast to controls, thalamocortical afferents in conditional lmo4 null mice fail to segregate into distinct barrel-specific domains. These observations identify LMO4 as a calcium-dependent transactivator that plays a key role in patterning thalamocortical connections during development.
Molecular layer inhibitory interneurons generate on-beam and off-beam inhibition in the cerebellar cortex that is hypothesized to control the timing and/or spatial patterning of Purkinje cell discharge. On- and off-beam inhibition has been assumed to be spatially uniform and continuous within a folium. Using flavoprotein autofluorescence optical imaging in the mouse cerebellar cortex in vivo, this study demonstrates that the inhibition evoked by parallel fiber and peripheral stimulation results in parasagittal bands of decreases in fluorescence that correspond to zebrin II-positive bands. The parasagittal bands of decreased fluorescence are abolished by GABA(A) antagonists and reflect the activity of molecular layer interneurons on their targets. The same banding pattern was observed using Ca2+ imaging. The bands produce spatially specific decreases in the responses to peripheral input. Therefore, molecular layer inhibition is compartmentalized into zebrin II parasagittal domains that differentially modulate the spatial pattern of cerebellar cortical activity.
Activity-dependent regulation of synaptic AMPA receptor (AMPAR) number is critical to NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent synaptic plasticity. Using quantitative high-resolution in situ hybridization, we show that mRNAs encoding the AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunits (GluRs) 1 and 2 are localized to dendrites of hippocampal neurons and are regulated by paradigms that alter synaptic efficacy. A substantial fraction of synaptic sites contain AMPAR mRNA, consistent with strategic positioning and availability for &quot;on-site&quot; protein synthesis. NMDAR activation depletes dendritic levels of AMPAR mRNAs. The decrease in mRNA occurs via rise in intracellular Ca2+, activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, and transcriptional arrest at the level of the nucleus. The decrease in mRNA is accompanied by a long-lasting reduction in synaptic AMPAR number, consistent with reduced synaptic efficacy. In contrast, group I metabotropic GluR signaling promotes microtubule-based trafficking of existing AMPAR mRNAs from the soma to dendrites. Bidirectional regulation of dendritic mRNA abundance represents a potentially powerful means to effect long-lasting changes in synaptic strength.
Hippocampal kindling, a model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, is developed through repetitive stimulation of the hippocampus and leads to increased after-discharges as measured by EEG and an enduring seizure-prone state. Synthesis of new proteins is thought to form the basis for sustained seizure-induced physiological and/or pathological changes in synaptic reorganization and apoptotic/necrotic neuronal death. Here we examined the effect of kindling on stimulus-induced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 phosphorylation, events postulated to lie upstream of seizure-induced changes in gene transcription. We found that stimulus-induced phosphorylation of JNK, but not of p38, is significantly enhanced in kindled animals compared with their naive counterparts in the CA1 subregion of the hippocampus. Immunofluorescent staining confirmed this region-specific pattern of JNK activation and revealed that reactive astrocytes mediate this effect. Astrocyte proliferation and hypertrophy, as well as upregulation of vimentin protein levels, common markers of astrogliosis, were present after 4 d of kindling. Moreover, this reactive astrogliosis was associated with neuronal death as visualized with Fluoro-jade B and anti-active caspase-3 staining. Stimulus-induced phosphorylation of the JNK substrate paxillin was enhanced in kindled animals, but not that of c-Jun. Moreover, a pan-antibody against MAPK/CDK (mitogen-activated protein kinases/cyclin-dependent kinase) substrates indicated the presence of phosphorylated proteins in cytosolic, membrane, and nuclear fractions. The consequence of these phosphorylation events is not completely understood, but these findings suggest a selective astrocytic signaling response to aberrant synaptic activity, signaling that may modulate kindling progression and/or neuronal death.
Endocannabinoid signaling has been demonstrated to mediate depolarization-induced suppression of excitation at climbing fiber (CF) and parallel fiber (PF) synapses onto cerebellar Purkinje cells. Here, we show that CF-evoked release of cannabinoids (CBs) additionally suppresses a presynaptic form of long-term potentiation (LTP) at PF synapses. PF-LTP can be induced by 8 Hz PF tetanization but is blocked when the PF tetanization is paired with 4 or 1 Hz CF coactivation. CF activity can be substituted for by bath application of the CB receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 [R(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazinyl]-(1-naphthalenyl) methanone]. In the presence of the CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 [N-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-4-methyl-N-1-piperidinyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide], CF activity no longer suppresses PF-LTP. Presynaptic potentiation can also be obtained by the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin. WIN55,212-2 blocked this forskolin-mediated enhancement, showing that CB1 receptor activation interferes with the adenylyl cyclase-protein kinase A cascade, which participates in LTP induction. CF activity has been described to promote the induction of postsynaptic PF-long-term depression (LTD) and to impair postsynaptic PF-LTP. Our observation that CF activity blocks the induction of presynaptic LTP suggests that the CF input controls all forms of presynaptic and postsynaptic PF plasticity and that CF activity provides a &quot;safety lock&quot; to prevent an enhancement of transmitter release while postsynaptic AMPA receptor function is downregulated during LTD.
Previous research has shown that cAMP response element (CRE)-mediated transcription is activated in the nucleus accumbens, a major brain reward region, by a variety of environmental stimuli and contributes to neuroadaptations to these stimuli. CRE-binding protein (CREB) is the most studied activator of CRE transcription and has been implicated in this brain region as a gating mechanism for behavioral responses to emotional stimuli. Little attention, however, has been given to naturally occurring inhibitors of CRE-mediated transcription, such as the inducible cAMP early repressor (ICER), an inhibitory product of the CRE modulator gene. In the present study, we investigated the extent to which ICER is induced in the nucleus accumbens by two types of environmental stimuli, stress and amphetamine, and characterized how induction of ICER in this region affects complex behavior. We show that stress and amphetamine each induces ICER expression and that overexpression of ICER in the nucleus accumbens, using viral-mediated gene transfer, increases behavioral responses to both rewarding and aversive emotional stimuli. For example, ICER overexpression increases sensitivity to amphetamine-stimulated locomotor activity as well as to natural rewards such as sucrose and social grooming. However, ICER overexpression also increases measures of anxiety in the elevated plus maze and neophobia to novel tastes. Finally, ICER produces an antidepressant-like effect in the forced swim test, further indication of an enhanced active response to stress. These results suggest that ICER is an important mechanism for modulating CRE-mediated transcription in the nucleus accumbens.


Acute administration of corticosterone (CORT) facilitates learning in a number of associative paradigms including lithium chloride (LiCl)-induced conditioned taste aversion learning. The present study examined the effects of acute CORT on LiCl-induced conditioned place aversions in male rats. Automated open-fields were partitioned into two chambers distinct in tactile and visual cues. Animals received either LiCl (64 mg/kg, 0.15 M) or saline (NaCl, 0.15 M) followed 10 min later by either CORT (5 mg/kg) or beta-cyclodextrin vehicle (45%) prior to placement in one of the chambers. Control rats received NaCl-Vehicle paired with both chambers. Three experimental groups received either NaCl-CORT, LiCl-Vehicle or LiCl-CORT paired with the preferred chamber and NaCl-Vehicle (control) paired with the non-preferred chamber. During extinction trials, animals were allowed to choose between the two chambers. Locomotor activity and its distribution within the chambers were assessed during both conditioning and extinction trials. CORT administration produced significant increases in a variety of measures of locomotor activity during conditioning trials. During extinction trials both LiCl groups displayed a conditioned place aversion while the NaCl-CORT group did not. In addition, significant increases in vertical activity were recorded in both LiCl groups in the LiCl-paired chamber. Moreover, CORT administration had no effect on LiCl-induced conditioned place aversion as time spent in the LiCl-paired chamber did not significantly differ between LiCl-Vehicle and LiCl-CORT groups. Significant increases in a number of measures of horizontal activity were also observed in both CORT groups. The present study shows that acute CORT administration does not significantly influence LiCl-induced conditioned place aversions and suggests that the facilitatory effects of acute CORT administration on learning are highly context-dependent.
The authors measured the association of early ischemic change on CT scan, measured using the Alberta Stroke Programme Early CT score (ASPECTS), and functional outcome in 825 patients with anterior circulation stroke treated with IV thrombolysis within 3 hours of onset. ASPECTS predicted outcome in a graded fashion (linearly for ASPECTS 6 through 10; pattern ill-defined for ASPECTS 0 through 5) but discriminated individual outcomes weakly. Except perhaps when early ischemic change is extensive, clinicians should not estimate prognosis using ASPECTS alone.
The authors tested the association of three vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) promoter polymorphisms with sporadic ALS (SALS) to verify the results of a previous study and to investigate their modifier effects on the subphenotypes of SALS in a large family-based and case-control cohort of North American white subjects (N = 1,603). They did not find any association of the VEGF promoter polymorphisms with SALS or its subphenotypes, suggesting that they do not have a direct causal role in ALS.
The authors examined oculomotor function to identify a biomarker of disease progression in genetically confirmed preclinical and early clinical Huntington disease (HD). Initiation deficits of voluntary-guided, but not reflexive, saccades were characteristic of preclinical HD. Saccadic slowing and delayed reflexive saccades were demonstrated in clinical but not preclinical HD. Saccadic measures provide biomarkers of disease progression in both preclinical and early clinical stages of HD.
The homeobox transcription factor Tinman plays an important role in the initiation of heart development. Later functions of Tinman, including the target genes involved in cardiac physiology, are less well studied. We focused on the dSUR gene, which encodes an ATP-binding cassette transmembrane protein that is expressed in the heart. Mammalian SUR genes are associated with K(ATP) (ATP-sensitive potassium) channels, which are involved in metabolic homeostasis. We provide experimental evidence that Tinman directly regulates dSUR expression in the developing heart. We identified a cis-regulatory element in the first intron of dSUR, which contains Tinman consensus binding sites and is sufficient for faithful dSUR expression in the fly's myocardium. Site-directed mutagenesis of this element shows that these Tinman sites are critical to dSUR expression, and further genetic manipulations suggest that the GATA transcription factor Pannier is synergistically involved in cardiac-restricted dSUR expression in vivo. Physiological analysis of dSUR knock-down flies supports the idea that dSUR plays a protective role against hypoxic stress and pacing-induced heart failure. Because dSUR expression dramatically decreases with age, it is likely to be a factor involved in the cardiac aging phenotype of Drosophila. dSUR provides a model for addressing how embryonic regulators of myocardial cell commitment can contribute to the establishment and maintenance of cardiac performance.
Previous in vitro studies have shown that the neurotransmitter glutamate is important in brain development. Paradoxically, loss-of-function mouse models of glutamatergic signaling that are generated by genetic deletion of glutamate receptors or glutamate release show normal brain assembly. We examined the direct consequences on brain development of extracellular glutamate buildup due to the depletion of the glutamate transporters GLAST and GLT1. GLAST/GLT1 double knockout mice show multiple brain defects, including cortical, hippocampal, and olfactory bulb disorganization with perinatal mortality. Here, we report abnormal formation of the neocortex in GLAST/GLT1 mutants. Several essential aspects of neuronal development, such as stem cell proliferation, radial migration, neuronal differentiation, and survival of SP neurons, were impaired. These results provide direct in vivo evidence that GLAST and GLT1 are necessary for brain development through regulation of extracellular glutamate concentration and show that an important mechanism is likely to be maintenance of glutamate-mediated synaptic transmission.
Temporal restriction of feeding can phase-shift behavioral and physiological circadian rhythms in mammals. These changes in biological rhythms are postulated to be brought about by a food-entrainable oscillator (FEO) that is independent of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. However, the neural substrates of FEO have remained elusive. Here, we carried out an unbiased search for mouse brain region(s) that exhibit a rhythmic expression of the Period genes in a feeding-entrainable manner. We found that the compact part of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH) demonstrates a robust oscillation of mPer expression only under restricted feeding. The oscillation persisted for at least 2 days even when mice were given no food during the expected feeding period after the establishment of food-entrained behavioral rhythms. Moreover, refeeding after fasting rapidly induced a transient mPer expression in the same area of DMH. Taken in conjunction with recent findings (i) that behavioral expression of food-entrainable circadian rhythms is blocked by cell-specific lesions of DMH in rats and (ii) that DMH neurons directly project to orexin neurons in the lateral hypothalamus, which are essential for proper expression of food-entrained behavioral rhythms, the present study suggests that DMH plays a key role as a central FEO in the feeding-mediated regulation of circadian behaviors.
It has been reported that a prior exposure of isoflurane, a commonly used volatile anesthetic in clinical practice, reduces brain cell death after ischemia. This isoflurane preconditioning-induced neuroprotection has been shown in rat in vivo and in vitro brain ischemia models. To investigate the mechanisms of this protection, we used the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and simulated ischemia in vitro by oxygen-glucose deprivation. We found that isoflurane exposure for 30 min at 24 h before a 5-h oxygen-glucose deprivation dose-dependently reduced cell death. Isoflurane exposure induced phosphorylation/activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Inhibition of the phospho-ERK expression abolished the isoflurane preconditioning-induced protection. Isoflurane exposure also increased the expression of early growth response gene 1 (Egr-1) and Bcl-2, proteins downstream of ERK. Egr-1 is a transcription factor and plays a role in cell survival. Bcl-2 is an anti-apoptotic protein. The increased expression of Egr-1 and Bcl-2 by isoflurane was inhibited by ERK inhibition. Thus, our results suggest a role of ERK/Egr-1/Bcl-2 pathway in the isoflurane preconditioning-induced protection in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells.
Synphilin-1 is an alpha-synuclein binding protein that is involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The present study investigated the phospholipid-binding capacity of Synphilin-1. The C-terminus of Synphilin-1 was found to selectively bind to acidic phospholipids, including phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylserine, and phosphatidylglycerol, but not to naturally charged phospholipids. Synphilin-1 was targeted to cytoplasmic lipid droplets in mammalian cells. The amino acid sequence 610-640 was found to represent the primary determinant site for phospholipid binding. Moreover, the R621C mutation identified in Parkinson's disease abolished Synphilin-1 association with lipid droplets. The lipophilicity of Synphilin-1 might prove relevant to its physiologic function.
Given the global impact of persistent infections on the human population, it is of the utmost importance to devise strategies to noncytopathically purge tissues of infectious agents. The central nervous system (CNS) poses a unique challenge when considering such strategies, as it is an immunologically specialized compartment that contains a nonreplicative cell population. Administration of exogenously derived pathogen-specific memory T cells (referred to as adoptive immunotherapy) to mice burdened with a persistent lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection from birth results in eradication of the pathogen from all tissues, including the CNS. In this study, we sought mechanistic insights into this highly successful therapeutic approach. By monitoring the migration of traceable LCMV-specific memory CD8+ T cells after immunotherapy, it was revealed that cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) distributed widely throughout the CNS compartment early after immunotherapy, which resulted in a dramatic elevation in the activity of CNS antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Immunotherapy induced microglia activation as well as the recruitment of macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs) into the brain parenchyma. However, DCs emerged as the only CNS APC population capable of inducing memory CTLs to preferentially produce the antiviral cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha, a cytokine demonstrated to be required for successful immunotherapeutic clearance. DCs were also found to be an essential element of the immunotherapeutic process because in their absence, memory T cells failed to undergo secondary expansion, and viral clearance was not attained in the CNS. These experiments underscore the importance of DCs in the immunotherapeutic clearance of a persistent viral infection and suggest that strategies to elevate the activation/migration of DCs (especially within the CNS) may facilitate pathogen clearance.
During the second and third postnatal weeks, there is a developmental switch from sodium channel isoform Na(v)1.2 to isoform Na(v)1.6 at initial segments and nodes of Ranvier in rat retinal ganglion cells. We used quantitative, real-time PCR to determine if the developmental appearance of Na(v)1.6 channels is accompanied by an increase in steady-state level of Na(v)1.6 mRNA in the retina. Between postnatal day 2 (P2) and P10, Na(v)1.6 levels did not change, but between P10 and P19, there was an approximately three-fold increase in Na(v)1.6 transcript levels. This coincides with the appearance of Na(v)1.6 channels in the retina and optic nerve. The steady-state level of Na(v)1.2 mRNA also increased during this same period, which suggests that the rise in Na(v)1.6 may be part of a general increase in sodium channel transcripts at about the time of eye opening at P14. The results are consistent with a developmental increase in steady-state transcripts giving rise to a corresponding increase in sodium channel protein expression.
During development, axons form interstitial collateral branches, which are initially dynamic but gradually stabilize as the projection sharpens. The initial outgrowth of collaterals is characterized by transitions in growth dynamics that occur at different lengths. Below 10 microm, collateral branches start out as unstable, thin filopodia. Above 30 microm, the branches stabilize. Although the relationship between branch length and the presence of microfilaments and microtubules has been well characterized, relatively less is known about the development of the neurofilament cytoskeleton in collateral branches. In the main axon, successive stages of outgrowth are accompanied by changes in the polypeptide composition of neurofilaments (NFs), which shifts from being rich in Type III neuronal intermediate filament proteins (nIFs) to progressively favoring Type IV subunits. To characterize the NF composition of developing collateral branches, antibodies to peripherin (a Type III nIF) and NF-M (a Type IV nIF) were used to stain newly differentiating embryonic Xenopus laevis spinal cord neurons in culture. In contrast to what happens in the main axon, staining for both subunits coincided in collaterals. Branches shorter than 10 microm seldom had NFs, whereas all branches longer than 30 microm did. In branches that had NFs staining either extended all the way to branch tip or terminated approximately 10mum from it. These lengths correspond remarkably well with lengths associated with branch stabilization. Given that NFs are the most stable of the cytoskeletal polymers, we speculate that they may contribute to this stabilization.
The present study evaluated the role of thrombin and its receptors in neurodegeneration and microglial activation. Immunocytochemical evidence indicated that intracortical injection of thrombin resulted in a significant loss of neurons and the activation of microglia in the rat cortex in vivo. Reverse transcription PCR and double-label immunocytochemistry further demonstrated the early and transient expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and neurotoxic factors as well as their colocalization within activated microglia. The thrombin-induced loss of cortical neurons was partially blocked by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, and by NS-398, a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, indicating that the activation of microglia is involved in the neurotoxicity of thrombin in the cortex in vivo. In addition, thrombin activated cortical microglia in culture, as indicated by the expression of several pro-inflammatory cytokines and produced cell death in microglia-free, neuron-enriched cortical cultures. However, agonist peptides for thrombin receptors, including protease-activated receptor-1 (SFLLRN), -3 (TFRGAP), and -4 (GYPGKF), failed to activate microglia and were not neurotoxic in culture. Intriguingly, morphological and biochemical evidence indicated that thrombin-induced neurotoxicity but not microglial activation was prevented by hirudin, a specific inhibitor of thrombin. Collectively, the present data suggest that a non-proteolytic activity of thrombin activates microglia and that the proteolytic activity mediates its neurotoxicity.
The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of a cholesterol-rich diet on learning performance and monitor possible related changes in synaptic function. To this purpose, we compared controls with rats fed with a cholesterol-enriched diet (CD). By using a Morris water-maze paradigm, we found that CD rats learned a water-maze task more quickly than rats fed with a regular diet (RD). A longer period of this diet tended to alter the retention of memory without affecting the improvement in the acquisition of the task. Because of the importance of the hippocampus in spatial learning, we hypothesized that these behavioral effects of cholesterol would involve synaptic changes at the hippocampal level. We used whole-cell patch-clamp recording in the CA1 area of a hippocampal rat slice preparation to test the influence of the CD on pre- and postsynaptic function. CD rats displayed an increase in paired-pulse ratio in both glutamatergic synapses (+48 +/- 9%) and GABAergic synapses (+41 +/- 8%), suggesting that the CD induces long-lasting changes in presynaptic function. Furthermore, by recording NMDA-receptor-mediated currents (I(NMDA)) and AMPA-receptor-mediated currents (I(AMPA)) in the same set of cells we found that CD rats display a lower I(NMDA)/I(AMPA) ratio (I(NMDA)/I(AMPA) = 0.75 +/- 0.32 in RD versus 0.10 +/- 0.03 in CD), demonstrating that cholesterol regulates also postsynaptic function. We conclude that a cholesterol-rich diet affects learning speed and performance, and that these behavioral changes occur together with robust, long-lasting, synaptic changes at both the pre- and postsynaptic level.
A large cytoplasmic domain accounts for approximately one-third of the entire protein of one superfamily of ligand-gated membrane ion channels, which includes nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh), gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)), serotonin type 3 (5-HT3), and glycine receptors. Desensitization is one functional feature shared by these receptors. Because most molecular studies of receptor desensitization have focused on the agonist binding and channel pore domains, relatively little is known about the role of the large cytoplasmic domain (LCD) in this process. To address this issue, we sequentially deleted segments of the LCD of the 5-HT3A receptor and examined the function of the mutant receptors. Deletion of a small segment that contains three amino acid residues (425-427) significantly slowed the desensitization kinetics of the 5-HT3A receptor. Both deletion and point mutation of arginine 427 altered desensitization kinetics in a manner similar to that of the (425-427) deletion without significantly changing the apparent agonist affinity. The extent of receptor desensitization was positively correlated with the polarity of the amino acid residue at 427: the desensitization accelerates with increasing polarity. Whereas the R427L mutation produced the slowest desensitization, it did not significantly alter single channel conductance of 5-HT3A receptor. Thus, the arginine 427 residue in the LCD contributes to 5-HT3A receptor desensitization, possibly through forming an electrostatic interaction with its neighboring residues. Because the polarity of the amino acid residue at 427 is highly conserved, such a desensitization mechanism may occur in other members of the Cys-loop family of ligand-gated ion channels.
Sperm-specific CatSper1 and CatSper2 proteins are critical to sperm-hyperactivated motility and male fertility. Although architecturally resembling voltage-gated ion channels, neither CatSper1 nor CatSper2 alone forms functional ion channels in heterologous expression systems, which may be related to the absence of yet unidentified accessory subunits. Here we isolated CatSper1- and CatSper2-associated protein(s) from human sperm and analyzed their identities by a multidimensional protein identification technology approach. We identified the T-type voltage-gated calcium channel Ca(v)3.3 as binding to both CatSper1 and CatSper2. The specificity of their interactions was verified by co-immunoprecipitation in transfected mammalian cells. Electrophysiological studies revealed that the co-expression of CatSper1 or CatSper2 specifically inhibited the amplitude of Ca(v)3.3-evoked T-type calcium current without altering other biophysical properties of Ca(v)3.3. Immunostaining studies revealed co-localization of CatSper1 and Ca(v)3.3 on the principal piece of human sperm tail. Furthermore, fluorescence resonance energy transfer analysis revealed close proximity and physical association of these two proteins on the sperm tail. These studies demonstrate that CatSper1 and CatSper2 can associate with and modulate the function of the Ca(v)3.3 channel, which might be important in the regulation of sperm function.
Human choices are remarkably susceptible to the manner in which options are presented. This so-called &quot;framing effect&quot; represents a striking violation of standard economic accounts of human rationality, although its underlying neurobiology is not understood. We found that the framing effect was specifically associated with amygdala activity, suggesting a key role for an emotional system in mediating decision biases. Moreover, across individuals, orbital and medial prefrontal cortex activity predicted a reduced susceptibility to the framing effect. This finding highlights the importance of incorporating emotional processes within models of human choice and suggests how the brain may modulate the effect of these biasing influences to approximate rationality.

In decision-making under uncertainty, economic studies emphasize the importance of risk in addition to expected reward. Studies in neuroscience focus on expected reward and learning rather than risk. We combined functional imaging with a simple gambling task to vary expected reward and risk simultaneously and in an uncorrelated manner. Drawing on financial decision theory, we modeled expected reward as mathematical expectation of reward, and risk as reward variance. Activations in dopaminoceptive structures correlated with both mathematical parameters. These activations differentiated spatially and temporally. Temporally, the activation related to expected reward was immediate, while the activation related to risk was delayed. Analyses confirmed that our paradigm minimized confounds from learning, motivation, and salience. These results suggest that the primary task of the dopaminergic system is to convey signals of upcoming stochastic rewards, such as expected reward and risk, beyond its role in learning, motivation, and salience.
Novelty exploration can enhance hippocampal plasticity in animals through dopaminergic neuromodulation arising in the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA). This enhancement can outlast the exploration phase by several minutes. Currently, little is known about dopaminergic novelty processing and its relationship to hippocampal function in humans. In two functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies, SN/VTA activations in humans were indeed driven by stimulus novelty rather than other forms of stimulus salience such as rareness, negative emotional valence, or targetness of familiar stimuli, whereas hippocampal responses were less selective. SN/VTA novelty responses were scaled according to absolute rather than relative novelty in a given context, unlike adaptive SN/VTA responses recently reported for reward outcome in animal studies. Finally, novelty enhanced learning and perirhinal/parahippocampal processing of familiar items presented in the same context. Thus, the human SN/VTA can code absolute stimulus novelty and might contribute to enhancing learning in the context of novelty.
We used fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) to measure the mobility of synaptic vesicles in frog motor nerve terminals. Vesicles belonging to the recycling pool or to the reserve pool were selectively labeled with FM1-43. In resting terminals, vesicles in the reserve pool were immobile, while vesicles in the recycling pool were mobile. Nerve stimulation increased the mobility of reserve pool vesicles. Treatment with latrunculin A, which destroyed actin filaments, had no significant effect on mobility, and reducing the temperature likewise had little effect, suggesting that recycling pool vesicles move by simple diffusion. Application of okadaic acid caused vesicle mobility in both pools to increase to the same level. We could model these and others' results quantitatively by taking into account the relative numbers of mobile and immobile vesicles in each pool, and vesicle packing density, which has a large effect on mobility.
Frog spinal neurons receive a prominent innervation from the bulbar serotonergic nuclear complex. We used an isolated spinal cord preparation to examine the effect of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) receptor activation on segmental and descending monosynaptic excitatory inputs to frog lumbar motoneurons. Bath-application of 5-HT (0.05 mM) caused a significant reduction in the peak amplitude of segmental EPSP elicited by dorsal root (DR) stimulation (P &lt; 0.05). Contrasting to DR evoked responses 5-HT did not affect the descending monosynaptic EPSP conditioned by ventrolateral column (VLC) stimulation. Recording of the VLC induced EPSP-spike (E-S) field response within the ventral horn motor nucleus disclosed a substantial enhancement in the population discharge of motoneurons upon 5-HT application (P &lt; 0.05). These data suggest the potential importance of serotonergic receptors in motor integration and gaining of motor output in the frog spinal cord.
