Expression of the calcitonin gene-related peptide, alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and the homologous beta-CGRP were compared in sensory and enteric nerves of the rat. Analysis of CGRP-like immunoreactivity by cation exchange chromatography and radioimmunoassay showed that in the dorsal root ganglia, dorsal spinal cord and in those peripheral tissues where CGRP-like immunoreactivity is primarily localized to sensory fibres, alpha-CGRP concentrations were three to six times greater than beta-CGRP concentrations. In the intestine, however, beta-CGRP concentrations were up to seven times greater than alpha-CGRP concentrations. Only beta-CGRP was detected in the intestines of capsaicin-treated rats. Northern blot and in situ hybridization to alpha-CGRP- and beta-CGRP-specific probes showed that while both alpha-CGRP and beta-CGRP messenger ribonucleic acids occurred in the dorsal root ganglia, only beta-CGRP messenger ribonucleic acid occurred in the intestine, where it was localized to enteric neurons. Receptor binding sites on membranes of rat heart and colon had approximately equal affinities for alpha-CGRP and beta-CGRP. The two peptides were equipotent in increasing the rate and force of atrial contractions but alpha-CGRP was slightly (2.6 times) more potent than beta-CGRP in relaxing colonic smooth muscle. Thus, both alpha-CGRP and beta-CGRP occur in the rat nervous system and are both biologically active. Sensory neurons and enteric neurons have been identified as populations which preferentially express alpha-CGRP and beta-CGRP, respectively.
Glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase activities with magnitudes similar to those of their homologous enzymes in frog nervous tissue were found in homogenates of the frog labyrinth. Transection of the vestibular nerve resulted in a gradual diminution of choline acetyltransferase activity until it reached an 88% decrease 6 weeks after surgery. In contrast, glutamate decarboxylase activity did not suffer any alteration at any time after nerve excision. The presence of their enzymes of synthesis is evidence of the neurotransmitter participation of GABA and acetylcholine in the frog vestibule; the observed decrease of choline acetyltransferase following vestibule nerve excision supports the efferent synaptic bouton localization of choline acetyltransferase. The suggestion that glutamate decarboxylase is located in a cell type (or compartment) that may well be the hair cell is supported by the fact that this enzyme does not suffer any modification after surgery. These results are in accordance with an efferent cholinergic neurotransmission and a putative afferent role of GABA in the frog vestibule.
Tritiated flunitrazepam binding was measured in autoradiograms of lumbar spinal cord from control ovariectomized female rats and from ovariectomized females treated with either estradiol-silastic implants or one subcutaneous injection of 500 micrograms progesterone 4-5 h before being killed or both estradiol and progesterone. Four areas of spinal cord were analyzed: the substantia gelatinosa, the region leading to and around the central canal, the remainder of the dorsal horn and the ventral horn. Specific flunitrazepam binding was greatest in the substantia gelatinosa and in the region around the central canal and was weakest in the ventral horn. Estradiol had no effect on flunitrazepam binding in the spinal cord despite estradiol concentrating cells in the substantia gelatinosa and around the central canal. In vivo progesterone enhanced flunitrazepam binding in the substantia gelatinosa while 10(-8) M progesterone in vitro was without effect. One day after spinal transection flunitrazepam binding in endocrine controls and estradiol-treated animals was unchanged but a progesterone injection 4-5 h before being killed had no effect on binding in the substantia gelatinosa.
Retrograde tracing of the fluorescent marker, True Blue, has been used together with immunohistochemistry employing antibodies to substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and morphine-modulating peptide to study the afferent innervation of the stomach in rat, mouse and guinea-pig. Up to 85% of spinal afferents to the stomach in all three species contained immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide, and up to 50% contained substance P. In all three species less than 10% of vagal afferents to the stomach reacted with antibodies to calcitonin gene-related peptide, or substance P. Cacitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibres were found in the myenteric plexus, circular muscle and around submucosal blood vessels in the stomach. In the rat, removal of the coeliac ganglion, splanchnic nerve section, or capsaicin treatment virtually abolished calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in the stomach. Capsaicin and splanchnic section also abolished the staining of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide fibres in the coeliac ganglion. The same treatments abolished substance P staining of fibres around submucosal blood vessels, but in the myenteric plexus and circular smooth muscle there were still abundant immunoreactive fibres, presumably arising from intrinsic cell bodies. No somatostatin-containing visceral afferents could be found, although somatostatin was localized to cell bodies in rat dorsal root ganglia. Immunoreactive vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing dorsal root ganglia neurons were not found; although antibodies to morphine-modulatory peptide revealed immunoreactive nerve cell bodies, we were unable to exclude the possibility that this result is attributable to cross reactivity with calcitonin gene-related peptide. These results provide direct evidence that calcitonin gene-related peptide is a marker for a major subset of visceral primary afferent neurons and suggest that this population of spinal afferents makes a major contribution to the total gastric content of calcitonin gene-related peptide.
The effects of injections of the excitotoxin, ibotenic acid, into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) were quantitatively studied. Besides destroying NBM neurons, ibotenic acid also produced comparable cell destruction within the adjacent medial amygdaloid nucleus and globus pallidus. Since the globus pallidus is spared in victims of senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT), although the adjacent NBM and amygdala are damaged, these data are not consistent with the theory that the damage to the basal forebrain seen in SDAT victims is produced by elevated levels of endogenous excitotoxin. These data also question the validity of using ibotenic acid-induced NBM lesions as a model of the cholinergic deficit in SDAT.
A new fluorescence microphotometry system was developed for analysis of the distributions and amounts of neurotransmitter and its related chemical substances in the smaller brain regions. This system can measure fluorescence intensity of 10,000 points in animal brain slices which were immunohistochemically and histochemically stained. This system mounts a photomultiplier tube of high sensitivity and high linearity to a detector; therefore, this system surpasses in quantitative capability by two figures compared with an image analyzer which uses a high-sensitivity TV camera. The high-precision step-motor scanning stage moves under the objective lens of the fluorescence microscope and analyzes the entire surface of the slice: measuring speed, 250 points/min; maximum measuring area, 76 X 52 mm. The data of fluorescence intensity and position (X and Y value) on the slice are transmitted to a computer, calculated statistically and displayed two- and three-dimensionally. In this study, immunohistochemical distribution and intensity of acetylcholine, choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase in the rat cervical spinal cord were measured. The distributions of their chemical substances are consistent with previous observations. This system is applicable to a wide range of neuroscience studies.

Synaptosomes, purified from rat cerebral cortex, were prelabeled with [3H]inositol to study phosphatidylinositol turnover in nerve terminals. Labeled synaptosomes were either depolarized with 40 mM K+ or exposed to carbamoylcholine (carbachol). K+ depolarization increased the level of inositol phosphates in a time-dependent manner. The inositol trisphosphate concentration increased rapidly and transiently, reaching maximum (250% of control) in less than 3 sec and returning to near basal levels by 30 sec. The inositol bisphosphate level also increased rapidly, but its elevated level (220% of control) was sustained during continued depolarization. The elevated level of inositol bisphosphate was reversed upon repolarization of the synaptosomes. The level of inositol monophosphate increased slowly to 120-130% of control. These effects of K+ depolarization depended on the presence of Ca2+ in the incubation medium. Carbachol stimulated the turnover of phosphatidylinositol in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The level of inositol trisphosphate increased only slightly (120-130% of control) during carbachol stimulation. The level of inositol bisphosphate increased to 210% of control, and this maximal response was seen from 15 to 60 min. Accumulation of inositol monophosphate (250% of control) was larger than that of inositol bisphosphate, but its time course was slower. Atropine and pirenzepine inhibited the carbachol effect with high affinities of 0.8 nM and 16 nM, respectively, indicating that the effect of carbachol was mediated by activation of a M1 muscarinic receptor. Incubation of synaptosomes in Ca2+-free buffer reduced the response to carbachol by 30%, and addition of EGTA abolished it. These data show that both Ca2+ influx and M1 muscarinic receptor activation stimulate phospholipase C activity in synaptosomes, suggesting that phosphatidylinositol turnover may be involved in regulating neurotransmitter release from nerve terminals.
Postnatal rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) were identified with specific fluorescent labels and placed in culture. Under these conditions, the outgrowth of processes by RGCs was found to be promoted to a far greater degree by acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) than by basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). The effect of aFGF and bFGF on process extension by solitary RGCs was quantified after 24 hr in culture, a time when neither a FGF nor bFGF enhanced RGC survival. The action of aFGF on process outgrowth was markedly potentiated by the addition of heparin (10 micrograms/ml) to the medium, but heparin alone had no effect. In the presence of heparin, half-maximal process outgrowth occurred at an aFGF concentration of less than 20 pg/ml (1 pM). Since all of the centrally projecting processes have already been formed in the living animal prior to use (at 7-12 days of age), at least a portion of the process outgrowth in culture appears to represent a regenerative phenomenon. Statistical analysis of the increase in process growth revealed that aFGF with heparin contributed to both neurite initiation and elongation. The mean number of glial cells, identified with polyclonal antiserum against glial fibrillary acidic protein, was slightly increased in cultures receiving aFGF plus heparin, but this effect was variable, and these glial cells were not in contact with the solitary RGCs that were scored for regeneration of processes. Thus, glial cells probably did not exert a direct physical influence on the degree of process outgrowth observed in the solitary RGCs, although a humoral effect cannot be totally excluded. These results suggest that aFGF has a potent influence on the outgrowth of processes by a neuron in the mammalian central nervous system. The potentiation of this effect by heparin leads us to speculate that the interaction of aFGF with a heparin-like molecule located in the extracellular matrix (such as heparan sulfate proteoglycan) may produce physiological effects in vivo. Furthermore, the lack of a substantial effect of bFGF in this system under these conditions shows that a specific population of mammalian central neurons may be differentially influenced by these two closely related peptide growth factors.
Odorant-binding protein selectively binds various odorants and is discretely concentrated in nasal mucosa and secretions. We have localized rat odorant-binding protein mRNA to the lateral nasal gland by in situ hybridization histochemistry and have also localized the protein to this gland by immunohistochemistry and by tritiated-odorant autoradiography. The lateral nasal gland extends a long duct toward the external nares. Odorant-binding protein, released from this duct, may transport odorants to olfactory receptor neurons.
Several cytoskeletal polypeptides as well as the protein ubiquitin have been implicated as components of the neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer disease. We have examined the relationship of ubiquitin staining with immunoreactivity for some of these proteins, both in frozen sections and in cytoskeletal fractions of Alzheimer brain material. We noted (i) antibodies specific solely for neurofilament and glial filament proteins failed to stain the fibrils stainable with ubiquitin. Tau-1 antibody stained some but not all of the ubiquitin-stained profiles; fibers staining only for tau or only for ubiquitin were also seen. (ii) The Tau-1-stained material was rather diffuse and granular, in contrast to the very sharply defined ubiquitin-positive profiles. (iii) When Tau-1 and ubiquitin stain the same fiber, Tau-1 immunoreactivity is often visualized as a diffuse cortical layer of material surrounding a core of ubiquitin immunoreactivity. (iv) The tau immunoreactivity can be almost totally removed by boiling Alzheimer brain cytoskeletal material in 2% NaDodSO4 containing a sulfhydryl reducing agent, this procedure apparently having no effect on the ubiquitin immunoreactivity. If similar material is boiled in 2% NaDodSO4 in the absence of a sulfhydryl reducing agent, the tau immunoreactivity is removed less efficiently, suggesting that tau epitopes are bound to the ubiquitin reactive material in a manner partially dependent on covalent disulfide bridges. These results show that the tau and ubiquitin distributions, both characteristic of Alzheimer disease, are qualitatively different, and that the two markers define immunologically and biochemically distinct structures.
A synthetic 22-mer peptide that mimics the sequence of a putative pore segment of the voltage-dependent sodium channel forms transmembrane ionic channels in lipid bilayers. Several features of the authentic sodium channel are exhibited by the synthetic peptide: (i) The single channel conductance of the most frequent event is 20 pS in 0.5 M NaCl. (ii) The single channel open and closed lifetimes are in the ms time range. (iii) The synthetic channel discriminates cations over anions but is nonselective between Na+ and K+. However, the synthetic channel displays no significant voltage dependence. Energetic considerations suggest a bundle of four parallel amphipathic alpha-helices as the most plausible channel structure. The synthetic 22-mer channel-forming peptide allows study of the mechanisms of ion permeation through sodium channels by protein engineering techniques.



The membrane-bound acid alpha-glucosidase was purified partially (400-fold) from human placenta by solubilization with trypsin, concanavalin A-Sepharose chromatography, Ultrogel AcA-34 gel filtration, and Sephadex G-100 affinity chromatography. Two molecular forms of the enzyme were found in the final preparation of the purified enzyme. They were identical in molecular weight with a precursor (110 kDa) and an early intermediate form (105 kDa) of this enzyme. Also direct incubation of the membrane fraction without trypsin resulted in a release mainly of the 105 kDa form, which was inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide, but not by leupeptin, pepstatin or phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride. It was concluded that the precursor of acid alpha-glucosidase is an intrinsic membrane protein, which is transported into lysosomes after solubilization by proteolysis.
The effect of low dose (20 mM) ethanol superfusion on the membrane and synaptic properties of dentate granule neurons was studied in hippocampal slices from young-mature (6-8 months) and old (25-29 months) Fischer-344 rats. In young neurons, ethanol hyperpolarized the resting membrane potential (RMP) and prolonged the post-spike train afterhyperpolarization (AHP). By contrast, ethanol depolarized old neurons and decreased their AHPs, in addition to reducing IPSP amplitudes and spike frequency adaptation. These effects can be explained by ethanol-enhancing potassium conductance (gK) in young neurons and diminishing gK in old neurons.
Selective photothermolysis (SP) is a novel technique by which brief, unfocused laser pulses are selectively absorbed by, and cause selective thermal damage to, endogenously pigmented structures. This report describes the use of an exogenous non-fluorescent chromophore (Procion blue) to effect cellular damage by SP. Cultured dorsal root ganglia neurons were selectively labeled with Procion blue and subjected to varying doses of laser illumination. Progressive cellular damage was assessed by leakage of propidium iodide through damaged membranes. The neurons targeted via an exogenous chromophore sustained damage which was proportionate to laser dose and chromophore concentration. The results of these experiments demonstrated that the rate and extent of neuronal damage can be controlled by adjusting either the incident dose of laser energy or the amount of target chromophore within cells. Selective photothermolysis will provide an experimental tool for neurobiologists in particular and will find general use within the biomedical field.
In degenerating frog sciatic nerves an in situ perfusion technique was used to measure the permeability coefficient-surface area product (PA) of endoneurial capillaries to [14C]sucrose, and the endoneurial vascular space (V). Both PA and V started to increase after the 3rd day of degeneration. The increase in PA peaked around the 14th day of degeneration and then declined to reach near normal levels at 6 weeks post-transection. V increased until about the end of the 3rd week of degeneration and then declined to near normal levels at 6 weeks after transection. The delayed increase in capillary permeability may reflect an adaptive reorganization of endoneurial capillary structure and function in response to altered conditions of the endoneurial microenvironment, and it is suggested that this permeability increase is induced by breakdown products of axons or chemical signals from Schwann cells enveloping transected axons. Fluid extravasation from these leaking capillaries is probably responsible for the endoneurial oedema observed in Wallerian degeneration. The recovery of endoneurial capillary tone to near-normal levels at 6 weeks after transection leads to the intriguing conclusion that healthy nerve fibers are not essential for the maintenance of normal endoneurial capillary permeability.
Retrogradely labeled cells were found in field CA1 of the hippocampal formation in monkeys following injections of horseradish peroxidase in ventral area TE of inferotemporal cortex. No hippocampal label was found following injections in dorsal area TE and area TEO. The findings provide the first demonstration of a direct projection from hippocampal field CA1 to area TE.
Fine visual sampling in the macaque depends on the high density of cone outer and inner segments in the fovea. Cone pedicles, at the opposite, presynaptic end of the cone, are absent from the center of the fovea. Both ends of the cones, inner segments and pedicles, are closely packed within their respective monolayers, but the spatial density of foveal pedicles is lower because foveal pedicles are wider than inner segments. Because there is one pedicle for every inner segment, and because pedicles are wider than inner segments, increase in eccentricity finds increasing lateral displacement of the cone's pedicle from its inner segment. Further increase of eccentricity finds inner segment density falling below pedicle density, and so this lateral displacement declines. By 2-3 mm from the center, inner segments catch up with pedicles. Additional lateral displacements, of bipolar cells from pedicles and ganglion from bipolar cells, are largest for central-most elements and fall steeply with eccentricity. By taking into account all of these lateral displacements, the eccentricity of the cone inner segment(s) associated with a ganglion cell was determined, as was the area of inner segments represented by a unit area in the ganglion cell layer. Then raw ganglion cell densities were transformed to densities comparable to densities of inner segments and of cells in dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. On average there appears to be close to 2 ganglion cells for each cone in the central fovea out to about 2.5 degrees. Thus, the density of foveal ganglion cells is sufficient to allow each red and each green cone to connect to 2 midget ganglion cells, and each blue cone to connect to 1 ganglion cell. Furthermore, there appears to be a single dorsal lateral geniculate cell for each ganglion cell.
The effects of lithium on inositol phosphate metabolism may account for the therapeutic actions of lithium in affective disorder. Muscarinic stimulation of the phosphoinositide system blocks synaptic inhibitory actions of adenosine in the hippocampal slice. At therapeutic concentrations, lithium diminished this muscarinic response, whereas rubidium, which does not affect phosphoinositide metabolism, had no effect. A dampening of phosphoinositide-mediated neurotransmission may explain the normalizing effects of lithium in treating both mania and depression.

A radioreceptor binding assay was developed to determine the selectivity of beta-adrenoceptor agents in rat brain. This was achieved by using the highly selective unlabelled antagonists CGP 20712A and ICI 118-551 to block beta 1- or beta 2-sub-populations respectively in rat cerebral cortex membranes. This permitted the selective labelling of beta-adrenoceptors with the antagonist (-)-[125I]pindolol. Using this method, compounds could be routinely screened and selectivity profiles for binding in the CNS determined with a high degree of sensitivity and resolution.
The potent and selective non-peptide cholecystokinin (CCK) antagonist L-364,718 (0.5-2.0 mg/kg s.c.) enhanced the analgesia induced by acute morphine treatment in the rat tail flick test. Chronic treatment with L-364,718 (1.0 mg/kg) prevented the development of tolerance to morphine analgesia (after a 6 day period of morphine treatment) but did not influence the onset of opioid dependence. Since L-364,718 is considerably more potent in inhibiting CCK binding to peripheral tissues than to brain membranes its interaction with morphine is surprising. The exact locus of this interaction, or whether it involves 'peripheral-type' (CCK-A) or 'central-type' (CCK-B) receptors is not known.
Serotonergic (5-HT) neuronal pathways regulate the release of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) from the pituitary gland probably through the action of hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). 8-Hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist, dose dependently (0.016-3 mg/kg s.c.) increased rat plasma ACTH concentration. This response was blocked stereoselectively by (-)-pindolol, known to have 5-HT1 antagonist properties, but not by (+)-pindolol, beta 1-, beta 2- or alpha 1-adrenoceptor, dopamine, muscarinic, 5-HT2 or 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. Similar increases of plasma ACTH were induced by other 5-HT1A receptor ligands (buspirone, ipsapirone and gepirone). These results suggest that activation of the 5-HT1A receptor induces the secretion of ACTH from the rat pituitary gland.
The distribution of CGRP immunoreactivity in the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral levels of the human spinal cord was mapped at the light microscopic level with the aid of a rabbit-generated antiserum against human calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). CGRP-positive fibers formed a dense plexus in lamina I, II, the reticulated region of lamina V, and the tract of Lissauer at all spinal cord levels. The distribution of fibers showed some variations dependent on the cord level analyzed. At the light microscopic level, intervaricose fiber diameters consistently measured 1.0 micron or less, and two types of CGRP varicosities were observed: a small (1 to 2 microns in diameter), relatively round profile and a larger, (3 to 4 microns in diameter) oval or oblong profile. At the electron microscopic level, immunostained varicosities contained a mixture of round clear vesicles and vesicles that contained dense cores. The CGRP immunoreaction product was often associated with vesicles containing dense cores. The reaction product was also seen associated with clear round vesicles or in the cytoplasmic matrix. Postsynaptic elements included dendritic spines, small and large diameter dendritic shafts and vesicle containing profiles. The presence of CGRP in the superficial dorsal horn of human spinal cord is highly suggestive of a role in primary afferent transmission as postulated in lower vertebrates. This study establishes the distribution of CGRP at four different spinal levels in human cord and will serve as a basis for future studies related to the pathologic conditions affecting sensory systems.
The chemical differentiation of somatostatin (SS) neurons in rat neocortex was characterized by molecular biochemical and morphological methods. Northern (RNA) blotting indicates that regional distribution of SS mRNA correlates with the known distribution patterns of SS-containing neurons in the adult, while similar analysis of poly (A)+ RNA isolated from telencephalon at various times postnatally shows an increase between P9 and P15, with a slight decrease in the adult. In situ hybridization with a probe specific to SS mRNA, and immunohistochemistry using antisera specific for the N-terminally extended form of SS, SS28, and SS28(1-12), were used to detect neocortical neurons containing this mRNA or its translation product. The appearance of SS mRNA is coincident with detectable immunoreactivity for SS peptides. The expression of the SS gene by cortical neurons occurs in two waves. From P1 to P11, hybridizing neurons are predominant below the cortical plate in the developing infragranular layers. Immunohistochemical analysis of immunoreactivity to SS28 reveals a significant development of this neocortical system by late gestation (E20). At this point SS28(1-12), the predominant SS form detected, is mainly in neurons of the subplate, with less detectable immunoreactivity in the intermediate zone and cortical plate. By P2, neurons in the subplate exhibit detectable SS28 and SS28(1-12). Although immunoreactive perikarya are no longer detectable at P2 in the cortical plate or marginal zone, a very dense plexus of SS28(1-12) fibers is seen in the subplate, marginal zone, and intermediate zone; relatively few immunoreactive fibers are found in the cortical plate. By P12, a dramatic shift occurs; a large supragranular population of these SS neurons is observed by both mRNA and antibody methods, as is a subsequent decrease in number in the adult. The shift in immunoreactivity occurs with supragranular SS28-containing neurons now prominent, and SS28(1-12)-containing neurons and fibers greatly diminished. The number of neurons containing SS mRNA or SS28 immunoreactivity decreases from P12 to adult, when these neurons exhibit a bilaminar distribution. Neurons immunoreactive for SS28(1-12) are now sparsely distributed throughout the cortex, while SS28(1-12) fibers densely innervate layers I and V/VI.
Functional nicotinic cholinergic receptors are found on mammalian retinal ganglion cell neurons in culture. The neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) can be detected in the medium of many of these retinal cultures, after release presumably from the choline acetyltransferase-positive amacrine cells. The postsynaptic effect of endogenous or applied ACh on the ganglion cells can be blocked with specific nicotinic antagonists. Here it is shown that within 24 hours of producing such a pharmacologic blockade, the retinal ganglion cells begin to sprout or regenerate neuronal processes. Thus, the growth-enhancing effect of nicotinic antagonists may be due to the removal of inhibition to growth by tonic levels of ACh present in the culture medium. Since there is a spontaneous leak of ACh in the intact retina, the effects of nicotinic cholinergic drugs on process outgrowth in culture may reflect a normal control mechanism for growth or regeneration of retinal ganglion cell processes that is exerted by ACh in vivo.
Changes in cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in response to acetylcholine (ACh) were examined by fura-2 fluorometry in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. ACh (greater than or equal to 10(-5) M) induced an increase in [Ca2+]i composed of fast transient and slow long-lasting phases. Atropine (10(-8) M) abolished the fast component and greatly reduced the slow component. The slow component was selectively blocked by pirenzepine (10(-6) M). The effect of ACh remained partially in a Ca2+-deficient medium where effects of L-glutamate and KCl (50 mM) were abolished. Present results suggest that ACh elevates [Ca2+]i by activation of muscarinic receptor subtypes, one of which is coupled with ion channels and the other of which transduces the ACh binding to mobilization of intracellularly stored Ca2+.
We describe a high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method for analysis of the intermediates of the citric acid cycle. Using two Aminex HPX-87H columns in series at 36 degrees C, the early eluting compounds cis-aconitate, oxaloacetate, alpha-ketoglutarate and citrate-isocitrate can be resolved. Acetonitrile is used for extraction of citric acid cycle intermediates from blood as interfering ultraviolet absorbing peaks are present with perchloric acid or trichloroacetic acid extraction. Acetonitrile extraction is compared with perchloric acid extraction of citric acid cycle intermediates from plasma. Low recovery of some organic acids from blood seems not to be due to enzymatic degradation. Storage of acetonitrile extracts in liquid nitrogen led to a small but significant decrease in pyruvate levels in human blood. However, significant changes in other organic acids were not seen. HPLC methodology allows study of the citric acid cycle in tissue samples as well as blood and promises to facilitate the investigation of human disorders of energy metabolism.
Duplex scanning has been advocated as an acceptable alternative to angiography in the preoperative evaluation of carotid artery stenosis. To evaluate the accuracy of carotid Doppler in differentiating severe carotid stenosis from occlusion, we compared the results of angiography with duplex scanning in 124 carotid arteries (62 patients) and with continuous-wave Doppler in 662 carotid arteries (331 patients). The specificity was 95-99%, sensitivity was 86-96%, and accuracy was 95-98%. Duplex scanning wrongly identified occlusion in four arteries and failed to detect occlusion in one artery. In making decisions prior to carotid endarterectomy, even infrequent errors are unacceptable. We recommend angiography of all surgical candidates with apparent severe stenosis when the internal carotid artery cannot be clearly identified on duplex, or to distinguish apparent occlusion from undetectably low blood flow.
Cerebrospinal fluid somatostatin and neuropeptide Y concentrations were measured in 26 healthy normal subjects, 27 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), and seven patients with DAT with extrapyramidal signs (EDAT). In healthy normal subjects, there was no significant correlation between age and either somatostatin or neuropeptide Y concentration. However, the concentrations of both peptides correlated significantly with each other. In patients with DAT and EDAT, the concentrations of somatostatin (17.5 +/- 5.0 and 16.4 +/- 5.0 pg/mL, respectively) were significantly reduced relative to age-matched control subjects (23.1 +/- 8.2 pg/mL) but were unrelated to dementia severity and did not change significantly during the progression of the disease. Neuropeptide Y concentrations did not differ significantly between the age-matched control, DAT, and EDAT groups (38.2 +/- 12.8, 37.0 +/- 12.3, and 30.3 +/- 7.8 pg/mL, respectively). These results suggest that in DAT, dysfunction of cortical somatostatin but not neuropeptide Y transmitter systems is reflected by reduced cerebrospinal fluid concentrations.
Nerve growth factor (NGF), a well-characterized target-derived growth factor, has been postulated to promote neuronal differentiation and survival of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. In the present paper, we demonstrate that a developmental change in NGF action occurs in postnatal rat basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in culture. Firstly, NGF acts as maturation factor by increasing choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and acts later as a survival factor. In dissociated cell cultures of septal neurons from early postnatal (P1-4) rats, ChAT activities were increased by the addition of NGF. That is, ChAT activities in P1 septal cells cultured for 7 days was increased 4-fold in the presence of NGF at a concentration of 100 ng/ml. However, the number of the acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-positive neurons was not significantly different between these groups. In contrast, septal neurons from P8 to P14 rats showed different responses to NGF. Although the P14 septal neurons in culture for 7 days without NGF lost about half of the ChAT activity during a 7-day cultivation, cells cultured with NGF retained the activity at the initial level. The number of AChE-positive neurons counted in cultures with NGF was much greater than the number without NGF. These results suggest that, during the early postnatal days, the action of NGF on the septal cholinergic neurons in culture changes from induction of ChAT activity to the promotion of cholinergic neuronal cell survival. During this developmental period in vivo, septal neurons are terminating their projections to the hippocampal formation. Similar NGF-regulated changes in cholinergic neurons were observed in cultured postnatal neurons from vertical limb of diagonal band. An analogy has been pointed out between the neuronal death of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and a similar neuronal death in senile dementia, especially Alzheimer's type. The work reported here might present a possibility that NGF could play a role in preventing the loss of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in this disease.
Rats sacrificed after 4 days in the activity-stress paradigm or after 4 days of food restriction had significantly elevated levels of plasma corticosterone as compared to control rats. The approximately 5 fold increase in corticosterone in the stressed treatment groups was consistently found in all experiments. ACTH levels were elevated in activity-stress and food-restricted groups in some experiments but these increases were not statistically significant. Prolactin levels were significantly elevated in food-restricted group rats as compared to controls or activity-stress group animals in one experiment but this finding was not repeated in further experiments. In a second series of experiments, rats from activity-stressed and food-restricted treatment groups and controls were exposed to an acute stressor for 15 min prior to sacrifice to assess the effects of prior sustained stress on hormonal responses to an acute stressor. Exposure to 15 min of immobilization or intermittent footshock immediately prior to sacrifice increased plasma levels of corticosterone, ACTH and prolactin in control, food-restricted and activity-stressed rats. Generally, hormonal responses to the acute stress were similar in all treatment groups. However, in two experiments where the resting levels of corticosterone were especially elevated in the activity-stress group, the acute stress-induced rise in corticosterone was less than that seen for the other two treatment groups. In another experiment, administration of dexamethasone suppressed acute stress-evoked levels of ACTH and corticosterone in control, activity-stressed and food-restricted rats. Thus, rats exposed to 4 days of sustained stress were found to have consistently elevated resting levels of corticosterone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


Neuropathological findings responsible for abnormal eye movements in olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA) are reported. The material consists of eight sporadic cases and two hereditary cases. The sporadic cases showed impaired smooth pursuit without exception. The hereditary cases showed slow saccade (slow eye movement). Two important neuropathological findings are noted: The first is a systemic degeneration of cerebellifugal oculomotor control (cerebello-fastigio-vestibulo-MLF (medial longitudinal fasiculus) and perihypoglossal nuclei) in both types. Furthermore, neuronal loss of the oculomotor nuclei (oculomotor, trochlear and abducens nuclei) was found only in the hereditary cases. The second is that the hereditary type had a combined degeneration of the zona reticulata of the substantia nigra, the superior colliculus and the pontomedullary reticular formation. A review of the literature showed that all the cases of spino-cerebellar degeneration with slow saccade were hereditary OPCA, and that almost all cases had primary nigral degeneration. The neuropathological background of the oculomotor disturbances in OPCA is discussed.
Event-related potentials were recorded during simple reaction time and 3 discrimination conditions which varied in the amount of stimulus information that needed to be processed. It was found that NA became longer in duration as the amount of stimulus information that required processing was increased. Using sequential topographic mapping, it was concluded that there are at least 3 overlapping deflections that comprise NA. The experimental effect appeared to be mainly on the third deflection of NA. The problem of overlap between NA and later positive-going components, P380 and P3b, is discussed in terms of their relative latencies and scalp distributions.
This report is an overview of the lateral distribution of event-related brain potentials (ERPs) recorded during silent reading in 7 different experiments. Both single word and cross-sentence averages revealed the presence of several ERP asymmetries. The P1, P2 and a negativity between 300 and 500 msec were found to be larger over the right than the left hemisphere. It was argued that this asymmetric negativity was due primarily to the contribution of the N400 elicited by all content words. The degree of N400 asymmetry was unaffected either by the rate of sentence presentation or the ratio of congruent to incongruent sentences but was quite sensitive to family history of left-handedness. In contrast, the P1 and P2 asymmetries were uninfluenced by lexical class or familial sinistrality.
All children 3 years of age on January 1, 1975 in the Fuchu area of Tokyo were neurologically examined for 6 years (number examined: 17,044). The cumulative incidence of epilepsy (i.e., recurrent nonfebrile seizures) was 4.3/1,000 and that of occurrence of a single nonfebrile seizure (NS) was 4.7/1,000. Febrile convulsions (FCs) were observed in 82/1,000 in this population. The population was followed for 6-11 years after the first examination. During the follow-up (a) 4 of 80 children who had a single NS before age 3 years developed recurrence after age 3 years; (b) development of epilepsy was found in three of 1,323 randomly (10%) selected healthy children for comparison (2.3/1,000); (c) among 1,406 children with FCs, epilepsy developed in 24 (17/1,000) and a single NS occurred in 28 (20/1,000); and (d) the total cumulative incidence of epilepsy was 8.2/1,000 in the population aged 9-14 years. Age-specific annual incidence of epilepsy was highest in the age range 0-1 year (1.9/1,000), gradually falling with advancing age. The point prevalence for active epilepsy (having had a seizure within the past 5 years) was 2.8/1,000; that for inactive epilepsy was 5.4/1,000 (total 8.2/1,000). Epilepsy developed by age 14 years in (a) one-half of children with NS, (b) approximately 2% children with FCs, (c) 0.2% of healthy children with no seizure before age 3 years, and (d) an estimated 2% of potential epileptic carriers (having spike EEG abnormality by age 3; 15% of the population) who had not had a seizure by age 3 years.



A qualitative and quantitative analysis was performed on the EEG background activity in 62 Danish girls and women with Turner's syndrome (30 with karyotype 45,X and 32 with other karyotypes) whose ages ranged from 6 to 47 years (87% were aged 15 years or more) and age-matched controls. The pooled data and a case-control study showed characteristic features in Turner subjects, including: (1) more rapid frequency, larger amplitude and lower amount of alpha waves, (2) higher amount of theta waves, (3) larger amplitude and higher amount of delta waves and (4) larger amplitude and higher amount of beta waves than in controls. These findings in Turner subjects were more pronounced in the left hemisphere, and more typical, except for the amplitude in alpha waves, in Turner subjects with 45,X than in those with other karyotypes. The effects of advancing age on the EEG background activity observed in controls--including more rapid frequency, decreased amplitude and amount of alpha waves, increased amount of theta and delta waves, and increased amount of beta waves, particularly after 35 years of age--were found in some Turner subjects. Hemispheric differences with higher activity (i.e. more rapid frequency, larger amplitude and higher amount of alpha waves, particularly at Fp1 and F3, and, inversely, lower amount of theta or delta waves) at P3, T3, T5 and O2 than at the opposite side were found in many Turner subjects. However, these findings were not specific for Turner subjects, since the same hemispheric differences were also observed much more markedly in controls. These topographic distributions with hemispheric differences did not provide evidence for hypofunction in the temporo-parieto-occipital tertiary area of the right hemisphere in Turner subjects, though this had been expected on the basis of neuropsychological examinations. Our findings, including transiently appearing brain hypofunction at the parietal, temporal and occipital areas, most often in the right hemisphere, indicate a relationship between the chromosomal constitution 45,X and EEG background activity. They suggest the presence of functional brain disturbance in the thalamus and in the ascending reticular activating system, which tends to disturb the thalamo-cortical circuit. Further studies, including topographic and sequential power spectrum analysis of EEG background activity, 24-h continuous EEG recording, blood flow studies (positron computerized tomography) and neuropathological examination, may be needed.
The utility of event-related brain potentials (ERPs) in the study of hemispheric specialization is discussed in the context of three experimental cases: the application of motor potentials to the &quot;continuous flow&quot; model of human information processing, investigations of the role of early experience in cerebral organization, and hemispheric asymmetries in phonemic recoding during reading. The importance of the electrical reference in ERP records is stressed.
Experiments were undertaken to define the electrophysiological characteristics and shapes of neurons in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum that are immunoreactive for calcium binding proteins. Recordings were made from the neurons with intracellular microelectrodes containing a mixture of the fluorescent dye Lucifer yellow and KCl solution. The neurons studied were filled with Lucifer yellow so that they could be re-identified after processing the tissue to reveal immunoreactivity for either the calcium binding protein (CaBP), spot 35 protein, or vitamin D-dependent CaBP. Neurons were characterized as being AH-neurons, in which each action potential is followed by a prolonged after-hyperpolarization (greater than 4 s), or S-neurons, in which the prolonged after-hyperpolarizations were not observed and focal stimulation of internodal strands evoked fast excitatory synaptic potentials. S-neurons were never immunoreactive for the CaBPs (108 cells), but most AH-neurons (62 of 74) were immunoreactive. Immunoreactive and non-immunoreactive AH-neurons were indistinguishable on the basis of their electrophysiological properties or their shapes (all the AH-neurons were Dogiel type II in shape, i.e. smooth soma and many long processes). The S-neurons had a variety of shapes, but none could be classified as Dogiel type II. It is concluded that most AH-neurons are immunoreactive for calcium binding proteins, and that these proteins are restricted to AH-neurons.
Immunohistochemical techniques were used to detect the presence of a GABA-like material in prevertebral sympathetic ganglia in guinea-pigs. Varicose, immunolabelled nerve fibres were observed in close proximity to sympathetic neurones in inferior mesenteric ganglia and coeliac ganglia. Non-varicose, immunolabelled nerve fibres were observed in lumbar colonic nerves and superior coeliac nerves, i.e. in nerve bundles peripheral to prevertebral ganglia. Immunolabelling was also present in neurones in the myenteric plexus and in nerve fibres in the circular muscle of the colon, as shown previously (Hills et al., Neuroscience, 22 (1987) 301-312). However, GABA-like immunoreactivity was not observed in the cell bodies of prevertebral ganglia nor in splanchnic nerves central to prevertebral ganglia. It was concluded from these results that prevertebral ganglia in guinea-pig receive a GABAergic innervation from neurones peripheral to the ganglia, possibly from GABA-containing neurones in the myenteric plexus of the gastrointestinal tract. Intracellular recordings were made from sympathetic neurones in the inferior mesenteric ganglion (IMG). Application of GABA onto the IMG caused a slow depolarisation of sympathetic neurones, during which there was a marked decrease in the input resistance of IMG cells. Application of GABA also depressed excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and action potentials in sympathetic neurones excited by cholinergic nerve fibres in the lumbar colonic nerves. The reversal potential of the GABA-induced slow depolarisation was -37 mV, a value close to the chloride equilibrium potential for sympathetic neurones. The actions of GABA were reversibly reduced by the GABAA antagonist, bicuculline, and were modulated in a predictable manner by substituting chloride ions with methane-sulphonate ions. These results indicated that GABA, and presumably GABAergic nerves in prevertebral ganglia, modulate the excitability of sympathetic neurones by acting on GABAA receptors linked to a chloride ionophore.
The projections of neurones that produce the fast non-cholinergic excitatory junction potentials (e.j.p.s) in the circular muscle were analysed in the isolated ileum of the guinea-pig. Standard intracellular microelectrode techniques were used to record the amplitudes of such e.j.p.s in response to short trains of stimuli from transmural electrodes. Projections of the neurones around the circumference of the intestine were determined by plotting the change in e.j.p. amplitude with distance from longitudinally placed electrodes. Projections in the oral and anal directions were examined by recording at varying distances from transversely placed electrodes, and also by recording responses elicited close to longitudinal electrodes at various distances from lesions made 3-5 days earlier to interrupt orally and anally directed pathways. Experiments were performed in the presence of hexamethonium to determine the projections of the final motor neurones and in the absence of the drug to examine the projections of excitatory inputs to these neurones. With hexamethonium present, there was a decline in e.j.p. amplitude to 7.5% of maximum at 12 mm (a half circumference) from longitudinal stimulating electrodes. The decline was much less if hexamethonium was not present, and slightly greater if the myenteric plexus was removed. Thus, excitatory motor neurones and cholinergic neurones that impinge upon them both project circumferentially. When the longitudinal muscle and myenteric plexus were removed, and 3-5 days allowed for terminals to degenerate, no e.j.p.s could be recorded in the circular muscle, indicating that the fibres reach the circular muscle from the myenteric plexus. Following transverse lesions, substantial deficits in excitatory transmission only occurred within 1 mm oral or anal to the lesions indicating that the majority of neurones have only short projections along the intestine. A slight deficit in e.j.p. amplitude, up to 20%, was observed extending to about 5 mm oral; but normal transmission was restored by about 10 mm for the lesions. Thus there is a minority of excitatory motor neurones with oral projections up to about 10 mm in length. Results with transmural stimulation showed that these nerve fibres can cause excitation both when orthodromically and when antidromically stimulated, indicating that they provide collaterals along their lengths. With no hexamethonium present, e.j.p.s exhibited little decrement in amplitude over distances of over 30 mm oral or anal indicating that there are both ascending and descending cholinergic pathways that impinge on the final motor neurones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Septal efferent fibers from the neurons in the medial septal nucleus are destroyed by fimbria-fornix aspirative lesion. In the present study we used quantitative morphometric techniques to evaluate the response of these axotomized septal neurons to a constant infusion of nerve growth factor (NGF). By 2 weeks following the lesion, approximately 75% of the cholinergic neurons had degenerated in the untreated rats. The remaining cholinergic neurons showed few signs of the effect of the lesion when stained for a polyclonal antibody to ChAT and examined in 40-micron-thick sections. In 1-micron-thick sections the remaining ChAT-immunoreactive (IR) neurons also appeared no different from the intact ChAT neurons. However, non-ChAT-IR neurons had a shrunken nucleus, while all other morphometric parameters appeared normal. NGF infusion protected most of the ChAT-IR neurons from degenerating. The saved neurons had the same parameters as the undamaged ChAT-IR neurons when examined in either 40-micron- or 1-micron-thick sections. In addition, the shrunken appearance of the non-ChAT-IR neurons' nuclei was avoided by the NGF infusions. Enlarged ChAT-IR processes were evident in the dorsolateral quadrant of the septum following damage to the fimbria-fornix. NGF-infusions prevented the formation of these processes. Instead, in the treated animals the dorsal lateral quadrant contained a dense plexus of fine ChAT-IR varicosities. Taken together these results demonstrate that NGF not only can protect the cholinergic neurons from axotomy-induced degeneration but can also cause the saved neurons to maintain the same morphometric appearance as intact ChAT-IR neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In birds, displaced ganglion cells (DGCs) constitute the exclusive source of retinal input to the nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) of the accessory optic system. Tyrosine-hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity was examined in the pigeon retina after injections of rhodamine-labeled microspheres into the nBOR. A population of about 400 DGCs was observed in each case to exhibit both TH immunoreactivity and rhodamine bead fluorescence. This corresponded to about 10-15% of the total number of identified DGCs in each retina. Double-labeled cells were medium- to large-size (12 to 20 microns in the largest axis) and were always located at the border between the inner nuclear and the inner plexiform layers. Their dendrites could be followed horizontally in lamina 1 of the inner plexiform layer for up to 300 microns from the cell body. The distribution of double-labeled DGCs appeared to be mostly peripheral, matching the overall distribution of identified DGCs. Larger DGCs (21-28 microns) were never seen to contain TH immunoreactivity. Examination of brain sections revealed plexuses of thin varicose TH-positive axons in all subdivisions of the nBOR. Unilateral enucleation produced an almost complete elimination of TH immunoreactivity in the contralateral nucleus. Such results suggest the existence of a population of catecholaminergic DGCs projecting into the accessory optic system of the pigeon. They also support the emerging hypothesis concerning the neurotransmitter heterogeneity of ganglion cells in the vertebrate retina.
A homolog of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus of other vertebrates is described in two species of serranid basses of the genus Paralabrax, a group possessing a wide range of ocular accommodation but lacking a pupillary reflex to light. The nucleus was found by retrograde labeling from the ciliary ganglion and lies dorsolateral to the ipsilateral oculomotor nucleus. The nucleus consists of 60 to 100 neurons with an average soma diameter of about 20 microns in animals weighing 70 to 150 g. Electrophysiological experiments support the identification. Microstimulation of the nucleus evokes contraction of the ipsilateral lens retractor muscle and slight constriction of the caudal ipsilateral iris. Multi- and single-unit recordings in the nucleus reveal spontaneous firing (about 30 spikes/s in single units), the rate of which decreases during visually-evoked lens retractor relaxations (accommodation to near stimuli). Recordings of muscle fiber activity in the lens retractor show essentially the same behavior, which suggests that the ciliary ganglion and neuromuscular junctions simply relay impulses with little if any synaptic integration. The existence of a discrete Edinger-Westphal nucleus devoted largely to accommodation makes Paralabrax a good model system for the further tracing of central accommodation control pathways.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex activity (PDHC) measured by CO2 release isotopic assay has generally been much lower than activity measured by the spectrophotometric arylamine acetyltransferase assay (ArAT). Decarboxylation of [1-14C]pyruvate was measured in osmotically shocked rat brain cortical mitochondria. Activity is dependent on the concentration of the substrate pyruvate. Activity of 74.6 units +/- 12.3 SD (n = 22) was observed at 4 mM pyruvate (1 unit = 1 nmol pyruvate decarboxylated/min/mg protein). Activity was dependent on added NAD, CoA, and thiamine pyrophosphate, implying increased mitochondrial permeability after osmotic shock. Freeze/thaw with sonication of the mitochondrial preparation reduced PDHC activity to 11.5 units +/- 3.0 SD (n = 4). Oxaloacetate produced a marked stimulation of activity. The optimal assay contained 3 mM oxaloacetate, and without oxaloacetate activity fell to 15.4 units +/- 9.9 SD (n = 8). These studies highlight the importance of optimal substrate concentrations in the CO2 release isotopic PDHC method. Higher PDHC activity is found with intact mitochondria and thus activity values should be interpreted in the light of the presence or absence of intact mitochondria in individual preparations.

The M1-selective (high affinity for pirenzepine) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonist pirenzepine displaced both N-[3H]methylscopolamine [( 3H]NMS) and [3H]quinuclidinylbenzilate from intact human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells with a low affinity (Ki = 869-1,066 nM), a result indicating the predominance of the M2 or M3 (low affinity for pirenzepine) receptor subtype in these cells. Whereas a selective M2 agent, AF-DX 116 [11-2[[2-[(diethylamino)methyl]-1-piperidinyl]- acetyl]-5,11-dihydro-6H-pyrido[2,3-b][1,4]benzodiazepin-6-one) bound to the mAChRs with a very low affinity (Ki = 6.0 microM), 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (4-DAMP), an agent that binds with high affinity to the M3 subtype, potently inhibited [3H]NMS binding (Ki = 7.2 nM). 4-DAMP was also 1,000-fold more effective than AF-DX 116 at blocking stimulated phosphoinositide (PPI) hydrolysis in these cells. Covalent labeling studies (with [3H]propylbenzilycholine mustard) suggest that the size of the SK-N-SH mAChR (Mr = 81,000-98,000) distinguishes it from the predominant mAChR species in rat cerebral cortex (Mr = 66,000), an M1-enriched tissue. These results provide the first demonstration of a neural M3 mAChR subtype that couples to PPI turnover.
Soluble calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II has been purified from adult and 10-day-old rat forebrain. By autoradiography, the alpha/beta subunit ratios of the 10-day and adult enzymes were 0.67 +/- 0.03 and 2.20 +/- 0.15, respectively. By silver staining, the alpha/beta subunit ratios were 1.02 +/- 0.06 and 2.36 +/- 0.10, respectively. The apparent holoenzyme molecular masses of the purified 10-day and adult enzymes were 500,000 daltons and 700,000 daltons. However, varying the purification conditions revealed higher and lower molecular mass forms at both ages and suggested that the form of the kinase that is usually purified is merely that which has the highest affinity for calmodulin-Sepharose and may not be the form of the kinase that exists in vivo. The subunits of the adult and 10-day enzymes were indistinguishable by one- and two-dimensional electrophoresis and one-dimensional proteolytic peptide maps. These results are consistent with the suggestion that at least two developmentally regulated isoenzymes of this kinase exist in rat forebrain.
1. Recordings were made from 67 neurons in the nucleus gracilis (NG) of anesthetized macaque monkeys. All of the cells were activated antidromically from the ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nucleus of the contralateral thalamus. Stimuli used to activate the cells orthodromically were graded innocuous and noxious mechanical stimuli, including sinusoidal vibration and thermal pulses. 2. The latencies of antidromic action potentials following stimulation in the VPL nucleus were significantly shorter for cells in the caudal compared with the rostral NG. The mean minimum afferent conduction velocity of the afferent conduction velocity of the afferent fibers exciting the NG cells was 52 m/s, as judged from the latencies of the cells to orthodromic volleys evoked by electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves. The overall conduction velocity of the pathway from peripheral nerve to thalamus was approximately 40 m/s. 3. Cutaneous receptive fields on the distal hindlimb usually occupied an area equivalent to much less than a single digit. However, a few cells had receptive fields up to or exceeding the area of the foot. 4. NG cells were classified by their responses to graded mechanical stimulation of the skin as low threshold (LT) or wide dynamic range (WDR). No high-threshold NG cells were found. A special subcategory of pressure-sensitive LT (SA) neurons was recognized. Many of these cells were maximally responsive to maintained indentation of the skin. The sample of NG cells differed from the population of primate spinothalamic and spinocervicothalamic pathways so far examined, in having a larger proportion of LT neurons and a smaller proportion of WDR cells. A few NG cells responded best to manipulation of subcutaneous tissue. 5. Discriminant analysis permitted the NG cells to be assigned to classes determined by a k-means cluster analysis of the responses of a reference set of 318 primate spinothalamic tract (STT) cells. There were four classes of cells based on normalized responses of individual neurons and another four classes based upon responses compared across the population of cells. The NG cells were allocated to the various categories in different proportions than either primate STT cells or spinocervicothalamic neurons, consistent with the view that the functional roles of these somatosensory pathways differ. 6. Some of the pressure-sensitive NG cells were excited when the skin was stretched, suggesting an input from type II slowly adapting (Ruffini) mechanoreceptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The response properties of neurons of the spinocervicothalamic pathway were studied in anesthetized macaque monkeys. Graded innocuous and noxious mechanical stimuli, including sinusoidal vibration and thermal pulses, were applied to the cutaneous receptive fields. 2. Forty-nine cells in the lateral cervical nucleus (LCN) were identified by antidromic activation from the ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nucleus of the contralateral thalamus. Twelve spinocervical tract (SCT) cells in the lumbosacral enlargement of the spinal cord were identified by antidromic activation from stimulation of the ipsilateral dorsolateral funiculus below C3 but not above C1. 3. Latencies for antidromic activation of LCN neurons averaged 2.3 ms, corresponding to a mean conduction velocity of approximately 17 m/s. Mean latency for orthodromic activation of LCN neurons following electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves was 12.6 ms. Overall mean conduction velocity for the monkey spinocervicothalamic pathway was estimated to be 29 m/s. 4. Most LCN cells had receptive fields on hairy skin, but some had input from glabrous skin and a few had subcutaneous fields. The receptive fields of most SCT cells had a glabrous skin component. Receptive fields tended to be smaller for SCT than LCN cells even for fields on a comparable part of the distal hindlimb. 5. Based on their responses to a series of mechanical stimuli (brushing, pressure, pinch, and squeeze), LCN and SCT cells were classified as low-threshold (LT), wide dynamic range (WDR), or high-threshold (HT) neurons. Most of the cells were in the LT or WDR classes. Thus the spinocervicothalamic pathway in the monkey differs from the spinothalamic tract (STT), in that STT cells are generally of the WDR or HT classes. 6. With the use of discriminant analysis, LCN and SCT neurons were allocated to categories determined from a k-means cluster analysis of the responses of 318 STT cells. The LCN and SCT neurons were in different proportions in the various categories than were STT cells, suggesting differences in the signaling properties of the spinocervicothalamic and spinothalamic paths. 7. Innocuous steady indentation of the skin failed to excite any of the neurons tested. Thus no positive evidence was obtained for an input to LCN neurons from slowly adapting mechanoreceptors. 8. Sinusoidal vibratory stimuli were used to test the ability of LCN and SCT neurons to follow repeated innocuous mechanical stimuli. Vibration at 10 Hz and an amplitude of 100 micron resulted in repetitive discharges in most LCN neurons and half the SCT neurons tested; many LCN neurons had thresholds below 25 micron.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Mauthner cells (M-cells) occur as a pair of large, uniquely identifiable neurons at ear level in the hindbrain of premetamorphic amphibians. Each receives synapses from the ipsilateral vestibular nerve (nVIII); these morphologically distinctive terminals, or club endings, are confined to the proximoventral surface and branches of the M-cell lateral dendrite. We have superinnervated this portion of the M-cell to examine the extent to which forming afferent contacts regulate the growth and branching of the lateral dendrite. Superinnervation was brought about in the developing axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum) by unilaterally implanting an extra vestibular primordium rostral to the in situ one. The contralateral side served as control. When the larvae reached 21 mm in length, the ectopic nerve was labeled with HRP. Subsequent microscopic examination revealed that the grafts developed into anatomically normal ears. The HRP-labeled ectopic axons entered the medulla at the level of nV and confined to the nVIII tract, coursed caudad toward the ipsilateral M-cell. Electron microscopic analysis demonstrated labeled club endings on the appropriate region of the M-cell lateral dendrite. The number of club endings on experimental M-cells was significantly greater than that on the contralateral controls, and the extra terminals appeared to be distributed randomly among unlabeled ones. Comparison of reconstructed experimental and control M-cells revealed that superinnervation produced a localized enhancement of dendritic branching in the region receiving the extra nVIII synapses. In the donor embryos (those from which the vestibular primordium was removed), M-cells were unilaterally deprived of nVIII afferents. Comparison of reconstructed experimental and control M-cells in 21 mm donor larvae demonstrated that deprivation produced a localized decrease of dendritic surface in the region that normally receives nVIII synapses. Together, these data show that ingrowing axons stimulate dendritic growth and thus regulate the development of a normal dendritic branching pattern on target neurons.
Although the precise role of astrocytes in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is currently undefined, studies carried out at the molecular level may lead to new insights into the functioning of this class of brain cells in dementia. In order to facilitate such investigations, methods are described that establish that structurally and functionally intact messenger RNA (mRNA) for an astrocytic marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), is present in the postmortem Alzheimer's disease brain after long postmortem intervals. Rapid preparative procedures were used to obtain poly(A)+ RNA from postmortem control and AD cortices. In vitro protein synthesis was carried out in a reticulocyte system. Relative to controls, AD mRNA synthesized a two-fold higher level of a 50,000 mol.wt. protein that was immunologically identified as GFAP. High levels of GFAP synthesis by purified mRNA from AD cortices was independent of age at death and postmortem interval up to 24 h. Northern blot hybridization using a cloned human GFAP riboprobe was used to evaluate postmortem GFAP mRNA stability. No appreciable degradation products of GFAP mRNA were observed on Northern blots for at least 10 h postmortem in poly(A)+ RNA extracted from the AD brain. The described methodology demonstrates that the postmortem AD brain is an excellent source of functionally and structurally intact astrocyte-specific mRNA.
Correlation coefficients between pairs of regional glucose metabolic rates have been used to assess patterns of functional associations among brain regions in humans and animals. Partial correlation coefficients (partialing out the global metabolic rate) or correlations between reference ratios (regional to global metabolic rate) have been used to remove the distorting influence of systematic intersubject differences in glucose utilization. Suggesting that partial correlations may not preserve the true (but unknown) intrasubject correlation structure within the brain, others have used a theoretical example to show how an artifactually large negative partial correlation coefficient might arise. Here, we show that such an example is highly unlikely when applied to resting cerebral metabolism, and can be identified in experimental data by testing for a bimodal distribution of partial correlation values. We then show that partial correlations or reference ratio correlations of experimental resting metabolic rates give values which closely approximate the intrasubject correlation coefficients.
The delta opioid receptor antagonist ICI 174864 produces postural abnormalities and barrel rolling after i.c.v. injection and hindlimb and tail flaccidity after spinal subarachnoid injection in rats. These effects appear to result from nonopioid characteristics of ICI 174864 because they are neither shared nor blocked by other opioid antagonists (naloxone, ICI 154129 and WIN 44,441-3) and are produced by two compounds (ICI 174644 and ICI 178173) that are structurally related to ICI 174864 but lack its delta antagonist properties. Barrel rolling and hindlimb paralysis are also produced by dynorphin A-related peptides; however, rats failed to demonstrate tolerance or cross-tolerance to the hindlimb paralytic actions of ICI 174864 or dynorphin A (1-13) after 7 days of continuous spinal intrathecal infusion of either of these compounds. Whereas hindlimb responses to low doses of ICI 174864 (1.6-6.2 nmol intrathecally) were usually transient, higher doses (6.2-25 nmol intrathecally) produced persistent hindlimb motor dysfunction, altered nociception, priapism, hindlimb edema, bladder infarction and atony and urinary incontinence. Neuronal and axonal changes in the lumbosacral spinal cords of rats with persistent and transient neurologic deficits provided direct evidence of the neuropathologic actions of ICI 174864 (3.1 and 6.2 nmol) and ICI 174644 (25 nmol). These results indicate that 1) use of ICI 174864 as a selective delta opioid receptor antagonist is potentially compromised by its nonopioid neuropathologic actions and 2) ICI 174864 and dynorphin A-related peptides are unique among opioid agonists and antagonists in sharing barrel rolling and hindlimb paralytic effects. A similar mechanism of action may underlie the shared nonopioid actions of these peptides.
To test the hypothesis that functional postsynaptic alpha-2 adrenoceptors exist in rat myometrium, we examined whether specific binding sites for [3H]rauwolscine were present on microsomal membranes from myometrium of nonpregnant, day 16 pregnant and delivering rats and whether an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist has functional effects. The myometrium of rats at term undergoes a physiological denervation, confirmed in this study by ultrastructural examination of uterine samples and by [3H]saxitoxin binding studies. Binding sites for rauwolscine of similar Kd (11-15 nM) were present in all groups of myometrium and were localized on plasma membranes. There was no significant change in the density of rauwolscine binding sites in membranes from day 16 animals compared to nonpregnant ones, but a significant fall (38%) from these values at term. Strips of uterine circular or longitudinal muscle from nonpregnant, day-16 or day-22 pregnant rats failed to respond to the selective alpha-2 agonist, BHT-920, in the presence of propranolol; i.e., BHT-920 neither caused contraction nor inhibited contractions induced by oxytocin. BHT-920 did not affect the inhibitory effects of isoproterenol which were antagonized by propranolol. However, it antagonized contractions to norepinephrine in the presence of propranolol with a pKB value of 5.6 to 5.7. These contractions were phentolamine-sensitive. BHT-920 displaced rauwolscine from binding to all groups of myometria (IC50 = 2 to 3 x 10(-6) M) and displaced prazosin (Kd = 0.65 nM) from binding to myometria of nonpregnant rats (IC50 value congruent to 2 x 10(-4) M). Phentolamine also displaced rauwolscine from binding (IC50 = 2 x 10(-8) M). 5-Hydroxytryptamine displaced rauwolscine from binding only at higher concentrations (IC50 greater than 10(-5) M). We conclude that binding sites for alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonists in myometrial microsomes were located primarily on smooth muscle plasma membrane. A smooth muscle alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist appeared to occupy a site on muscle with the same affinity as it displayed toward rauwolscine binding site and competitively inhibited effects of an alpha-1 agonist. Our data suggest that alpha-2 adrenoceptor binding sites may exist on smooth muscle without coupling to contractile function, but their occupancy competitively prevents occupancy of alpha-1 agonist receptor activation sites.
The I.T50 method consists of determining the charge required to obtain a 50% depression of firing activity of neurons recorded extracellularly with microiontophoretic applications of inhibitory agents. This method has been used successfully to detect modification of neuronal responsiveness, but the limits of its validity had never been determined. In the present study, it was found that the use of microiontophoretic currents greater than 3 nA yielded consistent I.T50 values when serotonin (5-HT) was applied to rat hippocampal pyramidal neurons. The departure from linearity of I.T50 values measured from applications carried out with a very low current (0.5 nA) of 5-HT is probably due to the relatively important contribution of the leak when a minimal ejecting current is used. The responsiveness to 5-HT was not altered by the activation of the recorded neuron produced by acetylcholine.
1. The effects of Ca2+ channel blockers (nifedipine, nitrendipine and diltiazem) were tested on K+ contractures in single muscle fibres of the frog, Rana pipiens. 2. Nifedipine (1 microM) reduced the area under K+ contractures to 24 +/- 9% (4) (100 mM-K+) and 34 +/- 24% (4) (190 mM-K+). Nitrendipine (0.1 microM) reduced the area to 30 +/- 10% (4) (120 mM-K+). The blockade of the contractures was reversible. 3. Diltiazem (1 microM) shortened the first 190 mM-K+ contracture without affecting the peak amplitude. The first contractures, performed at 15-20 min after the removal of diltiazem, were greatly reduced to 29 +/- 14% (4). This effect was reversed after three to five contractures in the absence of the drug. Similar results were obtained with 60 and 100 mM-K+. 4. The resting potential in control saline and after a brief exposure to 120 mM-K+ was not affected by the dihydropyridines and diltiazem. 5. Slow and fast Ca2+ currents were not modified by 1 microM-diltiazem at any stimulation rate or with pre-pulse depolarizations. Diltiazem (50 microM) did not affect the fast Ca2+ current and reduced the slow one to 48 +/- 10% (4). 7. The reduction of K+ contractures by Ca2+ channel blocking agents was not related to a blockade of Ca2+ currents. This can be tentatively explained by interactions of these compounds on membranes sites which regulate the coupling between membrane depolarization and contraction.
A visual discrimination paradigm was used to elicit the P3 (P300) component of the event-related brain potential (ERP) in a large group (N = 196) of male undergraduate volunteers. Comparison of P3 amplitude and latencies between individuals with a positive family history for alcoholism (FH +) and those without such a history (FH -) obtained no differences between the groups. No associations between P3 latency or amplitude and the amount of alcohol typically consumed were found. Differences between the present and previous P3 family history studies using visual stimuli are attributed to the cognitive demands of ERP task.
A study was conducted on a total of 850 patients who had not previously manifested any epileptic seizures but exhibited at least one spike EEG abnormality. They accounted for 7.2% of the total number of patients without epileptic seizures (850/11,773). Among the 850 patients, 564 were followed up for 1-24 years. Nine boys and one girl, i.e. 1.8% of the 564 patients, had manifested epileptic seizures during the observation period. They expressed the following six characteristics: males, first EEG examination at 0-4 years of age, onset of initial chief complaints at 0-6 years of age, mental retardation, spike and wave EEG abnormalities and past history of perinatal birth injuries. These factors are considered to be efficient in detecting patients liable to manifest epileptic seizures later.
In the present study we observed enlarged cholinergic processes in the neocortex of aged Fischer 344 rats. These swollen ChAT-positive profiles appeared either as a single axon enlargement or, in many instances, the bulbous processes coalesced to form grape-like clusters of immunoreactivity. The latter structures looked similar to the immunoreactive profiles observed in the cortex of patients with Alzheimer's disease and in the rat septum following fimbria-fornix transection. Together, these data provide evidence that morphologic changes occur within processes of cholinergic neurons in the aged rat. Moreover, the similarity in appearance between the axonal alterations in the aged rat and in patients with Alzheimer's disease suggests a common pathologic process.
A primate model of lathyrism has been produced in well-nourished male cynomolgus monkeys chronically fed a fortified diet composed of Lathyrus sativus (chickling or grass pea) and given daily per os an alcoholic extract of this legume. Animals given a diet of non-neurotoxic Cicer arietinum (chick pea) cross-matched with the nutritional properties of the experimental diet served as controls. Another group of animals received the same diet and oral doses of beta, beta'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN), a reference compound that has been termed an &quot;experimental neurolathyrogen.&quot; Monkeys fed Lathyrus developed clinical and electrophysiologic evidence of corticospinal deficits after 3 to 10 months of feeding. Animals administered IDPN showed clinical and/or electrophysiologic changes in the PNS and CNS motor and sensory pathways, and signs of cerebellar dysfunction. Since the two primate disorders are separable on clinical and electrophysiologic grounds, further use of the term &quot;experimental neurolathyrogen&quot; to describe the neurotoxic properties of IDPN seems inappropriate. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of developing a model of early human lathyrism in adequately nourished nonhuman primates.
A quantitative and morphometric study has been done on the effects of age on myelinated nerve fibres of the sciatic nerve of rats ranging from 100 to 824 days of age. Using 1.0 micron semi-thin sections and a particle size analyser (TGA 10, Zeiss) it was found that both myelin sheaths and their associated axons grew in diameter until about 400 days of age, but massive destruction and disappearance of myelinated nerve fibres became manifest only after 700 days of age. In addition, onset, development and distribution of degenerative changes of nerve fibres were studied in spinal roots, lumbar plexus and sciatic nerves. Analysis of the observed data suggests that two independent mechanisms are involved in the degenerative changes of myelinated peripheral nerve fibres with age: one is axonal atrophy or loss and the other is vacuole forming, segmental demyelination and remyelination. The former begins very early in a limited number of nerve fibres and in more distal parts of the nerve, while the latter begins at a significantly later age and from the most proximal (spinal root) region.
Exposure of male Syrian hamsters to a short daylength of 8L:16D leads to gonadal regression. This effect of photoperiod was prevented by pinealectomy or chronic exposure of the brain to exogenous melatonin delivered from in-dwelling cannulae. However, the effect of melatonin was dependent on the neural site of application. Melatonin delivered into the mid-brain, lateral hypothalamus or amygdala was ineffective. In contrast, bilateral administration of melatonin to the medial or amygdala was ineffective. In contrast, bilateral administration of melatonin to the medial hypothalamus prevented testicular regression and maintained high circulating levels of luteinizing hormone and prolactin. These findings suggest that the medial hypothalamus contains target sites for melatonin involved in pineal-mediated photoperiodic responses.
The effect of carotid body chemoreceptor stimulation on 292 neurons in midline hypothalamic nuclei has been examined electrophysiologically in ethyl carbamate/sodium pentobarbitone anaesthetized rats. Experiments demonstrated that specific stimulation of carotid body chemoreceptors activates a small group (16) of neurons in the mediobasal hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, but has no effect on neurons (157) in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus or the anterior hypothalamus. Of 16 arcuate neurons activated by the stimulus, six projected to the median eminence and three projected to the dorsal medulla, as defined by antidromic invasion. Three of the neurons activated from the carotid body also showed a resting discharge that was linked with ventilation rate, suggesting that the arcuate nucleus may have some involvement with respiratory processing. The activation of neurons projecting to the median eminence implies that the release of adenohypophyseal hormones may also be influenced by carotid body chemoreceptors.
The oxytocinergic and vasopressinergic innervation of the forebrain of normal mice was studied immunocytochemically by use of a set of mouse monoclonal anti-neurophysins applied to serial vibratome sections. The extensive hypothalamic and extra-hypothalamic location of these neuropeptides was revealed, with, or without colchicine pretreatment. Magnocellular perikarya immunoreactive for either oxytocin-neurophysin or vasopressin-neurophysin were concentrated mainly: in the anterior commissural nucleus; in various subdivisions of the paraventricular nucleus; in a profuse array in the periventricular region; in the supraoptic nucleus including its retrochiasmatic division; in various accessory nuclei; and as a number of cells scattered throughout the preoptic and hypothalamic regions. Extensive groups of parvocellular neurons, containing only vasopressin-neurophysin, were located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus including a ventromedial division, in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and in the medial amygdaloid nucleus. Perikarya in the magnocellular nuclei were of generally similar size distribution and there was no evidence that distinct populations of magnocellular and parvicellular neurons, separable on the basis of size, had been labelled within these nuclei. Within the paraventricular nucleus, however, neurons in the posterior part were smaller than those located more anteriorly, and the cells containing oxytocin-neurophysin were slightly smaller than those containing vasopressin-neurophysin. Within the generally similar size distribution, magnocellular neurons of the anterior commissural nucleus were the largest. During processing, shrinkage of the tissue and immunolabeled cells had occurred. The immunocytochemical procedure delineated neuronal processes, in particular dendrites, very effectively. The dendrites were shown to project for far greater distances than is generally recognized, some were of a characteristic corkscrew-like morphology, and most were oriented in a well-defined pattern. Many dendrites of paraventricular neurons passed medially than caudally towards and then along the third ventricle. Most dendrites of supraoptic neurons, in particular those containing vasopressin-neurophysin, had an extensive anteroposterior course beneath the pia of the base of the brain. The axons containing oxytocin- and vasopressin-neurophysin were shown to take rather different paths from the paraventricular nucleus towards the median eminence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Brainstem afferents to various nuclei of the basal forebrain of the rat were examined using the retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase. These forebrain nuclei included the medial septum-vertical limb of the diagonal band nucleus, the lateral septum, the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, the medial preoptic area and the magnocellular preoptic nucleus/substantia innominata. Medial septal-vertical limb of the diagonal band injections produced dense cell labeling in: raphe obscurus, nucleus incertus, central gray-pars alpha, locus coeruleus, raphe pontis, median raphe, nucleus of Darkschewitsch, a compact cell group within the mesencephalic gray dorsolateral to the nucleus of Darkschewitsch and the supramammillary nucleus. Lateral septal injections produced the heaviest cell labeling in the A1 and A2 areas (of Dahlstrom and Fuxe), the lateral parabrachial nucleus, the Kolliker-Fuse nucleus, the ventral tegmental area and the supramammillary nucleus. There were considerably fewer labeled cells overall with lateral septal as compared with medial septal injections. Brainstem projections to the horizontal limb of the diagonal band were pronounced. The most heavily labeled nuclei were A1, locus coeruleus, laterodorsalis (dorsolateral tegmental nucleus of Castaldi), raphe pontis, median raphe, lateral parabrachial nucleus, ventral tegmental area, nucleus of Darkschewitsch and the supramammillary nucleus. Medial preoptic area injections produced pronounced labeling in: A1 and A2 areas, raphe magnus, locus coeruleus, laterodorsalis, lateral parabrachial nucleus, pedunculopontine nucleus, peripenduncular nucleus and the supramammillary nucleus. The pattern of brainstem labeling obtained with magnocellular preoptic/substantia innominata injections was considerably different from the patterns seen with the other injections. Specifically, relatively few cell groups, essentially confined to the upper brainstem (rostral pons and midbrain), were densely labeled following magnocellular preoptic/substantia innominata injections. These included the medial parabrachial nucleus, the pedunculopontine nucleus, the dorsal raphe nucleus, the ventral tegmental area and the supramammillary nucleus. With the exception of the supramammillary nucleus, each of these cell groups was more heavily labeled with magnocellular preoptic/substantia innominata injections than with others of this series. The above describes the major brainstem projections to each of the forebrain sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Extracellular amino acid levels and field potentials evoked by perforant pathway stimuli were studied in vivo by means of a dialysis device, perfusing the rat dentate gyrus with low chloride solutions. When balanced with acetate, these perfusions enhanced the granule cell population spike amplitude. A specific extracellular taurine enhancement occurred whenever Cl- was replaced by acetate solution, reaching an increase of 20-fold over the basal taurine levels when 125 mM Cl- was replaced, whereas other amino acids remained unchanged. A considerable degree of Cl- replacement with iodide was needed, however, to obtain significant increases of extracellular taurine. Perfusions with bromide instead of Cl- did not cause any change in levels of extracellular amino acids including taurine. Furosemide, an inhibitor of Cl- transport, greatly reduced the taurine increase evoked by the low extracellular concentration of permeant anions. This drug also inhibited the taurine release induced by perfusion with 9 mM K+. These findings indicate that the extracellular increase of taurine, evoked by low permeant anion concentrations, may result from the taurine release through a furosemide-sensitive process.
The activity of the pentose phosphate shunt was assessed under basal conditions in subregions of the hippocampus by measuring the uptake and retention of [1-14C]glucose and [6-14C]glucose and their 14C-labelled metabolites. The relative and absolute retention of carbon-14 from each of the two compounds was nearly identical in all regions examined. For each compound, the highest accumulation of 14C occurred in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus and in the pyramidal cell layer. Relatively high retention of radioactivity was also found in the molecular layer of dentate gyrus and in the stratum lacunosum-molecular. The stratum radiatum and stratum oriens contained the lowest levels of radioactivity among hippocampal regions. The equal retention of radioactivity from [1-14C]glucose and [6-14C]glucose implies that pentose phosphate shunt activity is very low throughout the hippocampus under the conditions of this study. The uptake and retention of radioactivity was evaluated in different hippocampal regions 10 or 30 min following intravenous injection of [1-14C]glucose. Although there was significantly more radioactivity at 30 min than at 10 min, the same topographic pattern of radioactivity within the hippocampus was observed in rats after both survival periods, indicating that an equal fraction of the [1-14C]glucose utilized in different hippocampal regions is oxidized to 14CO2 under these conditions. Most regions of high glucose utilization in the hippocampus determined with [1-14C]glucose and [6-14C]glucose correspond to regions of intense histochemical staining for cytochrome oxidase reported in the literature.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The electrophysiological properties of rat oculomotor neurons were studied in an in vitro slice preparation. Motoneurons were identified by their antidromic response to third nerve rootlet stimulation, and by their orthodromic responses to medial longitudinal fasciculus and reticular stimulations. Passive membrane properties showed the existence of an inward rectification mechanism in all the recorded motoneurons. The action potential is comprised of several distinct components. The fast initial spike, composed of an initial segment spike and a somatodendritic spike, is followed by a delayed depolarization, an afterhyperpolarization and a late afterdepolarization. The afterhyperpolarization has a maximum duration of 55 ms. The late afterdepolarization is a voltage-dependent mechanism that produces an oscillatory behavior in depolarized cells. Two types of motoneurons were distinguished on the basis of their response to long-lasting depolarizing current pulses. The intensity-frequency curves show the existence of a primary and secondary range of discharge and the study of the interspike intervals points to specific properties of the conductance underlying the afterhyperpolarization. It is concluded that large, stellate motoneurons of the brainstem maintained in vitro retain specific electrophysiological properties, comparable to those described in vivo and which differentiate the ocular motoneurons from spinal motoneurons.
Intracellular recordings from goldfish auditory afferents revealed a hyperpolarization triggered by a single impulse in the Mauthner cell. The firing of either one of the two Mauthner cells alone was sufficient to evoke this potential change. The all or none hyperpolarization, which could only be recorded in some auditory fibers, presumably was an inhibitory postsynaptic potential. The inhibitory postsynaptic potential typically had a latency of 6 ms, an amplitude of 1 mV and a half-decay time of 6.8 ms; it could block or delay impulses evoked by direct current injection and could attenuate the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by sound pulses. However, this inhibitory postsynaptic potential did not reduce the amplitudes of electrotonic coupling potentials produced by antidromic impulses in the Mauthner cell. We propose that the inhibitory postsynaptic potential is generated at the dendrites of the auditory fibers, i.e. in the ear, rather than at the central terminals of the afferent, where the antidromic coupling potentials originate. The possibility that the inhibitory postsynaptic potential actually represented dis-facilitation due to an efferent inhibition of the hair cells, which tonically depolarize the saccular fibers, was ruled out because depolarization of these fibers increased the inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude. Possible morphological substrates for the efferent inhibition and the behavioral significance of this inhibition are discussed.
The magnitude of dendritic conductance changes occurring distantly from the somatic site of recording can be difficult to measure. We have used measurements of the neuronal time constant, tau 0, instead of the neuronal input resistance, RN, to estimate the resistance decrease that accompanies the depolarizing response of the dendrites of granule cells when GABA is applied. From the changes in tau 0, we estimated the reversal potential of the response and found that the conductance change accompanying a given GABA-mediated voltage response as measured at the cell body was the same regardless of where in the dendritic tree the drug was applied. On the other hand, RN changes underestimated the increase in conductance of the GABA responses in the distal dendrites and were not accurate for determining the reversal potential.
This study investigated the functional capacity of intrastriatal grafts of embryonic striatal tissue in rats with unilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the neostriatum. The group of grafted rats was compared with lesion-alone and control groups for motor bias, as assessed by tests of rotation induced by dopaminergic, cholinergic and GABAergic drugs, and of skilled paw reaching. Unilateral striatal lesions induced marked ipsilateral turning to apomorphine and methamphetamine, which was substantially ameliorated in the grafted rats. Atropine induced similar rates of moderate (but non-significant) ipsilateral turning in the lesion and graft groups, whereas muscimol and gamma-acetylenic GABA induced no turning bias in any group. The lesioned rats showed a strong bias in their preference to use the paw ipsilateral to the lesion when reaching for food pellets, and a decline in reaching success with both paws. The grafts did not influence the ipsilateral paw preference in this task, but did provide a substantial improvement in the animal's reaching accuracy and ability to retrieve food with either paw. The results indicate that striatal grafts can provide a substantial amelioration of motor impairments induced by striatal lesions. Moreover they suggest that the graft's influence on the host brain is itself under the functional regulation of an afferent dopaminergic input from the host brain.
GABA release was recorded in vivo by push-pull perfusion from the globus pallidus and substantia nigra of control rats, rats with unilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the neostriatum, and rats with embryonic striatal tissue grafts implanted in the lesioned striatum. The lesions reduced baseline levels of GABA release to 5% of control levels in the globus pallidus and to 13% of control levels in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. GABA release was substantially restored in both the globus pallidus and substantia nigra of the grafted rats, to 34 and 60%, respectively. Peripheral injection of the dopaminergic stimulant methamphetamine induced a short (lasting approximately 20 min) 4-5 fold increase in GABA release in the intact globus pallidus and a longer (lasting longer than 80 min) increase in the substantia nigra. The stimulatory effect of methamphetamine on GABA release was completely abolished in both sites by the strial lesions, suggesting that the effect was mediated via a direct or indirect dopaminergic action on striatal output neurons. The grafts reinstated methamphetamine-induced stimulation of GABA release in striatal output targets to a level (as a proportion of baseline) that was similar to that seen in the control rats. The results support the view that activation of the dopaminergic inputs to the striatum is functionally excitatory on the major striatal output projections to the globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata. The results also support the hypothesis that striatal grafts have the capacity to become functionally incorporated by reciprocal graft-host connections into the neural circuitry of the host brain.
After implantation of solid pieces of cerebellar primordia from 12-day-old C57BL embryos into the cerebellar parenchyma of 3- to 4-month-old &quot;Purkinje cell degeneration&quot; mutant mice, Purkinje cells from the donor leave the implant and differentiate while migrating into the host molecular layer. Electrophysiological studies were performed using in vitro cerebellar slice preparations from &quot;Purkinje cell degeneration&quot; mutants 1-2 months after grafting, when grafted Purkinje cells have reached their final location in the host molecular layer and have completed their morphological differentiation. Intracellular recordings obtained from 45 Purkinje cells in mutant mice demonstrated that such grafted neurons have normal bioelectrical properties including sodium and calcium conductances and inward rectification. Moreover, all grafted Purkinje cells responded to electrical white matter stimulation by a typical all-or-none climbing fiber response. Responses mediated through the activation of mossy and parallel fibers, as well as inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, were also recorded in a significant number of grafted Purkinje cells. On the whole, all these excitatory and inhibitory responses in grafted &quot;Purkinje cell degeneration&quot; mutant mice have characteristics comparable to those in control mice. After electrophysiological studies, Purkinje cells were further characterized by their positive staining by calbindin antibody. Neurons of this class were dispersed throughout the molecular layer of the host folia in which the electrophysiological recordings had been performed. The ectopic location of their perikarya, the presence of dendritic trees spanning most of the molecular layer (without entering the granular layer), and the occasional presence of axons emerging from the ectopic neurons and forming loose bundles at the white matter axis of the folia, corroborate the grafted nature of the Purkinje cells studied. Therefore, these experiments demonstrate that embryonic Purkinje cells from the graft can complete differentiation in the adult host cerebellum, and establish specific synaptic contacts with the presynaptic elements previously impinging on the missing neurons of &quot;Purkinje cell degeneration&quot; mutants. This process leads to a qualitative functional synaptic restoration of the cortical cerebellar network.
The sensitive serotonergic radioligand 2-[125I]lysergic acid diethylamide was used to study the distribution and pharmacological binding properties of serotonin receptors in Aplysia californica. The high specific activity of this radioligand allowed us to develop a methodology for the investigation of receptor binding properties and receptor distribution in a single ganglion. [125I]Lysergic acid diethylamide labels a population of high-affinity serotonergic sites (Kd = 0.41 nM) in Aplysia ganglia whose regional distribution matches that expected from previous electrophysiological and immunohistochemical studies. The properties of [125I]lysergic acid diethylamide binding sites in Aplysia are in general agreement with previous studies on [3H]lysergic acid diethylamide binding in this system but these sites differ from the serotonergic receptor subtypes described in the mammalian brain. Guanine nucleotides were shown to modulate agonist but not antagonist affinity for the [125I]lysergic acid diethylamide binding site in Aplysia, suggesting that this site is coupled to a G-protein. Images of serotonin receptor distribution in the Aplysia nervous system were obtained from autoradiograms of [125I]lysergic acid diethylamide binding. Serotonin receptors in ganglia tissue sections are located primarily within the neuropil. In addition, a subset of neuronal soma are specifically labeled by [125I]lysergic acid diethylamide. These studies indicate that [125I]lysergic acid diethylamide binds to sites in the Aplysia nervous system which display a regional distribution, pharmacological binding properties and evidence of coupling to a G-protein consistent with labeling of a subset of functional serotonin receptors. In addition, the techniques used in this investigation provide a general approach for rapidly characterizing the pharmacological properties and anatomical distribution of receptor binding sites in single invertebrate ganglia. Individual neurons containing these receptor subtypes can be identified by these methods and correlated with physiological responses in the same cell.
The distribution of putative nicotinic receptors on cultured neurons from the rat superior cervical ganglion was determined by electron microscopic autoradiography using a radioactively labeled snake venom neurotoxin, toxin F. In a previous study, we demonstrated that toxin F blocks nicotinic transmission in these cultures of sympathetic neurons and in intact superior cervical ganglia. [125I]toxin F bound to two sites in these cultures: one site that was also recognized by the neuromuscular blocker, alpha-bungarotoxin, and a second site that was not. Since alpha-bungarotoxin neither blocks nicotinic transmission nor prevents the blocking effects of toxin F, the site specific to the binding of toxin F most probably represents neuronal nicotinic receptors. The total number of each of the toxin F binding sites was unaffected by culture conditions that are known to influence the extent to which these sympathetic neurons synthesize norepinephrine or acetylcholine. Autoradiographic analysis performed under saturating binding conditions (80 nM [125I]toxin F) revealed that the density of [125I]toxin F binding at synaptic membranes was about 5000 sites/micron 2, either in the absence of any competing ligand or in the presence of 2 microM alpha-bungarotoxin. In the presence of 2 microM unlabeled toxin F, there was no detectable binding at synapses. The density of these toxin F-specific sites was at least 80-fold higher at synaptic membranes than elsewhere. On the other hand, the data suggest that the toxin F binding site shared with alpha-bungarotoxin is exclusively extrasynaptic. Two micromolar alpha-bungarotoxin decreased the density of [125I]toxin F binding at non-synaptic sites by approximately two-thirds. These experiments support the hypothesis that toxin F blocks cholinergic transmission in cultures of sympathetic neurons by binding to nicotinic receptors and suggests that these receptors are highly clustered at synaptic membranes.
The distribution of synaptic sites on multiply innervated muscle fibres was analysed in four teleost fish species (zebrafish, trout, goldfish and stickleback), using acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Fishes were chosen for this study rather than other vertebrates because of their long period of growth and continuous increase of muscle fibre size. We found that length and diameter of the fibres increase linearly with fish length but that the distance between synaptic sites increases only as the square root of the fish length and of muscle fibre size. This is explained functionally in connection with the increase of the space constant of a muscle fibre that is expected to accompany the increase of its diameter. We suggest that the change in the synaptic distribution is caused by factors associated with the increasingly wider spread of postsynaptic potentials along the growing fibres, as the intersynaptic distance was found to correlate more strongly with fibre size than with other factors, such as age, speed of growth and genetical background.
The topography of afferent projections to the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus of the rat has been studied using the retrograde transport of unconjugated wheat germ agglutinin as identified by immunocytochemistry. Inputs were defined according to the lateral, central or medial segments of the nucleus injected, and controlled by additional injections into the habenula, central medial and paraventricular nuclei of the thalamus. Cortical afferents to the lateral segment arose from anterior cingulate and prelimbic areas on the medial surface of the hemisphere, those to the central segment arose mainly from ventral orbital area, whilst those to the medial segment arose from the infra-limbic and agranular insular areas. This strict cortical topography was matched by the organization of afferents from the reticular thalamic nucleus; i.e. lateral, intermediate and medial reticular neurons from the rostral nucleus projected to lateral, central and medial segments of the mediodorsal thalamus respectively. In the basal forebrain ventral pallidum projected only to the medial segment, whilst magnocellular preoptic region projected only to the central segment. Lateral preoptic area projected to lateral and central segments and the diagonal band mainly to central segment. Projections from substantia innominata were found regardless of the area of mediodorsal nucleus injected. The paraventricular nucleus of thalamus, lateral habenula and substantia nigra reticulata projected to the lateral segment only, whilst central gray projected only to the medial segment. Projections from amygdala (mainly basolateral and central nucleus) were found only following central and medial segment injections. All regions of the mediodorsal nucleus injected received input from the lateral hypothalamus, the ventral tegmental area and the dorsal tegmental gray. The results are discussed and particular emphasis is placed on the possible functions of the thalamocortical connections and the role of the reticular thalamic nucleus as a potential regulator of thalamocortical activity.
The neurotransmitter-synthesizing enzymes choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase were localized immunocytochemically at the light microscopic level. Their respective laminar distributions were compared in 17 different cytoarchitectural areas, comprising limbic and neocortical regions of rat cerebral cortex. The immunoreactive intensities within these areas were measured with an image analysis system and dark-field optics. Choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity displayed distinctive distribution patterns throughout the cerebrum. In general, limbic cortex showed greater intensity of both choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity than neocortex. For example, choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in pyriform and retrosplenial cortex was 54% and 29% greater, respectively, than in neocortex, and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity in the same cortical areas was 5% and 17% greater, respectively. In addition to these regional differences, the marked variations of choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase immunostaining were characterized as either coincidental or complementary when comparing their laminar distributions. The laminar pattern and relative intensities of choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase immunostaining were coincident in some layers of all cortical regions. For example, both choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactive intensities were high in cellular layers II and IV of the entorhinal cortex. In contrast, examples of complementary choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactive patterns were observed in retrosplenial cortex and neocortex. In neocortex, layers III and part of V were intensely glutamate decarboxylase-positive, whereas these same layers were less intensely choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive than the intervening layer IV and upper part of V. Quantitatively, choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in layers IV and upper V was 27-37% greater than adjacent layers II and deep V. The glutamate decarboxylase immunostaining pattern was complementary in that layer IV was 19-23% less intensely stained than adjacent layers III and V. Our results demonstrate that terminals immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase, and presumably the synaptic terminals that respectively use acetylcholine or gamma-aminobutyric acid as their neurotransmitters, are distributed in distinct laminar patterns that are strategically situated for modulating either afferent information in the case of cholinergic terminals or efferent transmission for GABAergic endings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Long-term primary cultures derived from fetal mouse or rat hypothalamus and choroid plexus were obtained in serum-supplemented and chemically defined media. In order to identify and characterize cell types growing in our cultures, we used morphological features provided by phase-contrast, scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Immunological criteria were recognized, using antibodies against intermediate filament proteins (vimentin, gliofibrillar acid protein, cytokeratin, desmin, neurofilament proteins), actin, myosin, ciliary rootlets, laminin and fibronectin in single or double immunostaining, and monoclonal antibodies known to detect epitopes of ependymal or endothelial cells. Minor cell types such as astrocytes, fibroblasts and endothelial cells were distinguished. Ependymal cells, which exceeded 75% of the cultured cells, were identified by their cell shape and epithelial organization revealed by phase-contrast and transmission electron microscopy, by their apical differentiation evidenced by scanning and transmission electron microscopy, and by certain molecular markers (e.g. gliofibrillar acid or ciliary rootlet proteins) detected by immunofluorescence. Four ependymal cell types were recognized: choroidal ependymocytes, ciliated and unciliated ependymal cells, and tanycytes. All these cultured ependymal cell types showed a remarkable resemblance to in vivo ependymocytes, in terms of marker expression and ultrastructural features.

5-Hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive nerve plexuses were demonstrated by indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry in whole-mount preparations and cryostat sections of blood vessels from the mesenteric vasculature of the adult rat. The major veins showed a density of innervation greater than that of the accompanying arteries. Removal of the coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglion complex resulted in almost total loss of 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive nerves from superior mesenteric blood vessels. The results of crush lesions applied to distal vessels of the superior mesentery indicate that there were no 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive nerve fibres extending from the enteric nervous system to these vessels. The administration of 6-hydroxydopamine resulted in a large reduction in the noradrenergic innervation, accompanied by a similar fall in the number of 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive nerve fibres. It is suggested that the cell bodies of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive nerve fibres demonstrated in the superior mesenteric vasculature are located within the sympathetic ganglia which supply the noradrenergic innervation to the same region and that the 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity may be co-localized with noradrenaline within sympathetic nerve fibres.
Tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry, in combination with Golgi impregnation, has been used to study the dopaminergic afferent input to striatal suspension grafts implanted into the previously ibotenic acid-lesioned striatum in adult recipient rats. The rats were perfused for combined light- and electron microscopy at 10-11 months after transplantation, at the end of a series of behavioural experiments and a study of in vivo GABA release, reported in the two accompanying papers. A tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibre network occurred within the grafts in all eight specimens analysed. The tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres had a distinct &quot;patchy&quot; distribution, throughout the graft tissue, and within these patches the terminal density was similar to that of the normal intact striatum. Ultrastructurally, the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres were seen to make abundant synaptic contacts with neuronal elements within the grafts. As in the normal striatum, they were all of the symmetric type and dendritic shafts and spines were the most usual postsynaptic targets. Sections from three of the grafted animals were taken for combined Golgi-impregnation and immunostaining. Only cells of the medium-sized densely spiny type were impregnated in this material. Six of them, which had portions extending into the immunostained neuropil, were drawn using a camera lucida and processed for electron microscopy. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive boutons were seen to make symmetrical synaptic contacts onto the shafts and spines of the impregnated dendrites, and in one case also with the perikaryon. The results indicate that the medium-sized densely spiny neuron type (which is a predominant target for the dopaminergic afferents in the normal striatum) is abundant in the grafted tissue, and that these neurons represent a synaptic target also for the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive innervation of the striatal grafts.
The release of both endogenous and newly synthesized amino acid neurotransmitters was examined simultaneously in different areas of the cerebral cortex in the freely moving rat. An array of push-pull guide tubes was implanted permanently to rest above the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital areas of the cortex of each rat. Then a new double-lumen catheter system, specially adapted for localized push-pull perfusion of the conscious animal, was used to perfuse an artificial cerebrospinal fluid at each cortical site. For the new synthesis experiments, 0.5 microCi of [14C]glucose in a volume of 2.0 microliter was first microinjected into the perfusion site as a precursor to label amino acids. After the site was perfused at a rate of 12.0 microliter/min, each of the samples was assayed by two-dimensional thin-layer chromatography. In a second analysis, the content of six endogenous amino acids present in unlabeled samples of push-pull perfusate was quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography analysis with electrochemical detection. The results showed a notable homogeneity among each of the four cortical areas in the content of four of the six amino acids examined. Endogenous glutamine exhibited the highest proportional content in the cortical perfusates, whereas glutamic acid was proportionally higher in terms of new synthesis. An anatomical analysis revealed that the level of endogenous glutamic acid in the frontal area was significantly lower than that found in the occipital or temporal regions of the rat's cortex. An opposite result was obtained when the proportional synthesis of glutamic acid from [14C] glucose was compared in different cortical regions in that a statistically higher release occurred in the frontal than in the occipital cortex.
This study examined the postnatal development of oxidative metabolism in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus. The cytochrome oxidase technique was used to reveal the pattern of metabolic development. The cytochrome oxidase reactivity in suprachiasmatic nucleus is above background at birth and coincides with the Nissl-stained borders of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The suprachiasmatic nucleus gradually increases in cytochrome oxidase intensity through 24 days of age. At 28 days of age the dorsal border in the middle suprachiasmatic nucleus decreases in cytochrome oxidase reactivity. This decrease in cytochrome oxidase reactivity proceeds in a posterior direction until the entire posterior portion of the suprachiasmatic nucleus is devoid of intense cytochrome oxidase reactivity at 42 days of age. Intense cytochrome oxidase was not confined within the Nissl borders of suprachiasmatic nucleus at 28 days of age, but continued laterally beyond the suprachiasmatic nucleus border directly dorsal to the optic chiasm. This lateral region became more intense and extensive through 42 days of age. Therefore, the suprachiasmatic nucleus exhibits a distinct pattern of development in oxidative metabolism. This pattern of metabolic development may be important for understanding the development of overt circadian rhythms.
The efferent projections of locus coeruleus neurons which contain neuropeptide Y-, tyrosine hydroxylase- or galanin-like immunoreactivity were investigated using the indirect immunofluorescence technique combined with the retrograde transport of the fluorescent substance Fast Blue. Four groups of rats received injections of Fast Blue: (1) bilaterally into the mid-thoracic spinal cord (T6-T7); (2) unilaterally into the low cervical spinal cord (C4-C5); (3) unilaterally into the paraventricular, periventricular and dorsomedial hypothalamic nuclei; and (4) unilaterally into five sites in the cerebral cortex (frontal, cingulate and striate cortex). Efferent projections to the spinal cord, hypothalamus and cerebral cortex from neuropeptide Y-, tyrosine hydroxylase- and galanin-containing locus coeruleus cells were observed. A higher percentage of the peptidergic locus coeruleus neurons projected to the hypothalamus than to the spinal cord or cerebral cortex. The distribution and morphology of the neuropeptide Y- and galanin-containing neurons in the locus coeruleus were also investigated. Neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and galanin-like immunoreactivity were found in small, medium and large multipolar neurons, as well as in fusiform locus coeruleus cells. The neuropeptide Y- and galanin-immunoreactive neurons were found throughout the locus coeruleus. In the caudal locus coeruleus, they were primarily located in the dorsal portion. Neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and galanin-like immunoreactivity were only seen in a few tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons of the subcoeruleus group. The data show that the peptide-containing locus coeruleus neurons have efferent projections to the spinal cord, hypothalamus and cerebral cortex. The locus coeruleus may be divided into functional subdivisions dependent on the region of the locus coeruleus, the neurotransmitter/neuropeptide(s) contained within the neurons and their efferent projections.
In order to learn what morphological substrate might underly the histochemical compartments of the neostriatum, sections of the caudate nucleus and the putamen of cats and ferrets were stained immunocytochemically with antisera directed against several neuropeptides and transmitter-related enzymes and were then Golgi-impregnated. Adjacent sections were stained to reveal acetylcholinesterase activity to identify the acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes. The immunostaining produced by several of the antibody preparations was in register with the acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes but the most prominent staining of these zones occurred with the antibodies directed against substance P. The striosomes were delineated by intense substance P-immunostaining of neuronal perikarya and dendrites, and in the rostral and dorsal caudate nucleus the boundary between substance P-immunostained and extrastriosomal matrix was abrupt. For these reasons we analysed Golgi-impregnated neurons in sections immunostained for substance P in order to assess the influence of the chemically defined striosomal architecture on the position and dendritic arborization of neurons located both within the striosomes and within the extrastriosomal matrix. The most commonly impregnated neurons were of the medium-size densely spiny class. Those that were present within the striosomes and lay within one dendritic radius of the boundary were divided into two types: (1) neurons whose dendritic arborization was apparently not influenced by the boundary and (2) neurons whose dendritic arborization was markedly influenced by the boundary. For neurons of the latter type, dendrites either emerged from the parts of the perikaryon away from the boundary, so avoiding crossing it, or they exhibited abrupt changes in their course, apparently to avoid crossing the boundary. Spiny neurons located in the extrastriosomal matrix but close to the striosomal boundary had dendrites that were either influenced by, or not influenced by the compartmental boundary. We conclude that there is a specific cytoarchitecture underlying the histochemical compartments of the neostriatum and that different sub-populations of medium-size spiny neurons underly (1) the segregation of information flow in striosomes and the extrastriosomal matrix and (2) communication between striosomes and the extrastriosomal matrix.
The long-term effects of applying capsaicin briefly to a cutaneous nerve in the rabbit have been assessed 10 days after treatment. No changes in C-fibre numbers were seen in treated saphenous nerves and the average ratio of C-fibres to A-fibres was close to 7 in both control and treated nerves. However, the substance P content of the skin innervated by the saphenous nerve fell by 46% after capsaicin treatment compared with a fall of 65% after nerve section. Plasma extravasation in response to 7.5% mustard oil applied to the skin was also reduced following capsaicin treatment (by 43%) and following denervation (by 47%), although the response to 25% mustard oil was unaffected by previous capsaicin treatment. Thus, as in other species that have been examined (notably the rat), brief capsaicin treatment of rabbit skin nerves leads to a reduction in a neurogenic inflammatory response and in substance P content of the skin. However, unlike the rat, there is no degeneration of C-fibres. In the rabbit it is therefore possible to separate the neurotoxic, degenerative action of capsaicin from its ability to deplete substance P. The question of whether a similar dissociation between neurotoxic and other actions could be achieved in the rat by using lower capsaicin concentrations remains to be answered.
In experiments on isolated intracellularly dialysed neurons of the snail Helix pomatia a component of delayed inactivating potassium outward current depending on the presence of Ca2+ ions in the extracellular medium has been distinguished, which differs from the already known potassium current sensitive to intracellular calcium ions. This component decreases with a decrease in extracellular calcium (in the range of 10(-2) - 10(-5) M); it is not affected or even increased by intracellular introduction of ethyleneglycolbis(aminoethylether)tetra-acetate (10 mM) or fluoride ions (77 mM) and can be blocked by addition of 1.5 mM cobalt ions to the extracellular solution. Contrary to the slow rising potassium current dependent on intracellular calcium, this current has a fast rising phase (several milliseconds) and time-dependent inactivation. The inactivation depends on extracellular potassium ions: it slowed down when [K+]out is increased in the range of 1-10 mM. Extracellular application of calmodulin blockers calmidazolium (6.5 X 10(-7) M) and chlorpromazine (2.5 X 10(-6) M) selectively inhibits the potassium current dependent on intracellular calcium but does not affect that dependent on external calcium. Tetraethylammonium (10 mM) depresses the latter current on both intra- and extracellular application, the former being more effective. The existence of a special type of potassium channel sensitive to extracellular calcium ions is postulated.
The 24-hour patterns of pain responsiveness and brain Met-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (MLI) were determined in male Wistar rats housed under a 12-hour light and dark cycle (lights on from 0700 hr to 1900 hr). A circadian rhythm was observed in latencies to hot plate test (55 degrees C), showing the peak level near the onset of the dark phase (2000 hr). Pretreatment with naloxone (5 mg/kg, subcutaneously) decreased the highest latency (2000 hr), but did not change the lowest latency (1100 hr). In the mesolimbic area and the striatum, MLI had a negative correlation with the circadian fluctuation in pain sensitivity. MLI at 2000 hr was reduced significantly compared to that at 1100 hr in the basal ganglia, the frontal cortex and the substantia nigra. These results suggest that the circadian variation in hot plate latencies follows a circadian change in the activity of the endogenous opioid peptides system, and that Met-enkephalin may participate in the enhancement of the opioid system in the brain.
Chromaffin cells were isolated from bovine adrenal medullae and maintained in primary culture. After prelabeling with 32PO4, exposure of the chromaffin cells to acetylcholine increased the phosphorylation of a Mr approximately equal to 100,000 protein and a Mr approximately equal to 60,000 protein (tyrosine hydroxylase), visualized after separation of total cellular proteins in naDodSO4/polyacrylamide gels. Immunoprecipitation with antibodies to three known phosphoproteins (&quot;100-kDa,&quot; &quot;87-kDa,&quot; and protein III) revealed an acetylcholine-dependent phosphorylation of these proteins. These three proteins were also shown to be present in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells by immunolabeling techniques. &quot;100-kDa&quot; is a Mr approximately equal to 100,000 protein selectively phosphorylated by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase III, &quot;87-kDa&quot; is a Mr approximately equal to 87,000 protein selectively phosphorylated by protein kinase C, and protein III is a phosphoprotein doublet of Mr approximately equal to 74,000 (IIIa) and Mr approximately equal to 55,000 (IIIb) phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I. Furthermore, 100-kDa was shown to be identical to the Mr approximately equal to 100,000 protein whose phosphorylation was increased by acetylcholine treatment. The acetylcholine-dependent increase in phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase, 100-kDa, 87-kDa, and protein III required extracellular calcium and was mimicked by nicotine, veratridine, elevated K+, and calcium ionophore A23187, but not by muscarine. In addition, forskolin increased the phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase, 100-kDa, and protein III, but not that of 87-kDa. Phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate increased the phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase, 87-kDa, and protein III, but not that of 100-kDa. The data demonstrate that cholinergic activation of chromaffin cells increases the phosphorylation of several proteins and that several protein kinase systems may be involved in these effects.
Male and female Fischer 344 rats, 12 or 26-28 months of age, received two sessions of Pavlovian heart rate conditioning, and were compared with same-sex and same-age controls receiving unpaired presentations of the tone conditional stimulus (CS) and the shock unconditional stimulus (US). Older rats of both sexes demonstrated slower acquisition of the heart rate (HR) conditioned response (CR), and smaller magnitude changes than did the younger animals. Control experiments in 6-, 12-, 24-, and 30-month-old animals indicated that these differences were not due to an impaired sensitivity to the CS or US in the older animals. Results are discussed in terms of their implications for use of this animal model in investigations of age-related deficits in associative learning.



Single smooth muscle cells were isolated from circular muscle of the canine gastric corpus by collagenase incubation. Cytoplasmic pH (pHi) of these cells was measured fluorometrically using the trapped dye 2',7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5,6-carboxyfluorescein. Cells were examined for their Na+/H+ exchange activity after intracellular acidification. Cells acid-loaded by propionate exposure, the NH4+ prepulse technique or suspension in a Na+-depleted medium regained almost normal pHi upon exposure to a Na+ medium. The Na+-dependent alkalinization was amiloride sensitive. As well, addition of amiloride to cells suspended in a Na+ medium caused a concurrent decrease in pHi. The study indicates that a Na+/H+ antiport is present in these smooth muscle cells.
Multiple-unit activity (MUA) in the agranular medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) was recorded in conscious rabbits during a classical conditioning procedure involving repeated pairings of a 4-s tone conditioned stimulus (CS) with eye shock. Prior to behavioral training, significant tone-evoked increases in prefrontal MUA were observed; the magnitude of this evoked cortical discharge declined with repeated presentations of the tone alone. However, the first few paired presentations of tone with eye shock served to rapidly reestablish the evoked activity, and subsequent pairings resulted in a significant enhancement of CS-evoked discharge, relative to pretraining response levels. These associative training-induced changes in prefrontal MUA appeared to parallel the development of bradycardiac conditioned responses (CRs), and, in fact, significant correlations between the neuronal and behavioral responses were observed. In contrast to these associative effects, non-associative training procedures involving either unpaired presentations of tone and eye shock or repeated presentations of the tone alone resulted in progressive attenuation of tone-evoked MUA, relative to pretraining levels. We had previously reported that bilateral destruction of the medial PFC seriously compromises the development of discriminative heart rate CRs in the rabbit. In light of this finding, our present results lend further support to the suggestion that associative training-induced changes in CS-evoked neuronal activity in this cortical region contribute, at least in part, to the development of learned cardiovascular adjustments in this animal.
A large body of experimental literature has demonstrated that neonatal infraorbital nerve damage in rodents produces anatomical and/or functional alterations of the normal whisker representation in central trigeminal structures. Less is known about the organization of primary afferent components of the trigeminal system following this manipulation. Such information provides an important basis for interpreting the central changes observed following damage of infraorbital nerve fibers at birth. We have therefore examined the composition and order of peripheral innervation in the pathway from the trigeminal ganglion to the vibrissa follicles in adult rats subjected to unilateral neonatal infraorbital nerve transection. Electron microscopy was used to determine the number and diameter of myelinated and unmyelinated fibers in vibrissa follicle nerves of these animals. Wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase and fluorescent retrograde tracers were employed to examine the number and diameter, as well as the topographic organization and branching, of ganglion cells innervating the vibrissae in these rats. The data presented below indicate that neonatal infraorbital nerve transection has the following consequences within the adult trigeminal nerve and ganglion: 1) an alteration of the gross morphology of vibrissal nerves, 2) a significant reduction in the average number (85.4%) and diameter (32.6%) of myelinated, but not unmyelinated, follicle nerve axons, 3) a significant decrease in the average number (36.8%) of trigeminal ganglion cells innervating vibrissa follicles, 4) no significant change in the distribution of ganglion cell diameters, 5) an increase in peripheral branching (1.8-fold) of these ganglion cell axons, and 6) an alteration of somatotopic order within the trigeminal ganglion. Taken together, these data indicate that neonatal infraorbital nerve transection produces a profound reorganization of the primary afferent component of the trigeminal neuraxis.


The metabolic and functional viability of synaptosomes was examined in 5 subcellular fractions obtained after centrifugation of an S1 fraction from rat cerebral cortex on a discontinuous Percoll gradient (Brain Research, this volume, 1987). Fraction 4 was the most enriched for viable synaptosomes since, although it accounted for only 11.8% of the total protein recovered from the gradient, this fraction contained 23.7% of the basal synapsin I phosphorylation activity, the greatest degree of depolarisation-stimulated increase in synapsin I phosphorylation, 36.1% of the total [3H]noradrenaline uptake capacity and 46.9% of the total [3H]noradrenaline release capacity. Noradrenaline release from fraction 4 was consistent with a neuronal mechanism as it was increased with increasing K+ concentrations and was dependent on calcium. Fractions 1 and 2 contained few viable synaptosomes as judged by their capacity for noradrenaline uptake and release, yet these fractions accounted for some 62.6% of the endogenous content of noradrenaline. In part their lack of viability was due to a low content of intrasynaptosomal mitochondria, while their high content of endogenous noradrenaline was due to the presence of synaptic vesicles released from damaged nerve terminals. The synaptosomes in fraction 3 were metabolically and functionally viable, but their capacity for uptake and release of noradrenaline was lower than for fraction 4. The synaptosomes in fraction 5 showed only a small depolarisation-stimulated release of noradrenaline, suggesting a lack of viability. Part of the capacity for uptake of [3H]noradrenaline into fraction 5 was attributed to the presence of extrasynaptosomal mitochondria.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A method for preparation of synaptosomes from rat cerebral cortex, on a discontinuous Percoll gradient, was previously developed for use with a P2 pellet (Brain Research, 372 (1986) 115-129). Here the Percoll method has been adapted for use with an S1-supernatant which eliminates a potentially damaging resuspension step and saves over 30 min, representing a third of the total preparation time. The homogeneity of the synaptosomes in each of the 5 subcellular fractions obtained with the S1-Percoll method was determined biochemically by analysis of the distribution of total protein, myelin basic protein, synapsin I and pyruvate dehydrogenase across the gradient. Electron microscopy was also used to determine the homogeneity of the synaptosomes, as well as to determine their morphological characteristics. Fraction 4 was the most enriched in synaptosomes and contained the lowest level of contamination by myelin, extrasynaptosomal mitochondria and plasma membranes. The yield of synaptosomes in fraction 4 with the S1-Percoll method was 1.4-fold greater than with the P2-Percoll method. While all other fractions contained some synaptosomes the major additional content in fractions 1-3 and 5 was, respectively, unidentified small membranes, myelin, synaptic plasma membranes and extrasynaptosomal mitochondria. Fraction 1 was enriched for very small synaptosomes (0.34 micron mean diameter) only 8% of which contained mitochondria, while fractions 2-4 progressively included larger synaptosomes containing more mitochondria. Fraction 5 synaptosomes were approximately the same size as those in fraction 4 (0.63 micron mean diameter), but 83% contained mitochondria, significantly more than in fraction 4. The synaptosomes in fraction 5 were found to be relatively resistant to hypotonic lysis, explaining a previously observed lack of phosphorylation of synapsin I in this fraction. The differences in homogeneity and morphological characteristics of the synaptosomes in fractions 1-5 suggest that the basis for their fractionation on Percoll gradients is different from that achieved with the more traditional procedures for isolating synaptosomes and that unique synaptosomal fractions are obtained with the S1-Percoll procedure.

The distribution of cells in the rostral medial mesencephalon and caudal diencephalon which project to the vestibular complex was mapped in the cat by using retrograde axonal transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). Subsequent experiments using anterograde transport of WGA-HRP clarified the position of the terminations of the mesodiencephalic-derived afferents in the vestibular complex. After large injections which involved the entire vestibular complex, retrogradely labeled cells were seen in both the ipsilateral and contralateral interstitial nucleus of Cajal (INC) and were more numerous in its rostral pole. Labeled cells also occurred in the perifascicular region, both immediately adjacent to the fasciculus retroflexus and rostroventral to it. Fusiform midline cells of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus were also labeled, as well as a number of cells in the adjacent somatic portion of the oculomotor complex (OMC). Another group of labeled cells was observed within the contralateral medial terminal nucleus of the accessory optic tract (MTN) and in the posterior hypothalamic nucleus. Injections limited to subregions of the vestibular complex resulted in similar but slightly varying distributions and numbers of retrogradely labeled cells. After injections covering the caudal half of the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) and descending vestibular nucleus (DVN), labeled cells in the INC and tegmentum dorsal to it were especially prominent, but none was seen in the MTN or OMC. Injections placed in the rostral MVN, lateral vestibular nucleus, y group, and superior vestibular nucleus resulted in a distribution of labeled cells similar to that seen following global vestibular injections, but these cells were fewer in number. After an injection confined to the y group, a small number of retrogradely labeled cells were seen in the rostral pole of the INC and immediately ventral to the fasciculus retroflexus. Projections from the rostral medial mesencephalon and caudal diencephalon to the MVN, DVN, and y group were confirmed by using anterograde transport of WGA-HRP. Direct projections from the INC-perifascicular regions and somatic neurons of the OMC to the caudal vestibular complex could play a role in eye-head coordination. Those projections from the rostral INC and MTN to the rostral vestibular complex may play a role in vertical eye movements and responses to visual stimuli which move in the vertical plane.
Distributions of neurons located in the central rostral mesencephalon and caudal diencephalon that project to the upper cervical spinal cord, vestibular nuclei, or inferior olive were studied in the cat by using retrograde axonal transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). Afferent sources to all of these targets were observed in the interstitial nucleus of Cajal (INC), the region surrounding the fasciculus retroflexus (PF), and the nucleus of the fields of Forel (NFF). Three-dimensional reconstruction revealed differences in densities of cells projecting from these common areas. Spinal projecting cells were present in slightly greater numbers in the caudal two-thirds of the INC, whereas those projecting to the vestibular complex were more numerous in the rostral two-thirds of this nucleus. A relatively smaller number of olivary projecting cells were dispersed throughout the INC. Olivary afferent sources outnumber those with spinally directed or vestibularly directed axons in the PF region. In the fields of Forel, cells projecting to the vestibular nuclei or inferior olive were concentrated medially, whereas cells projecting to the spinal cord appeared both medially and laterally. Each type of afferent source was also seen in the nucleus of the posterior commissure and the posterior ventral lateral hypothalamic area. Unique sources of afferents to the inferior olive were observed in the parvicellular red nucleus (ipsilateral to the injections) and the anterior and posterior pretectal nuclei. A large number of labeled neurons was seen in the nucleus of Darkschewitsch after injections of tracer into the inferior olive, but this projection did not appear to be unique, as small numbers of labeled cells were also seen after injections into the cervical spinal cord. The Edinger-Westphal nucleus and the adjacent somatic oculomotor nucleus contained cells which projected separately to the spinal cord or the vestibular complex, and the superior colliculus contained cells which projected separately to the contralateral spinal cord or the contralateral inferior olive. In this study, it was also noted that neurons in the medial terminal nucleus of the accessory optic tract projected to the ipsilateral inferior olive or to the contralateral vestibular complex. These differences in locations and densities of cells projecting to the cervical spinal cord, vestibular complex, and inferior olive may underlie functional specializations in these areas in relation to vertical eye and head movement control and to neural systems controlling postural adjustments accompanying limb movements.
The organization of the rod spherule and of the horizontal cell axon terminals within the invagination of the rod spherule in the human retina was examined in serial sections by electron microscopy. Twenty-one rod spherules were reconstructed in this study. Axon terminal processes of type I horizontal cells consistently make one or two small punctate synapses onto each rod spherule within the invagination. In addition, these axon terminal processes make distinct synapses upon rod bipolar dendrites outside the spherule before both processes enter the invagination. This is the first positive description of a synapse from a horizontal cell axon terminal process onto a photoreceptor terminal and the first identification of a synapse from a horizontal cell to a rod bipolar cell in the mammalian outer plexiform layer. We speculate that the axon terminal-to-rod synapse is responsible for feedback while the synapse upon the rod bipolar cell is feed-forward and serves to expand the receptive field of the rod bipolar cell beyond its dendritic field. Alternatively, the latter may contribute to a center-surround organization of the rod bipolar's receptive field.
Glutamate activates high (40-50 pS) and low (5-15 pS) conductance cationic channels in outside-out patches excised from cultured cortical and cerebellar granule neurons of neonatal rats. In these neurons, the excitatory amino acid N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) activates mainly high conductance channels. Phencyclidine (PCP) at 2 microM selectively reduces the number of NMDA-activated channel openings, at 20 microM it reduces the channel open-time. Glycine increases the opening frequency of high conductance NMDA-activated channels. This action is counteracted by PCP. This inhibition by PCP can be eliminated by reversing the polarity of the membrane patch. However, the effect of glycine is voltage independent. These results imply different sites of action for these two modulators.
Exchange assays have often been used to quantitate steroid receptors when endogenous ligands are present; however, there are no reports of their successful application to activated glucocorticoid-Type II receptor complexes. In addition to investigating the reasons for this failure, the present study also examined the effects of progesterone on glucocorticoid dissociation from, and reassociation with unactivated and activated Type II receptors. Molybdate-stabilized brain cytosol from adrenal-ovariectomized mice was incubated with [3H]dexamethasone ( +/- [1H]DEX) for 40 h at 0 degree C. Afterwards free steroid was removed on Sephadex G-25 columns in the presence (unactivated receptors) or absence (activated receptors) of molybdate. Activation, as measured by DNA-cellulose binding, was achieved by incubating molybdate-free cytosol at 22 degrees C for 20 min followed by G-25 filtration in the presence of molybdate. The rates of dissociation and reassociation were then measured by incubating cytosol with [1H]triamcinolone acetonide (TA) or [3H]TA ( +/- [1H]TA) at 12 degrees C. An exchange assay was also employed in which cytosol was incubated first with [1H]DEX for 40 h at 0 degree C followed by bound-free steroid separations and 12 degrees C incubations with [3H]TA ( +/- [1H]TA). Both approaches revealed that even though activation reduced the rate of DEX dissociation from Type II receptors by 40%, it eliminated the ability of the newly unoccupied receptors to rebind glucocorticoid. Adding [1H]progesterone to occupied receptor preparations increased dissociation rate constants by nearly 3-fold, for both unactivated and activated Type II receptors. Since [1H]TA failed to prevent this effect, progesterone appears to act at an allosteric site(s) which cannot be occupied by glucocorticoids. Exchange assays revealed that progesterone-facilitated dissociation increased the rate of glucocorticoid rebinding to unactivated, but not activated Type II receptors. These results suggest that spontaneous and progesterone-facilitated termination of glucocorticoid genomic actions could be mediated by steroid dissociation since unoccupied activated Type II receptors do not rebind agonist steroid.
The influence of aging on the thermoregulatory effect of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) was studied in young (3-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) chloral hydrate-treated rats subjected either to normothermic (23 degrees C) or cold (4 degrees C) environment. Cerebroventricular injection of TRH (1 or 10 micrograms) or the TRH analog, CG 3509 (0.1 or 1 microgram), significantly enhanced the decline of body temperature in the young, anaesthetized rats, both in the normal and cold environments, but had no effect whatsoever on the decrease in body temperature in the chloral hydrate-treated aged animals. These results suggest that aging impairs the central mechanism(s) involved in the thermoregulatory action of TRH.
Single injection of acrylamide (1.3 mmol/kg, i.p.) inhibited retrograde axon transport of [125I]tetanus toxin in hen sensory and motor axons. Retrograde axon transport deficits appeared within hours of dosing with acrylamide. The inhibitory effect of acrylamide on retrograde axon transport was transient since transport deficits were not detectable 35 h after dosing. Acrylamide impaired the retrograde movement but not the uptake of [125I]tetanus toxin in the axon. Multiple doses of acrylamide (0.42 mmol/kg, i.p.) induced progressive clinical signs of acrylamide neuropathy that correlated with increasing deficits in retrograde axon transport of [125I]tetanus toxin to ventral spinal cord. Deficits were also observed in sensory neurons but were not statistically significant. Accumulated decrements in retrograde axon transport may be the underlying cause of degeneration of motor axons in acrylamide neuropathy in fowl.

Protein concentration and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities were assayed in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 26 healthy normal subjects (20-86 years old), 27 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), and 10 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type with extrapyramidal signs (EDAT). In normal subjects, there was an age-related increase in CSF protein and AChE activity and a significant correlation (p less than 0.001) between CSF protein and BChE activity. In the DAT and EDAT groups, CSF AChE activities (mean +/- SD = 17.5 +/- 3.6 and 15.3 +/- 4.4 nmol/min/ml, respectively) were significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than in 13 age-matched control subjects (21.5 +/- 5.6 nmol/min/ml). In contrast, neither CSF protein concentration, BChE activity, nor the ratio of AChE/BChE differed significantly between groups. In patients with DAT, CSF AChE activity was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in subjects with an early onset compared to those with a late onset (16.4 +/- 3.4 and 19.7 +/- 2.8 nmol/min/ml, respectively), and activity in the latter group did not differ significantly from control values. CSF AChE activity was not related to dementia severity and did not change significantly over an 18-month period. Although these results confirm a cholinergic deficit in patients with DAT, the considerable overlap of CSF AChE activity between groups and the nonsignificant correlation between AChE activity and dementia severity limit the usefulness of CSF AChE as a diagnostic marker of this disorder.
Postmortem examination was performed on 137 residents (average age 85.5 years) of a skilled nursing facility whose mental status, memory, and functional status had been evaluated during life. Seventy-eight percent were demented using conservative criteria; 55% had characteristic Alzheimer's disease. Choline acetyltransferase and somatostatin were significantly reduced in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease as compared with age-matched nursing home control subjects, although the degree of the reduction was less severe than found in subjects less than 80 years of age. Ten subjects whose functional and cognitive performance was in the upper quintile of the nursing home residents, as good as or better than the performance of the upper quintile of residents without brain pathology (control subjects), showed the pathological features of mild Alzheimer's disease, with many neocortical plaques. Plaque counts were 80% of those of demented patients with Alzheimer's disease. Choline acetyltransferase and somatostatin levels were intermediate between controls and demented patients with Alzheimer's disease. The unexpected findings in these subjects were higher brain weights and greater number of neurons (greater than 90 micron 2 in a cross-sectional area in cerebral cortex) as compared to age-matched nursing home control subjects. These people may have had incipient Alzheimer's disease but escaped loss of large neurons, or alternatively, started with larger brains and more large neurons and thus might be said to have had a greater reserve.
Head movements induced by motor cortex stimulation in the cat are accompanied by variations in the vertical force exerted by each limb. These postural responses were found to show stereotyped patterns: with head dorsiflexions an increase was observed in the force exerted by the anterior limbs and a decrease at the posterior limb level. From comparison between the latencies of the force variations, the beginning of head acceleration, and EMG activity in the limb extensor muscles, it was concluded that triggering of these postural responses is not reflex, but depends on the same command as the movement itself. This early response might be a means of avoiding the downward movement of the trunk which would otherwise result from the reaction force corresponding to the upward head movement.
1. An inositol monophosphatase was purified to homogeneity from bovine brain. 2. The enzyme is a dimer of subunit Mr 29,000. 3. The enzyme hydrolyses both enantiomers of myo-inositol 1-phosphate and both enantiomers of myo-inositol 4-phosphate, but has no activity towards inositol bisphosphates, inositol trisphosphates or inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate. 4. Several non-inositol-containing monophosphates are also substrates. 5. The enzyme requires Mg2+ for activity, and Zn2+ supports activity to a small extent. 6. Other bivalent cations (including Zn2+) are inhibitors, competitive with Mg2+. 7. Phosphate, but not inositol, is an inhibitor competitive with substrate. 8. Li+ inhibits hydrolysis of inositol 1-phosphate and inositol 4-phosphate uncompetitively with different apparent Ki values (1.0 mM and 0.26 mM respectively).
We have studied the effect of a calcium ionophore, A23187, and the purported calmodulin inhibitors, calmidazolium and chlorpromazine, on direct intercellular communication between smooth muscle cells in the myometrium of delivering rats. The extent of cell-to-cell coupling was determined by exposing one portion of small strips of longitudinal myometrium to 2-[3H] deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) and determining the distribution and apparent diffusion coefficient (Da) for this tracer after a 5-h period for diffusion. The distribution and Da for 2-DG were significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced by exposure to A23187 in Krebs-Ringer solution with 2.5 mM Ca++, partially reduced in Krebs solution with A23187 and low Ca++ (1-10 microM), but the drug had no effect when used with Ca++-free solutions with [ethylenebis (oxyethylene-nitrilo)] tetraacetic acid (EGTA). The calmodulin inhibitors blocked the effects of A23187 in a dose-dependent fashion, and at higher concentrations, the extent of 2-DG diffusion was not different from that in control tissues. Surprisingly, however, a dose-dependent reduction in coupling was also observed in tissues exposed to the calmodulin inhibitors alone. Structural studies failed to reveal any change in the area of gap junctions between the myometrial cells following the above treatments, suggesting that the reduced exchange of 2-DG resulted from a decrease in the permeability of gap junctions between the muscle fibers.
In our accompanying paper (Inouye and Kirschner, 1988) we calculated the surface charge density at the extracellular surfaces in peripheral and central nervous system (PNS; CNS) myelins from observations on the dependency of the width of the extracellular space on pH and ionic strength. Here, we have determined the surface charge density of the membrane surfaces in myelin from its chemical composition and the localization of some of its molecular components. We then analyzed the attractive and repulsive forces between the apposed surfaces and calculated equilibrium periods for comparison with the measured values. The biochemical model accounts for the observed isoelectric range of the myelin period and, with the surface charge reduced (possibly by divalent cation binding or a space charge approximation), the model also accounts for the dependency of period on pH above the isoelectric range. At the extracellular (and cytoplasmic) surfaces the contribution of lipid (with pI approximately 2) to the net surface charge is about the same in both PNS and CNS myelin, whereas the contribution of protein depends on which ones are exposed at the two surfaces. The protein conformation and localization modulate the surface charge of the lipid, resulting in positively-charged cytoplasmic surfaces (pI approximately 9) and negatively-charged extracellular surfaces (pI approximately 2-4). The net negative charge at the extracellular surface is due in CNS myelin to lipid, and in PNS myelin to both lipid and (PO) glycoprotein. The net positive charge at the cytoplasmic surface is due in CNS myelin mostly to basic protein, and in PNS myelin to PO glycoprotein and basic protein. The invariance of the cytoplasmic packing may be due to specific short-range interactions. Our models demonstrate how the particular myelin proteins and their localization and conformation can account for the differences in inter-membrane interactions in CNS and PNS myelins.
We have used x-ray diffraction to study the interactions between myelin membranes in the sciatic nerve (PNS) and optic nerve (CNS) as a function of pH (2-10) and ionic strength (0-0.18). The period of myelin was found to change in a systematic manner with pH and ionic strength. PNS periods ranged from 165 to 250 A or more, while CNS periods ranged from 150 to 230 A. The native periods were observed only near physiological ionic strength at neutral or alkaline pH. The smallest periods were observed in the pH range 2.5-4 for PNS myelin and pH 2.5-5 for CNS myelin. The minimum period was also observed for PNS myelin after prolonged incubation in distilled water. At pH 4, within these acidic pH ranges, myelin period increased slightly with ionic strength; however, above these ranges, the period increased with pH and decreased with ionic strength. Electron density profiles calculated at different pH and ionic strength showed that the major structural alteration underlying the changes in period was in the width of the aqueous space at the extracellular apposition of membranes; the width of the cytoplasmic space was virtually constant. Assuming that the equilibrium myelin periods are determined by a balance of nonspecific forces/i.e., the electrostatic repulsion force and the van der Walls attractive force, as well as the short-range repulsion force (hydration force, or steric stabilization), then values in the period-dependency curve can be used to define the isoelectric pH and exclusion length of the membrane. The exclusion length, which is related to the minimum period at isoelectric pH, was used to calculate the electrostatic repulsion force given the other forces. The electrostatic repulsion was then used to calculate the surface potential, which in turn was used to calculate the surface charge density (at different pH and ionic strength). We found the negative surface charge increases with pH at constant ionic strength and with ionic strength at constant pH. We suggest that the former is due to deprotonation of the ionizable groups on the surface while the latter is due to ion binding. Interpretation of our data in terms of the chemical composition of myelin is given in the accompanying paper (Inouye and Kirschner, 1988). We also calculated the total potential energy functions for the different equilibrium periods and found that the energy minima became shallower and broader with increasing membrane separation. Finally, it was difficult to account directly for certain structural transitions from a balance of nonspecific forces. Such transitions included the abrupt appearance of the native period at alkaline pH and physiological ionic strength and the discontinuous compaction after prolonged treatment in distilled water. Possibly, in PNS myelin conformational modification of PO glycoprotein occurs under these conditions. The invariance of the cytoplasmic space suggests the presence of specific short-range interactions between surfaces at this apposition.

1. Radioligand binding assays using [3H]-N-methylscopolamine (NMS) and [3H]-oxotremorine M (Oxo-M) have been devised to predict the efficacy of test compounds at muscarinic receptors in rat cerebral cortex. 2. Muscarinic antagonists, including non-selective and both M1- and M2-selective compounds, displayed similar affinity for both binding assays. 3. Full agonists such as carbachol and muscarine possessed a ratio of potencies against the antagonist versus the agonist ligand (NMS/Oxo-M ratio) of greater than 4000. 4. Compounds which have been shown previously to display partial agonist activity in functional assays e.g. pilocarpine and RS86 had intermediate NMS/Oxo-M ratios of 100-150. A second group of compounds which included oxotremorine had somewhat higher ratios (500-1400). 5. The ratio of affinity constants for the two assays predicted the ability of agonists to stimulate cortical phosphatidyl-inositol turnover. 6. These results suggest that the NMS/Oxo-M ratio may be a useful prediction of efficacy for novel compounds acting at cortical muscarinic receptors.
1. Using the rat superior cervical ganglion in vitro, the relative efficacy of nicotinic synaptic transmission was estimated by recording the postganglionic compound action potential and the amount of endogenous acetylcholine (ACh) released. These two parameters were correlated in individual ganglia by sampling the bathing medium for the assay of ACh while simultaneously recording the postganglionic response. 2. The beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoprenaline potentiated both the evoked release of ACh and the postganglionic response by about 20% during preganglionic stimulation at 0.2 Hz. 3. The adenosine receptor agonist 2-chloroadenosine inhibited ACh release and the postganglionic response by about 35%. 4. Tetanic preganglionic stimulation for a few seconds induced a long-term potentiation of nicotinic responses and of ACh release. Both of these potentiations were dependent upon extracellular Ca2+ during the tetani. 5. Forskolin and analogues of cyclic AMP also caused a long-lasting potentiation of both the evoked release of ACh and the postganglionic response, indicating that cyclic AMP may regulate transmission by a presynaptic mechanism. The specificity of the cyclic AMP analogues was tested using various butyryl- and bromo-purine nucleotides. 6. The effects of forskolin and 8-bromo-cyclic AMP did not appear to be dependent upon extracellular Ca2+. 7. The potentiation caused by forskolin was consistently augmented by three phosphodiesterase inhibitors--AH 21-132, papaverine and SQ 20-006. However, the effect of forskolin was not consistently enhanced by theophylline, nor was it reduced by the adenylate cyclase inhibitor SQ 22-536. 8. The neurogenic long-term potentiation was augmented by two of the phosphodiesterase inhibitors that also augmented the forskolin-induced potentiation--papaverine and SQ 20-006. 9. It was concluded that cyclic AMP can enhance nicotinic transmission, and can do so by increasing the evoked release of ACh. However, it was not possible to prove that cyclic AMP mediates the long-term potentiation induced by tetanic preganglionic stimulation.
Eye-head coordination was measured in patients with Parkinson's disease as they made horizontal gaze shifts in response to predictable and unpredictable target steps and to targets moving smoothly with either constant or sinusoidally varying velocity. Patients preferred not to move their heads for both large and small amplitude gaze shifts. Both eye and head movement reaction times were prolonged. Saccades were hypometric and, frequently, slow. Head movements were also slow, hypometric, and varied in amplitude for target shifts of a given amplitude. Compensatory eye movements (CEMs) that normally stabilize gaze direction during head movement varied in gain from zero to greater than unity, and often drove the eyes off target. CEM abnormalities occurred most commonly in patients with abnormal vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) gain in darkness. We attribute these abnormalities of programming combined eye-head saccades to dysfunction of striatonigralcollicular circuits. Smooth gaze pursuit gain, the ratio of gaze velocity to target velocity, was lowered in patients while tracking sinusoidal targets at 0.3, 0.5 and 1.0 Hz. Some patients could track these targets with the head fixed but not with the head free. We attribute this to abnormal suppression of the vestibuloocular reflex. The results indicate that Parkinson's disease impairs motor programming of coordinated eye-head gaze saccades and disrupts normal interaction between head movement and the VOR.
A light microscopic study and cell counts of the inferior olivary nucleus (ION) were performed in the Purkinje cell degeneration mutant mouse (pcd/pcd). Six groups of animals aged from 24 to 210 days were studied and compared to age matched (+/+) C57Bl.6J mice. A cell deficit of about 30% was found in the youngest animals studied; it did not change significantly with age. The deficit affects the 4 subnuclei of the ION, but predominates clearly in the medial accessory olive. This cell loss is already established at the moment when the massive loss of Purkinje cells that has been reported in this mutant occurs. Thus it is not yet known if the ION represents a primary site of gene action or if the deficit is secondary to another cellular event, presumably the loss of Purkinje cells.
We have recently demonstrated that following injury of their axon, sympathetic neurons of the rat superior cervical ganglion become dependent on polyamine synthesis for their survival. In addition we have observed that the treatment of newborn rats with biogenic polyamines can prevent the naturally occurring reduction in the number of neurons in the ganglion. In the present study groups of newborn rats were subjected to either postganglionic nerve crush (axotomy) or to treatment with antiserum to nerve growth factor (immunosympathectomy), two treatments which result in a massive loss of neurons in the ganglion. Daily injections of the polyamines putrescine, spermidine and spermine (10 mg/kg each), for 7 days after the operation to the axotomized group, and for 9 days starting with the first antiserum injection to the immunosympathectomized group, attenuated the nerve cell loss. The polyamine treatment also attenuated the reduction in the activity of the neurotransmitter-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase observed after both axotomy and immunosympathectomy in the ganglion. These results further indicate that polyamines are important for the survival of sympathetic neurons and, while their mechanism of action is unknown, an interaction with nerve growth factor regulation cannot be excluded. In the iris, the reduction observed in [3H]norepinephrine uptake after the two noxious treatments was unproportionately small when compared to the large drop in the number of parent neurons in the ganglion. This suggests that compensatory mechanisms exist which act to adjust the number of functional axon terminals per neuron so that the number of terminals innervating the target remains relatively constant.
LHRH-containing neurons within the hypothalamus were immunocytochemically identified in adult male ferrets that were either gonadally intact, castrated, or castrated and treated with testosterone. The distribution of LHRH-immunopositive neuron cell bodies was similar in the three treatment groups. The majority of these cells was located mediobasally in the retrochiasmatic area, including some within the ventrolateral aspects of the arcuate nucleus. These soma were associated with a dense basal LHRH fiber plexus which extended to the median eminence. A smaller number of cell bodies was found slightly more dorsal and lateral to the major concentration at the base and midline. Isolated LHRH perikarya were occasionally observed in dorsal areas of the hypothalamus. There were no differences in the mean total number of hypothalamic LHRH cell bodies identified in the three treatment groups. These results indicate that the documented negative feedback effects of testosterone on LH secretion in male ferrets are not the result of an alteration in the absolute number of neurons capable of synthesizing LHRH.
In order to determine whether disturbances in GABA homeostasis might play a role in the pathogenesis of sepsis-related encephalopathy, serum and brain tissue GABA concentrations from six areas of the brain (cortex, diencephalon, striatum, hippocampus, midbrain, and pons-medulla) were determined in a rat model of bacterial sepsis (cecal ligation and perforation). The results were compared to those obtained from sham operated control animals. All septic animals demonstrated clinical signs of encephalopathy and had elevated serum GABA levels (0.92 +/- 0.3 uM versus 0.48 +/- 0.15 in controls, p less than 0.01). GABA content in the specific subcompartments of the brain, however, were similar in the two groups. These results indicate that although serum GABA levels are elevated during sepsis, GABA is unlikely to play an important role in the pathogenesis of sepsis-related encephalopathy.
Four patients with Multicore Myopathy, a rare morphologically distinct myopathy, are described. Although previously considered to be a non-progressive or only slowly progressive myopathy, progression to significant disability was seen in three of our cases. The association of cardiac disease with Multicore Myopathy has not been previously emphasised. All four patients in this study had a cardiomyopathy, and heart disease was the cause of death in two of the patients. Multicore Myopathy is not always a benign entity. Cardiac involvement, when present, adversely affects prognosis.

The radioligand [125I-Tyro]ovine CRF [( 125I] oCRF) was used to identify, characterize, and localize CRF receptors in a crude homogenate of mouse spleen. The binding was linear with increasing membrane protein concentration, saturable, and of high affinity. Scatchard analysis of [125I]oCRF saturation curves revealed a high affinity component with an apparent dissociation constant of 0.26 nM and a maximum receptor concentration of 8.74 fmol/mg protein. The relative affinities of various CRF-related and unrelated peptides at the [125I]oCRF-binding site in spleen correlate well with their reported potencies in eliciting ACTH release from the pituitary and their relative affinities for CRF receptors in brain. Consistent with a coupling of splenic CRF receptors to a guanine nucleotide regulatory protein, the binding of [125I]oCRF was increased by magnesium ions and decreased by guanine nucleotides in both mouse spleen and brain. Saturation analysis of [125I]oCRF binding at 0, 1, and 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MgCl2 plus 200 microM GTP, and 10 mM MgCl2 plus 50 microM 5'-guanylimidodiphosphate indicated that high affinity [125I]oCRF binding in both brain and spleen requires Mg2+; however, subtle differences were observed in the degree of sensitivity and mechanisms by which Mg2+ and guanine nucleotides regulated specific binding of [125I]oCRF to brain and spleen. Autoradiographic studies indicated that [125I]oCRF-binding sites were primarily localized to the red pulp and marginal zone regions of the spleen, which are known to contain high concentrations of macrophages. The absence of [125I]oCRF-binding sites in the periarteriolar and peripheral follicular white pulp regions suggests that neither T nor B lymphocytes have specific CRF-binding sites. In summary, we have identified a high affinity, magnesium-dependent, and guanine nucleotide-sensitive binding site for CRF in mouse spleen which appears to be localized primarily in splenic macrophages.
Binocular summation of contrast and stereopsis have been linked because they both disappear under certain pathological conditions. The dependence of stereopsis on spatial frequency prompted us to examine how binocular summation varies with both spatial frequency and binocular disparity. We therefore measured binocular summation at different disparities using spatially localized stimuli which were also restricted in their Fourier composition. Contrast thresholds were measured using three interleaved forced-choice staircases for left and right eye monocular stimuli and a binocular stimulus composed of the two monocular stimuli presented simultaneously. At zero disparity binocular thresholds were 1.4 to 1.6 times lower than monocular. As disparity was increased the ratio between the thresholds became smaller, such that at large disparities it was near 1.2, the value expected from probability summation. The range of disparities over which probability summation was exceeded varied with the spatial frequency of the stimulus. At 6.0 cpd the range was 2-3 deg, but at 2.0 cpd or 0.75 cpd the range increased to 4-6 deg. These values closely parallel the range of disparities over which stereoscopic depth sensations occur, but they exceed the limits within which disparate images of an object can be fused into a single percept. The results support the contentions that &quot;neural&quot; summation occurs in the mechanism for stereopsis, that this mechanism uses spatial frequency selective channels, and that this mechanism is separate from the mechanism which mediates fusion.
The functional area of optometry assumes plasticity of the neurological input to the visual system. This paper reviews the literature which investigates adult visual system plasticity. Literature on development of the visual system, as well as adult central nervous system plasticity, provides additional inferences. A discussion is presented suggesting that there exists a multiplicity of sensitivity periods within the visual system.
The effects of the glutamate N-methyl-D aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, MK-801, upon ischemic brain damage has been examined in anesthetized cats. Focal cerebral ischemia was produced by permanent occlusion of one middle cerebral artery and the animal were killed 6 h later. The amount of early ischemic damage was assessed in coronal sections at 16 predetermined stereotactic planes. Pretreatment with MK-801 (5 mg/kg, i.v.), 30 min before occlusion of the middle cerebral artery significantly reduced the volume of ischemic damage (from 32.7 +/- 4.0% of the cerebral hemisphere in vehicle-treated cats to 16.2 +/- 4.5% in MK-801-treated cats). NMDA receptor antagonists that penetrate the blood-brain barrier, such as MK-801, merit further study as protective agents against ischemic brain damage.
In the guinea pig with chronically implanted electrodes, neuronal multiple unit activity (MUA) was recorded inside and outside the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Long-term recording of the SCN indicated distinct daily rhythms with a daytime peak in MUA during a 24-h light-dark (LD 12:12) cycle. On the other hand, MUA recorded from adjacent hypothalamic regions outside the SCN showed a phase reversal with a nighttime peak, similarly to the rat. The amplitude of the rhythms recorded outside the SCN was much smaller (one-half to one-quarter) than that inside the SCN. These rhythms persisted during constant darkness indicating characteristics of endogenous circadian rhythmicity. When the external light-dark cycle was delayed abruptly for 12 h, MUA rhythms showed a gradual phase shift taking 7-10 days for complete reentrainment. Overt behavior including sleep-wakefulness did not show significant and consistent daily or circadian rhythms in spite of the distinct oscillation in neuronal activity inside the SCN.

We examined the effects of extracellular and intracellular pH changes on the influx of radioactive 45Ca, the concentration of ionized Ca (pCai) as monitored with the Ca-sensitive fluorescent indicator fura-2, and the efflux of dopamine in presynaptic nerve endings (synaptosomes) isolated from rat brain corpora striata and preloaded with [3H]dopamine. Cytosolic pH (pHi) was monitored by loading the synaptosomes with the H+-sensitive fluorescent indicator 2',7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5,6-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF) (see Nachshen, D. A., and P. Drapeau, 1988, Journal of General Physiology, 91:289-303). An abrupt decrease of the pH of the external medium, from 7.4 to 5.5, produced a slow decrease of pHi (over a 5-min period) from an initial value of 7.2 to a steady state level of approximately 5.8. When 20 mM acetate was present in acidic media, pHi dropped as fast as could be measured (within 2 s) to a level similar to that reached (more slowly) in the absence of acetate. It was therefore possible to lower pHi over short time periods to different levels depending on whether or not acetate was present upon extracellular acidification. Extracellular acidification to pH 5.5 (in the absence of acetate) had no significant effect on pCai and dopamine release over a 30-s period (pHi = 6.4). Acidification in the presence of acetate lowered pHi to 5.8 without affecting pCai, but dopamine efflux increased approximately 20-fold. This increase in basal dopamine release was also observed in the absence of extracellular Ca. Thus, intraterminal, but not extracellular, acidification could stimulate the efflux of dopamine in a Ca-independent manner. The high Q10 (3.6) of acid-stimulated dopamine efflux in the presence of nomifensine (which blocks the dopamine carrier) was consistent with an activation of vesicular dopamine release by H+. When synaptosomes were both depolarized for 2 s in high-K (77.5 mM) solutions and acidified (in the absence of acetate), there was a parallel block of 45Ca entry and evoked dopamine release (50% block at pH 6.0 with 0.2 mM external Ca). When acetate was included in the acidic media to further reduce pHi, Ca entry remained blocked, but evoked dopamine release was increased. Therefore, extracellular, but not cytosolic, acidification inhibited the release of dopamine by blocking voltage-gated Ca channels. The stimulation by cytosolic acidification of both basal and evoked dopamine release suggests that vesicular release in resting and depolarized synaptosomes was directly activated by cytoplasmic H+.
Preincubation of brain membranes with phospholipase A2 (PLA2) has been shown previously to affect the binding characteristics of various recognition sites associated with the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor complex. In the present study, we have investigated the effects of PLA2 (from Naja naja siamensis venom) on the functional activity of the GABA receptor/chloride ion channel. PLA2 (0.001-0.02 U/mg protein) preincubation decreased pentobarbital-induced 36Cl- efflux and muscimol-induced 36Cl- uptake in rat cerebral cortical synaptoneurosomes. The effect of PLA2 was prevented by EGTA and two nonselective PLA2 inhibitors, mepacrine and bromophenacyl bromide. The removal of free fatty acids by addition of bovine serum albumin both prevented and reversed the effect of PLA2. Products of the catalytic activity of PLA2, such as the unsaturated free fatty acids, arachidonic and oleic acids, mimicked the effect of PLA2. However, the saturated fatty acid, palmitic acid, and lysophosphatidyl choline had no effect on pentobarbital-induced 36Cl- efflux. Because unsaturated free fatty acids are highly susceptible to peroxidation by oxygen radicals, the role of oxygen radicals was investigated. Xanthine plus xanthine oxidase, a superoxide radical generating system, mimicked the effect of PLA2, whereas the superoxide radical scavenger, superoxide dismutase, diminished the effects of PLA2 and arachidonic acid on pentobarbital-induced 36Cl- efflux. Similarly, the effect of PLA2 was also inhibited by methanol (1 mM), a scavenger of the hydroxyl radical, and by catalase. These data indicate that exogenously added PLA2 induces alterations in membrane phospholipids, possibly promoting the generation of oxygen radicals and fatty acid peroxides which can ultimately modulate GABA/barbiturate receptor function in brain.
Between 3 and 4 days after transection of cat sciatic nerve, Schwann cell-associated premitotic activity spreads anterogradely along degenerating distal nerve stumps at a rate of approximately 200 mm/day. We investigated whether fast anterograde axonal transport contributes to the initiation of this component of Wallerian degeneration. Axonal transport was blocked in intact and transected cat sciatic nerves by focally chilling a proximal segment to temperatures below 11 degrees C for 24 hr. Incorporation of [3H]thymidine (a marker of premitotic DNA synthesis) was then measured 3 and 4 days posttransection in cold blocked- and control-degenerating nerves. Effects of cold block prior to and concomitant with nerve transection were studied. Results failed to support the hypothesis that Schwann-cell premitotic activity after axotomy is associated with entry into the axon of mitogenic substances and their anterograde fast transport along the distal stump. Instead, data suggested that progressive anterograde failure of fast anterograde transport distal to transection serves to effect the Schwann-cell premitotic response to axotomy.
Thy-1 antigen expression in the rat thymic myoid cell line R615B2 (Thy-1(+] and R613Ad (Thy-1(-] was studied with a semi-quantitative immunohistochemical assay without disrupting the cell cultures. With this assay, the quantity of Thy-1 antigen on R615B2 cells was detected separately in the cytoplasm and on the cell surface by the use of appropriate fixatives such as chilled ethanol and methanol + 0.3% H2O2. Extracellular Thy-1 antigen was also found in the culture supernatant of R615B2 cells. More than half of extracellular Thy-1 antigen remained in the supernatant even after 100,000 X g centrifugation. No form of Thy-1 antigen was detected at significant levels in R613Ad cells.
Active opioid receptors have been solubilized from bovine striatal synaptosomal membranes and purified approximately 4000-fold using a combination of affinity and hydroxyapatite chromatography. The affinity column was constructed by attaching hybromet, a newly synthesized opioid ligand with high affinity for the mu receptor, to a solid support matrix. A polyclonal antibody was generated to opioid receptors by injection of the purified receptor preparation into female New Zealand rabbits. The specificity of the antiserum was demonstrated by receptor competition and immunoprecipitation studies. Immunological titration of opioid binding activity from rat brain showed that the antibody was able to displace specific binding of [3H]etorphine (universal opioid) and [3H]dihydromorphine (mu opioid) from rat membranes, but was ineffective against the binding of [3H]ethylketocyclazocine (kappa [3H]D-Ala2,D-Leu5-enkephalin (delta opioid) or [3H]phencyclidine (phencyclidine/sigma receptor ligand). The antibody was able to precipitate the Mr 94,000 component of the 125I-labeled affinity-purified receptor, a finding which suggests that this subunit may be an opioid recognition component. By indirect immunofluorescence, the antibody was shown to bind specifically to the plasma membranes of the neurotumor cell line NCB-20 (neuroblastoma X Chinese hamster brain hybrid cells), which has high affinity opioid receptors. The observed fluorescence in the neuroblastoma cells was prevented by pre-adsorption of the antibody with purified receptor from rat brain. These results indicate that the antibody is specific for opioid receptors and may prove useful in the precise localization of opioid receptors in the central and peripheral nervous systems by immunohistochemical procedures.
Quantitative analysis of mitochondrial size and its percentage of total fibre volume in different muscle fibre types was performed on biceps brachii muscles of controls aged from 9 months to 10 years, and patients aged from 8 months to 14 years, with cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) deficiency confirmed by both histochemical and biochemical analyses. The disease was classified into 2 subgroups: one not containing ragged-red fibres (RRF) (group I), and one containing RRF (group II). Relationship between type 1 and 2 fibres in mitochondrial size and percentages of total fibre volume showed significant differences in the controls and group I. A comparison of the controls and group I did not show significant differences in mitochondrial size, but abnormally enlarged mitochondria were occasionally observed in the latter. In group I, statistical differences were observed in mitochondrial percentage of total fibre volume, though these differences remained in the control range, suggesting the presence of mild morphological changes in mitochondria on electron microscopy. In group II, mitochondrial size and its percentage of total fibre volume were markedly increased in both type 1 and 2 fibres, with no statistical differences observed between the 2 fibre types.
A cDNA clone for the mRNA of bovine DARPP-32 (dopamine- and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 32,000) was isolated from a modified Okayama-Berg plasmid library. Transformed Escherichia coli colonies were screened by in situ colony hybridization with 2 different oligonucleotide probes corresponding to a region unusually rich in glutamate within the protein. Three positive clones were isolated and shown to encode DARPP-32 by an in situ immunoblot assay of their fusion protein products with beta-galactosidase. The results of the sequence analysis of the longest cDNA clone, pTKD7 (1771 nucleotides), revealed a 606-nucleotide-long coding region, in exact agreement with the bovine DARPP-32 amino acid sequence (Williams et al., 1986). Southern blot analysis of total bovine genomic DNA showed that there is a single gene coding for DARPP-32. Northern blot analysis of caudate nucleus RNA using antisense RNA derived from the clone pTKD7 demonstrated the existence of 2 abundant mRNA species, corresponding to 1.8 and 1.65 kilobase in length. The high concentration of DARPP-32 mRNAs in the caudate nucleus is in agreement with the known distribution of this protein.
Ectopic dendrite growth and new synapse formation are known to occur on select kinds of neurons in a wide variety of neuronal storage diseases. As these changes in connectivity occur just proximal to the axonal initial segment, it has been hypothesized that they underlie the generation of abnormal neuronal function in these diseases. We have studied certain aspects of this phenomenon through the use of a plant-derived indolizadine alkaloid, swainsonine, which specifically inhibits the lysosomal hydrolase, alpha-mannosidase. These studies fully document the close morphological similarity between swainsonine-induced and inherited feline alpha-mannosidosis. This includes the presence of clear and floccule-filled storage vacuoles, as seen with routine EM, and axon hillock neurite growth on select cell types, as seen with Golgi staining. The latter was found only on cortical pyramidal neurons and multipolar cells of amygdala, and these same cell types are known to be involved in ectopic neuritogenesis in other storage diseases. Combined Golgi-electron-microscopic studies demonstrated the presence of normal-appearing synapses on these aberrant neuritic processes and also unusual, membranous inclusions specifically within the neurite-bearing pyramidal cells. The latter may be indicative of unique metabolic changes in these neurons and is consistent with the hypothesis that storage of gangliosides or other glycolipids underlies the recapitulation of dendritic growth features in these diseases. Experimental manipulation of the disease process using the swainsonine model indicated that induction of cortical pyramidal neuron neurite growth could be influenced by both age of onset and intensity of intraneuronal storage. Although Golgi studies clearly demonstrated neuritic sprouting in animals with disease onset as late as at 1 year, cortical pyramidal cells of older, adult animals appeared to undergo significant storage without a similar induction of neurite growth. These studies support the view that induced neuritogenesis in neuronal storage disease is associated with changes in metabolism, specifically within the neurite-bearing cells, that this change possibly involves gangliosides, and that the neuritogenic response may be limited to pre-adult stages of brain maturation.
Stereotaxic instruments have wide use in neuroscience research. In certain of these machines the electrode can be introduced at an angle as well as perpendicularly. Computation of instrument settings to place the electrode in the desired location is the problem this paper addresses. Mathematical formulae are presented that allow a computer to calculate instrument settings given coordinates and angles read from a stereotaxic atlas.
Portions of the metencephalic neural tube containing the trigeminal (V) motor nucleus from 40-hr chick embryos were excised and held freely floating in culture medium for 36-40 hr, so that neuronal generation within motor V could be completed, but precluding neuronal differentiation. The explants were then dissociated and plated either on 1) glass coverslips that had been coated with the extracellular matrix (ECM) glycoprotein, laminin, and subsequently irradiated to produce a grid pattern; or 2) coverslips, one-half of which had been coated with laminin, and the other one-half with collagen, another component of the ECM. The purpose of these studies was to assess possible laminin influences on neuronal adhesion and nerve fiber expression and extension during these periods of initial neuronal differentiation. The early neural tube neurons selectively adhered to the established laminin grid pattern; neuronal survival, elaboration of neurites, and extent of neurites were significantly enhanced on the laminin side of the laminin/collagen preparations. These latter effects were specifically blocked by the application of anti-laminin. In demonstrating these influences during stages of initial neuronal differentiation, the results support the hypothesis that laminin may play a role in normal neurogenesis, presumably by providing an adhesive surface for outgrowing growth cones.
1. The pharmacological properties of excitatory amino acid responses on ganglion cells dissociated from the rat retina were examined with the use of the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. 2. L-Glutamate at a concentration of 50 microM produced inward non-desensitizing currents at negative holding potentials in nearly every cell tested (83%, n = 18) In physiological solutions, L-glutamate responses reversed at approximately -9 mV, and higher concentrations of this agonist introduced a desensitizing component to the response. 3. At negative holding potentials, kainate (25-125 microM) produced inward currents in all of the cells tested (n = 37). These currents never desensitized, even at high agonist concentrations, and reversed near -6 mV. Currents induced by 50 microM-kainate were reversibly antagonized by kynurenate (100-300 microM) but not by 100 microM-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV). 4. Quisqualate generated smaller, non-desensitizing currents in only 50% of the cells tested (n = 38). Quisqualate responses reversed in polarity near -4 mV and were maximal at an agonist dose of 25 microM, with higher concentrations introducing a rapidly desensitizing component without a detectable increase in amplitude. Currents produced by quisqualate at a concentration of 50 microM were not antagonized by either 750 microM-kynurenate or 100 microM-APV. 5. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) produced inward currents at negative holding potentials in 68% of the cells tested (n = 31), but only when magnesium was excluded from the extracellular medium. NMDA currents were non-desensitizing at agonist concentrations of up to 200 microM, with higher concentrations introducing a rapidly desensitizing component. NMDA (200 microM) responses were blocked by APV (100 microM) and kynurenate (300 microM) and reversed near -1 mV. 6. Responses generated by kainate (50-125 microM) were antagonized by quisqualate (30-250 microM). This antagonism occurred even in cells having no measurable response to quisqualate alone, suggesting the possibility that quisqualate may be acting both as an agonist, in the 50% of the cells that have the quisqualate-specific receptor, and as an antagonist, at the kainate-specific site on all cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We studied masseter muscle function in 15 hemiplegic patients. Direct motor responses to stimulation of the masseteric nerve were normal. Voluntary activity at maximum strength was reduced on the paretic side. The jaw jerk was symmetric, but facilitation by teeth clenching showed on the nonparetic side only. Masseter silent periods were ill-defined and prolonged in recordings from the paretic side. The second silent period, but not the first, was reduced in size when the paretic side was stimulated, and showed an increased habituation. Though the masticatory nucleus receives bilateral innervation, the contralateral hemisphere exerts a predominant control on voluntary activity and multisynaptic reflexes.
The neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is similar to anesthesia-induced malignant hyperthermia (MH) in three major clinical features: hyperthermia, muscular rigidity, and myoglobinuria. In eight cases of NMS, we studied caffeine contracture of single skinned muscle fibers. Sensitivity of the sarcoplasmic reticulum to caffeine was abnormally increased in six of the eight cases. Morphologic studies showed type 2B fiber atrophy in all six cases examined, and there were necrotic fibers in two cases. Since skeletal muscle is affected in NMS, these patients may be susceptible to MH.
Injection of concentrated influenza B/Lee/40 virus into 4-week-old Balb C mice resulted in 60% inhibition of 14C-palmitate oxidation in isolated hepatic mitochondria. Oral feeding of carnitine to infected mice prevented the inhibition of fatty acid oxidation. High concentrations of salicylic acid given orally also inhibited 14C-palmitate oxidation. Serum free fatty acid concentrations of infected mice and of those fed salicylic acid were significantly higher than in control mice. A combination of low-dose virus and low-dose salicylic acid inhibited palmitate oxidation, suggesting an additive effect on the metabolic derangement when the two agents were present simultaneously.
Forty-seven consecutive patients presenting acutely with repetitive symptoms indicative of anterior circulation ischemia (&quot;crescendo&quot; transient ischemic attacks) were evaluated to identify clinical features that might reliably predict the presence of significant stenosis, ulceration, or both in the presumably symptomatic internal carotid artery. Angiographic or intraoperative correlation was obtained in all patients, and 26 (55%) were found to have anatomically significant disease. Of 20 patients with signs or symptoms suggestive of cortical ischemia, amaurosis fugax, or both, 17 (85%) had &quot;positive&quot; angiograms; of 18 with numbness/weakness only, 9 (50%) had positive angiograms; of 9 whose symptoms suggested lacunar ischemia, none had positive angiograms.
The neurogenic effect of passive hindlimb movement on phrenic nerve discharge was compared in decorticate unanaesthetized and curarized rabbit preparations prior to and after spinal transection. The question of how and where sensory information has access to the central respiratory network was addressed in each case. All passive motions, performed using a mechanical device, were of constant amplitude in a given preparation. The results clearly differed in decorticate and spinal preparations. In the decorticate vagotomized preparation, periodic passive motions led to an immediate shortening of the respiratory period which lasted throughout the periodic stimulation and stopped with its cessation; it did not depend on the frequency of the natural stimulation and was entirely due to a 20% shortening of the expiration time. Maintained full flexion or full extension both induced the same expiration time shortening, but limited to the first two to three respiratory cycles after onset and interruption of stimulation. After spinal transection at the C2 level, and moderate activation with DOPA, no phrenic activity developed in the absence of proprioceptive stimulation. Periodic hindlimb movements evoked simultaneous large bursts in both phrenic nerves during each extension; a 1:1 coordination of phrenic activity with the external imposed period (P) was observed for various P values. A strong phrenic activation could also be elicited through maintained full hindlimb extension but not through full flexion: this activation appeared as rhythmic discharge as long as extension was maintained. It is concluded that proprioceptive inputs act upon the medullary respiration generator and reset its own rhythm whereas, at the spinal level, they elicit an amplitude modulation at phrenic motoneuronal level without acting upon the rate of the spinal &quot;respiration&quot; generator itself; on the same phrenic motoneurons, a subthreshold central activation added to a subthreshold proprioceptive activation probably accounts for the phrenic bursting during maintained extension. Finally, the proprioceptive control from the hindlimb on phrenic activity is processed at different sites of the central respiratory network at medullary and at spinal level, and may depend on different input signals.
Larval lampreys (Petromyzon marinus) exhibit a combination of cranial reflexes during their vibration-evoked startle response, including strong contractions of the gill chamber, velum and oral hood. These reflexes were confirmed by applying brief vibratory stimuli to an otic capsule and recording movement and electromyograms in moving preparations and efferent cranial nerve activity in curarized preparations. Vibration elicited efferent discharge in cranial nerves V, IX and X on both sides. The responses were lost following labyrinthectomy. The larval startle response results in water from the contracting gill chamber being expelled through the mouth and temporarily reduces head width. Reduced head width may facilitate the rapid withdrawal which is observed during startle behavior in burrowed larvae [S. Currie (1985) Neurosci. Abstr. 11, 268; S. Currie and R. C. Carlsen J. exp. Biol. (in Press)]. Adult lampreys (Entosphenus tridentata) attached to the wall of an aquarium by their suctorial disc, exhibited a brief but intense suction increase following a vibratory stimulus initiated by a tap to the aquarium wall. Oral suction (negative pressure) ranged from -0.6 to -10 cm H2O at rest and increased to values as high as -160 cm H2O during the vibration response. Suction intensity increased in direct proportion to the amplitude of the vibratory stimulus. Most of the suction response was lost following labyrinthectomy. Electromyographic recordings from the pharyngeal dilator m. basilaris and the lingual retractor m. cardioapicalis revealed stimulus-locked activity which preceded increased suction in adults, however, no vibration-evoked electromyogram responses were noted while recording from the gill chamber musculature or funnel. Stimulus-locked efferent activity was observed in the V-basilaris and V-apicalis branches of both trigeminal nerves following vibration of an otic capsule. Efferent vibration-evoked activity was lost in the trigeminal nerve after labyrinthectomy. No vibration-evoked activity was observed in nerves IX or X. Sudden vibration evoked dramatically different responses in larval and adult lampreys. Larvae contracted their gill chambers and expelled water from their mouths while adults exhibited a powerful suction reflex and no gill contraction. The trigeminal components of these behaviors (including velum and oral hood movement in larvae, pharynx and apicalis movement in adults) are difficult to compare. All of the larval trigeminal muscles degenerate during metamorphosis and are replaced by new adult muscles [M. W. Hardisty and C. M. Rovainen (1982) In The Biology of Lampreys, Vol. 4A. Academic Press, London].(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Changes in the number and distribution of synaptic inputs and acetylcholine receptor clusters were studied during the formation of ectopic nerve-muscle junctions between the transplanted fibular nerve and the denervated soleus muscle of adult rats. The tibial nerve was cut 3 weeks after implanting the fibular nerve. New sites of transmission were first detected 3 days after the cut. These sites were located electrophysiologically, marked by dye and found to coincide with clusters of acetylcholine receptors. There were no ectopic clusters away from fibular nerve sprouts and no clusters on muscles which had not been denervated. Three days after cutting the tibial nerve, the acetylcholine receptor clusters, and probably also the sites of transmission, were randomly distributed along individual muscle fibres. Six days after the cut, the clusters continued to be randomly distributed whereas the synaptic inputs were either close together (within 300 microns) or more than 600 microns apart. Two weeks later the spatial distributions of both clusters and inputs were similar with peaks around 100-300 microns, 1200-1400 microns and 2000-2600 microns. No ectopic clusters were closer than 0.5 mm to the original endplate. We conclude that nerve-muscle contacts and associated acetylcholine receptor clusters initially form at random. One or a few of these contacts develop further and, as a result, the surrounding regions undergo changes that prevent the contacts initially formed there from being maintained. Apparently, in this preparation, approximately 1.5 mm length of fibre is needed to support the maturation and maintenance of each ectopic endplate (mean length 111 micron).
The cellular localization of the uptake of [3H]adenosine and of binding of labelled adenosine analogues was studied in explant cultures of rat cerebellum and spinal cord by means of autoradiography. [3H]Adenosine was taken up by many neurons and astrocytes in both cerebellar and spinal cord cultures. The uptake of adenosine was inhibited in the absence of sodium or at 0 degrees C, suggesting an active transport mechanism. In both types of cultures, a great number of neurons showed binding sites for the A1-receptor agonist [3H]R-N6-phenylisopropyladenosine and for the mixed A1/A2-agonist [3H]N(ethyl)carboxamidoadenosine. Binding sites for both radioligands were also found on astrocytes, suggesting that these cells have receptors for the purinergic neurotransmitter adenosine. This suggestion is further supported by recent electrophysiological studies from our laboratory demonstrating that adenosine and its analogues produce hyperpolarizations of astrocytes which are blocked by the adenosine antagonist theophylline.
We have examined the distribution of microtubule-associated protein 2 in embryonic rat sympathetic neurons grown under culture conditions that alter morphological development. Cultures were established in serum-free medium. After 8 days some were transferred to a serum-containing medium, which promotes dendritic development. Sister cultures were maintained in serum-free medium, which inhibits dendritic growth but permits normal axonal development. After growth for 2-6 weeks in serum-containing medium, sympathetic neurons were multipolar, with short, tapering dendrites and long, thin axons. Intense immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 was observed in the somata and dendrites of all neurons, but there was little or no staining of the network of axonal processes that ran between cell somata. When the morphology of individual cells was assessed by injection of fluorescent dye before immunostaining, we found that staining for microtubule-associated protein 2 extended to the distal tips of the dendrites while the axon was essentially unstained, even in its proximal portion. Neurons from sister cultures that were not exposed to serum were usually unipolar, having only an axon. Under these conditions microtubule-associated protein 2 was also expressed, but its distribution was altered: intense immunostaining for microtubule-associated protein 2 was present in axons as well as somata. Staining in axons could sometimes be traced for several millimeters, but, since unstained segments of axons were also common, microtubule-associated protein 2 probably was not present throughout the entire axonal arborization. These results show that the expression of microtubule-associated protein 2 is not of itself sufficient to induce the formation of dendrites. Despite the association of microtubule-associated protein 2 with the axonal cytoskeleton, the light microscopic morphology of the axons was not obviously altered.
Altering the early olfactory environment of animals can have dramatic consequences on the development of brain regions which subserve olfaction. The present study indicates that early odor deprivation has a more severe effect on a species which is born relatively mature than it does on related species which are not. The results call into question prevailing notions about the developmental continuity between animals born in divergent ontogenetic states.
Pyramidal cells of regio inferior in slice cultures of the rat hippocampus were impaled and intracellularly stained with horseradish peroxidase. A correlated light- and electron-microscopic analysis was then performed to study the properties of these neurons under culture conditions with particular emphasis on input synapses onto these cells. Like pyramidal cells in situ, CA3 pyramidal neurons in slice cultures had a triangular cell body with an apical stem dendrite emerging from it. Several basal dendrites and the axon arose from the basal pole of the cell body. The peripheral thin branches of both apical and basal dendrites were covered with small spines, whereas proximal thick dendritic segments and portions of the cell body exhibited large spines or excrescences. The axon gave off numerous fine varicose collaterals which projected to stratum radiatum of CA1 (Schaffer collaterals), to the alveus and to the hilar region. In one case a collateral could be followed to stratum moleculare of the fascia dentata. Electron-microscopic analysis of the injected pyramidal neurons revealed that their cell bodies, dendritic shafts and spines formed synaptic contacts with presynaptic terminals. Mossy fiber endings were identified by their large size and their numerous clear synaptic vesicles with some dense-core vesicles intermingled, and were observed to form synaptic contacts on the large spines or excrescences. Since extrinsic afferents degenerate in slice cultures, the numerous synaptic boutons on the identified pyramidal neurons probably arise from axons of intrinsic neurons that have sprouted in response to deafferentation. This assumption is supported by the finding that collaterals of the injected neurons formed abundant synaptic contacts on dendritic shafts and spines of other cells. These results suggest that, although pyramidal cells under culture conditions retain a remarkable number of their normal characteristics, considerable synaptic reorganization does take place.
The connections of the claustrum with non-isocortical limbic and paralimbic cortex in the cat are described, using the anterograde transport of tritiated amino acids and the retrograde transport of various fluorescent tracers and of horseradish peroxidase conjugated to the lectin wheatgerm agglutinin. It could be demonstrated that the claustrum, in addition to its connections with sensory-related areas, is reciprocally and bilaterally connected with widespread limbic and paralimbic cortical regions. These connections are organized such that the area of origin of claustral efferents to a certain cortical region coincides with the area of termination in the claustrum of afferents from that same cortical region. A rostrocaudal topographical organization of the limbic-related connections of the claustrum is not very apparent. However, the results clearly demonstrate a dorsoventral topographical organization in the connections between the claustrum and the cortex. The ventral part of the claustrum has reciprocal connections predominantly with the entorhinal cortex, and possibly with the anterior olfactory nucleus and the prepiriform cortex. A more dorsally located part of the claustrum is preferentially connected with the orbitofrontal, the insular, the perirhinal, the anterior limbic, and the cingular cortices, and with parts of the subicular complex. The most dorsal portion of the claustrum is more heavily connected with parasensory and sensory cortices. It is concluded that the traditional subdivision of the claustrum into two discrete nuclei, i.e. the insular claustrum connected with the isocortex, and the piriform claustrum or endopiriform nucleus connected with the allocortex, does not reflect the actual organization of the cortical connections of the claustrum. The present data provide a more differentiated view, such that the ventral portion of the claustrum is reciprocally connected mainly with the olfactory-related cortices and the entorhinal cortex, whereas the cortical connections of progressively more dorsal parts of the claustrum gradually shift from limbic and paralimbic towards parasensory and sensory cortical connections. The significance of these findings is discussed in the light of a possible function of the claustrum in relation to corticocortical integration and memory processing.
The responses of non-dopamine neurons in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area to systemic amphetamine were investigated in the behaving rat chronically implanted with multiple fine-wire electrodes. The neurons were identified with electrophysiological criteria requiring that the signals be of biphasic shape, short duration (less than 2.0 ms), and show high and regular rates of discharge (greater than 20 spikes/s). In recording sessions lasting 240 min, single and multiple unit activity was recorded from seven electrodes, and motor activity was measured automatically with the open-ended wire technique. The movement counts provided an index of gross motor activity, not of the specific movements occurring during DA behaviors. D-Amphetamine, 5.0 mg/kg, given by the intraperitoneal route at 90 min into the session, induced an increase in motor activity and in the firing rate of some non-dopamine neurons. The behavioral and neural responses were correlated for magnitude, latencies and duration. But not all non-dopamine neurons in ventral tegmental area, and substantia nigra showed responses to amphetamine. When unit responses were obtained, they were obtained in subjects which showed large motor responses. In substantia nigra, responsive and non-responsive units were interdigitated and found mainly in the pars reticulata subdivision. In the ventral tegmental area, responsive and non-responsive neurons were interdigitated throughout this structure. The effects of amphetamine were dose-responsive, doses of 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 mg/kg inducing smaller behavioral and unit responses than 5.0 mg/kg. D-Amphetamine, 5.0 mg/kg, was more effective than L-amphetamine, given at the same dose, in inducing these changes. In rats pretreated with systemic haloperidol, 1.5 mg/kg, the behavioral and neural responses to D-amphetamine, 5.0 mg/kg, were greatly attenuated. In rats pretreated with a subanesthetic dose of urethan, 600 mg/kg, to prevent changes in gross motor activity, the response to D-amphetamine in ventral tegmental area was attenuated, but it was of normal magnitude in substantia nigra. In rats with bilateral electrolytic lesions of nucleus accumbens, D-amphetamine induced a smaller motor response than in controls, but the neural responses in ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra were the same as in controls. These findings support the notion that non-dopamine neurons in ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra, pars reticulata, play a role in the motor function of the A9 and A10 dopamine neurons, and in the behavioral effects of amphetamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of systemic apomorphine on the discharge rates of non-dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area and the substantia nigra were investigated in the behaving rat to determine the relationship between the neural responses and the motor activity induced by the dopamine agonist. Apomorphine, 3.0 mg/kg, induced large increases in motor activity and in the rate of firing of non-dopamine neurons in both ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra. The effects were similar in both structures, but only a portion of the non-dopamine neurons sampled were sensitive to the dopamine agonist. The motor and unit responses were correlated for latencies, magnitude and duration. These effects were dose-responsive, 0.75 mg/kg and 1.5 mg/kg inducing smaller behavioral and neural responses than 3.0 mg/kg. Apomorphine, 3.0 mg/kg, given to rats pretreated with haloperidol, 1.5 mg/kg, 60 min before the recording session, induced smaller behavioral and neural responses than in controls. The dopamine agonist given to rats in which gross motor activity was prevented through light anesthesia with urethan, 600 mg/kg, led to a decrease in the magnitude of the unit response in ventral tegmental area, and to a potentiation of the response in substantia nigra. In rats with bilateral electrolytic lesions of nucleus accumbens given one week earlier, apomorphine induced a smaller behavioral response than in controls, and differential effects on the neural responses. In ventral tegmental area the response was the same as in controls, but in substantia nigra it was blocked. These results indicate the presence in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area of subpopulations of non-dopamine neurons responding with excitation to experimental manipulations that activate dopamine receptors. The dissociation between the motor effects of apomorphine and the neural effects in the subjects prevented from expressing gross motor activity, and in the lesioned animals, indicates that the neural responses were not the result of behavioral feedback. And the differential effects of apomorphine in ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra in these two groups of subjects suggest that the dopamine motor influence, at this brain level, may be fractionated, different groups of non-dopamine neurons conveying different aspects of the dopamine influence on motor activity to premotor neurons. The results, taken together, support the notion that non-dopamine efferent neurons in ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra function as dopamine output neurons, their output being critical for the behavioral effects of dopamine agonists.
The findings of this study indicate a critical and selective role of the rat's lateral striatum in performance of tongue and forelimb reaching. To test the hypothesis of regional specificity of motor control in the striatum, the effects of bilateral, ibotenate-induced lesions of either the lateral or the medial regions of the striatum on reaching movements of the tongue and the forelimbs were examined. Lesions of the lateral striatum caused severe and chronic impairments of movement initiation, postural synergisms and amplitude of both tongue and forelimb reaches. In contrast, lesions of the medial striatum produced mild or no chronic alterations of these motor parameters. These findings support the hypothesis of a selective role of the lateral striatum in the initiation and execution of reaching movements.
Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone immunoreactivity was studied in the olfactory system of the rat in combination with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Neuronal perikarya containing luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone lie in the medial septal nucleus, the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca, the olfactory tubercule and the ganglionated plexus of the terminal nerve. Labelled fibres spread in the superficial layers of the main and accessory olfactory bulbs, some encompassing the strongly acetylcholinesterase-positive atypical glomeruli. Others are observed on the medial side of the bulb, running along the terminal nerve bundles and ganglia. These fibres join the vomeronasal nerve branches and proceed distally towards the nasal cavity. In the septal submucosa, immunoreactive fibres are partly associated with the terminal nerve network. Conspicuous endings filled with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone are observed on blood vessels of the olfactory mucosa. Such well-differentiated terminals might be the neurosecretory afferents of a new neurohemal area. Immunoreactive terminals are also observed around the excretory ducts of the anterior medial glands. We have failed to observe any labelled fibres in the olfactory and vomeronasal epithelia. The results of the present study are discussed with respect to possible functional interpretations. It is suggested that significant amounts of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone could be released in the submucosal capillaries in spite of the scarcity of immunoreactive fibres. Similar afferents could also modulate the secretory activity of some nasal glands. Synaptic events involving the neuropeptide might occur in the olfactory bulb, particularly in atypical glomerular areas previously characterized by their high acetylcholinesterase content. Finally, no anatomical support for a chemosensory function of fibres containing luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone has been brought out by our work.
How much the cleft K+ concentration ([K+]c) is changed by a step-like shift of an endplate membrane potential was estimated from the resulting acceleration of frequency of miniature endplate currents and the dependence of miniature endplate currents frequency on bath K+ concentration ([K+]0). The absolute change in [K+]c is generally constant, and hence relatively more pronounced the lower the [K+]0. It is estimated that in physiological solution [( K+]0 = 2 mM), [K+]c is at least tripled (approximately 6 mM) if the muscle membrane is held at the reversal potential (Vr) for the endplate currents. The same step-like shift in muscle membrane potential leads to an almost instantaneous change of endplate current amplitudes or of their time constants of decay. This indicates that cleft K+ changes have no effect on the voltage dependence of amplitudes and decay phases of endplate currents (and hence on Vr also). The lack of postsynaptic effect of change in [K+]0 from 0.1 to 10 mM and only small influence of [K+]0 changes on nerve-evoked quantal release explain these findings.
The neurons of the rat hypothalamus which secrete corticotropin-releasing factor were studied by using a pre-embedding immunocytochemical staining technique that improves both the penetration of immunoreagents within the tissue and the preservation of the ultrastructural morphology of labeled structures. Comparison was made between the subcellular location of corticotropin-releasing factor-41 in perikarya of the paraventricular nucleus and axons of the median eminence, both in intact and adrenalectomized animals either untreated or 24 h after the intracerebral injection of colchicine. Morphometric analysis of the numerical density and of the diameter of corticotropin-releasing factor immunoreactive neurosecretory granules in axons of the median eminence of rats not treated with colchicine, indicated that the main modifications induced by adrenalectomy concerned (1) the differential repartition of labeled granules within the preterminal and terminal axonal portions of the median eminence, and (2) the enlargement of the diameter of labeled granules contained in these axons (from 98 nm to 165 nm). In the hypothalamus of intact and adrenalectomized rats, colchicine treatment increased the number of corticotropin-releasing factor-immunoreactive granules in the neuronal perikarya and reduced their number in the axons, but both these variations were much more marked in adrenalectomized rats. Although the corticotropin-releasing factor immunoreactive granules that accumulated in the perikarya after colchicine treatment were slightly smaller than those in the corresponding axons, the diameter of perikaryal-labeled granules was larger in adrenalectomized than in intact animals (129 nm vs 93 nm). These findings fit the idea that adrenalectomy markedly stimulates both the synthesis and axonal excretion of secretory granules in the hypothalamic neurons secreting corticotropin-releasing factor. They also indicate that suppression of circulating corticosteroids induces qualitative modifications in these neurons leading to the visualization of larger neurosecretory granules, which may reflect differential synthesis and granular packing of synergistic peptides other than corticotropin-releasing factor and/or changes in the process of intragranular maturation of hormonal material.
Chameleon head movement was studied to learn how information from more than one sensory system can be co-ordinated to produce a single motor behavior. In this study, the co-ordination of visual, vestibular, and kinesthetic senses was examined by: (1) moving a cricket back and forth in front of a hungry chamelon, (2) moving the body of an alert chameleon or the body of an anesthetized chameleon, and (3) moving both a cricket and the body of an alert chameleon. During cricket movement, the chameleon locked both eyes straight forward in their orbits and followed the cricket movement with a visually guided head movement. During movement of the body of an alert chameleon, the vestibulo-collic reflex kept the chameleon's head relatively stationary in space. During movement of the body of an anesthetized chameleon, there was no measurable movement of the head relative to the body. Thus, during the body movements used in this study, passively induced kinesthetic stimulation was negligible. It was hypothesized that during movement of both a cricket and the body of an alert chameleon, the visually guided head movement and the vestibulo-collic reflex were additive. This hypothesis was supported by demonstrating that in this situation, the vestibulo-collic reflex was not suppressed. It is suggested that the vestibulo-collic reflex compensated for the passive head movement produced by body movement without canceling active, visually guided head movement. This may have been accomplished by the use of an efference copy system associated with the motor commands that produce visually guided head movement.
We report here the results of immunocytochemical and biochemical studies on the localization of synapsin I, a nerve terminal--specific phosphoprotein, at the frog neuromuscular junction. Our results show that in this in situ synapse synapsin I is concentrated in the presynaptic compartment, where it appears to be associated with the synaptic vesicle membrane. Double immunoprecipitated synapsin I from homogenates of frog cutaneous pectoris muscles could be phosphorylated by the catalytic subunit of cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate-dependent protein kinase after gel electrophoresis and blotting onto nitrocellulose and could be subsequently identified by an immunoperoxidase technique. Experiments carried out in frog brain preparations indicate that frog synapsin I, like the mammalian protein, can be phosphorylated at different sites by exogenously added catalytic subunit of cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate-dependent protein kinase and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II prepared from mammalian sources. The phosphorylation sites of frog synapsin I, as judged by phosphopeptide mapping, are somewhat different from those of mammalian synapsin I. The study of synapsin I and of the regulation of its state of phosphorylation at the neuromuscular junction may provide important information on its role in synaptic function, since at the present time this is one of the few systems in which a correlation among biochemical, immunocytochemical and electrophysiological results is possible.
The morphology, number and distribution of catecholaminergic neurons, as visualized either with the aluminum-catalysed formaldehyde method for catecholamines or with the immunohistochemical method for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, respectively, were analysed within the rat dorsal hypothalamus, ventral thalamus and adjoining regions (A11 and A13 cell groups). Both polyclonal rabbit and monoclonal mouse tyrosine hydroxylase antibodies were used in elution-restaining and double-staining experiments, respectively. Some of the animals also received spinal injections of the fluorescent tracer True Blue in order to retrogradely label cells projecting to the spinal cord. With respect to the number and distribution of catecholaminergic neurons in the A11 and medial A13 cell groups, including the spinal-projecting subpopulation, the results obtained with the two methods were very similar, indicating that within these regions of the CNS the two methods in principle visualize identical cell populations. However, the catecholaminergic cells were distinctly larger and their processes appeared more extensive with the immunohistochemical method. Animals processed for immunohistochemistry exhibited a lower total number of retrogradely labelled cells in the A11 area than those analysed with aldehyde-induced fluorescence despite the fact that both methods revealed similar numbers of retrogradely labelled tyrosine hydroxylase-positive and catecholamine-containing cells, respectively. The reason for these discrepancies, which are probably of methodological nature, are discussed. While this study shows that the results obtained with the two methods within the A11 and medial A13 cell group are very similar and thus strengthens the earlier proposed concept of the organization of the diencephalospinal dopaminergic system, it also documents that in intermingling and nearby CNS regions there are cell bodies which cannot be demonstrated with the aldehyde fluorescence method, but which still contain tyrosine hydroxylase and/or aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase-like immunoreactivity. One explanation is low levels of enzyme and/or dopamine combined with a comparatively low sensitivity of the histochemical method. Thus, neurons containing both enzymes are probably dopaminergic, even if catecholamine fluorescence cannot be demonstrated. Neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase, but lacking both aldehyde induced fluorescence and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, may also still be dopaminergic.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Electrical stimulation of the superior colliculus in rats elicits not only orienting movements, as it does in other mammals, but also behaviours resembling such natural defensive responses as prolonged freezing, cringing, shying, and fast running and jumping. To investigate the location of the cells mediating these behaviours, the superior colliculus was systematically mapped with microinjections of sodium L-glutamate (50 mM, 200 nl), and the resultant behavioural changes as assessed in an open field were analysed for defence-like responses. The main regions that gave defensive behaviour were (i) rostromedial superior colliculus (all layers), and (ii) both medial and lateral parts of the caudal deep layers. Cells in these areas project into the ipsilateral descending pathway. However, the cells of origin of this pathway are also found in collicular regions, such as rostral intermediate gray and parts of far caudal colliculus, that did not give defensive movements in response to glutamate stimulation. It is unclear whether this is because only parts of the ipsilateral pathway mediate defensive behaviours, or because glutamate is a relatively inefficient stimulating agent for these systems. An unexpected feature of the results was that at a number of collicular sites the nature of the defensive response changed with successive (up to three) injections of glutamate, often appearing to become more intense. Whether the mechanism underlying this potentiation is related to the conditioning of natural defensive behaviour is unknown.
One of the major efferent pathways of the superior colliculus crosses midline to run caudally in the contralateral predorsal bundle, innervating targets in the brain stem and eventually reaching the cervical spinal cord. A variety of evidence suggests that this tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway may mediate the orienting movements that can be evoked by tectal stimulation. However, we have recently found that orienting head movements can still be obtained in rats after section of the tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway, implying that additional pathways are also involved. The present study sought to test this implication, by taking advantage of the fact that in rats the cells of origin of the tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway are largely segregated within the lateral part of the stratum album intermediate. It is thus possible to find out whether orienting head movements can be produced by a cell-excitant from tectal regions that contain few cells of origin of the tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway. Hooded rats in an open field were filmed during microinjections of sodium L-glutamate (50 mM, 200 nl) into the superior colliculus, and the films analysed for the appearance of contralaterally directed movements of the head and body. Subsequent histological reconstruction of the injection sites indicated that such movements could be obtained from widespread areas within the superior colliculus, including not only lateral stratum album intermediale but also the deep layers, and parts of the medial superficial and intermediate layers. Moreover, sites in or close to lateral stratum album intermediate often gave circling movements with downward pointing head, whereas some sites outside lateral stratum album intermediale gave sustained immobility with the head pointing contralaterally and upwards. This evidence supports the view that tectal efferent pathways besides the tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway are involved in the control of head movement. In addition, at least some of these pathways are not collaterals of the tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway, since the movements were obtained from collicular regions with few tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway cells. Finally, the results are consistent with the view that different collicular output pathways mediate movements that have different functions.
The quantal acetylcholine release and the ultrastructural effects of the metabolic inhibitor carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone have been examined at frog neuromuscular junctions. Carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (2 microM) caused a temperature-dependent block of evoked quantal transmitter release accompanied by an increase in the rate of spontaneous quantal release. The carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone-induced increase in miniature endplate potential frequency was neither antagonized nor prevented by tetrodotoxin. It also occurred in a Ca2+-free medium and after replacement of Ca2+ by Sr2+, indicating that it does not depend upon a Na+ or Ca2+ influx from the external medium but may act by releasing Ca2+ from intraterminal stores. Spontaneous quantal transmitter release was exhausted irreversibly within 4 h of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (2 microM) action, during which time an average of 4.7 x 10(5) acetylcholine quanta were released per junction. The morphologic analysis revealed a significant temperature and time-dependent reduction in the number of synaptic vesicles with swelling and dispersion of mitochondria within the motor nerve terminals. Changes in synaptic vesicle number appear to be directly related to the intensity of transmitter release. The good correlation observed between the number of quanta secreted and the number of vesicles lost by nerve terminals in the absence of vesicle recycling provides an estimate of the initial store of transmitter quanta.
The localization of neuropeptide Y binding sites in the pig spleen, as revealed by [125I]Bolton-Hunter-labelled porcine neuropeptide Y and alpha 1-adrenergic receptor binding sites, as revealed by [125I](2-beta/4-hydroxy-phenyl/-ethylaminomethyl)-tetralone as radioligand, was compared with the distribution of neuropeptide Y and noradrenaline nerves, the latter revealed by tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, using immunohistochemistry. A large degree of codistribution was obtained between [125I]neuropeptide Y and alpha 1-binding sites in the capsule, trabeculae, blood vessels and the red pulp of the spleen. Neuropeptide Y and tyrosine hydroxylase as well as dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive nerves were identical in the spleen and had a similar gross distribution pattern as the [125I]neuropeptide Y and alpha 1 binding sites. In functional studies using the isolated blood-perfused spleen from pentobarbital-anaesthetized pigs, neuropeptide Y, noradrenaline and the alpha 1-selective agonist phenylephrine contracted the capsule and induced vasoconstriction in the spleen in vivo. However, the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists clonidine and azepexole had no effects on blood flow or perfusion pressure, suggesting that postjunctional alpha-receptors were of the alpha 1 type. Neuropeptide Y inhibited the forskolin-evoked, cyclic adenosine monophosphate formation in vitro. The [125I]neuropeptide Y binding, with an equilibrium-dissociation constant of 503 +/- 73 pM and a maximal number of specific binding sites of 23 +/- 3 fmol/mg protein, the neuropeptide Y-induced perfusion-pressure increase in vivo and the inhibition of forskolin-evoked cyclic adenosine monophosphate formation in vitro were dependent on the amidation of the C-terminal portion of the peptide molecule. Furthermore, the effects of neuropeptide Y were not changed by alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockade using prazosin and propranolol. Two weeks after postganglionic denervation the neuropeptide Y and the noradrenaline contents of the pig spleen were reduced by 97% and 99%, respectively. These changes were associated with a selective supersensitivity for the noradrenaline-induced perfusion-pressure increase in vivo compared with the effect of neuropeptide Y. However, a similar potentiation of the noradrenaline effect was induced by the monoamine-uptake blocker desipramine in the absence of denervation, and there was no change in the functional response to phenylephrine after denervation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The identification of different anatomical regions of the periaqueductal gray matter of rats was addressed in the present study by using the histochemical staining for the mitochondrial enzyme cytochrome oxidase. At caudal and middle levels, cytochrome oxidase histochemistry clearly demonstrates the existence of four subdivisions: dorsal, dorsolateral, ventrolateral and medial, whereas in sections from the rostral periaqueductal gray matter only two concentric bands are identifiable on the basis of the degree of cytochrome oxidase activity.
The pharmacological characteristics and anatomical distribution of benzodiazepine receptors in the striatum (dorsal striatum, comprising the caudate nucleus and putamen, and ventral striatum) and globus pallidus (dorsal pallidum, comprising the external and internal segments, and ventral pallidum) of the human basal ganglia were examined in twelve cases aged 4-71 years. The pharmacology of the receptors was studied using computerized, non-linear least-squares regression analysis of [3H]flunitrazepam displacement by flunitrazepam, CL218,872 and ethyl beta-carboline-3-carboxylate binding to membranes. The results showed that the dorsal striatum (caudate nucleus and putamen) contained higher concentrations of receptors than the dorsal pallidum (external and internal segments). The dorsal striatum contained equal numbers of sites with high affinity (Type I) and low affinity (Type II) for CL218,872 and ethyl beta-carboline-3-carboxylate whereas the globus pallidus contained sites with only high affinity (Type I) for these ligands. The anatomical localization of the benzodiazepine receptor subtypes (Type I and II) was studied using quantitative autoradiography following in vitro labelling of cryostat sections with [3H]flunitrazepam in the absence or presence of the discriminating ligand CL218,872. The autoradiograms showed that benzodiazepine receptors were distributed throughout all regions of the human striatum in a heterogeneous fashion, i.e. high-density patches of receptors were set against a background matrix of lower receptor densities. The highest densities of receptors were seen in the ventral striatum where the patches were particularly extensive and showed densities 56% higher than the receptor densities in the dorsal striatal patches. Quantitative analysis showed that the patches in all striatal regions contained mainly Type II receptors (83%-86%) whereas the matrix regions in the ventral and dorsal striatum contained different proportions of the receptor subtypes; Type I receptors predominated (60%) in the matrix of the ventral striatum and Type II receptors predominated (67%-71%) in the matrix of the dorsal striatum. By contrast, the autoradiograms showed that the globus pallidus contained considerably lower concentrations of receptors than the striatum. The highest density of receptors in the globus pallidus was present in the ventral pallidum with successively lower concentrations in the external (26% less) and internal (66% less) segments of the dorsal pallidum. In agreement with the membrane binding studies the receptors in the globus pallidus were mainly of the Type I variety.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neurotransmitter-specific anatomical techniques have provided a tool to define the morphological constraints within which a given neurotransmitter will exert its cellular actions. Biochemical and electrophysiological approaches have revealed the nature of these cellular actions for several neurotransmitters. Furthermore, by using purified preparations and tissue cultures a certain degree of resolution has been achieved by which the cell type, where a neurotransmitter's effect takes place, can be determined. In this article we review these aspects for noradrenaline and vasoactive intestinal peptide, two neurotransmitters of the cerebral cortex contained within neuronal systems that present strikingly different morphologies. Nevertheless, noradrenaline and vasoactive intestinal peptide share certain cellular actions and can interact synergistically. The experimental evidence accumulated to date indicates that noradrenaline- and vasoactive intestinal peptide-containing neurons can influence three general cell types of the cerebral cortex, i.e. (i) other neurons, (ii) astrocytes and (iii) cells of the vasculature. This diversity in cellular partners supports the notion that noradrenaline and vasoactive intestinal peptide can be released from neurons at conventional synapses as well as at extrasynaptic sites, thus suggesting the co-existence of two modes of release within the same neuron.
The axonal transport of the molecular forms of acetylcholinesterase was investigated in regenerating facial nerves of guinea-pig and rat. Four forms were separated by velocity sedimentation corresponding to 16S (A12), 10S (G4), 6S (G2) and 4S (G1) acetylcholinesterase. They displayed species-specific changes, which are in good accordance with those previously found in the neuronal perikarya. In the rat, axonal transport decreased for all forms. In the guinea-pig, however, the molecular forms showed differential changes. Whereas after transection, the nerve content of 10S acetylcholinesterase decreased, 16S activity was considerably increased. Anterograde transport of 16S acetylcholinesterase was found to be enhanced, whilst transport of the 10S from decreased. The two lighter forms showed only minor changes. Similar results were obtained for the guinea-pig sciatic nerve. Changes in the localization of acetylcholinesterase activity were investigated by electron microscopical cytochemistry. In the normal facial nerve of both species, activity was located intra-axonally in tubular membraneous structures and on the outer surface of the axonal membrane. In the regenerating facial nerve of the rat, intra-axonal as well as axolemmal activity decreased. Axonal sprouts at the end of the proximal nerve stump showed no activity. In the guinea-pig, however, activity of the axonal membrane increased. This was especially prominent on the surface of axonal sprouts. Strong activity was found also in the extracellular space between the sprouting axons and in the endoneurial space filled by collagen fibres. Biochemical analysis of this region revealed that the histochemical activity was mainly due to the A12 form. Thus it was concluded that, in the guinea-pig, axonal sprouts represent a target for axonally transported A12 acetylcholinesterase, which may also be secreted to extracellular sites.
Intracellular recordings were made from dissociated fetal mouse spinal cord neurons in primary culture. One particular type of neuron, with a large cell body (40-50 micron) and three to five thick neurites, exhibited rhythmic electrical activity of two different types, consisting of either spontaneous burst discharges or tonic action potential firing. Both types of activity appeared to be triggered by an endogenous membrane potential oscillation. Micropressure application of noradrenaline (10(-5) M in the delivery pipette) onto the surface of such cells evoked, in a dose-dependent manner, an increase in the input resistance with a depolarization of the membrane potential. The response to NA was potential-dependent. The maximum change in input resistance was observed at membrane potential values between -60 mV and -45 mV and the response was suppressed at membrane potentials lower than -80 mV. No modification of the response was observed in the presence of 50 mM of tetraethylammonium. The extrapolated reversal potential, close to -90 mV, was modified by increasing extracellular K+ concentration and unaltered by increasing the intracellular Cl- concentration. The decrease in K+ conductance induced by noradrenaline was Ca2+-dependent and reversibly suppressed by Ba2+ (6 mM) and Cd2+ (0.1 mM). This response to noradrenaline was suppressed in the presence of muscarine (10 microM) suggesting that noradrenaline decreases a K+ conductance related to M current. The noradrenaline evoked increase in input resistance was mediated by activation of an alpha 1 receptor site. Prazosin, an alpha 1 antagonist and phentolamine, an alpha 1 alpha 2 antagonist, reversibly suppressed the response in a competitive manner. Yohimbine, a competitive alpha 2 antagonist, also blocked the response, but in a noncompetitive manner. Clonidine, an alpha 2 agonist, isoprenaline, a beta agonist and L-alprenolol, a beta antagonist, had no effect.
The membrane electrical properties of neurons and their responses to endogenous compounds or other neuroactive substances were investigated in vitro with intracellular recording techniques in slices of trigeminal root ganglia of guinea-pigs. The mean resting membrane potential of these neurons was -60 mV. Intracellular injections of hyperpolarizing current pulses evoked time-dependent rectification with varying degrees of dependence on membrane voltage in 107 of 110 neurons. Membrane potential oscillations were observed following the termination of the hyperpolarizing pulses and after similar injections of depolarizing current. This phenomenon appeared to be voltage-dependent at levels that were subthreshold for spike genesis; the more pronounced oscillations were evident at the more depolarized levels and were insensitive to tetrodotoxin applications. Two groups of neurons could be distinguished on the basis of certain characteristics in their action potentials. The majority exhibited short duration (0.6 ms) spikes with mean amplitude of 72 mV in response to intracellular depolarizing current. The brief (3 ms) afterhyperpolarizations that followed such spikes were blocked by intracellular injections of Cs+ or by bath applications of tetraethylammonium. Action potentials in the minority group exhibited a hump in their repolarization phase. The humped spikes had a mean peak amplitude of 78 mV and a longer duration (2 ms). Both the duration (6 ms) and the amplitude (16 mV) of the afterhyperpolarization were significantly greater in this latter group of neurons. Some fast spikes were easily blocked whereas others, including humped spikes, were resistant to tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M). Spikes which were resistant, were also not affected by perfusion with Co2+ (10(-3) M) and were reduced in amplitude during perfusion with Na+-deficient solution. Bath applications of S-glutamate (10(-4)-10(-2) M) depolarized only two of ten neurons by less than 3 mV. Similarly, 5-hydroxytryptamine produced a small depolarization in only two of thirteen neurons. Perfusion of gamma-aminobutyrate (10(-5)-10(-2) M) resulted in an increase in input conductance that waned despite continued application and was associated with a depolarization (2-14 mV) in 44/50 neurons. In some neurons, gamma-aminobutyrate application enhanced their repetitive firing ability, possibly as a result of the increased oscillatory behavior of the membrane at certain depolarized potentials. The effects of gamma-aminobutyrate were blocked by the GABAA-receptor antagonist, bicuculline (10(-4) M) but were unaffected by the GABAB-receptor agonist, baclofen (10(-4) M).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The aim of the present study was to determine the organization of the afferents of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus in relation to the reciprocal connections of this nucleus with different areas of the prefrontal cortex. For this purpose injections of horseradish peroxidase, or horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheatgerm agglutinin were placed in different parts of the mediodorsal nucleus. These experiments revealed the organization of the reciprocal mediodorsal-prefrontal connections since wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase is transported effectively in anterograde and retrograde directions. Injections of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase or fluorescent tracers were placed in different portions of the prefrontal cortex, and the lectin Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin was injected in the mediodorsal nucleus in order to verify in more detail the point-to-point relationship in the mediodorsal-prefrontal connections. The organization of a number of the subcortical afferents to the mediodorsal nucleus was determined in detail using injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase, or tritiated amino acids in areas identified as a source of mediodorsal afferents in the retrograde tracing experiments. These anterograde tracers were injected in different parts of the pallidal complex, the amygdala, the lateral hypothalamus, the lateral entorhinal cortex, the ventral mesencephalon, the superior colliculus and the dorsal tegmental region. The results of the present experiments indicate that the mediodorsal nucleus, on the basis of its cyto-, myelo- and chemoarchitecture as well as the organization of its reciprocal connections with the prefrontal cortex, can be subdivided into a medial, a central, a lateral and a paralamellar segment. Apart from this subdivision along a mediolateral axis, rostrocaudal and dorsoventral differences are also evident in the structural organization and connectivity of the mediodorsal nucleus. A number of subcortical structures send fibres to all parts of the mediodorsal nucleus. The reticular thalamic nucleus projects to the mediodorsal nucleus in a topographical way such that its rostral part is connected with the rostral part of the nucleus, whereas more caudal and ventral areas in the reticular thalamic nucleus are connected with more caudal parts of the mediodorsal nucleus. Regions in the brainstem that project to all parts of the mediodorsal nucleus include the mesencephalic raph nuclei, the locus coeruleus, the rostral part of the central gray substance and the reticular formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The mechanisms by which bilirubin causes neurotoxicity in newborns have not been well defined, but an involvement in synaptic transmission appears possible. Herein we present evidence for an inhibitory effect of bilirubin on both basal and depolarization-induced (50 mM KCl) phosphorylation of synapsin I, a synaptic vesicle-associated protein that may play a role in neurotransmitter release. Synaptosomes from rat cerebral cortices, prelabeled with 32P in vitro to label the intraterminal ATP pool, were incubated with or without bilirubin and bovine serum albumin (added as a stabilizer) at varying doses and for different time intervals. Some preparations were also depolarized by high KCl concentrations to induce Ca++ influx. The phosphorylation of synapsin I was monitored. Our results show that addition of bilirubin to the medium significantly decreases 32P incorporation into synapsin I, both under basal and depolarizing conditions, in a time- and dose-dependent manner, significant effects being observed already at 10 microM bilirubin after 120-min incubation of the synaptosomes. Separate analysis of the multiple phosphorylation sites in synapsin I showed that the phosphorylation of both the &quot;head&quot; and &quot;tail&quot; regions of the protein was decreased by bilirubin. Removal of the bilirubin-containing incubation medium retarded the decrease in synapsin I 32P content, indicating that the effect observed may be reversible. The nontoxic pyrrole biliverdin had no effect on synapsin I phosphorylation under the experimental conditions used, indicating that the effect was specific to bilirubin. Our results thus suggest that bilirubin may achieve some of its reversible effects on the brain through inhibition of the phosphorylation of the synapsic vesicle-associated protein synapsin I.
A recent paper by Katayama and associates (1987) reported differences in late negative components of the event-related potentials to non-words versus semantically deviant words in a randomized sequence. This comparison was confounded with differences in response requirements between the two stimulus classes.
Phenylethylamine (PEA) has the same structure as amphetamine (AMP) except that PEA lacks a methyl group at the alpha carbon. Although these analogues produce many similar neurobehavioral actions, a previous study found that PEA did not support formation of conditioned taste aversion (CTA). Using somewhat different procedures, in the present study a transient taste aversion was seen in rats. Use of noradrenergic blocking agents to attempt to pharmacologically tailor PEA action to make it more like that of AMP did not improve efficacy to form CTA. A robust PEA-induced CTA was seen in mice even when PEA produced multiple seizures.
Chronic administration of IDPN leads to the development of a persistent syndrome which is characterized by lateral and vertical neck dyskinesias, random circling behaviors, and locomotor hyperactivity. Although the dihydropyridine (DHP) calcium channel antagonist nifedipine inhibited all aspects of the syndrome, lateral head dyskinesias (laterocollis) and circling abnormalities were the most significantly affected signs. Dysregulation of calcium-dependent processes might be involved in the pathogenesis of the IDPN-induced dyskinetic abnormalities and clinical disorders of movement in humans.
This study investigates a number of parameters that influence the neurotoxic effects of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) on serotonin (5-HT) neurons in brain. Both the dose and number of injections of MDMA affect the degree of neurotoxicity on 5-HT axons and terminals as assessed by decreases in the content of 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and the density of 5-HT uptake sites. Repeated systemic administration of various doses of MDMA (5-20 mg/kg twice daily for 4 consecutive days) results in dose-dependent decreases in 5-HT, 5-HIAA and 5-HT uptake sites. Increasing the number of injections of MDMA resulted in progressively greater reductions in 5-HT and 5-HIAA which occurred prior to decreases in 5-HT uptake sites. In contrast, no significant changes were observed in the density of norepinephrine uptake sites following single or repeated injections of 20 mg/kg MDMA. With respect to neuronal regeneration, following an initial 90% loss of 5-HT uptake sites after treatment with MDMA, the recovery of these sites occurred over a protracted period of time; a marked 25% reduction was seen at 6 months and the concentration of 5-HT uptake sites returned to control levels at 12 months following treatment with MDMA. Pretreatment with the selective 5-HT uptake blocker, citalopram, prior to each injection of MDMA prevented the neurotoxic effects of MDMA on the 5-HT parameters described above suggesting that active uptake of MDMA or a MDMA-related substance into brain 5-HT neurons was involved in the neurotoxic actions of the drug. In addition, the neurodegenerative effects of MDMA on 5-HT neurons exhibited some species specificity as comparable decreases in cerebral cortical 5-HT, 5-HIAA and 5-HT uptake sites were observed in rat and guinea pig while no significant changes in any of these serotonergic parameters were seen in mouse brain.
Embossed letters, used previously in pattern recognition experiments in humans, were used to study the spatial patterns of neural activity evoked in peripheral fibers and cortical neurons in areas 3b and 1 of the primary somatosensory cortex of alert rhesus (Macaca mulatta) monkeys. The object was to investigate the representation and transformation of spatial information during the early stages of peripheral and cortical neural processing. Our method consisted of sweeping each letter of the alphabet across the skin repeatedly and constructing a two-dimensional plot (called a spatial event plot) of the action potentials evoked in afferent fibers and cortical neurons. By using this method, slowly and rapidly adapting primary afferents were shown to transmit isomorphic neural images of the letters. Although the slowly adapting images were more spatially acute, both populations conveyed images of sufficient quality to account for human psychophysical performance. In the cortical areas studied, the slowly adapting neurons of area 3b stood out for the acuity, complexity, and variety of their responses. Some of the spatial event plots for these neurons were isomorphic and at least as acute as those obtained from any primary afferent. Others were highly structured but nonisomorphic. The quality and variety of responses in area 3b slowly adapting neurons suggest that they play an important role in the processing of information underlying tactual pattern recognition. The rapidly adapting neurons of area 3b and all types of neurons in area 1 yield much less structured and differentiated responses.
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation in purified synaptic vesicles from rat forebrain has been studied in the presence of Mn2+ and orthovanadate. High levels of endogenous protein tyrosine phosphorylation were observed. Four major phosphoproteins, with apparent molecular masses of 105, 94, 38, and 30 kDa, were shown to contain phosphotyrosine. The 38-kDa phosphoprotein was identified as synaptophysin (p38), a well-characterized integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles. The three other phosphotyrosine-containing proteins distributed in the same manner as synaptophysin in all subcellular fractions. Like synaptophysin, the two high molecular weight phosphotyrosine proteins (105 and 94 kDa) were found to be glycoproteins by lectin chromatography. Tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptophysin was an intravesicular reaction and reached 50% of maximal level within 3 min. Triton X-100, a nonionic detergent, inhibited tyrosine phosphorylation of endogenous protein substrates but not the phosphorylation of an exogenous substrate, poly(Glu80,-Tyr20). Tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptophysin was also demonstrated in synaptosomes, indicating that tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptic vesicle proteins occurs in intact nerve terminals.

Unilateral reversible osmotic opening of the blood-brain barrier can be produced in mice. Infusion of 1.8 molal arabinose in water at a rate of 0.64 ml/min for 30 seconds into the internal carotid artery consistently results in ipsilateral brain staining by intravascular Evans blue dye. Osmotic opening is concentration-dependent (threshold, 1.6 molal arabinose) and reversible within 4 hours. No long-term neurologic deficit occurs. These results suggest that reversible osmotic blood-brain barrier opening can be applied to disease models in mice.
Previous studies have implicated a functionally defined area of the forebrain, the anteroventral third ventricle (AV3V) region as being involved in the regulation of blood pressure and required for the expression of neurogenic hypertension. The present study re-examined the effect of AV3V lesion on hypertension caused by the destruction of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), focussing on whether ablation of the AV3V region altered either the sympathoadrenal or vasopressin (VP) components of NTS hypertension. Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the NTS elicited acute severe hypertension in conscious, freely moving rats whether or not the animals had received AV3V or Sham lesions 14 days previously. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) measured 45 min following NTS lesion was 157 +/- 6 mm Hg in AV3V + NTS lesioned rats and 161 +/- 7 mm Hg in SHAM + NTS lesioned rats. Plasma VP levels were similarly elevated in the two groups of NTS lesioned animals, and the contribution of VP to the hypertensive response (as assessed by the decrease in arterial pressure in response to a VP pressor antagonist) was the same in both groups. In contrast, NTS lesion appeared to produce a lesser degree of sympathetic nervous system activation in AV3V lesioned rats, as evidenced by a substantially smaller increase in plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels. These results demonstrate that AV3V lesions do not attenuate or prevent NTS hypertension. However, AV3V lesions do appear to attenuate the sympathoadrenal activation caused by NTS lesions.
The effect of hippocampal extract on neurotrophic activity for cultured cholinergic cells was determined. Extract prepared from lesioned hippocampus caused by intrahippocampal infusion of colchicine promoted neuron survival of chick ciliary ganglion cells. The maximal level of survival-promoting activity was reached at 12 days postlesion. The biochemical differentiation of NG108-15 cells was assessed by measuring the activity of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). After 3 days in culture, hippocampal extract was found to stimulate ChAT activity in a concentration-dependent manner. Hippocampal extract prepared after colchicine lesions elicited a large increase in ChAT-enhancing activity. The effect of hippocampal extract was additive to that of dibutyryl cyclic AMP (db-cAMP). The neurite outgrowth from NG108-15 cells was also potentiated when cells were cultured with hippocampal extract plus db-cAMP. The results suggest that one or several factors in colchicine-lesioned hippocampus promote neurotrophic activity, and the enhancing effect of hippocampal extract on cellular differentiation may act, at least in part, through a mechanism distinct from that for db-cAMP.
Seizures are more common in children than in adults. Since most pediatric epilepsies can be controlled with a single antiepileptic drug, children with epilepsy should receive monotherapy when possible or switch from polytherapy to monotherapy. More than half of the epileptic patients receiving multiple antiepileptic drugs will have better seizure control as well as fewer side effects with monotherapy. Most of the pediatric epilepsies occur as primary generalized seizures, for which valproate is a preferred drug. Children can begin to receive valproate treatment in a dosage of 20 to 30 mg/kg per day in two or three divided doses. After several days, plasma levels may be useful in adjusting the dosage. The major adverse effect of valproate in children is fatal hepatotoxicity. The risk of this complication is considerably lower with valproate monotherapy (one per 10,000 patients) than with polytherapy. Other advantages of valproate monotherapy, compared with polytherapy, include the avoidance of drug interactions, lower cost, and reduced potential for impaired cognitive function, which is particularly important in children.
When 1-O-heptadecyl-rac-glycerol was fed (20 mg/g of food) to 19-day-old rats for 10 days, a high incorporation of the heptadecyl group into the 1-O-alk-1'-enyl group of ethanolamine plasmalogens of all tissues was observed. For example, 62% of the alkenyl groups from liver plasmalogen was of the 17:0 variety. The analogous values for other tissues were 62% in kidney, 57% in lung, 57% in heart, 50% in intestine, 43% in erythrocytes, 25% in testis and 8% in brain. The corresponding figures in the control rats (fed normal rat chow) were only 2-3% of 17:0 for all tissues. Available evidence indicates that dietary 1-O-heptadecyl-sn-glycerol is utilized to form tissue plasmalogens without the cleavage of the ether bond. The relevance of these results to the possible dietary ether lipid therapy of patients suffering from congenital ether lipid deficiency is discussed.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate is a second messenger of the phosphoinositide system which can mobilize calcium from intracellular stores. Rat cerebellum is an abundant source of a receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (Worley, P. F., Baraban, J. M., Supattapone, S., Wilson, V. S., and Snyder, S. H. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 12132-12136). In this study we have solubilized and purified this receptor to apparent homogeneity from rat cerebellum. Crude membrane, detergent-solubilized, and purified receptor preparations display similar selectivity for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate over other inositol phosphates. The purified receptor is globular with a Stokes' radius of approximately 10 nm. Electrophoretic analysis reveals one protein band with an Mr of 260,000. While binding is reversibly inhibited by 300 nM calcium in particulate fractions and detergent-solubilized membranes, the purified protein is not inhibited by calcium concentrations up to 1.5 mM. Inhibition by calcium is reconstituted by addition of detergent-solubilized cerebellar membranes, but not by the cytosolic fraction of cerebellum.
Distribution of the binding sites of Joro spider toxin (JSTX), a specific inhibitor of the glutamate receptors in the crustacean neuromuscular synapse, was studied by using autoradiography. JSTX was synthesized and made radioactive by conjugation with iodine-125. 125I-JSTX irreversibly blocked the excitatory postsynaptic potentials of the lobster neuromuscular synapse in a similar manner as the natural spider toxin. Light microscopic autoradiography of 125I-JSTX treated muscle showed sporadic aggregates of reduced silver grains on the surface of muscles. Electron microscopy of adjoining ultrathin sections revealed that these spots corresponded to the fraction of sarcolemma apposed to axonal terminals with or without synaptic junctional profiles. This finding gives morphological support to the formulation that JSTX binds to the glutamate receptor-ion channel molecules.
125I-[D-Ala2,p-N3-Phe4-Met5]Enkephalin was used to investigate the opioid receptor from brain membranes of adult (6 months old) and fetal (16 days gestation) mice. The photolabeled membranes were analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis. A 46,000-Da protein was specifically photo-labeled in the adult mouse brain membranes. The photolabeling of this protein was inhibited in the presence of [D-Ala2,Met5]enkephalin and a peptide ligand specific for the mu-opioid receptor. No specific labeling of any protein was detected in the brain membranes of the fetal mice. This apparent lack of the opioid receptor in the fetal mouse brain suggests that the appearance of the opioid receptor in the adult mouse brain is subject to developmental regulation.
The effects of prolactin on lactation and reproductive organs are well known. However, the other possible target organs and physiological consequences of altered levels of circulating prolactin remain poorly understood. In this study, mice were treated with bromocryptine, a dopamine receptor agonist that inhibits pituitary prolactin secretion. Bromocryptine treatment prevented T-cell-dependent induction of macrophage tumoricidal activity after the intraperitoneal injection of Listeria monocytogenes or Mycobacterium bovis. Coincident treatment with ovine prolactin reversed this effect. Of the multiple events leading to macrophage activation in vivo, the production by T-lymphocytes of gamma-interferon was the most impaired in bromocryptine-treated mice. Lymphocyte proliferation after stimulation with mitogens in vitro was also depressed in spleens of bromocryptine-treated mice, and coadministration of prolactin also reversed this effect. Bromocryptine treatment also reduced the number of deaths resulting from inoculation of mice with Listeria; exogenous prolactin significantly reversed this effect. The critical influence of pituitary prolactin release on maintenance of lymphocyte function and on lymphokine-dependent macrophage activation suggests that, in mice, lymphocytes are an important target tissue for circulating prolactin.
We report here the effects of age on the steady state levels of [3H]flupentixol-labeled striatal D-1 dopamine receptors and their recovery rates following irreversible blockade in mature (4 months old) and senescent (28 months old) male Fischer 344 rats. Senescent rats exhibited significantly reduced (-22%) Bmax levels of D-1 dopamine receptors compared with their mature counterparts. In addition, the time course of recovery of D-1 dopamine receptors following irreversible receptor inactivation by a single injection of N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) was significantly slower in senescent animals. This slower recovery rate was the result of decreases in both receptor production rate and receptor degradation rate constants compared with mature rats. Although EEDQ irreversibly inactivated D-1 dopamine receptors, it was without effect on dopamine uptake sites. A chronic, 21 day reserpine treatment did not significantly alter the Bmax nor the rate of recovery of D-1 dopamine receptors with respect to values in age-matched non-reserpine-treated rats. These data indicate that both the steady state levels of striatal D-1 dopamine receptors and the 'turnover' of these receptors are significantly affected as a consequence of natural aging.
The encoding of olfactory information in the central nervous system (CNS) depends on spatially distributed patterns of activity generated simultaneously in many neuronal circuits. Optical neurophysiological recording permits analysis of neural activity non-invasively and with high spatial and temporal resolution. Here, a video method for imaging voltage-sensitive dye fluorescence in vivo is used to map neuronal activity in local circuits of the salamander olfactory bulb. The method permits the imaging of simultaneous ensemble transmembrane activity in real time. After electrical stimulation of the olfactory nerve, activity spreads centripetally from the sites of synaptic input to generate nonhomogeneous response patterns that are presumably mediated by local circuits within the bulbar layers. The results also show the overlapping temporal sequences of activation of cell groups in each layer. The method thus provides high resolution, sequential video images of the spatial and temporal progression of transmembrane events in neuronal circuits after afferent stimulation and offers the opportunity for studying ensemble events in other brain regions.
Previous reports that central administration of arginine vasopressin (AVP) increases turnover of brain catecholamines raise the possibility that the pressor responses which follow central administration of AVP may be mediated, in part, by central catecholamines. To test this hypothesis, rats were given intraventricular injections of vehicle, or of the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine, which resulted in significant depletions of hypothalamic and medulla oblongata noradrenalin and hypothalamic dopamine, but not of medullary dopamine or of hypothalamic and medullary 5-hydroxytryptamine. Following a one week recovery, these conscious rats, fitted with indwelling arterial catheters, were given intraventricular injections of AVP; the increases in arterial pressure and heart rate were significantly reduced in the catecholamine-depleted animals. These data support the hypothesis that the pressor and tachycardia responses to intraventricular AVP are mediated, in part, by central catecholamine-containing neurons.
The regional concentrations of dopamine, serotonin, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid were measured in mouse brain following administration of the dihydropyridine calcium channel activator BAY K 8644, and antagonist, nifedipine. BAY K 8644 (1-8 mg/kg) produced dose- and time-dependent increases in dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations in the caudate, without altering dopamine and serotonin levels. No changes in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentration were observed in the raphe nuclei, hypothalamus, hippocampus and frontal cortex. Nifedipine (4 mg/kg) blocked BAY K 8644- (2 mg/kg) elicited increases in dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the caudate. Furthermore, a higher dose of nifedipine (8 mg/kg) decreased dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, but did not affect dopamine, serotonin or 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations, while a lower dose of nifedipine (2 mg/kg) significantly increased serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and homovanillic acid, but did not affect dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations. The findings that both BAY K 8644 and nifedipine affect neurotransmitter metabolism in vivo in a dose-, time- and brain region-dependent manner, suggest that high-affinity dihydropyridine calcium channel binding sites play an important role in regulating neurotransmitter turnover in the central nervous system.
The present study was undertaken to define the ultrastructure of synapses of the crossed temporodentate pathway after they had sprouted to reinnervate the dentate gyrus following the destruction of the normal ipsilateral temporodentate pathway. The synapses of the sprouted crossed temporodentate pathway were identified at the EM level by using autoradiographic techniques and by evaluating the degeneration of the pathway following secondary lesions. Both EM autoradiography and EM degeneration revealed that the terminals of the sprouted crossed temporodentate pathway formed asymmetric synapses on spines; individual terminals appeared to make more synaptic contacts per terminal (multiple synapses) than in the case of the normal crossed pathway. In the two lesioned animals exhibiting the best labeling, labeled terminals made an average of 3.0 +/- 2.2 and 2.0 +/- 1.3 contacts per terminal. In contrast, labeled terminals in normal animals exhibited only one contact per terminal. The terminals of the sprouted pathway were also larger than those of the normal crossed pathway. The synapses of the crossed temporodentate pathway that degenerated after a secondary lesion of the entorhinal cortex exhibited both electron-lucent and electron-dense forms of degeneration at 2 days postlesion. In two animals that were quantitatively analyzed, the density of degenerating synaptic terminals was 281 and 218/10,000 microns2 in the terminal field of the sprouted crossed pathway. These values are much higher than in normal animals, where the density of degenerating synaptic terminals was only 2.12/10,000 microns2 at 2 days postlesion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study was undertaken to define the ultrastructure of synapses of the crossed temporodentate pathway from the entorhinal cortex to the contralateral dentate gyrus and to compare the synapses of the sparse crossed pathway with those of the massive ipsilateral temporodentate pathway. The synapses of the crossed pathway were identified by using EM degeneration and EM autoradiographic techniques. For the degeneration studies, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were killed 1, 2, or 4 days following a unilateral entorhinal cortex lesion and prepared for electron microscopy. To identify the synapses by using autoradiographic techniques, four animals received injections of 3H-proline into the entorhinal cortex, were allowed to survive for 3 days, and were prepared for EM autoradiography. Degenerating synapses of the crossed pathway that were found in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus contralateral to a lesion formed asymmetric synapses on spines and possessed presynaptic organelles indistinguishable from synapses of the ipsilateral temporodentate pathway. The number of degenerating synapses was very low at all survival intervals (14.80 degenerating synapses/10,000 microns2 at 1 day postlesion and 1.95 degenerating synapses/10,000 microns2 at 2 days postlesion); no degenerating synapses were found at 4 days postlesion. Ninety-eight percent of the degenerating synapses found at 1 day postlesion exhibited electron-lucent degeneration. At 2 days postlesion 83% of the degenerating synapses in the dorsal blade and 18% of those in the ventral blade showed lucent degeneration; the remainder were electron dense. EM autoradiography confirmed the degeneration studies in terms of the type of terminals that were labeled and suggested that the density of the crossed pathway was higher than the degeneration results implied. We conclude that synapses of the crossed temporodentate pathway have a similar ultrastructure to synapses of the ipsilateral temporodentate pathway but exhibit a rapid form of degeneration such that they disappear very rapidly following the lesion.
To further knowledge of the laryngeal nerves, the nerve fibers of Galen's anastomosis were studied using two neuroanatomical methods, namely nerve degeneration and horseradish peroxidase labeling. It is demonstrated that the superior laryngeal nerve forms part of the tracheal and esophageal nervous system. The value of the results in relation to physiological laryngeal studies and to human laryngeal diseases is discussed.
The enumeration of the cranial nerves is traced briefly from Galen's seven to Willis' ten and to von Smmerring's twelve. The system of von Smmerring, which has been followed for some 200 years, is a useful convention, although it is merely one of several possibilities. The naming of the cranial nerves was standardized nearly 100 years ago.
This paper will describe the biomedical support aspects of humans in space with respect to the vestibular system. The vestibular system is thought to be the primary sensory system involved in the short-term effects of space motion sickness although there is increasing evidence that many factors play a role in this complex set of symptoms. There is the possibility that an individual's inner sense of orientation may be strongly coupled with the susceptibility to space motion sickness. A variety of suggested countermeasures for space motion sickness will be described. Although there are no known ground-based tests that can predict space motion sickness, the search should go on. The long term effects of the vestibular system in weightlessness are still relatively unknown. Some preliminary data has shown that the otoconia are irregular in size and distribution following extended periods of weightlessness. The ramifications of this data are not yet known and because the data was obtained on lower order animals, definitive studies and results must wait until the space station era when higher primates can be studied for long durations. This leads us to artificial gravity, the last topic of this paper. The vestibular system is intimately tied to this question since it has been shown on Earth that exposure to a slow rotating room causes motion sickness for some period of time before adaptation occurs. If the artificial gravity is intermittent, will this mean that people will get sick every time they experience it? The data from many astronauts returning to Earth indicates that a variety of sensory illusions are present, especially immediately upon return to a 1-g environment. Oscillopsia or apparent motion of the visual surround upon head motion along with inappropriate eye motions for a given head motion, all indicate that there is much to be studied yet about the vestibular and CNS systems reaction to a sudden application of a steady state acceleration field like 1-g. From the above information it is obvious that the vestibular system does have unique requirements when it comes to the biomedical support of space flight. This is not to say that other areas such as cardiovascular, musculo-skeletal, immunological and hematological systems do not have their own unique requirements but that possible solutions to one system can provide continuing problems to another system. For example, artificial gravity might be helpful for long term stabilization of bone demineralization or cardiovascular deconditioning but might introduce a new set of problems in orientation, vestibular conflict and just plain body motion in a rotating space vehicle.

Two cases of Clostridium perfringens infection occurring less than 24 hours after compound depressed skull fracture are reported. The infection was principally intracranial in the first and extracranial in the second; both required surgical debridement and antibiotic treatment. Attention is drawn to the rapidity with which a potentially life-threatening infection can develop in civilian head injury and to the implications for acute management of patients with compound depressed fractures.
The main aim of neurosurgery is to provide the patient with the best possible care. However, high priority should also be given to active contributions to the advancement of neuroscience, of which neurosurgery is a part. Clinical neurosurgery is continuously expanding and the trend is towards increased neurosurgical manpower which in turn leads to an unavoidable dilution of surgical experience. Progress in neuroscience is impressive. It appears unlikely that a neurosurgeon will be able to master all aspects of clinical neurosurgery and actively participate in research. Subspecialization permits optimum qualification in any one area of neurosurgery with regard to surgical skill and research. Thus the above difficulties would be overcome and the demands of neurosurgery fully satisfied. Subspecialization should be regarded as an inherent part of the neurosurgical field rather than an independent biomedical discipline. All specialists should receive a solid, general neurosurgical training and, with only few exceptions, should practice within an organized clinical framework.
Axonal dystrophy in normal ageing can be studied in experimental animals. Primary sensory neurones show two different kinds of change with ageing, i.e. axonal dystrophy and axonal atrophy (degeneration). This paper reports the chronology and topography of these two processes in relation to growth and involution of these neurones throughout the lifespan of the rats used in this study. Axonal spheroids preferentially form at presynaptic terminal regions in many of the collaterals of central branches of the axons, i.e. in the posterior funiculus nuclei, posterior column and posterior funiculus. Axonal dystrophy in normal ageing is essentially a morbid process restricted to the terminal parts of the axon. It shows little tendency to expand retrogradely along the axon. Evidence is presented that spheroids in posterior funiculus also derive from terminal axons. Preference is also noted in the lumbosacral rather than cervical neurons, and in longer (posterior funiculus nuclei) rather than shorter (posterior column) collaterals. Quantitative study of myelinated fibres in posterior funiculus shows that they increase in number until middle age (400 days) of the animals, before beginning to decline. On the other hand, axonal atrophy begins to appear early in small numbers, and increases in numbers with age. Atrophy involves the whole length of the axon within the posterior funiculus from the start, suggesting, therefore, that it does not belong to a dying-back process. It is noteworthy that the main development of axonal dystrophy lies in the earlier half of the animals' life, while that of axonal atrophy lies in the latter half. This fact adds to the evidence that axonal dystrophy, as far as in normal ageing is concerned, is more related to the positive side of neuronal activity, e.g. one form of growth abnormality of axon.
Muscle biopsies from 16 patients with cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) deficiency were examined morphologically. Two siblings had the fatal infantile form. The muscle of the older sister at the age of 5 months had numerous ragged-red fibers (RRF) and increased numbers of lipid droplets; at 28 days the brother had no RRF suggesting that the RRF formed later than 28 days. The muscle pathology in two patients with the benign infantile form improved as they grew older; numbers of RRF, lipid droplets and glycogen particles decreased and CCO activity increased in the second biopsy. In the encephalomyopathic form, RRF were seen in 5 of 12 muscles mostly in patients more than 6 years of age. Muscle spindles and blood vessel walls in the biopsies from three patients with rapid clinical aggravation had no CCO activity, suggesting that enzyme activity differed from tissue to tissue (tissue specificity).
Histochemical investigations were carried out on skeletal muscle biopsies from ten patients with chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia with ragged-red fibers (RRF). In addition to the RRF, mild myopathic change consisting of variation in size of both type 1 and 2 fibers was seen in all patients, as well as neuropathic change in eight. Scattered fibers with absent cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) activity (focal deficiency) were seen in all patients. In serial sections, CCO deficiency did not always occupy the entire length of a fiber but was localized segmentally to regions measuring several hundred micrometers in length, suggesting the heterogeneity of CCO activity even in the same fiber.
Four patients with mitochondrial abnormality had multiple muscle biopsies at several year intervals during which respiratory chain enzyme activities were shown to be quite variable. In three patients, progression of the disease paralleled the decrease in respiratory chain enzyme activity. In one patient, the clinical and pathological findings improved with age as is seen in the benign infantile form of cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) deficiency. The variability in these mitochondrial disorders may result from the varied proportions of normal and abnormal mitochondria in the muscle cells in which the mitochondria are said to be randomly replicated from numerous mitochondrial DNA copies.
Morphological changes in neurons with inborn defects of the lysosomal hydrolase, alpha-L-iduronidase, and with concomitant storage of glycosaminoglycans, were evaluated by Golgi staining in two animal models and compared to a similar study of a child with the same disease. Cortical pyramidal neurons in feline mucopolysaccharidosis type I often displayed axon hillock enlargements (meganeurites) and/or ectopic, secondary neuritic processes sprouting from this same region of the cell. The latter structures were prominent and often appeared longer than similar neurites reported in other neuronal storage diseases. Although most meganeurites were aspiny, a few were observed which possessed spine-like processes or neurites. Other than these morphological changes in cortical pyramidal neurons, few other cell types displayed abnormalities demonstrable by Golgi impregnation. In the canine model of this disorder, abnormal Golgi-impregnated cortical neurons resembled more closely those seen in human mucopolysaccharidosis. That is, they possessed meganeurites which typically were aspiny in appearance. Ectopic neurite growth was not observed on any Golgi-impregnated neurons in the cases of canine or human mucopolysaccharidosis used in this study. The latter finding, given the advanced ages of these cases, is consistent with the view that ectopic neuritogenesis seen in neuronal storage diseases may be subject to a developmental window, albeit one open well beyond the period of early postnatal maturation.
Approximately 65-70% of the crew members now experience motion sickness of some degree during the first 72 h of orbital flight on the Space Shuttle. Lack of congruence among signals from spatial orientation systems leads to sensory conflict, which appears to be the basic cause of space motion sickness. A project to develop training devices and procedures to preadapt astronauts to the stimulus rearrangements of microgravity is currently being pursued. The preflight adaptation trainers (PATs) are intended to: demonstrate sensory phenomena likely to be experienced in flight, allow astronauts to train preflight in an altered sensory environment, alter sensory-motor reflexes, and alleviate or shorten the duration of space motion sickness. Four part-task PATs are anticipated. The trainers are designed to evoke two adaptation processes, sensory compensation and sensory reinterpretation, which are necessary to maintain spatial orientation in a weightless environment. Recent investigations using one of the trainers indicate that self-motion perception of linear translation is enhanced when body tilt is combined with visual surround translation, and that a 270 degrees phase angle relationship between tilt and surround motion produces maximum translation perception.

Computer calculations and theoretical studies of different variants of current-source density analysis (CSDA) for neurophysological studies were carried out. The different variants of the method are compared by estimating equiweight surfaces and equiweight lines in particular planes. The decrease in the distance between the different points of measurement has been found to result in more selective presentation of the neuronal activity. It is shown that this distance cannot be very small--50 micron seems a reasonable limit. Bidimensional and especially unidimensional CSD-analysis produces considerable volumes with negative weights, these weights being rather high in absolute value. Errors in the interpretation of the results are possible, such as incorrect calculation of the current density and even erroneous determination of its sign.
In order to display some electrophysiological properties of the motoneurons, a special program for a microcomputer has been designed. The images in the monitor resemble those of an oscilloscope screen. The microelectrode penetration in the cell membrane, magnitude of the resting potential, inhibition and facilitation phenomena and the time-course of a spike potential are shown. The sequences of program's sentences (detailed in the text) can be exhibited in the screen also. Related theoretical basis of neurophysiology and a discussion of the present work are included.













Studies in the last five years have provided conclusive evidence that protein phosphorylation is involved in the regulation of neuronal function. Direct evidence from microinjection experiments has shown that four distinct classes of protein kinases modulate physiological processes in neurons. In addition, a large number of substrates for these proteins have been identified in neurons. Three of these phosphoproteins have been discussed here: first, synapsin I, a substrate protein present in nerve terminals, the phosphorylation of which appears to regulate neurotransmitter release from those nerve terminals; second, the acetylcholine receptor, the phosphorylation of which regulates its rate of desensitization in the presence of acetylcholine; and, finally, DARPP-32, the phosphorylation of which converts it into a very potent phosphatase inhibitor that may be involved in the regulation by the neuromodulator dopamine of the effects of the neurotransmitter glutamate. These studies of specific phosphoproteins suggest that the identification and characterization of additional neuronal phosphoproteins should lead to the clarification of additional molecular mechanisms by which signal transduction is carried out in nerve cells.

A novel model of nutritionally induced hypertension in the rat is described. Dietary obesity was produced by providing sweet milk in addition to regular chow, which elicited a 52% increase in caloric intake. Despite 54% greater body weight gain and 139% heavier retroperitoneal fat pads, 120 days of overfeeding failed to increase systolic pressure in the conscious state (125 +/- 8 vs. 121 +/- 4 mmHg in chow-fed controls) or mean arterial pressure under urethan anesthesia (71 +/- 4 vs. 63 +/- 3 mmHg). In contrast, mild hypertension developed in intermittantly fasted obese animals (a 21-mmHg increase in systolic blood pressure measured in the conscious state and a 16-mmHg increase in mean arterial pressure under anesthesia relative to chow-fed controls). The first 4-day supplemented fast was initiated 4 wk after the introduction of sweet milk, when the animals were 47 g overweight relative to chow-fed controls. Thereafter, 4 days of starvation were alternated with 2 wk of refeeding for a total of 4 cycles. A rapid fall in systolic blood pressure (12 +/- 2 mmHg at 2 days) accompanied the onset of supplemented fasting and was maintained thereafter (2.7 +/- 2.6 mmHg further decrease during the latter half of the fast). With refeeding, blood pressure rose precipitously (13 +/- 3 mmHg in the 1st 2 days), despite poststarvation anorexia. Blood pressure tended to rise slightly over the remainder of the realimentation period (5.2 +/- 2.8 mmHg). After the 4th supplemented fast, hypertension was sustained during 30 days of refeeding. Cumulative caloric intake in starved-refed rats fell within 2% of that in chow-fed controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The nerve-mediated responses to electrical field stimulation (EFS) along the opossum esophageal circular smooth muscle were studied with the sucrose-gap recording technique. Strips from 1-2, 4-5, 7-8, and 10-11 cm above the lower esophageal sphincter were stimulated with short-train (300 ms) and long-train (3 s) durations at 29 degrees C. The response always consisted of a hyperpolarization [inhibitory junction potentials (IJP)] followed by an &quot;off depolarization&quot; often associated with spike potentials and mechanical contraction. Proximal to distal differences in the characteristics of the evoked responses were found, i.e., increasing amplitude, duration and time to peak hyperpolarization of the IJP, increasing latency, and amplitude of the off depolarization. Neither atropine, scopolamine, physostigmine, nor guanethidine altered these characteristics substantially. Circular strips of muscularis externa, studied in the organ bath at 37 degrees C using 10-s EFS trains at 5-40 pps, produced off contractions, enhanced by physostigmine and reduced by atropine. High-frequency stimulation occasionally initiated small persistent intrastimulus (&quot;on&quot;) responses; some were sensitive to cholinergic agents, but there was no gradient in the delay in their onset. Atropine-insensitive and tetrodotoxin-potentiated transient on responses were occasionally detected. We conclude that only the noncholinergic, nonadrenergic innervation provides a functional intrinsic innervation directly to the opossum esophagus circular smooth muscle when nerves are activated by EFS.
Calcium and sucrose permeabilities (PCa or Psucrose) were calculated from the fluxes of 45Ca and [3H]sucrose across perfused everted and normal configurations of the perineurial cylinder isolated from the frog sciatic nerve and from fluxes into an intact nerve segment bathed in Ringer. Mean PCa for influx across the isolated perineurium equaled 10.2 +/- 0.6 X 10(-7) cm/s (n = 16) compared with Psucrose = 7.4 +/- 0.4 X 10(-7) cm/s. For efflux, PCa = 27.5 +/- 5.0 X 10(-7) cm/s and Psucrose = 23.2 +/- 4.7 X 10(-7) cm/s. The mean ratio of PCa for efflux to PCa for influx (2.7 +/- 0.5) was not significantly different from the flux ratio for sucrose (3.1 +/- 0.7). No effect on PCa or Psucrose was observed when the calcium concentration in the bath was varied from 0.5 to 20 mM, when Na-free Ringer was perfused, or when ouabain, La3+, or 2,4-dinitrophenol was applied. Asymmetrical fluxes across the perineurial cylinder were due presumably to bulk flow and resultant solvent drag out of the lumen caused by perfusion pressure. Calcium accumulated in the perineurial tissue in a saturable manner with a Km of 80 microM and a Bmax of 0.22 mumol/g wet wt. The half time for calcium exchange from the external medium to the nerve was calculated as 3 h. This long half time and the calcium-sequestering ability of the perineurium suggest that the perineurium can stabilize endoneurial calcium during transient changes in the calcium concentration of plasma.


The combined morphological, biochemical, electrophysiological, and behavioral data summarized above show that implanted embryonic nerve cells in some cases can substitute quite well for a lost intrinsic neuronal system in mammals. The intracerebral implants probably exert their effects in several ways. The functional effects seen with grafts placed into one of the cerebral ventricles (such as those described in the studies of Perlow et al., Freed et al., and Gash et al.) are thus probably explained on the basis of a diffuse release of an active amine or peptide into the host CSF and adjacent brain tissue. In other instances, as in animals with DA-rich grafts reinnervating the neostriatum, we believe that the available data provide quite substantial evidence that the behavioral recovery is caused by the ability of the grafted neurons to reinnervate relevant parts of the host brain. This is illustrated by the studies mentioned above that show that the degree of functional recovery in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats with nigral transplants is directly correlated with the extent of striatal DA reinnervation and that the &quot;profile&quot; of functional recovery is dependent on that area of the striatal complex that is reinnervated by the graft. This point is particularly well illustrated in a further study in which rats with electrodes implanted into the center of intracortical nigral grafts were allowed to &quot;self-stimulate&quot; via the graft. The results show that the graft can indeed sustain self-stimulation behavior and that the rate of lever-pressing is related to the proximity between the electrode tip and the DA-containing neurons in the graft. This strongly supports the notion that the implanted DA neurons can transmit behaviorally meaningful and temporally organized information to the host brain via their efferent connections. To what extent the intracerebral implants can be functionally integrated with the host brain is still poorly known, though, and it therefore remains an interesting question for further investigation. The chances for extensive integration may be greatest for neuronal suspension grafts implanted as deposits directly into the depth of the brain, but even solid grafts inserted as whole pieces into the brain have, in several cases, been seen to become reinnervated from the host brain in adult and developing recipients. Nevertheless, a recent HRP study failed to detect any host afferents to intracortical solid nigral grafts, despite the fact that these grafts had themselves formed extensive DA connections in the host striatum and had produced behavioral recovery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The changes in dopamine catabolites in various regions of mouse brain have been studied following a variety of behavioral treatments. In confirmation of the results of many others, we find that treatments such as footshock or restraint result in a pronounced activation of dopaminergic systems in the prefrontal cortex, as determined by increases in the content of DOPAC (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid). However, we also find small but statistically significant increases of DOPAC in the hypothalamus and brain stem even with mild treatments. With restraint and more intense footshock we observe increases of DOPAC in all regions studied, including nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, amygdala, and the striatum. Thus in contrast to previous reports, we find that the DA response in stress is global like that of norepinephrine [as determined by increases of 3-methoxy,4-hydroxyphenylethyleneglycol, (MHPG)], and not specific to the prefrontal cortex. The activation of prefrontal cortex DA metabolism is associated with an activation of the synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase. The response pattern of catecholamine metabolites is similar following a variety of stressors, including conditioned footshock, training with one footshock in passive avoidance behavior, performance of passive avoidance behavior, and even following exposure to an apparatus in which mice have been shocked previously. Injection of mice with Newcastle disease virus increases plasma corticosterone, and DOPAC and MHPG in the hypothalamus and brain stem, but not the prefrontal cortex. Thus a virus infection can be considered a stressor. Furthermore, intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) produces stresslike increases in DOPAC and MHPG concentrations, suggesting that the release of CRF in the brain during stress may mediate the changes in catecholamine metabolism.







Autoimmune demyelination was studied in EAE induced by active challenge or by transfer of effector T-cell lines or clones specific for myelin basic protein or proteolipid apoprotein. The following points became clear: (1) Proteolipid apoprotein is responsible for widespread demyelination; (2) demyelination is more significant in EAE with a more chronic disease process; (3) a single T-cell clone can mediate significant demyelination without the aid of recipient-derived T-cell populations; (4) the difference in vulnerability between axons and myelin may account for the T-cell-mediated demyelination; and (5) effector T-cell clones can be activated by allogeneic antigens.

A progressive encephalopathy occurs in 30 to 50% of infants and children infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The expression of HIV antigen in the cerebrospinal fluid appears to correlate with the clinical occurrence of progressive encephalopathy. The signs of progressive encephalopathy in children with HIV infection, including loss of developmental milestones, impaired brain growth, and progressive motor dysfunction, indicate a poor prognosis and almost invariably a fatal outcome. Neuropathological findings in these children, including virus-laden macrophages and multinucleated giant cells are unique to this condition. Opportunistic or reactivated latent infections and neoplasms of brain occur in children with HIV infection but are uncommon. These findings support the hypothesis that the progressive encephalopathy observed in HIV-infected children is caused by primary infection of the brain with this virus. Epidemiological data predict increasing numbers of HIV-infected women and children. Research aimed at an understanding of the mechanism(s) of mother-to-infant transmission of HIV infection is urgently needed so that strategies for the prevention and treatment of such infection in children may be planned.
The CD4 molecule was originally described as a marker for a subset of lymphocytes; however, recent work has shown that a similar, if not identical, molecule is present on human brain. We have realized that this cell-surface recognition molecule is normally modulated by vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), one of the 50 or more neuropeptides that compose a shared intercellular network joining the brain, glands, and immune system. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the etiological agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), has been found to mimic VIP binding via peptide T (4-8), a pentapeptide sequence present in approximately the same region of all 20 HIV isolates whose sequences are currently known. AIDS dementia results from interference of gp120, present on the HIV envelope protein, with normal VIP-ergic neurotrophic effects, and effects on cerebral blood flow.








Carbon dioxide was administered for 15 minutes to patients with panic disorders (5% CO2, n = 14) and healthy subjects (5% CO2, n = 11; 7.5% CO2, n = 8). Following administration of CO2 and air placebo, changes in behavioral ratings, vital signs, and plasma levels of the norepinephrine metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol, cortisol, growth hormone, and prolactin were measured over three hours. In the healthy subjects, CO2 produced dose-related increases in anxiety, somatic symptoms, vital signs, and plasma cortisol levels. In the patients, the frequency of panic attacks (in eight of 14 patients) and the increases in anxiety and somatic symptoms induced by 5% CO2 exceeded those in the healthy subjects and were similar to those induced by 7.5% CO2 in the healthy subjects. The physiologic and biochemical measurements obtained did not elucidate the mechanisms underlying CO2-induced anxiety or the greater anxiogenic effects of CO2 seen in patients with panic disorders.
Twenty-two patients with acute migraine-associated stroke were prospectively evaluated; 91% were female, and 23% had a prior history of presumed migrainous stroke. The incidences of major stroke risk factors and mitral valve prolapse were no higher for the study group than for the general population of similar age. Computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or radionucleotide scanning of the brain was performed on all patients, and demonstrated ischemic or hemorrhagic infarction in 12 (55%). Cerebral arteriography revealed abnormalities related to the acute stroke in five (42%) of 12 cases overall, and in four (67%) of six studies performed within 72 hours of stroke onset; one patient (8%) suffered significant complications from arteriography. Although a variety of processes, alone or in combination, may contribute to migrainous stroke, extracranial and/or intracranial vasospasm appears to play a major role in at least some cases.
Auditory brainstem responses to tone bursts of constant rise and fall time and variable plateau were obtained in 7 normal hearing adults with a vertex to mastoid electrode configuration. In all records, two vertex-positive components (A, B) were present. Peak A is probably an onset response. Peak B latency increased linearly with plateau duration (r = 0.93) and seems to be an off response. White and notched acoustic noise masking had a different effect on the two components. A greater latency shift was observed for peak A than for peak B, thus reducing the interpeak interval in the masked response. When using high-pass noise, as we lowered the cut-off points from 4 to 0.5 kHz, there was also a greater latency increment for peak A than for peak B. These results suggest a more apical cochlear origin for the off response.

After a few decad of neglect, the &quot;enteric nervous system&quot; has recently regained the attention of investigators. Indeed, various studies, such as those which led to the isolation from the gut of a number of neuropeptides, subsequently demonstrated throughout the nervous system, have prompted major advancements of modern neuroscience. In spite of a wealth of animal investigations and a number of human studies, however, available information concerning the human &quot;enteric nervous system&quot; is comparatively sparse. In the opinion that such lack of information was largely due to unavailability of appropriate techniques, we have initiated and developed a new comprehensive methodology. This way, a quantitative analysis was made possible of both nerve structure and transmitter status, point-to-point along the gut, as well as within the various, functionally heterogeneous components of the gastrointestinal wall itself. After a general introduction, the present review is intended to summarize such methodology, with the addition of a few illustrative examples of application and a practically-oriented guideline to its use, in the form of technical appendix.
The role of forebrain cholinergic projections in place navigation learning was assessed in two experiments. Following surgery, rats were required to learn the spatial location of an underwater platform on the basis of distal room cues. Bilateral injections of ibotenic acid into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis depleted choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) from the anterior and temporoparietal cortex but not the hippocampus. Separate histological studies confirmed the accuracy of the lesions and demonstrated a marked loss of cortical acetylcholinesterase. These rats subsequently showed no deficits in spatial learning or memory. In a second experiment, bilateral lesions of the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca and medial septum depleted ChAT from the hippocampus and posterior cortex but not the anterior cortex. Histological studies confirmed the accuracy of the lesion and showed a pronounced loss of acetylcholinesterase from the hippocampus. These rats were deficient in spatial learning and showed reduced spatial bias during transfer tests. The data are discussed in the light of the hypothesis that the cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus plays a key role in spatial reference memory processes involved in place navigation.
The objective of this study was to examine the hypothesis of somatotopically organized motor functions in the striatum. In Experiment 1, ibotenate-induced lesions of the rostrolateral striatum in rats produced a transient decrease of ad libitum food intake, a more enduring decrease of body weight, and chronic impairments of food biting, holding of hard food pellets and feeding efficiency, with no apparent alterations of gait balance in a beam walking task. Lesions of the medial striatum had minimal or no reliable effects on any of the measured parameters. In Experiment 2, the motoric effects of ibotenate lesions restricted to either the dorsomedial or the dorsolateral or the ventrolateral regions of the rostral striatum were examined. Lesions of the dorsolateral striatum produced the most deleterious effect on holding postures of the forelimbs, whereas lesions of the ventrolateral striatum maximally affected food biting, feeding efficiency, ad libitum food intake, and body weight. No regional lesions affected gait balance. Dorsomedial striatal lesions did not affect any of the measured parameters. The findings support the hypothesis of a somatotopically organized role of the rostrolateral striatum in orofacial and forelimb motor control.
Enkephalin convertase (carboxypeptidase E,H; EC 3.4.17.10) is a carboxypeptidase B-like enzyme which appears to be physiologically associated with the biosynthesis of the enkephalins and certain other peptides. We have localized enkephalin convertase in the brain and other tissues autoradiographically by labeling studies with [3H]guanidinoethylmercaptosuccinic acid ([3H]GEMSA). In the brain, [3H]GEMSA localizations parallel enkephalin distribution but with certain exceptions, suggesting a role in relation to other peptides. In the pancreas, [3H]GEMSA binding sites are localized to the islets suggesting an involvement in insulin, glucagon, or somatostatin formation. The selective concentration of [3H]GEMSA grains in cardiac atria suggests a link to atrial natriuretic factor.
Regeneration of several adult rat and mouse skeletal muscles was studied after degeneration of muscle fibers had been obtained by the selective action of the cardiotoxin of Naja mossambica mossambica venom. Experimental conditions were set up to ensure minimal damage to satellite cells and also the nerves and blood vessels of the original muscles. As in the other types of experimental regeneration, the structure of the regenerated muscle appeared in many respects different from that of the normal muscle. Moreover the neuromuscular junctions of 'en plaque' type were transformed to 'en grappe' type junctions. Many ultrastructural abnormalities often displayed by these junctions might be linked, at least partially, to the persistence in the regenerating muscle of the original synaptic basal lamina sheaths and their inductive properties.
The neuronal circuits that generate swimming movements in the leech were simulated by a chain of coupled harmonic oscillators. Our model incorporates a gradient of rostrocaudally decreasing cycle periods along the oscillator chain, a finite conduction delay for coupling signals, and multiple coupling channels connecting each pair of oscillators. The interactions mediated by these channels are characterized by sinusoidal phase response curves. Investigations of this model were carried out with the aid of a digital computer and the results of a variety of manipulations were compared with data from analogous physiological experiments. The simulations reproduced many aspects of intersegmental coordination in the leech, including the findings that: 1) phase lags between adjacent ganglia are larger near the caudal than the rostral end of the leech nerve cord; 2) intersegmental phase lags increase as the number of ganglia in nerve cord preparations is reduced; 3) severing one of the paired lateral connective nerves can reverse the phase lag across the lesion and 4) blocking synaptic transmission in midganglia of the ventral nerve cord reduces phase lags across the block.
On the basis of the recent discovery that precisely replicating triplets of impulses present in All-Interval histograms of spike trains generated by visual cortex cells of Rhesus monkeys are surrounded by multiple copies of &quot;ghost doublets&quot; of such triplets, we have examined and compared in detail, the spike trains generated by four complex cells in the striate cortex of curarized monkeys with respect to: (1) The number of precisely replicating triplet patterns embedded in trains of discharges generated in response to specific Hubel-Wiesel stimulation; (2) The effect of time separating the occurrence of such replicating triplets on the number and time distribution of their ghost doublets; (3) The effect of decreasing the precision criterion for the detection of replicating (parent) triplets (from the standard 0.14 ms criterion to 0.5 ms) on the relationships between triplets and their ghosts and (4) The comparison of the distributions in time of ghost doublets around the first and second copies of triplets when the time intervals separating them were greater than or less than 0.5 s. We found that the precision of replication of triplets varies somewhat from one cell to another, and that ghosts doublets are more copiously associated with replicating triplets emitted near in time to each other than with triplets emitted after larger time intervals, except in the case of one cell. In order to assess the statistical significance of our findings, we systematically shuffled the order of occurrence of intervals in every burst of all the records of one of the studied cells and repeated the analysis. Both the number of replicating triplets and of associated ghost doublets is significantly depressed (but not totally obliterated) by the above shuffling procedure. Finally, further implications based on a model of neural information transmission in the form of temporal correlations between spikes are discussed.
As a possible preventative measure for brain dysfunction in the fetal alcohol syndrome, the effect of zinc or vitamin E supplementation together with ethanol on the fetal cerebrum was investigated in rats. Contrary to our previously published data showing the good effect of 0.01% zinc with 30% ethanol on fetuses, the administration of 0.01% zinc with 20% ethanol, 0.03% vitamin E with 20% ethanol or 0.02% vitamin E with 10% ethanol during pregnancy did not result in a good effect on the body and cerebral weights of fetuses on gestational day 21. The development of dendritic branches on frontal cerebral neurons in fetuses was decreased in the order of the control, zinc with ethanol and ethanol groups. The concentration and content of alpha-tocopherol were increased, but those of zinc were not, in the fetal cerebrum with the maternal administration of vitamin E or zinc together with ethanol, respectively. These results suggest that the improvement of the brain function might depend on the deficient agent induced by maternal ethanol ingestion.
Different proteins have vastly different lifetime in cells, some survive as long as or even longer than the cell does, whereas others survive for just minutes. Proteins showing short half-times play an extremely important role as cellular regulators, in particular in controlling cell mitosis and in carcinogenesis. These proteins probably possess an intrinsic physical instability, i.e. they are biologically active only while being in a meta-stable non-equilibrium state resulting from the very mechanisms of protein biosynthesis on ribosomes. Aging of these proteins consists of internal equilibration through protein chain folding rather than in accumulation of errors due to intermolecular interactions. We want to attract more attention to such fast (short-lived) proteins. The question of what determines these protein lifetimes is of practical as well as theoretical interest.

With the changing management of malignant spinal cord compression there has been a reduction in numbers of patients treated by conventional laminectomy. This has resulted in a move either to the use of radiotherapy or to the use of more major surgical procedures such as the transthoracic approach. In both of these situations a more logical approach to deciding on the treatment modality to be used can be achieved by determining the histology of the lesion by percutaneous needle biopsy. This paper describes the technique of needle biopsy and presents evidence that shows that a reliable and immediate diagnosis can be achieved by the use of smear histology.
The binding capacity for epidermal growth factor (EGF) was determined in 34 intracranial neoplasms (14 glioblastoma, seven low-grade gliomas, six meningiomas, and seven others) and four specimens of normal brain by using [I125]EGF. EGF binding and binding affinity of the sites in the tumour and brain samples were compared to placenta and rat liver. All specimens of normal brain were negative. Ten of 14 glioblastoma specimens contained EGF binding (level range 10-39,660 fmol/mg protein), however, ligand binding affinity was high in only three tumours. Only one of nine low-grade gliomas contained EGF binding activity. Five of six meningiomas contained EGF binding sites (level range 49-776 fmol/mg protein) and binding affinity was high in two. When present EGF binding activity was found in all cellular fractions except the cytosol. There were no clinical or histopathological features within major tumour groups that were predictive of either high or specific EGF binding activity. These preliminary studies have confirmed that EGF receptor-like activity is present in the particulate fractions of intracranial neoplasms of both mesenchymal and neuroctodermal origin. In a large proportion of these tumours the EGF binding affinity is low, suggesting either a less specific or truncated EGF binding site.
Although much is known about the optics and mechanism of ocular accommodation in teleost fishes, there is to date no description of the neurons innervating the muscle of accommodation, the lens retractor. I have identified accommodation motor neurons in the kelp bass, Paralabrax clathratus, by backfilling the lens retractor nerve (a branch of the short ciliary nerve) with the retrograde tracer horseradish peroxidase. These neurons comprise a subpopulation of relatively large unipolar neurons in the ciliary ganglion. Backfilling either of the remaining ciliary nerve branches (which innervate mainly cornea and iris) labels smaller cells in the ciliary ganglion as well as sensory neurons in the profundus ganglion and sympathetic neurons in the trigeminal sympathetic ganglion. No labeled cells were found in the brain in any of these experiments. I have also examined the lens retractor nerve and the corneal-iridal branch of the short ciliary nerve by electron microscopy. Counts of axons in these nerves from animals of different sizes suggest postembryonic growth of axon number in the corneal-iridal branch but not in the lens retractor nerve. The latter comprises approximately 100 myelinated and a few unmyelinated axons. Its diameter spectrum shows a preponderance of large-diameter axons, but the myelin sheaths are unusually thin (mean axon diameter: 7.5 micron; mean ratio axon diameter/fiber diameter: g = 0.81 for 830-gram animal). The results indicate that kelp bass accommodation motor neurons lie primarily if not entirely within the ciliary ganglion. Some of their axons are the largest in the short ciliary nerve, but their sheath thicknesses are apparently not optimal with respect to conduction velocity.
The connections of the olfactory bulb were traced using horseradish peroxidase. A homologue of the medial olfactory tract in gnathostomes projects to the ipsilateral septal nucleus, preoptic area and, possibly, the rostral striatum. A homologue of the lateral olfactory tract projects to the ipsilateral lateral pallium, dorsal pallium and, possibly, the medial pallium, as well as to the posterior diencephalon. A component of the lateral olfactory tract decussates in the habenular and posterior commissures and distributes to the contralateral hemisphere and caudal diencephalon. A dorsal component of secondary olfactory fibers terminates, ipsilaterally, in a dorsomedially situated neuropil that has previously been interpreted as a single glomerulus of the olfactory bulb or as an accessory olfactory bulb, as well as in the contralateral olfactory bulb after decussation in the dorsal commissure. Afferents to the olfactory bulb arise from the ipsilateral dorsal pallium, lateral pallium, a cell-poor region adjacent to the preoptic area, and the midbrain tegmentum. The extent of the secondary olfactory projections in silver lampreys could be interpreted to support the phylogenetic hypothesis that all regions of the telencephalon received secondary olfactory projections in the earliest vertebrates, but this interpretation is not unequivocal, due to questions concerning the pallial homologues in lampreys and gnathostomes. Application of horseradish peroxidase to the olfactory epithelium revealed projections to the striatum, preoptic area, hypothalamus and posterior tuberculum that are comparable to projections of the nervus terminalis in other vertebrates.
One could hypothesize from previous studies that gorillas, as a group, might show a right-hand preference, making this species an exception among nonhuman primates. A study of 10 captive gorillas observed while reaching for food and tested on unimanual and bimanual tasks does not support this conclusion. Instead, the present study found (a) a symmetrical distribution of subjects with right-hand (n = 3), left-hand (n = 3), and no hand preference (n = 4) when simply reaching for food and (b) a left-hand preference by 7 of 8 gorillas tested on a spatial task requiring precise alignment of two openings. These results stress the importance of considering the kind of task employed in the assessment of lateral preferences. Furthermore, it is suggested that it might be useful to distinguish between the handedness of a gorilla when simply reaching and its manual specialization for novel and complex tasks.
Reflectance spectrophotometry was applied to examine experimental cerebral oxygenation and hemodynamics in young rabbits. The estimated brain tissue SO2 level (ISO2) showed a prompt response to acute hypoxemia. The estimated brain tissue hemoglobin concentration (IHb) showed good correlation with CBF changes, estimated by the H2 clearance method, on hypoxemia or hypercarbia, and with cerebral congestion on neck venous compression. Moreover, trend recording of IHb and ISO2 was useful for monitoring the cerebral oxygenation and hemodynamic changes, including CBF as well as congestion.
In addition to numerous ragged-red fibers in the muscle from a female infant with fetal infantile cytochrome c oxidase deficiency, the muscle fibers were small in caliber with electron microscopic characteristics of immaturity; the satellite cells were significantly increased in number to 31.3% as compared with those in controls, 8.4 +/- 1.6% (p less than 0.001). In the culture system, the biopsied muscle showed markedly reduced growth despite the presence of numerous satellite cells which are known to act as myoblasts in muscle regeneration, and formed fewer numbers of myotubes containing poorly organized myofibrils and mitochondria with no cytochrome c oxidase activity. A defect in myogenesis and a paucity in repair process in severe form may account for the progressive course and a fatal outcome.
Explants from the metencephalic region of 40-h chick embryo neural tubes containing the trigeminal (V) motor nucleus were cultured in appropriate target muscle-conditioned media (MCM) derived from chick, quail and rat embryos. Enhanced neuritic outgrowth was found only in the presence of chick MCM, indicating that this early, initial responsiveness to target-released materials within this system is species-specific.
A BASIC computer program is listed and described which may be used for calculating large amounts of data generated by radioimmunoassays. The user is given the opportunity to construct standard curves and to calculate mass quantities from raw counts or to incorporate previously determined protein values with mass quantities for final data expression. Calculated data may be viewed onscreen or obtained as printed copy.
In frogs, underwater electro-olfactograms (EOGs) in response to 10(-5) M isoamyl acetate were recorded under restricted cationic environments. The olfactory mucosa was superfused by sodium-free sucrose solutions, and the effect of the addition of millimolar concentrations of calcium, cobalt, barium, or cadmium was studied. Only calcium and barium restored the response; sodium and cobalt were less efficient. Cobalt did not alter the restoring effect of calcium. Cadmium resulted in irreversible blocking irrespective of the presence of calcium. These results are discussed in terms of possible ionic mechanisms mediating olfactory responses.
We have observed repeated patterns in evoked spike trains recorded from the primary visual cortex of the cat. These patterns are called &quot;triplets&quot; and &quot;ghost doublets&quot;. Triplets are groups of three pulses, that may or may not be adjacent to one other, the mutual intervals of which are replicated in one other group of three spikes with a precision higher than 0.15 ms. Ghost doublets are doublets of pulses whose interval replicates, with the above precision, one of the intervals of the repeated triplets and are also present in the record. In one of the 9 recorded cells, in which pulses were clearly emitted in bursts in phase with the drifting of the sinusoidal grating used as a stimulus, we could show that local temporal correlations in the form of replicating triplets and ghost doublets correspond very precisely to the temporal phase of the grating: the study of the distance between triplets, or between triplets and ghost doublets, gives a remarkably precise value of the time frequency of the grating.
Cats were treated with DSP 4, a neurotoxic agent known to destroy central noradrenergic endings. A significant increase was subsequently noticed in the amount of time spent by the treated animals in an attitude of &quot;expectancy&quot;, i.e. of motionless waiting for an &quot;event to occur&quot;. They even developed this attitude when no such real situation existed. Concomitantly, an increase was noticed in the power of the 14 Hz electrocortical rhythms recorded over the somatic sensory cortex. These patterns, designated as &quot;mu&quot; rhythms, had previously been shown to characterize this particular type of attentive state. The present data tends to confirm our previous hypothesis, that immobile expectancy and its accompanying electrocortical pattern are under a noradrenergic inhibitory control.
Tau proteins are the major components of Paired Helical Filaments (PHF) of Alzheimer's disease. Using the immunoblot technique and an antiserum against PHF, we have studied the distribution of Tau proteins in the different areas of normal human brains and Alzheimer brains. Tau proteins were clearly present in cortical grey matter but were difficult to detect in the white matter. In Alzheimer brains, we observed two differences: first, there is an important background due to the partial dissociation of the lesions containing Tau aggregates. Second, the profile of Tau proteins is modified, due to abnormal phosphorylation. Thus, Tau proteins are found in large amounts in the grey matter of the cortical areas and are not exclusively distributed in the axonal domain. The normal cortical distribution of Tau in the human brain correlates well with the distribution of histological lesions that contain PHF (neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques) in the Alzheimer cortex.
Mouse adrenal medullae were transplanted into the brain and studied 4 weeks or more later. In these transplants, some chromaffin cells extend neurite-like processes and form synapses on other chromaffin cells. These synapses exhibit the ultrastructural features of chemical synapses. The possible neoformation of these synapses after transplantation is discussed.
Intracellular recordings using standard current clamp techniques were performed on projection cells of the rat lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) in vitro. These cells are generally quiescent in vitro but when magnesium was removed from the perfusion medium they invariably showed rhythmic depolarizations (15-20 mV, 210-320 ms) that occurred at a frequency of 1.5-2 Hz and evoked 1 to 4 action potentials. This activity was completely blocked by micromolar concentrations of magnesium (50-150 microM) while tetrodotoxine (1 microM) abolished the action potentials but left the underlying rhythmic depolarizations unchanged. These results demonstrate that rat LGN projection cells are capable of producing rhythmic depolarizations in vitro and suggest the possibility that NMDA receptors might be involved in these rhythmic oscillations.
Equimolar doses of chlorambucil and melphalan (both 10 mg/kg) were administered i.v. to anesthetized rats, and the plasma and brain concentrations of chlorambucil, its metabolites 3,4-dehydrochlorambucil and phenylacetic mustard, and melphalan were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography from 5 to 240 min thereafter. Chlorambucil demonstrated a monophasic disappearance from plasma, with a half-life of 26 min. The compound was 99.6% plasma-protein-bound. Chlorambucil underwent beta-oxidation to yield detectable concentrations of 3,4-dehydrochlorambucil and substantial amounts of phenylacetic mustard in the plasma. Low concentrations of chlorambucil and phenylacetic mustard were detected in the brain. Calculated from the areas under the concentration-time curves, the brain:plasma concentration integral ratios of chlorambucil and phenylacetic mustard were 0.021 and 0.013, respectively. Melphalan demonstrated a biphasic disappearance from plasma, with half-lives of 1.9 and 78 min. The compound was approximately 86% plasma protein-bound. Low concentrations of melphalan were detected in the brain, and its brain:plasma ratio was 0.13. These data demonstrate that following the administration of chlorambucil and melphalan, only low concentrations of active drug are able to enter the brain. As a consequence, concentrations of both drugs that cause the complete inhibition of extracerebrally located tumor have no effect on those located within the brain. Further, the brain uptake of melphalan, although low, is greater than that of chlorambucil and its active metabolites, which coincides with its slightly greater intracerebral activity following the systemic administration of very high doses.
The shapes of myenteric neurons in the guinea-pig small intestine were determined after injecting living neurons with the dye Lucifer yellow via a microelectrode. The cells were fixed and the distribution of Lucifer yellow rendered permanent by an immunohistochemical method. Each of 204 nerve cells was examined in whole-mount preparations of the myenteric plexus and drawn using a camera lucida at 1250 x magnification. Four cell shapes were distinguished: (1) neurons with several long processes corresponding to type II of Dogiel; (2) neurons with a single long process and lamellar dendrites corresponding to type I of Dogiel; (3) neurons with numerous filamentous dendrites; and (4) small neurons with few processes. About 15% of the neurons could not be placed into these classes or into any single class. The type II neurons (39% of the sample) had generally smooth somata and up to 7 (average 3.3) long processes, most of which ran circumferentially. Dogiel type I neurons (34% of sampled neurons) had characteristic lamellar dendrites, i.e., broad dendrites that were flattened in the plane of the plexus. The filamentous neurons (7% of the sample), had, on average, 14 fine processes up to about 50 microns in length. Small neurons with smooth outlines and a few fine processes made up 5% of the neurons encountered. We conclude that myenteric neurons that have been injected with dye can be separated into morphologically distinct classes and that the different morphological classes probably correspond to different functional groupings of neurons.
Spectral EEG analysis has been successfully utilized in previous studies on migraine patients. The aim of our study was to evaluate, by means of EEG mapping, potential correlations between the efficacy of flunarizine treatment in migraine patients and the EEG pattern recorded after chronic flunarizine therapy. Flunarizine was found to modify the non-specific EEG abnormalities of our migraine patients as well as evoke a positive clinical response.
Alzheimer's disease is the most significant of the age-related diseases of the brain. The incidence of Alzheimer's at age 80 is twenty-fold that at age 60 years. In one study the incidence at age 80 surpassed that of stroke. Three major advances have occurred in regard to Alzheimer's disease: (1) clinical diagnosis has markedly improved and now approaches 90% accuracy; (2) understanding of the biology of Alzheimer's has increased with delineation of specific fibrous protein abnormalities and identification of the amyloid precursor gene and the gene linked to familial Alzheimer's, both genes being located on chromosome 21; and (3) there have been advances in the correlation of specific nerve cell involvement and neurotransmitter changes with physiological (position emission tomography), behavioural and neuropsychological manifestations.
Among 129 patients with spine pain and radiculopathy in both the cervical and lumbar region, there were significant differences between the upper and lower extremity DSER groups, noting the higher number of normal studies by our criteria in the upper extremities as compared to the lower extremities. This difference may be due to the intertwining of the &quot;nerve circuitry&quot; of the input pathways. It appears that the dermatomal somatosensory evoked response is a study of low sensitivity and of high specificity.
Without the availability of objective measures of central neurologic dysfunction, neuroepidemiologic investigations of individuals exposed to psychoactive drugs and potential environmental and occupational neurotoxins are extraordinarily difficult, particularly when the central nervous system manifestations are subtle, diffuse, and limited to cognitive deficits. In an attempt to assess and quantitate psychomotor dysfunction, P-300 event-related potentials, Symbol Digit Test, Continuous Performance Test, and Finger Tapping Test were obtained from six subjects sequentially exposed to nitrous oxide at 0%, 10%, 20%, and 40%. With increasing concentration of N2O, there was prolongation of P-300 latency and worsening of Continuous Performance Test and Symbol Digit Test performance; P-300 amplitude and Finger Tapping Test performance were decreased by exposure to N2O. This study demonstrates a dose-dependent reduction in P-300 amplitude and prolongation of P-300 latency in subjects in whom psychomotor impairment was induced by the acute administration of N2O.
Ginger and several other medications were compared with scopolamine and d-amphetamine for effectiveness in prevention of motion sickness. Methods: Double-blind techniques were used. The subjects were given the medications two hours before they were rotated in a chair making head movements until a symptom total short of vomiting was reached. Standardized N.A.S.A. techniques were used for speed of rotation and end-point of motion sickness. Results: The three doses of ginger were all at the placebo level of efficacy. Amitriptyline, ethopropazine and trihexyphenidyl increased the tolerated head movements but the increase was not statistically significant. Significant levels of protection were produced by dimenhydrinate, promethazine, scopolamine and d-amphetamine. Protection was further increased by combination of these latter drugs with d-amphetamine. Efficacy was greatest as the dose was increased. Conclusions: The medication of choice in this study was scopolamine 0.6 mg with d-amphetamine 10 mg. This combination provided good protection with acceptable side effects.
1. Bursts of spike activity in the ventral nerve cord of the cockroach were elicited by mechanically stimulating the cercal organs. 2. In the presence of micromolar proctolin, the peak frequency and the duration of a burst were slowly but significantly increased. 3. In contrast, carbachol produced an immediate enhancement of spontaneous activity, but a potentiation of bursts was not seen. 4. It is proposed that proctolin functions as a neuromodulator in the terminal abdominal ganglion of the cockroach.
An open trial of electroconvulsive therapy was conducted in nine subjects who met DSM-III criteria for obsessive-compulsive disorder. There was an initial reduction in symptomatology that lasted from 1 to 4 months. Subjects who had less obsessive-compulsive (anankastic) personality traits responded better. There was also the post hoc observation that subjects who were agitated did better. We observed correlations between depression and interference scores, but not with symptom scores, suggesting that ECT has anti-obsessional activity.
In a double-blind prospective study, 29 endogenously depressed patients (RDC) were randomized into sinusoidal wave (SW) and brief-pulse (BP) electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) groups. Bilateral modified treatments were administered on alternate days, three per week, and the treatment variables of current dosage and seizure duration were monitored for each treatment. Significantly more patients responded to SW than to BP ECT, but a comparable number of treatments was required to produce this response in the two groups. There was no difference in clinical or treatment variables between the SW and the BP groups, nor between ECT responders and nonresponders, with the exception that the SW-treated patients received larger doses of current per treatment than did the BP patients. For endogenous depression treated with ECT, we conclude that cumulative seizure duration may not be a parameter of significance, that overall rate of recovery in ECT responders is independent of stimulus waveform, and that some depressives may respond to SW but not to BP ECT. We suggest that the antidepressant effect of the ECT seizure may be characterized by a therapeutic window in current requirements; alternatively, a putative response threshold (again in terms of current requirement) may exist, which is higher in some patients than in others.
Endogenous depression is known to be associated with good outcome following electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). In a double-blind, prospective study, we applied three clinical predictive indices and one diagnostic index to a cohort of 29 endogenous depressed patients, to obtain better predictors of outcome following ECT. The Newcastle Prognostic Index identified ECT responders with high specificity but low sensitivity; other indices, such as those described by Hobson (1953) and by Mendels (1967), were neither sensitive nor specific in predictive standards. If ECT-treated depressed patients are pre-selected for endogenous symptomatology, fresh clinical predictive indices need to be developed.
Thirty-two endogenous depressed patients (RDC) were treated with electroconvulsive therapy. Four patients (12.5%) developed a transient manic reaction; in two cases, this reaction occurred in mid-depression. Mania is not a generally recognized side effect of ECT; we detail the clinical characteristics, but fail to define clinical predictors of vulnerability.
The lipids of white matter and peripheral nerve from mutant mice with known myelin deficiencies were analyzed by one- and two-dimensional high-performance thin-layer chromatography and quantitated by densitometry. In optic nerve, the mutants jp/Y, jpmsd/Y, qk/qk, shi/shi and shimld/shimld, which have severe central nervous system (CNS) myelin deficiency, had a common pattern of lipid loss: cerebrosides and sulfatides (hydroxy and nonhydroxy forms) were generally reduced by 70-95% or more; most phospholipids were diminished by 15-55%, and cholesterol was reduced by 35-60%. Only in the CNS of jp/Y and jpmsd/Y did cholesterol ester accumulate. In peripheral nerve, the lipid composition varied markedly among these mutants. In jp/Y there was no change, while in jpmsd/Y there was a 5-15% loss among the phospholipids and cholesterol. Homozygous qk had reductions of 75-85% in the nonhydroxy forms of cerebroside and sulfatide, a 130% increase in hydroxy sulfatide, and a 55% loss of sphingomyelin. In shi/shi and shimld/shimld homozygotes, the glycolipids were altered by +/- 20%, most phospholipids and cholesterol were reduced by 5-15%, and sphingomyelin was reduced by 40%. Tr and TrJ showed 35-90% reductions in most lipid classes of the peripheral nervous system; CNS lipid composition was normal. Homozygous twi had a uniform loss of most lipid classes in both optic (generally 10-20%) and trigeminal nerves (generally 40-55%); cerebrosides did not accumulate in these tissues. dy/dy had a 10-20% reduction of cerebrosides in trigeminal nerve trunk. The CNS of dy homozygotes had 10-35% increases in specific classes of glycolipids and phospholipids, and in cholesterol. None of the mutants showed detectable levels of lysophospholipids or other unusual lipid species. The fractions of ethanolamine and choline phosphatides in the plasmalogen form were close to normal in all mutants.
The lipids of white matter and peripheral nerve from neurological mutant mice with possible myelin abnormalities were analyzed by thin-layer chromatography and quantitated by densitometry. Eight mutants had major abnormalities in the central nervous system (CNS) and/or peripheral nervous system (PNS) tissues examined (optic nerve, and trigeminal and sciatic nerves). In the optic nerve of axJ/axJ, there were increases of 20-30% in the levels of the major phospholipids; peripheral nerve was normal. In bc3J/bc3J CNS, the major phospholipids and cholesterol were increased by 25-40%; the PNS was normal. In myd/myd CNS, there were increases of about 20% in the levels of both forms of cerebrosides and in the major phospholipids; in the PNS the lipids were normal. ot/ot CNS had 20-40% reductions of all the glycolipids and minor alterations in some of the phospholipids and cholesterol; the PNS had 20% losses of both forms of cerebrosides. In the PNS of ji/ji, there were decreases of 10-40% among the glycolipids and of 15-25% in three of the major phospholipids; the CNS was virtually normal. In the PNS of dtJ/dtJ, vb/vb and wr/wr, almost all lipids were significantly decreased. The CNS of dtJ/dtJ and vb/vb were normal; wr/wr had minor reductions of certain glycolipids and phospholipids. Six mutants had relatively minor lipid abnormalities in their myelinated tissues. In cr/cr PNS, there were elevated levels of the cerebrosides and major phospholipids; the CNS was virtually normal. In db/db CNS and PNS, there were reduced levels of the nonhydroxy forms of cerebroside and sulfatide. The major change in htr/htr was the elevation of all the glycolipids in the CNS. In the CNS of Lc/+, nonhydroxy cerebroside was reduced. In shm/shm PNS, nonhydroxy sulfatide was elevated and there were small decreases in some of the phospholipids. wl/wl CNS showed decreases among most of the glycolipids. Mutants homozygous for du, mto, spa and tg had virtually normal lipid levels in both the optic and peripheral nerves. Cholesterol ester, lysophospholipids and other unusual lipid species were not detected in any of the mutants. The plasmalogen forms of ethanolamine and choline phosphatides were at normal levels in all mutants that otherwise had significant alterations among their lipids. Although many alterations in lipid composition were found in these mutants, the changes were moderate compared to the classical myelin mutants and indicate that none of the mutants are severely myelin-deficient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the biosynthetic enzyme for acetylcholine metabolism, is expressed in a human cholinergic neuroblastoma cell line; MC-IXC. We demonstrate that ChAT activity is regulated in this cell line by cell density. It is believed that the mechanism of stimulation of enzyme activity involves cellular contact, as medium conditioned by cells of high density failed to mimic the effect of density alone, and trypsinization reversed this effect. Density did not increase acetylcholinesterase activity, another marker for the cholinergic phenotype, in MC-IXC cultures, demonstrating the independent regulation of these two cholinergic enzymes. Since increased density slows the rate of cell division, we used a DNA synthesis inhibitor to uncouple DNA replication from cell density. This had no effect on the specific activity of ChAT, suggesting that a cell-cell contact was the mediating factor. Other neuroblastoma cell lines were tested, and only cell lines which already contain ChAT activity were sensitive to its regulation by cell-cell contact, suggesting that cell-cell contact is permissive rather than instructive in this process. The effect of cell passage on ChAT activity is also discussed.
Recent findings on the nature and origin of segmentation in zebrafish, Brachydanio rerio, are reviewed. Segmented peripheral tissues include the trunk and tail myotomes, that are derived from somitic mesoderm, and the pharyngeal arches that are derived from head mesoderm in addition to other sources. Two major regions of the central nervous system, the spinal cord and hindbrain, are also segmentally organized, as deduced from the distribution of identified neurones in both regions and by formation of neuromeres in the hindbrain that contain single sets of these neurones. Neural and mesodermal segments in the same body region can be related to one another by their patterns of motor innervation. This relationship is simple for the spinal/myotomal segments and complex for the hindbrain/pharyngeal arch segments. Development of the segments is also complex. Mesodermal and ectodermal progenitors have separate embryonic origins and indeterminate cell lineages, and the embryonic cells migrate extensively before reaching their definitive segmental positions. Results of heat-shock experiments suggest that development of myotomal and spinal segments are regulated coordinately in postgastrula embryos. Segmental patterning may be a relatively late feature of zebrafish embryonic development.
Chondrogenesis is an important process in the development of the embryonic chick limb. If limb buds are dispersed just prior to the initiation of chondrogenic differentiation and their cells seeded densely in culture as three-dimensional &quot;micromasses,&quot; some of the cells differentiate to form chondrogenic nodules. These nodules characteristically produce sulfated proteoglycans and type II collagen. Two conditions within the early avian limb core have been linked causatively to the initiation of chondrogenesis: a limitation in the availability of molecular oxygen and a low NAD content of the tissue. The O2 limitation is thought to be responsible for the low NAD level. We examined the effects of molecular oxygen on the NAD content of chick limb-bud cells in micromass culture, the formation of chondrocytic nodules, and the production of type II collagen and sulfated proteoglycans. The NAD content of the cells in the micromasses and the production of type II collagen did not vary greatly as a function of oxygen availability. The development of the nodules was modified, but not eliminated, by high oxygen partial pressure (0.95). It was eliminated by anoxia. Proteoglycan synthesis was decreased significantly by high oxygen tension and its sulfation was also decreased, more so in the wing-bud than the leg-bud cells. The results suggest that in culture, high oxygen tension is compatible with some, but not all, aspects of chondrogenic differentiation of cells from embryonic chick limbs.
Intermediate pituitary lobe cells from newborn rats were maintained in culture to determine the extent to which they continue to exhibit the tissue-specific properties of the newborn and adult intermediate pituitary lobes. At all times examined these cultures contained mostly alpha MSH-sized and corticotropin-like intermediate lobe peptide-sized peptides; the alpha MSH-sized peptides were predominantly diacetyl-ACTH-(1-13)NH2. After 6 days in culture, the intermediate pituitary lobe cells retained the ability to synthesize diacetyl-ACTH-(1-13)NH2. Compared to that of the adult, the newborn anterior pituitary lobe is enriched in high mol wt forms of ACTH-related molecules. Therefore, the ability of newborn anterior pituitary lobe cell cultures to develop the adult processing pattern in culture was investigated. After 6 days in culture, peptides the size of alpha MSH predominated rather than ACTH-(1-39), which is the major form found in the adult. Immunocytochemical studies showed that all cultured newborn corticotropes strongly stained for alpha MSH-related material. The alpha MSH-sized molecules were identified as ACTH-(1-13)NH2 by reverse phase HPLC. In 6-day-old cultures of neonatal anterior pituitary lobes grown in the presence of a synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone, the amount of alpha MSH-sized material was diminished, and instead, precursor forms of the ACTH-related peptides were detected. In biosynthetic labeling experiments, the ratio of newly synthesized ACTH-(1-13)NH2 to ACTH-(1-39) was greatly reduced by treatment of the cells with dexamethasone. The extensive cleavage of ACTH-(1-39) and its regulation by dexamethasone are unique to newborn anterior pituitary lobe corticotropes; such plasticity is not observed in cultures of adult tissue.
NPH can be reversible after cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion. In the past no reliable criteria could be defined to predict the successful outcome of CSF shunting. Several authors demonstrated an increased cerebral blood flow after lumbar puncture in patients with NPH, indicating an underlying impairment of cerebral circulation autoregulation. 123I-AMP brain tomoscintigraphy was applied to 23 individuals with NPH before and after CSF drainage. Of these 23 patients, 10 underwent surgical shunting. The frontal and parietal hypoactive cortical pattern was present in NPH but not pathognomonic. Under stimulation of CSF pressure lowering, seven patients with improved outcome after shunting demonstrated an increase of cerebral perfusion in these areas, whereas a decrease of activity was found in three patients whose clinical status was unchanged after CSF diversion. This tomoscintigraphic test may be an interesting additional criterion for surgical admission.
Intracellular recordings were made in the barbiturate-anesthetized cat from single afferent fibres left in continuity with the medial gastrocnemius muscle to document the transmembrane potential changes produced in functionally identified fibres by stimulation of sensory nerves and of the contralateral red nucleus (RN). Fifty five fibres from muscle spindles had conduction velocities above 70 m/s and were considered as from group Ia. Stimulation of group I afferent fibres of the posterior biceps and semitendinosus nerve (PBSt) produced primary afferent depolarization (PAD) in 30 (54%) Ia fibres. Stimulation of the sural (SU) nerve produced no transmembrane potential changes in 39 (71%) group Ia fibres and dorsal root reflex-like activity (DRRs) in 16 (29%) fibres. In 17 out of 28 group Ia fibres (60.7%) SU conditioning inhibited the PAD generated by stimulation of the PBSt nerve. Facilitation of the PBSt-induced PAD by SU conditioning was not seen. Repetitive stimulation of the RN had mixed effects: it produced PAD in 1 out of 8 fibres and inhibited the PAD induced by PBSt stimulation in 2 other fibres. Nine fibres connected to muscle spindles had conduction velocities below 70 m/s and were considered to be group II afferents. No PAD was produced in these fibres by SU stimulation but DRRs were generated in 5 of them. In 23 out of 31 fibres identified as from tendon organs group I PBSt volleys produced PAD. However, stimulation of the SU nerve produced PAD only in 3 out of 34 fibres, no transmembrane potential changes in 30 fibres and DRRs in 1 fibre. The effects of SU conditioning on the PAD produced by PBSt stimulation were tested in 19 Ib fibres and were inhibitory in 12 of them. In 9 of these fibres SU alone produced no transmembrane potential changes. Repetitive stimulation of the RN produced PAD in 3 out of 9 Ib fibres. SU conditioning inhibited the RN-induced PAD. The present findings support the existence of an alternative inhibitory pathway from cutaneous to Ib fibres, in addition to the well known excitatory pathway producing PAD. Possible functional implications of inhibitory actions of cutaneous fibres with the pathways mediating the PAD of group Ia and Ib fibres are discussed.
This study examined the EMG onsets of leg, trunk, and neck muscles in 10 standing human subjects in response to support surface anterior and posterior translations, and to plantar and dorsiflexion rotations. The objective of the study was to test the hypothesis that the responses radiating upward from distal leg muscles represent part of a large ascending synergy encompassing axial muscles along the entire length of the body. If these responses are not ascending, then the muscles of the neck, and possibly the trunk, can be independently activated by vestibular, proprioceptive or visual inputs. We analysed the timing of postural muscle responses within and between body segments in order to determine whether they maintained a consistent temporal relationship under translational and rotational platform movement paradigms. Our results did not strongly support an ascending pattern of activation in all directions of platform perturbation. Temporal differences between activation patterns to platform perturbations in the forward or backward directions were revealed. In response to posterior platform translations we observed an ascending pattern of muscle responses along the extensor surface of the body. In addition, responses elicited in the neck flexor and abdominal muscles occurred as early as those of the stretched ankle muscles. This pattern of upward radiation from stretched ankle muscles was not as clear for anterior platform displacements, where early neck flexor muscle responses were observed during the ascending sequence on the flexor surface of the body. Platform rotations caused fewer responses in the neck and upper trunk muscles than translations, and all muscles responses occurred simultaneously rather than sequentially. Probable differences in the stimulation of vestibular and neck proprioceptive inputs and the mechanical demands of the rotation and translation paradigms are discussed.
The present study examines the modulation of gastrocnemius-soleus (GS) monosynaptic reflexes as well as the intraspinal threshold changes of GS group I primary afferent terminals ending in the intermediate and motor nuclei during fictive locomotion in high decerebrate cats. The amplitude of the monosynaptic reflexes (MSR's) evoked in the medial gastrocnemius by stimulation of the lateral gastrocnemius nerve was increased during the extensor (E) phase, decreased during the flexion (F) phase of the step cycle and remained transiently increased after spontaneous episodes of fictive stepping. The intraspinal threshold of populations and of single group Ia GS afferent fibers ending in the motor pool, as well as of single Ia and Ib fibers ending in the intermediate nucleus, showed a sustained reduction during the episodes of fictive locomotion with superimposed cyclic changes in phase with the step cycle. During fictive walking and trotting the reduction of the intraspinal threshold of both Ia and Ib fiber terminals was maximal during the middle or late portion of the F-phase. During fictive gallop elicited by stimulation of the superficial peroneus nerve, the decrease in the intraspinal threshold of the Ia afferent fibers occurred however in phase with the activity of the GS motoneurons. During episodes of fictive locomotion slow, sustained negative DC potential shifts lasting tents of seconds, reflecting an increase in the extracellular potassium concentration were recorded at the base of the dorsal horn and in the intermediate nucleus. The present findings support the existence of tonic and phasic depolarization of the intraspinal terminals of GS group Ia and Ib primary afferents during spontaneous fictive locomotion. It is suggested that accumulation of potassium ions in the extracellular space contributes mainly to the sustained depolarization of group I fibers. The phasic depolarization would be mostly due to the activation of specific sets of interneurons and may, in the case of Ia fibers, contribute to the cyclic modulation of the MRS elicited during fictive locomotion.
Receptive field (RF) characteristics of cells in primary visual cortex of the mouse (C57B16 strain) were studied by single unit recording. We have studied the functional organization of area 17 along both the radial and tangential dimensions of the cortex. Eighty seven percent of the visual neurons could be classified according to their responses to oriented stimuli and to moving stimuli. Cells which preferred a flashed or moving bar of a particular orientation and responded less well to bars of other orientations or to spots, were classified as orientation selective (simple RF 23%, complex RF 18%). The majority of them were, moreover, unidirectional (24%). All orientations were roughly equally represented. Cells with oriented RFs were recorded mostly in the upper part of cortical layers II-III, where they appeared to be clustered according to their preferred orientation. Neurons that responded equally well to spots and bars of all orientations (46%) were classified as &quot;non-oriented&quot;; among these neurons there were several subcategories. Cells which responded equally well to spots and bars but preferred stimuli moving along one or both directions of a particular axis were classified as non oriented asymmetric cells (unidirectional 14%, bidirectional 4%). They were recorded mainly in supra- and infra-granular layers. Cells unaffected by stimulus shape and orientation which responded equally well to all directions of movement were classified as symmetric units. They had receptive field classified as ON (11%), OFF (1%), ON/OFF (11%), or were unresponsive to stationary stimuli (5%). These cells were mostly found in layer IV, in which they constituted the majority of recorded cells. There was no apparent correlation between the functional type and size of RFs. However, the greatest proportion of small RFs was found in layer IV. In the binocular segment of the mouse striate cortex, the influence of the contralateral eye predominated. Ninety five percent of cells in this segment were driven through the contralateral eye. However, 70% of cells were binocularly activated, showing that considerable binocular integration occurred in this cortical segment. Ocular dominance varied less along the radial than along the tangential dimension of the cortex.
In order to assess the effects of [K+]o on the passive membrane properties of neostriatal neurons, the cable properties of these cells were determined at two extracellular potassium concentrations (6.25 and 3.0 mM). The effect of tetraethylammonium (TEA) on cable properties was also studied at 6.25 [K+]o. At 6.25 mM [K+]o, the mean input resistance at the resting membrane potential (RMP), and the mean membrane time constant (tau o) were 27 +/- 1.5 M omega and 6.9 +/- 0.5 ms respectively (n = 17), while at 3 mM [K+]o they were 62.9 +/- 4.8 M omega and 14.3 +/- 0.6 ms (n = 15) (mean +/- SEM). With one of the methods used to calculate the electronic parameters, the total electrotonic length of the dendrites (L) and the dendritic to somatic conductance ratio (rho) were 1.3 +/- 0.05 and 5 +/- 0.8 at the higher [K+]o respectively, while they were 0.95 +/- 0.04 and 3 +/- 0.7 at the lower [K+]o. Cells were depolarized in 6.25 as compared to 3 mM [K+]o (RMP = -66 +/- 1.3 mV vs RMP = -80.5 +/- 1.4 mV). After one hour exposure to TEA (10 mM), the input resistance and time constant tripled at 6.25 mM [K+]o. TEA slightly depolarized the cells bathed in 6.25 mM [K+]o. The results suggest that changes in [K+]o, within the physiological range, markedly affect the cable properties of neostriatal neurons, possibly modifying subthreshold, voltage-dependent K+-conductances. TEA seems to block some of these channels.
Human Amnion Membrane Matrix (HAMM) was used as a substratum for the regeneration of neuronal axons in the central nervous system. A large piece of HAMM was bound to nitrocellulose paper (NCP) as a supporting material, and cut into small strips. Aspirative lesions of the fimbria-fornix were made in adult rats leaving a cavity separating the septum from the hippocampus. In the same operation a small piece of HAMM-NCP was placed into the cavity with one end abutting the axotomized septum and the other end abutting the denervated hippocampus. At times between 2 weeks and 3 months after surgery the brains of the animals were examined histologically for 1) host response to the implant; 2) maintenance of HAMM-NCP in the originally implanted orientation; 3) growth of acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-positive fibers on the HAMM; 4) growth of the AChE-positive fibers into the denervated hippocampus; and 5) non-neuronal cells on the HAMM. The NCP remained in place over the 3-month period. In most cases the HAMM and NCP remained apposed and caused no greater reaction in the brain beyond that created in response to the aspirative lesion alone. AChE-positive fibers grew out from the septum onto the HAMM by 2 weeks, and by 8 weeks more extensive growth was observed on the HAMM. By 8-weeks, AChE fibers could be clearly seen coming off the membrane and entering the host hippocampus. By double-labelling for the basement membrane side of the HAMM (using anti-human laminin antibodies) and for cholinergic fibers (using AChE histochemistry) in the same sections, it was possible to see fibers clearly growing on the laminin-positive side of the HAMM but little or no growth on the opposing laminin-negative stromal side. The most important variables for extensive growth appeared to be the accurate placement of the implant and the amount of time following the lesions. The placement of the matrix on NCP prior to implantation in the brain made it easier to orient the membrane between the septum and the hippocampus, and seemed to assist in maintaining the membrane in that orientation. The HAMM represents a useful, regeneration-promoting grafting material for central nervous system repair studies.
Rabbits with bilateral ibotenic acid or vehicle injections into the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) received differential Pavlovian heart rate (HR) conditioning in which tones of different frequencies served as conditioned stimuli (CSs) and a paraorbital electric shock train was the unconditioned stimulus (US). Rabbits with ibotenic acid lesions of MD demonstrated impaired differential HR conditioning, due primarily to enhanced responding to the non-reinforced CS-. The magnitude of the HR conditioned response (CR) was somewhat enhanced in lesioned animals compared to vehicle control animals, as was the HR component of the orienting response to non-reinforced tones. These results are consistent with a role for MD in some aspect of association formation, possibly through its mediation of the late-occurring sympathetic component of the conditioned HR response. These data also demonstrate that MD does not participate in the vagal drive that produces Pavlovian conditioned bradycardia.
Interocular transfer of motion after-effects was assessed in the lightly-anaesthetized feline striate cortex. Neurones were adapted with square-wave gratings of optimal orientation and spatial frequency, or with randomly textured fields, drifting continuously at optimal velocity in their preferred or null directions. Neural after-effects were assessed as consequent changes in directional bias, using similar test patterns swept back-and-forth in the same directions and presented to the same or opposite eyes. All results were compared with controls, embodying similar tests following a period of exposure to a uniform background or stationary textured field. The majority of binocularly-driven complex and simple cells tested evinced positive interocular transfer of after-effects. After-effects, whether elicited monocularly or interocularly, were direction-specific. With gratings, after-effects elicited interocularly were always weaker than those obtained monocularly. After-effects evoked monocularly by texture adaptation were weak in comparison to those evoked by gratings; interocular transfer in this case was negligible. In neurones strongly dominated by one eye, adaptation of the non-driving eye yielded, at best, extremely weak after-effects through the other eye. In purely monocular neurones, no transfer could be induced. These results confirm the expectation that motion after-effects arise cortically rather than precortically. The partial interocular transfer seen in binocularly-driven cortical cells suggests that these neurones represent a second-stage processing of inputs from lower-order complex (or simple) cells, themselves driven monocularly or strongly dominated by one eye.
In Nembutal-anesthetized, immobilized and artificially ventilated cats, decrementing expiratory (E-DEC) neurons which were excited by lung inflation were isolated in the vicinity of the Btzinger complex. Then intracellular recordings were made from the respiratory neurons in the contralateral ventral respiratory group (VRG). The intracellular membrane potentials were averaged using extracellular spikes of the E-DEC neurons as triggers (spike-triggered averaging method). Hyperpolarizing potentials locked to the triggering spikes were obtained and they were shown to be unitary IPSPs since their polarity was reversed when averaged during passage of hyperpolarizing current. The latencies of antidromic activation of the E-DEC neurons from the area of intracellular recordings were shorter by about 0.2 ms than those of unitary IPSPs. This showed that the connections were monosynaptic. A total of 47 pairs were analyzed and unitary IPSPs were found in 12 pairs. The E-DEC neurons inhibited both inspiratory and expiratory neurons, including bulbospinal inspiratory neurons, propriobulbar inspiratory neurons, and vagal motoneurons with expiratory activity. These inhibitory E-DEC neurons, receiving excitatory inputs from the stretch receptors of the lungs, presumably intervene in reflex loops such as the Hering-Breuer reflex and may make some contribution to normal breathing.
In Nembutal-anesthetized, immobilized, and artificially ventilated cats with intact vagus nerves, extracellularly recorded activities of expiratory (E) neurons whose firing patterns were of decrementing, or the early expiration type (E-DEC neurons) were recorded in the vicinity of the Btzinger complex (BOT). A total of 32 E-DEC neurons which were not vagal motoneurons was studied by determining 1) where they were distributed, 2) how their firing was modulated by lung inflation, and 3) if they projected their axons to the respiratory area of the brain stem. E-DEC neurons were located ventromedially to the retrofacial nucleus and were intermingled with E neurons of the augmenting type (E-AUG neurons), which were abundant and representative of neurons in the BOT. Firing of 25 E-DEC neurons was facilitated by lung inflation, indicating the existence of excitatory input from stretch receptors of the lungs, although the firing of 7 other neurons was not affected. On the other hand, firing of surrounding E-AUG neurons was suppressed by lung inflation. The E-DEC neurons fired in the E phase during a brief stop of the ventilator, indicating that they received central respiratory rhythm. However, they almost never fired during the inspiratory (I) phase even when the lungs were strongly inflated, indicating the existence of strong central inhibition during the I phase. Eight E-DEC neurons were tested for antidromic activation from the contralateral brain stem and the spinal cord by microstimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Motion after-effects were elicited from striate cortical cells in lightly-anaesthetized cats, by adapting with square-wave gratings or randomly textured fields drifting steadily and continuously in preferred or null directions. The time-course and recovery of responsiveness following adaptation were assessed with moving bars, gratings or textured fields. Results were compared with controls in which the adapting stimulus was replaced by a uniform field of identical mean luminance, and also assessed in relation to the strength and time course of adaptation. Within 30-60 s adaptation, firing declined to a steady-state. Induced after-effects were direction-specific, and manifest as a transitory depression in response to the direction of prior adaptation, recovering to control levels in 30-60 s. Maximal after-effects were induced by gratings of optimal drift velocity and spatial frequency. With rare exceptions after-effects were restricted to driven activity; no consistent effects on resting discharge were observed. The onset of adaptation, and the recovery period, were more rapid in simple cells, although after-effects of comparable strength were elicited from simple and from standard complex cells. Special complex cells, including many of the more profoundly texture-sensitive neurones in the cortex, were more resistant to adaptation. The results support the conclusion that psychophysically measured adaptation and induced motion after-effect phenomena reflect the known properties of cortical neurones.
Fragments of normal embryonic cerebellum were transplanted into adult Quaking mice to examine using peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemistry the development of genetically normal tissue in an abnormal host environment. The Quaking mouse animals used as hosts are characterized by defective myelin associated glycoprotein. Normal characteristic expression and distribution of neurofilaments was observed in the cerebellar grafts. Nonphosphorylated epitopes of neurofilaments were seen in Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites. The phosphorylated epitopes of neurofilaments were observed in basket cell axons. Phosphorylated epitopes were also present in numerous myelinated axons, which were probably fibers from deep cerebellar nuclei. These data support the notion that neurogenesis with alternative connections can occur in transplants. Staining patterns with myelin associated glycoprotein and myelin basic protein also suggest that normal myelination occurs in grafts transplanted to the brains of Quaking mice.
We measured the amount of information transmitted by the direction of two-dimensional (2-D) arm movements of human subjects, and by neuronal populations in the motor cortex and area 5 of monkeys. We also compared the information transmitted by a motor cortical population when the predictability of the direction of movement was varied, i.e. when the target of the movement was the same, or different, in successive trials. The information transmitted by a neuronal population was measured using the &quot;population vector&quot; code (Georgopoulos et al. 1983, 1986) as the stimulated directional output of the population. We found the following. (a) The information transmitted per movement increased in all cases with input information but more slowly than the maximum possible. No asymptote had been reached at 6.64 bits of input information; the best human performance at that level was 4.5 bits. (b) The average information transmitted by a motor cortical population (N = 253 cells) was approximately 0.5 bits higher than that of best human performance at all levels of input information. These findings indicate that whereas information loss at the level of motor cortex, and during stages preceding it, increases with increasing input information, this loss remains constant at all levels of input information during processes intervening between motor cortex and movement. (c) The information transmitted by the neuronal population at a constant level of input information increased with the number of cells in the population and had not plateaued at the population size of 253 cells used in this study. (d) Consistently higher amounts of information were transmitted by motor cortical than by area 5 populations at all levels of input information (up to 7 bits) examined. The difference was approximately 0.16 bits. (e) Finally, the information transmitted by a motor cortical population was slightly higher (by 0.07 bits) when the movement was more than less predictable. Although this difference was small, it was consistent at all levels of input information (3-7 bits) and was statistically highly significant (p less than 0.005, paired t test). These results establish the information theoretical approach as a useful method for comparing (a) behavioral and neural data, (b) neural data between different brain areas, and (c) neural data obtained under different behavioral manipulations.
Hippocampal neurones isolated from rat embryos were maintained on glial monolayers in a medium containing no L-glutamate (Glu). The administration of Glu for a limited period induced a massive death (loss) of neurones. The degree of neuronal loss increased with time after exposure to Glu. The extent of neuronal loss assessed 24 h after exposure to Glu was dependent upon the concentration Glu and on the duration of the exposure. An increase in concentration of external Ca2+ during the exposure to Glu enhanced the extent of loss. By contrast, an increment in concentration of environmental Mg2+ reduced the loss. The inhibitor of spike firing, tetrodotoxin (TTX) and the suppressor of Ca2+ entry, nitrendipine, both decreased the extent of loss, when delivered prior to Glu. The toxicity of Glu became progressively more apparent with further days of culture. The cytosolic concentration of Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) in single hippocampal neurones was monitored by microscopic fluorometry under conditions equivalent to those in the death assay. The time required for the recovery of [Ca2+]i from the level elevated by exposure to Glu to pre-stimulus levels closely paralleled the degree of neuronal loss; i.e. high doses of Glu, long periods of exposure, high concentrations of external Ca2+, low concentrations of external Mg2+, and extended days of culture all retarded [Ca2+]i recovery, while TTX and nitrendipine accelerated it. These findings show that neuronal death resulting from an extraneous excitation (excitotoxicity) can be analyzed in vitro. Furthermore, substantial support has been provided to the hypothesis that excitotoxicity has an underlying mechanism, an excess loading of Ca2+ in neuronal cytoplasm.
The effects on striatal high affinity glutamate uptake (HAGU) of an apomorphine injection administered either alone or along with an electrical stimulation of the frontal cortex were compared between intact control rats and animals with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) induced lesions of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. 6-OHDA injury was previously shown to have no effect either on basal HAGU or on the HAGU increase occurring in response to cortical stimulation. Apomorphine injected 1 h before HAGU determination at a dose of 5 mg/kg did not modify basal HAGU but totally abolished HAGU responsiveness to cortical stimulation applied 30 min after the apomorphine administration in both groups of animals. However, the duration of apomorphine induced inhibition of the cortically evoked striatal HAGU response in animals with 6-OHDA injury greatly exceeded that observed in intact rats. Indeed, in intact animals, cortical stimulation again became able to increase striatal HAGU when applied more than 6 h after apomorphine injection, while in 6-OHDA injected rats, HAGU responsiveness to cortical stimulation was restored only as from 7 days after apomorphine administration. Moreover, in rats given 6-OHDA injections apomorphine efficiently inhibited the activating effect of cortical stimulation on HAGU at doses at least 20 times lower than those required to obtain the same effect in intact animals. These results suggest that in both intact and 6-OHDA injected rats, apomorphine acts by counteracting the HAGU increase occurring in response to cortical stimulation and that the sites involved in this action develop a supersensitivity response to striatal dopaminergic deafferentation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Under some circumstances intraventricular administration of 6-OHDA decreases visual cortical plasticity of kittens; the mechanism for this change is not known, but depletion of norepinephrine (NE) is not the entire explanation. We have examined the effects of 6-OHDA treatment on beta adrenergic receptor binding in kitten visual cortex. Subjects were given vehicle solution alone, a low dose of 6-OHDA which depleted cortical NE without affecting visuocortical plasticity, or a higher dose of 6-OHDA which depleted cortical NE and decreased visuocortical plasticity. Drugs were administered in single daily injections via intraventricular cannulas. Saturation assays were performed on homogenates of visual cortical tissue using 125I-pindolol (30-400 pM) along w/ isoproterenol (237 microM) as a cold competitor. We measured radioactivity bound to tissue and retained on filters and analyzed the data using the EBDA computer program (McPherson 1983, 1985); we determined the affinity constant (Kd) and receptor density (Bmax) in multiple assays for each animal. Despite 75-90% NE depletion in both experimental groups, only the group receiving the lower dose of 6-OHDA showed any evidence of supersensitivity. The Kds did not differ among the groups. The data suggest that the effects of 6-OHDA on visuocortical plasticity are not secondary to beta adrenergic supersensitivity.
Cell proteins obtained from cultured normal appearing skin and neurofibromas of neurofibromatosis patients, and normal skin of normal donors were compared by SDS-PAGE and isoelectric focusing analysis. Essentially, identical protein patterns were obtained for the pellet fractions of all the strains. The lysate fraction binding patterns were also similar to each other, but a deficiency of a 42-kilodalton protein with pI 4.3 was observed in the four tumor-derived cell strains examined. These results raise the possibility that tumor-derived fibroblastic cells are of the same cell origin as skin fibroblasts, and that the deficiency of a 42-kilodalton protein could be related to the tumorigenicity in neurofibromatosis.


Two weeks following a single exposure to either soman (100 micrograms/kg, sc) or saline, rats were sacrificed at 2-hr intervals over a 26-hr period. Trunk blood was collected and plasma was stored until assayed for corticosterone, prolactin, growth hormone, adrenocorticotropin, beta-endorphin, and beta-lipotropin. Rats surviving for 2 weeks following soman appeared well groomed and were gaining weight at a rate similar to saline-treated rats at the time of termination. Thus, they appeared to have recovered from the initial physiological effects of soman exposure. However, substantial differences in plasma levels of most hormones were seen in comparing soman- vs saline-treated rats. Levels of prolactin were suppressed at all time points in soman-treated rats. Growth hormone secretion was also suppressed and the normal episodic peaks of growth hormone were missing in soman-treated rats. Both soman- and saline-treated rats displayed circadian rhythms in levels of plasma corticosterone, but the usual late afternoon rise in plasma corticosterone levels was shifted to earlier time points in the soman-treated rats. Levels of beta-endorphin and beta-LPH were slightly but significantly suppressed in soman-treated rats at almost all time points. Levels of adrenocorticotropin were similar in control and soman-treated rats. The results of this experiment demonstrate that a single exposure to soman may have long-lasting effects on neuroendocrine function.


The evolution of concepts concerning the identity and the functions of neuroglia is traced. Some of the main ideas in the works of Virchow, Deiters, Golgi, Lenhossk, Lugaro, Ramn y Cajal, del Ro-Hortega, Achcarro, Penfield, and others are highlighted.
Authentic beta-nerve growth factor mRNA, approximately 1.35 kb in size, has been detected by Northern blot analysis in C6 glioma cells. Exposure of the cells to the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol leads to a three- to fourfold increase in NGF mRNA, which reaches a peak by 2 hr. The EC50 for this effect of isoproterenol is approximately 2nM. The effect can be blocked by the beta-blocker propranolol but not by the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine. Treatment of the cells with forskolin also increases NGF mRNA three- to fourfold, with a maximal effect by 2 hr. The stimulation of NGF mRNA by maximal concentrations of forskolin and isoproterenol is not additive; similarly, the two drugs have a nonadditive effect on cyclic AMP content. The results suggest that NGF gene transcription can be stimulated via increases in intracellular cyclic AMP and that regulation of NGF production by glial cells may occur via activation of cell-surface neurotransmitter receptors such as the beta-adrenergic receptor.
We employed two microelectrode current-clamp and voltage-clamp methods to examine the modulation of Ca++ channels by norepinephrine and cyclic AMP (cAMP) in cultured astrocytes from the rat cerebral cortex. Currents owing to Ca++ channels were maximized by replacing Ca++ with Ba++ in the extracellular solution and pharmacologically blocking K+ and Na+ currents. In current-clamp experiments, we observed that norepinephrine, isoproterenol (an agonist of beta-receptors for norepinephrine), or dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP, a membrane permeant analogue of cAMP) induced or enhanced slow Ba++-dependent action potentials in the cells. In voltage-clamp experiments, we confirmed that the slow action potentials were generated by a voltage-activated and Ba++-dependent inward current. This current was mediated by channels that resembled L-type calcium channels (cf. McCleskey et al., Journal of Experimental Biology 124:177-190, 1986) in their voltage-activation range, slow inactivation, and sensitivity to blockage by Co++, Cd++, and nifedipine. DbcAMP, or isoproterenol, enhanced the Ba++ current. Modulation of Ca++ channel function in glial cells could have functional implications.
We have previously shown that cultured astrocytes from neonatal rat cerebral cortex are depolarized by GABA. The underlying ionic mechanism, activation of a Cl- conductance and responses to an agonist and antagonists were found to be similar to those of the neuronal GABAA receptor (Kettenmann et al.: Brain Research 404:1-9, 1987; Kettenmann and Schachner: Journal of Neuroscience 5:3295-3301, 1985). To characterize further the pharmacological properties of the GABA receptor we have tested the influence of pentobarbital and benzodiazepines on the GABA response. Pentobarbital potentiated and prolonged the GABA-induced depolarization and enhanced the velocity of the depolarization. Agonists of the neuronal benzodiazepine receptor, flunitrazepam, diazepam, and midazolam, increased the GABA-induced depolarization. As in neurons, an antagonist of the benzodiazepine receptor, Ro 15-1788, blocked the flunitrazepam-induced enhancement of the GABA response. In contrast to their effects on neurons, the inverse agonists Ro 22-7497 and DMCM increased the GABA-induced depolarization. The ligand of the putative peripheral benzodiazepine binding site, Ro 5-4864, did not show consistent effects on the GABA response. These studies confirm that cultured astrocytes express GABAA receptors. This receptor is similar to the neuronal GABAA receptor with regard to Cl- conductance and its pharmacological responses to muscimol, bicuculline, picrotoxin, pentobarbital, and benzodiazepine agonists and an antagonist, but it is different in its responses to inverse agonists of the benzodiazepine site. The physiological role of the glial GABAA receptor is at present unknown.

Clinical, behavioral, physiological, biochemical and receptor binding parameters are useful as dependent measures in studies into the pathophysiology of affective disorders. Pharmacological perturbation of cholinergic mechanisms and modification of cholinergic-monoaminergic interaction mimics aspects of the neurobiology of affective disorders. The effects of these pharmacological manipulations can be quantitatively assessed by measuring their impact on variables in each of these classes. These deviations are easily and safely produced by several classes of drugs which directly or indirectly modify the function of central muscarinic cholinergic networks. Methods for inducing these changes in cholinergic systems and their application to clinical and basic research in the field of affective disorders are highlighted.

In previous work of our laboratory it was demonstrated that collidine (2,4,6-trimethylpyridine) abolishes the core osmiophilia and chromaffin reaction from rat pinal gland and vas deferens nerves. This abolition was apparent when tissues were briefly incubated in collidine or when they wer fixed in glutaraldehyde or osmium tetroxide using collidine as a buffer substance. These and other results strongly suggested that the histochemical effect of collidine was due to depletion of monoamines stored in the vesicles core. To examine this hypothesis we studied in this work the effect of collidine on tissues that have taken up tritiated noradrenaline. It was found that tritium was released very rapidly to the incubation medium when collidine was applied to fresh tissues. This effect was not observed with other commonly used buffers such as cacodylate or phosphate. It was also found that tritium release also occurred, although to a lesser extent, when tissues were fixed in glutaraldehyde or osmium tetroxide using collidine as a buffer, and this release was not significant when collidine was applied to previously fixed tissues. Paper chromatographic analysis showed that the radioactive compound(s) extracted from tissues by collidine corresponded to noradrenaline and/or closely related compounds. An abstract of this work was sent to the 17th Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience, New Orleans, Nov 16-21, 1987. Tomsig J.L. and Pellegrino de Iraldi A. Abstract 369-11.
The sequential application of the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex technique was used to localize multiple tissue antigens on a single free floating section of rat brain. Sequential visualization of individual antigens was achieved by the silver-gold-intensified diaminobenzidine (DAB) in the first step, nickel-intensified DAB in the second step, and the DAB alone in the third step of the immunostain procedure. For the demonstration of this method, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), and vasopressin (VAS) antisera were used. Sections from the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of rats pretreated with colchicine were stained. Black TH containing cell bodies were clearly distinguished from blue stained CRF cells and from yellow stained VAS-containing cell bodies in the PVN on the 25-30 micron thick vibratome sections. The sequential immunostaining procedure presented here results in superior staining of multiple antigens as compared to that achieved by the sequential application of the peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) technique.
Human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1) is associated with a spectrum of neurological disorders. At the time of primary HIV-1 infection, an acute aseptic meningitis or encephalitis indicates central nervous system invasion. Evidence of HIV-1 infection is found in the CSF of most asymptomatic seropositive individuals, suggesting viral persistence in the nervous system. After a long incubation period, viral activation is signaled by expression of HIV-1 antigen in the CSF, which correlates with a profound dementia in adults or with an analogous progressive encephalopathy in children. The neuropathological substrate of this dementing process consists of multinucleated giant cells and diffuse white matter pallor. Immunocytochemical and in situ hybridization studies demonstrate that antigen presenting cells, including blood derived macrophages and resident brain microglia, are directly infected by HIV-1, and participate in the formation of the syncytial giant cells. Astrocytes and endothelial cells may also be infected, but evidence for infection of oligodendroglia and neurons is lacking. Studies of lentiviral encephalitides in ungulates and non-human primates emphasize the importance of specific viral antigenic stimulation and the role of inflammatory cells as direct or indirect mediators of tissue damage. The disorders of the peripheral nervous system described in patients with HIV-1 infection have not been convincingly linked to direct viral infection. At least two of the neuromuscular complications, the inflammatory motor neuropathy and polymyositis are likely to have an autoimmune pathogenesis.

Chronic cerebrovascular disorders (CCVD), as defined by the 1980 Ad Hoc Committee in Paris, constitute both clinically and pathogenetically an extremely complex entity, characterized by a protean symptom pattern. The effects of a daily dose of 10 mg flunarizine orally on CCVD have been evaluated with a neuropsychological methodology during a three-month treatment period in a randomized double-blind study compared with a placebo. The results confirmed the effectiveness of the drug in the improvement of neurological, amnesic, attentive and behavioural symptoms, without evident side-effects even after a long-term treatment.


Isolated neurons in long-term culture provide a unique opportunity to address important problems in neuronal development. In the present study we established conditions for cryopreservation and long-term primary culture of isolated embryonic hippocampal neurons. This culture system was then used for initial characterizations of the development of neuroarchitecture and neurotransmitter response systems. Cryoprotection with 8% dimethylsulfoxide, slow freezing, and rapid thawing provided high-yield cultures which appeared normal in terms of cell types, mitotic ability, axonal and dendritic outgrowth, and sensitivity to glutamate neurotoxicity. A reduced medium volume and moderate elevation in extracellular K+ to 20 mM promoted survival of isolated neurons through 3 weeks of culture. The outgrowth of axons and dendrites in pyramidal-like neurons was found to differ over a 3-week culture period such that axons continued to grow at a relatively constant rate while dendritic outgrowth slowed during the second week and ceased by the end of week 3. Developmental changes were also observed in the sensitivity of pyramidal neurons to glutamate neurotoxicity; functional kainate/quisqualate receptors were present during the first week of culture, while responses to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) did not appear until the second week. The technologies for cryopreservation and long-term culture of isolated hippocampal neurons reported here provide a useful system in which to address a variety of problems in development neuroscience.
A case of hypopituitarism following childbirth (Sheehan's Syndrome) presenting with delirium is described. Diagnosis was confirmed with pituitary stimulation tests and the patient remains symptom-free for the last three years on maintenance hormonal therapy.
Life events were evaluated for a period of one year prior to onset of obsessive compulsive disorder in 32 subjects with a maximum duration of illness of two years and compared with a matched healthy volunteer group. There was a significant excess of life events in the six months prior to the onset of the illness. Undesirable, uncontrolled life events in the area of health and bereavement occurred more commonly in obsessive compulsive disorder.


A cytolytic protein (perforin) was rapidly purified from a cell line of mouse cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTL) by DEAE-cellulose, heparin-Sepharose, and phenyl-Sepharose chromatographies. The purified perforin was activated by heparin, the half maximal concentration being 3-10 ng/ml, depending on the calcium concentration. Other acid mucopolysaccharides, such as chondroitin sulfates A and C, keratan polysulfate, and heparin sulfate, also enhanced the lysis of erythrocytes by perforin, but the concentrations required for activation were more than 100-fold higher than that of heparin. Chondroitin, hyaluronic acid, and keratan sulfate, however, had no effect on the perforin activity. It was suggested that heparin potentiates the lytic activity of perforin and acid mucopolysaccharides may actually be involved in target cell lysis by CTL.
Four hundred and twenty-seven carotid endarteriectomies were performed on 377 patients. The electroencephalogram was used as the sole determinant for the use of a carotid shunt in 386 carotid endarterectomies. With clamping of the internal carotid artery, 51 (13%) had electroencephalographic changes. The most common electroencephalographic change (60%) was rapid, ipsilateral attenuation of background activity. In the 30 day follow up period there were 3 deaths (0.7%) and 11 strokes (2.5%). Two patients (0.5%) had intraoperative strokes. The combined morbidity and mortality was 2.8% (12 of 427). Neurologic complications increased significantly with contralateral carotid occlusion. The electroencephalogram correlated well with neurological deficits occurring in surgery, but stump pressures neither correlated with neurological deficits nor electroencephalographic changes. Continuous electroencephalographic monitoring during carotid endarterectomy is an effective method of determining significant cerebral ischemia and the need for a carotid shunt.
We report preliminary studies in 18 girls with Rett syndrome (15 typical, three atypical cases) who were studied using a number of neuropsychologic measures. Results indicate a relative preservation of gross motor and daily living skills at the developmental level of the age of onset of the condition. Other adaptive functions were more depressed. Higher levels of object permanency were found in this population than reported previously. Our results indicate that islands of motor and intellectual function persist in Rett syndrome patients. These data may be useful for therapeutic intervention.
Rett syndrome was first described in 1966 by Dr Andreas Rett, who reported in German his findings in 22 patients. Recognition of the syndrome grew slowly until 1983, when a series of 35 patients from several countries was reported in English. By 1987, the number of known cases had grown to over 1,250 worldwide, the International Rett Syndrome Association had been founded, and international conferences on the syndrome were being held regularly. Although a developmental staging system has been devised, many questions remain concerning the course of the disease. Rett syndrome poses a challenge to the physicians, therapists, psychologists, educators, and families involved with affected patients, as well as to researchers investigating the syndrome.
Sural nerve and peroneus brevis muscle biopsies were studied in 12 patients with Rett syndrome, ten with the typical form of the disorder according to 1985 criteria, and two with atypical features. Ages ranged from 23 months to 25 years. All stages of the disease were represented. There was evidence of a mild axonal neuropathy in seven of 12 patients. Degenerative and occasional regenerative changes were seen in five sural nerve biopsies, including one from the youngest patient in the series, who was normally nourished and fully ambulatory. Occasional nonspecific ultrastructural abnormalities were present, including accumulation of pi granules in Schwann cells and Hirano bodies within axons. However, morphometric analysis of the four nerves in which these alterations were most prominent showed a normal density and size distribution of myelinated fibers. Enzyme histochemistry of the peroneus brevis biopsies demonstrated abnormal predominance of type II muscle fibers in three of the 12 biopsies and atrophy of type I fibers in one patient.

Prior studies indicate that vibrissa, guard hair, hairy skin, mucosa, and nociceptive trigeminal primary afferents give rise to morphologically distinct terminal arbors in the medullary dorsal horn. The present study describes the extent to which similar structure-function relationships exist in the rostrally adjacent subnucleus interpolaris (SpVi). Seventy-three axons were physiologically characterized and visualized by standard intra-axonal HRP labeling techniques. They responded to guard hair (GH) or vibrissa (VIB) deflection; gentle pressure applied to hairy skin (HS), glabrous skin (GS), lingual mucosa (LM), or an incisor (PER); or a noxious pinch of the face (NOX). Response latencies to trigeminal ganglion shocks were equivalent for all categories with low threshold receptive fields (mean = 0.44 ms), and these were significantly shorter than those of fibers with high threshold NOX receptive fields (mean = 0.88 ms). All axons gave off transversely oriented collaterals into SpVi with rostrocaudal discontinuities in their arbors. Collaterals were topographically organized. Axons innervating the rostral mouth and face terminated medially, and those that supplied the caudal face innervated successively more lateral SpVi. The dorsal face was represented in the ventral SpVi, whereas the ventral face and mouth were represented more dorsally. This transverse topography extended largely throughout the rostrocaudal extent of SpVi. VIB, GH, GS, and LM collaterals had similar configurations with circumscribed arbors. HS, PER, and NOX arbors had a &quot;stringy&quot; shape without a clear terminal focus, save for the fact that PER and NOX collaterals often terminated in rostrally displaced substantia gelatinosa at the level of the caudal SpVi. Analysis of variance, considering only those data from mystacial VIB, GH, and HS fibers, indicated significant differences for all of the following measures: number of collaterals, number of boutons per collateral, arbor area, arbor circumference, and arbor circularity (form factor). A similar analysis, considering all fiber types, indicated significant differences for only the following measures: number of collaterals, arbor area, and arbor circumference. Individual group comparisons between the more heavily sampled functional categories indicated that GH afferents had significantly fewer collaterals, fewer boutons per collateral, smaller arbor area, shorter arbor circumference, and more circular arbors than those of HS axons. VIB fibers tended to fall between GH and HS afferents with respect to number of collaterals, arbor area, circumference, and circularity. The remaining functional groups were not as orderly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The peripheral (eye, retina, optic nerve) and central (primary optic tracti and centers, centrifugal visual tractus and nucleus) visual system of an imperfect albino quail mutant with a sex linked recessive gene was examined in 32 specimens ages 1 week - 16 months-hatch using various histological techniques. During the first weeks the visual system was normal and comparable in its overall organization to that found in the pigmented quail. However, the ipsilateral retinal projections were observed to be weaker in the young mutant, then completely disappeared two months after birth. Initial signs of the bupthalmos, a form of spontaneous glaucoma, appeared between the 3rd and 5th months. This was characterized by a distention of the eye linked to an increase in intraocular pressure. The pathological process was progressive and at 16 months the eye was very prominent, the anterior chamber deep and a large and globular cornea was noted. The glaucoma progressively induced different histopathological changes in the visual system including: cupping of the optic disc, degeneration of optic axons and their parent ganglion and centrifugal cells and cavernous degeneration. All of these phenomena were identifiable at about the 10th post-natal month and progressed in a relatively constant and orderly manner. The retinal projections to the nucleus ectomamillaris, ventral and lateral optic tectum and ventral pretectum were the first to degenerate. The degeneration of optic fibers attaining the dorsal pretectum and dorsal thalamus occurred later. Furthermore the retrograde degeneration in the centrifugal isthmo-optic nucleus progressed from the external to the internal pole. The mechanisms involved in the selective degeneration of centrifugal and centripetal optic fibers is discussed.


Autoaggression and stereotypies in individually housed cynomolgus monkeys were compared in a standard primate cage and an enriched playpen environment. Stereotypy and autoaggression were markedly reduced in the playpen, but reappeared on return to the home cage. Some of the various activities available in the playpen but not others engaged the animals' attention.
The effect of lisuride (LIS) on the firing rate of A9 dopamine (DA) neurons in chloral-hydrate anesthetized and unanesthetized (paralyzed) rats was compared. In both preparations, the microiontophoretic application of LIS onto DA cell bodies consistently inhibited the electrical activity of the neurons. On the other hand, the effect of intravenous LIS differed in the two preparations. In anesthetized rats LIS (10-100 micrograms/kg) inhibited in a dose-related manner the firing rate of most DA neurons tested, whereas in unanesthetized rats LIS produced a dose-related increase in firing rate. The latter effect was transient, subsiding within 5 min, and was followed by the return of firing rate to baseline or slightly below it. Irrespective of the animal preparation, after the initial effect of LIS had subsided, DA neurons became totally insensitive to additional doses of LIS, to apomorphine and haloperidol. Such an insensitivity of DA neurons was present 1 to 6 but not 24 h after LIS (0.2 mg/kg, subcutaneously) treatment. A hypothesis is proposed to explain the different effects of LIS.
Recent advances in drug delivery technology are creating novel therapeutic approaches to the treatment of Parkinson's disease with levodopa and dopamine agonists. This article reviews those technologies which can be applied to Parkinson's disease, both for targetting the central nervous system with drugs, as well as for matching the appropriate rate controlled delivery with therapeutic needs. In particular, the possibility exists for eliminating erratic highs and lows of drug delivery to the brain, and to substitute rate controlled, constant drug delivery. Clinical investigations now in progress suggest that new technologies which deliver constant dopaminergic stimulation to patients with Parkinson's disease may not only eliminate the unpredictable swings in therapeutic efficacy in Parkinson patients with the &quot;on/off&quot; effect, but may even have a role in the future in preventing such fluctuations from developing in patients chronically treated with dopaminergic therapies.
Benzodiazepine agonists such as Ro 11-6896 [B10(+)], diazepam, clonazepam, and flurazepam were found to enhance muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake into rat cerebral cortical synaptoneurosomes. The rank order of potentiation was B10(+) greater than diazepam greater than clonazepam greater than flurazepam. These benzodiazepines had no effect on 36Cl-uptake in the absence of muscimol. Further, the inactive enantiomer, Ro 11-6893 [B10(-)], and the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor ligand Ro 5-4864 did not potentiate muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake at concentrations up to 10 microM. In contrast, the benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonists ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate and 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta- carboline-3-carboxylic acid methyl ester inhibited muscimol stimulated 36Cl- uptake. Benzodiazepines and beta-carbolines altered the apparent K0.5 of muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake, without affecting the Vmax. The effects of both benzodiazepine receptor agonists and inverse agonists were reversed by the benzodiazepine antagonists Ro 15-1788 and CGS-8216. These data further confirm that central benzodiazepine receptors modulate the capacity of gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor agonists to enhance chloride transport and provide a biochemical technique for studying benzodiazepine receptor function in vitro.
DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr = 32,000) and phosphatase inhibitor-1, two previously characterized inhibitors of protein phosphatase-1, were identified in both the neostriatum and the substantia nigra. Phosphatase inhibitor-1 was partially purified from bovine caudate nucleus and found to be distinct from DARPP-32 in some of its biochemical properties. The neuronal localization of DARPP-32 and phosphatase inhibitor-1 within the rat neostriatum and substantia nigra was investigated by studying the effects of kainic acid. Injection into the neostriatum of kainic acid, which destroys striatonigral neurons and striatonigral fibers, decreased the amounts of DARPP-32 and phosphatase inhibitor-1 to the same extent, both in the lesioned neostriatum and in the ipsilateral substantia nigra. The specific activity of protein phosphatase-1 in the neostriatum was unaffected by kainic acid. The results indicate that, in rat brain, DARPP-32 and phosphatase inhibitor-1 are both present in striatal neurons and in striatonigral fibers, and that they probably coexist in at least a subpopulation of striatonigral neurons. In contrast, protein phosphatase-1 does not appear to be enriched in any specific neuronal subpopulation in the neostriatum.
A fusion protein containing a Drosophila choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) cDNA insert was purified from a lambda gtll lysate of Escherichia coli. The cDNA insert, which contained a 728-amino acid coding region for ChAT, was used for immunizing rabbits. Three different antisera were produced that could recognize native Drosophila ChAT with low titer. In addition, all three antisera stained enzyme polypeptides using the Western blot technique at high titers. The antisera recognized ChAT polypeptides with molecular masses of 67 and 54 kilodaltons in Western blots of partially purified enzyme; these polypeptides had previously been identified using monoclonal anti-ChAT antibodies and are the major components of completely purified enzyme. It was surprising that when these antisera were used to stain Western blots of Drosophila head homogenates, the major immunoreactive band had a molecular mass of 75 kilodaltons. The relationship of this 75-kilodalton polypeptide to ChAT activity was investigated by fractionating fresh fly head homogenates using rapid HPLC gel filtration chromatography. Analysis of column fractions for enzyme activity and immunoreactive polypeptides indicated that the 75- and 67-kilodalton polypeptides can be resolved and are both enzymatically active. In addition, a correlation was observed between the relative immunostaining intensities of both the 75- and 67-kilodalton bands and ChAT activity when supernatants from fresh fly head homogenates were autolyzed at 37 degrees C. Our results indicate that ChAT is present in fresh Drosophila heads primarily as an active enzyme with a molecular mass of 75 kilodaltons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Calcium- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity was studied in pure neuronal and glial cultures. The addition of calcium and calmodulin stimulated 32P incorporation into several neuronal proteins including two in the 50- and 60-kilodalton (kD) region which comigrated with purified forebrain calmodulin kinase II subunits (CaM kinase II). In mature astrocytes, CaM kinase activity was also present, and was inhibited by trifluoroperazine and diazepam. Again in homogenates of these cells, two phosphoproteins of apparent molecular masses of 50 and 60 kD comigrated with purified CaM kinase. CaM kinase activity was absent in immature mixed glia and oligodendrocytes. The presence of CaM kinase in neurons and mature astrocytes was confirmed using monoclonal antibodies specific for the 50-kD subunit of the enzyme. No immunoreactivity was observed in oligodendrocytes. The presence of CaM kinase in astrocytes suggests a more ubiquitous role of this enzyme in regulating cellular processes than was previously recognized.
The potent noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist [3H]MK-801 bound with nanomolar affinity to rat brain membranes in a reversible, saturable, and stereospecific manner. The affinity of [3H]MK-801 was considerably higher in 5 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4) than in previous studies using Krebs-Henseleit buffer. [3H]MK-801 labels a homogeneous population of sites in rat cerebral cortical membranes with KD of 6.3 nM and Bmax of 2.37 pmol/mg of protein. This binding was unevenly distributed among brain regions, with hippocampus greater than cortex greater than olfactory bulb = striatum greater than medulla-pons, and the cerebellum failing to show significant binding. Detailed pharmacological characterization indicated [3H]MK-801 binding to a site which was competitively and potently inhibited by known noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists, such as phencyclidine, thienylcyclohexylpiperidine (TCP), ketamine, N-allylnormetazocine (SKF 10,047), cyclazocine, and etoxadrol, a specificity similar to sites labelled by [3H]TCP. These sites were distinct from the high-affinity sites labelled by the sigma receptor ligand (+)-[3H]SKF 10,047. [3H]MK-801 binding was allosterically modulated by the endogenous NMDA receptor antagonist Mg2+ and by other active divalent cations. These data suggest that [3H]MK-801 labels a high-affinity site on the NMDA receptor channel complex, distinct from the NMDA recognition site, which is responsible for the blocking action of MK-801 and other noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists.
Induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in Lewis rats by injection of guinea pig (GP) spinal cord homogenate (SCH) plus adjuvant (SCH-CFA) can be inhibited by treatment with the iron chelating agent desferrioxamine (DFOM). Interestingly, induction of EAE with purified myelin basic protein (BP-CFA) is not inhibited with DFOM. This dichotomy does not appear to be due to any quantitative differences in the two inocula since minimal clinical EAE produced by threshold levels of BP is not inhibited with DFOM. Passive EAE is not inhibited irrespective of the type of encephalitogen used to sensitize the donors. This suggests that the inhibitory effect of DFOM is acting on the afferent limb of the immune response to SCH-CFA. Injection of BP-CFA and SCH-CFA into the same site, mixing BP with central nervous system (CNS) lipids, or incorporating BP into liposomes, all induce EAE which can be partially inhibited by treatment with DFOM. These results support the hypothesis that the close association of lipids with the encephalitogen (i.e. BP) in SCH required extensive lipid breakdown before adequate antigen presentation can occur, and it is at this level that DFOM exerts its inhibitory effect.
Increased Mr 60,000 protein phosphorylation has been found in the cytosol fraction of brain tissue from Alzheimer's disease patients. A correlation between this biochemical change and the morphologic abnormalities found in Alzheimer's disease was sought. Three neuropathologic features were studied: neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques, findings characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, and gliosis, a non-specific change. The number of tangles correlated well with the extent of Mr 60,000 protein phosphorylation (p less than 0.001); but the number of plaques did not. To investigate the possibility that gliosis causes the increased Mr 60,000 protein phosphorylation, cases of Pick's disease and multi-infarct dementia were also studied. The levels of Mr 60,000 protein phosphorylation in these cases were comparable to those seen in normal controls. These findings suggest that the increased Mr 60,000 protein phosphorylation is closely related to diseased, tangle-bearing neurons and is not directly related to neuritic plaque formation or secondary gliosis.
Previous studies have demonstrated that polyribosomes are selectively positioned beneath postsynaptic sites on CNS neurons. In spine-bearing neurons, these polyribosomes are selectively localized at the base of the spines, and occasionally within spine heads. The present study evaluates whether there are relationships between the polyribosomes and other organelles of the postsynaptic cytoplasm, including membranous cisterns and spine apparatuses. Dendritic spines from the dentate gyrus and hippocampus of the rat were analyzed at the electron-microscopic level in 2 ways. First, relatively thick sections were prepared for electron microscopy, and spines were photographed in stereo using a goniometer stage. Second, conventional serial thin sections were taken, and spines were reconstructed. From the stereo photographs and serial reconstructions, we determined the proportion of polyribosomes that was associated with membranous cisterns. We also counted the number of ribosomes per cluster to determine whether there were differences between polyribosomes in different intradendritic locations, or between free polyribosomes and polyribosomes on cisternal membranes. From the serially reconstructed spines we determined the incidence of polyribosomes, membranous cisterns, and spine apparatuses, and evaluated the relationships between these organelles. We found that in both the dentate gyrus and hippocampus, about 50% of the polyribosomes that were present beneath the base of spines were associated with membranous cisterns. Polyribosomes that were present in the head of the spine were rarely associated with a cistern, however. The overall incidence of polyribosomes was similar in spines with spine apparatuses and spines without a spine apparatus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rat cerebral cortical synaptosomes that had been prelabeled with 32P-orthophosphate were exposed to either (1) K depolarization which causes Ca2+ influx and hence would be expected to activate Ca2+-dependent enzymes, including Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent and Ca2+/diacylglycerol-dependent protein kinases (Ca/CaM kinases and protein kinase C, respectively); or (2) phorbol esters or 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-glycerol (OAG), which selectively activate protein kinase C. Proteins whose state of phosphorylation was affected by these treatments could be divided into 3 classes. Class A includes 5 phosphoproteins that showed rapidly increased phosphorylation by synaptosomal depolarization but not by OAG or phorbol ester. Four of these proteins, synapsins Ia and Ib and proteins IIIa and IIIb, are neuron-specific, synaptic vesicle-associated proteins known to be substrates for Ca/CaM kinases I and II. These phosphoproteins were rapidly dephosphorylated upon synaptosomal repolarization. Class B is composed of 2 phosphoproteins that showed rapidly increased phosphorylation by either synaptosomal depolarization or treatment with phorbol ester or OAG. These 2 acidic proteins of Mr87 and 49 kDa are known from in vitro studies to be specific substrates for protein kinase C. Thermolytic peptide mapping indicated that the 87 kDa protein in synaptosomes was phosphorylated by protein kinase C in situ. These 2 phosphoproteins were slowly dephosphorylated upon synaptosomal repolarization. Class C comprises 4 phosphoproteins that were rapidly dephosphorylated upon synaptosomal depolarization and may be substrates for Ca2+-activated protein phosphatase(s). These data suggest that Ca2+ influx into nerve terminals activates Ca/CaM kinases I and II, protein kinase C, and unidentified protein phosphatase(s).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate the role of extrinsic influences on the survival and growth of axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in the mature mammalian CNS, both optic nerves (ONs) of adult rats were transected intraorbitally and, on one side, replaced by an autologous segment of peripheral nerve (PN) that had been left unconnected distally. The survival of RGCs and the regrowth of their cut axons into the PN grafts were assessed using morphometric techniques, neuroanatomic tracers, and immunologic cell markers to identify and count RGCs at times ranging from 15 d to 9 months. It was observed that (1) in the absence of a PN graft, more than 90% of the RGCs died by 1 month after axotomy; (2) between 1 and 3 months after axotomy, survival of RGCs in the PN-grafted retinas was enhanced 2-4-fold; (3) nearly 20% of the surviving RGCs regrew lengthy axons into the grafts; and (4) although the density of surviving RGCs in PN-grafted retinas decreased significantly between 1 and 3 months after axotomy, the densities of RGCs with axons extending into the graft remained relatively stable. These results confirm that in the adult rat retina, neuronal death is a major effect of axotomy near the cell soma. Although such lesions lead to the degeneration of many RGCs, we show that extrinsic influences introduced by the apposition of a PN segment at the time of severing the ON can rescue a substantial number of these neurons. Because the enhanced survival of many axotomized RGCs in the PN-grafted retinas appears to be limited to the first few weeks after injury, while those of RGCs that regenerate axons into the grafts do not show a parallel decline, it is possible that, in these experiments, neuronal viability depends on a spectrum of differently timed influences that may include the early diffusion of critical molecules arising from the graft and the subsequent establishment of more complex interactions with graft components.
A tactile stimulator is described that moves embossed or textured patterns tangentially across the skin. Patterns constructed by standard photoetching are mounted on the outer surface of a cylinder that rotates at a selected speed and is held in contact with the skin at a selected force. The stimulator operates in several modes to meet the different requirements of psychophysical and neurophysiological experiments. The features of note are (i) relatively small size and weight; (ii) flexible automated control of drum contact with the skin, angular velocity, axial position, and contact force; (iii) monitoring of drum angular and axial location to better than 10 micron accuracy; (iv) construction with commercially available devices; (v) electronic monitoring of skin contact; and (vi) rapid drum changes (2 seconds) during psychophysical or neurophysiological experiments.
A simple and rapid method is described for the production of cholera B-chain coupled to horseradish peroxidase suitable for neuronal tracing. Horseradish peroxidase was activated with a mild sodium periodate oxidation followed by incubation with the cholera B-chain, to yield the conjugates, samples of which were fractionated further by size exclusion chromatography. Both fractionated material and unfractionated conjugates were tested in vitro by a binding assay on rat synaptic membranes, and in vivo by their ability to undergo retrograde transport following injection into the adrenal medulla of rats. These assays showed that the unfractionated conjugates were equivalent to the fractionated conjugates in binding to the rat synaptic membranes, and that they both provided good retrograde labelling of neurones in the spinal cord after injection into the adrenal medulla, with extensive labelling of the distal dendrites.
This study examined the growth of basal plate explants from 40-hr chick embryos containing the trigeminal motor nucleus in the presence of target muscle-conditioned medium (MCM) from day-4, day-10, and day-18 embryos. We had previously found that MCM derived from the 4-day target tissue enhanced neurite outgrowth from these explants, while target MCM from 10- and 18-day embryos inhibited it. For the present study, target MCM was treated with trypsin to assess the nature of the active fractions, or pre-incubated in polyornithine-coated dishes to determine the possible presence and relative contributions of substrate-binding vs. soluble components. Both trypsinization and pre-incubation abolished the outgrowth-enhancing potential of the 4-day MCM, indicating a protein or polypeptide substrate-binding active fraction, with no appreciable active soluble component. When the 10-day and 18-day target MCM were trypsinized, the inhibitory influence was reversed, and neurite outgrowth was enhanced. Similarly, when the MCM from these embryos was pre-incubated over polyornithine, the inhibitory influence was lost and was replaced by a stimulatory one. These results suggest that the 10- and 18-day MCM contain an active inhibitory fraction that is a protein or polypeptide, and which binds to a positively charged substrate. When this inhibitory fraction is inactivated or depleted, an excitatory soluble fraction is revealed. Such a dual nature in MCM has not been seen previously and may be expressed only when the media are assayed with very early neural tissue.
Nalbuphine is a potent agonist/antagonist analgesic with a low side effect profile and low abuse potential. Previous studies have shown that nalbuphine produces predominantly agonist (analgesic) effects at kappa receptors and antagonist (morphine-reversal) effects at mu receptors in vivo. The present study was designed to localize the sites of nalbuphine binding to mu, delta and kappa opioid receptors in the central nervous system (CNS) using in vitro labeling light microscopic autoradiography. Mu, delta and kappa opioid receptors were labeled selectively using [3H]dihydromorphine, D-[3H]Ala2-D-Leu5-enkephalin and (-)-[3H]ethylketocyclazocine, respectively. In displacement studies in rat brain homogenates, nalbuphine had the highest affinity (Ki) for mu receptors (0.5 nM) with progressively lower affinities for kappa (29 nM) and delta (60 nM) opioid receptors. In autoradiographic studies in slide-mounted sections of guinea pig brain and monkey spinal cord, nalbuphine (300 nM) displaced completely the binding at mu and kappa receptors without significantly altering the binding at delta receptors. The binding of [3H]nalbuphine in slide-mounted sections of guinea pig forebrain was saturable and showed a curvilinear profile indicating the presence of two binding sites with apparent dissociation constant (Kd) values of 0.5 and 12 nM. Morphine and U-50,488H, which have high affinities for mu and kappa opioid receptors, respectively, inhibited [3H]nalbuphine binding with IC50 values of 0.9 and 10 nM, respectively. In saturation studies, morphine (50 nM) and U-50,488H (100 nM) selectively blocked the high and low affinity components of [3H]nalbuphine binding, respectively. The autoradiographic distribution of [3H]nalbuphine binding sites in the CNS corresponds well to the distribution of mu and kappa opioid receptors. In addition, CNS areas (deep layers of the cerebral cortex, laminae I and II of the spinal cord, substantia gelatinosa of the trigeminal nerve, periaqueductal gray and thalamic nuclei) that mediate analgesia contain high concentrations of [3H]nalbuphine binding sites. In summary, these data demonstrate that nalbuphine acts on mu and kappa opioid receptors and identify anatomical loci in the CNS in which nalbuphine may produce its actions.
Classical conditioning of the gill withdrawal reflex can be demonstrated in two different in vitro Aplysia preparations. The data obtained show that as conditioning of the gill withdrawal reflex proceeds there are changes in synaptic efficacy at the central sensory-motor neurone synapse. These changes in synaptic efficacy, however, are not necessary nor are they sufficient for the observed changes in gill reflex behaviour. Changes must be occurring at other loci within the nervous system to mediate the associative learning. We hypothesized, based on data obtained from one type of in vitro preparation, that changes occur in the ability of the motor neurone to elicit a gill withdrawal response as a result of classical conditioning training. In order to test this hypothesis we depolarized an identified gill motor neurone before and after classical conditioning and found that the motor neurone's ability to elicit a gill movement was facilitated following classical conditioning training. In control preparations that received an explicitly unpaired stimulus paradigm (which does not lead to classical conditioning of the reflex) there was a decrease in the efficacy of a gill motor neurone to elicit a gill withdrawal response. There are a number of possible sites within the integrated central (CNS) and peripheral (PNS) nervous systems where changes could occur to bring about the alterations in motor neurone efficacy. Our results suggest that changes in neuronal activity which underlie learning occur at multiple sites within the nervous system and that a complete understanding of the mechanisms of associative learning can only be obtained when all of these sites are taken into account.
The activity of tyrosine hydroxylase, the enzyme that catalyzes the rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis, increases in postganglionic sympathetic neurons following electrical stimulation of their afferent preganglionic input. Two types of changes in enzyme activity occur: an acute increase and a delayed and long-lasting increase. The pharmacological mechanisms involved in these transsynaptic effects and the biochemical mechanisms underlying the changes in tyrosine hydroxylase activity are discussed.
Administration of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine has been proposed as a pharmacological model for Alzheimer's disease. We have attempted to characterize the cognitive deficits produced by the administration of scopolamine (0.2 and 0.4 mg intra muscularly) to normal volunteers. We have also demonstrated reversal of these deficits by the cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine (1.2 mg intramuscularly). Physostigmine also elevated subjects' plasma ACTH levels, a marker of central cholinergic activity. In the cognitive study, we found that scopolamine impaired subjects' performance on verbal learning, spatial learning and choice reaction time. These changes were associated with subjective sedation as measured by analogue rating scales. Physostigmine attenuated the impairment in verbal learning and reduced subjective sedation. In the biochemical study we examined the effects of the same drug regimes on plasma ACTH levels. Physostigmine administered with a peripherally active cholinergic antagonist (glycopyrrolate 0.2 mg intramuscularly) produced a rise in ACTH level which reached a peak 30 min after drug administration. Such a rise was not apparent when the physostigmine was coadministered with scopolamine. These results suggest that cognitive and neuroendocrine indices of central cholinergic activity such as these may be useful in determining the effectiveness of potential new therapeutic agents for Alzheimer's disease.
Links between the nervous and immune systems are suggested by the behavioural conditioning of immunosuppression, the effects of brain lesions and stress on immune responses, and physiological and chemical changes in the brain during immune responses. These links probably include glucocorticoids secreted from the adrenal gland, catecholamines and neuropeptides secreted by sympathetic terminals and the adrenal medulla, certain pituitary hormones, and polypeptides produced by cells of the immune system. The effect of glucocorticoids is not exclusively immunosuppressive, nor is it adequate to explain all the effects of stress. In vitro endogenous opiates facilitate lymphocyte proliferation and natural killer (NK) cell activity, but in vivo opiates appear to inhibit immune responses and impair tumour rejection. Increases of circulating glucocorticoids after infection and an apparent activation of cerebral catecholaminergic cells indicate that challenges to the immune system are interpreted physiologically as stressors. Moreover, they suggest that the brain may be able to monitor the progress of immune responses. Certain protein factors produced by the thymus gland (thymosins) may be able to counter stress-induced deficits in immunological responses.
To elucidate the ataxic mechanism of Wriggle mouse Sagami (WMS), a behavioural pharmacological investigation was carried out by open-field study. The dysfunction of DA receptor, alpha-receptor, beta-receptor, 5-HT receptor and Ach-receptor appeared in WMS. Further examination will be necessary to investigate WMS with receptor dysfunction.
Spontaneous movement and ataxic gait in ataxic mice showing various pathological changes in the cerebellum were investigated according to developmental stage by the open-field method of comparison with normal mice. As the cerebellum contains relatively high levels of cyclic nucleotide, its concentrations was measured by radioimmunoassay to elucidate the correlation between spontaneous movement and ataxic gait and the neurological changes. The movements of Rolling Mouse Nagoya (RMN), Weaver and Reeler mice without Purkinje Cell Degeneration (PCD) were found to decrease at 4 and 12 weeks of age. The degree of ataxic gait worsen in RMN, was unchanged in Reeler and improved in Weaver and PCD mice. The cerebellar c-GMP concentration of ataxic mice was decreased, while no significant changes in c-AMP concentration were found in comparison with normal mice. With development, the level of cerebellar c-GMP in Weaver mice increased, but this was not apparent in RMN, Reeler or PCD mice. The results of this investigation indicated that there may be some relation between the degree of ataxic gait and the level of cerebellar c-GMP in Weaver mice.
Tolerance to the effects of physostigmine and oxotremorine in rats was evaluated using a multiple fixed-ratio 10, extinction schedule of food presentation. Physostigmine was administered either once daily or three times daily for 18 consecutive days. Tolerance to physostigmine's response decreasing effects was observed under both administration regimens. Cumulative dose-effect functions for oxotremorine (0.0056-0.562 mg/kg) were determined before and after chronic physostigmine administration. Oxotremorine's potency to produce response rate suppression decreased in rats receiving physostigmine three times daily but did not substantially change in rats receiving single daily injections. These results demonstrate that the dose or duration of action of physostigmine can determine whether tolerance to physostigmine's effects is accompanied by cross-tolerance to oxotremorine's effects.
The major metabolite of the non-opioid anticonvulsant/antitussive dextromethorphan is dextrorphan. In the present study, the effects of dextrorphan were determined in an experimental model of seizure activity (maximal electroshock convulsions) (MES). Subcutaneous administration of dextrorphan produced dose-related blockade of tonic hindlimb extension (THE) and a decrease in the duration of tonic forelimb extension (TFE). The anticonvulsant effect of dextrorphan was linear and maximally efficacious. Compared to the prototypical anticonvulsant drug diphenylhydantoin, dextrorphan was 2.5 times more potent (ED50's = 30 mumol/kg and 12 mumol/kg, respectively). Pretreatment with naloxone failed to antagonize dextrorphan-induced blockade of THE. Moreover, pretreatment with dextrophan failed to significantly enhance the anticonvulsant potency of diphenylhydantoin. It is likely that the anticonvulsant effects of dextrorphan are related to its actions at the phencyclidine/N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex, whereas the anticonvulsant effects of dextromethorphan have been attributed to binding to a specific dextromethorphan site in the brain. Therefore, we suggest that while metabolism to dextrorphan could possibly contribute to the anticonvulsant effects of dextromethorphan, it is probably through an unrelated receptor mechanism.
Pirenzepine, the prototype M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist, is an important compound for investigating the functional significance of M1 receptors at the integrated level of behavior but may have limitations imposed by its physical chemistry. Like the nonselective antagonist methylatropine, pirenzepine is highly hydrophilic and crosses the blood-brain-barrier with difficulty. We compared methylatropine with pirenzepine, given intraperitonealy, as antagonists of the behavioral effects of peripheral or central muscarinic activation. Lever-press responses of male Sprague-Dawley rats were maintained under a schedule requiring 10 responses for each food delivery. Administration of oxotremorine or the quaternary analog oxotremorine-M decreased rates of responding by at least 90%. Both methylatropine and pirenzepine antagonized the behavioral effects of oxotremorine-M; maximum reversal was 70%. Although methylatropine was about 30 times more potent than pirenzepine as an antagonist of the peripheral muscarinic activity of oxotremorine-M, it was inactive as an antagonist of oxotremorine when given in doses up to 153 mumol/kg. Pirenzepine, however, reversed oxotremorine-induced behavioral effects, with a maximum antagonism of 50%. These results suggest that pirenzepine interacts with central muscarinic receptors when administered systemically without producing marked behavioral effects of its own. Systemically administered pirenzepine may thus be a useful tool in further investigations of the relevance of M1 receptors to behavioral function.
Analysis of dopamine and 3-MT dynamics in the striatum and in striatal dialysates, after pargyline treatment, indicates that the 3-MT pool in the rat is smaller but more dynamic than that in the mouse. The fractional rate constants calculated for the extracellular 3-MT and dopamine pools also indicate that a larger proportion of released dopamine is metabolized to 3-MT in the rat, or alternatively, 3-MT is cleared more slowly from the mouse striatum. Our striatal dialysis data also support previous in vivo voltammetry studies which have demonstrated that the fractional rate constant of the extracellular dopamine pool is at least 10-fold greater than that of the total striatal dopamine pool. These data suggest that multiple striatal dopamine pools exist and that a minimum of 20 to 30% of the extracellular DA pool is metabolized to 3-MT.
A simple procedure for linearizing the curved, two ligand-one binding site Scatchard plot resulting from the presence of a constant concentration of competitive inhibitor is proposed; the same procedure may also be applied to the analysis of data derived from the &quot;IC50&quot; competitive inhibition experimental design. Furthermore, a useful generalization of the Cheng-Prusoff correction is presented.
In addition to behavioral evidence for the detection of &quot;earth-strength&quot; magnetic fields (MF) by rodents, recent investigations have revealed that electrophysiological and biochemical responses to MF occur in the pineal organ and retina of rodents. In addition, ferrimagnetic deposits have been identified in the ethmoidal regions of the rodent skull. These findings point to a new sensory phenomenon, which interfaces with many fields of biology, including neuroscience, psychophysics, behavioral ecology, chronobiology and sensory physiology.
Intraperitoneal injection of purified recombinant interleukin-1 (IL-1) into mice increased the cerebral concentration of the norepinephrine (NE) catabolite, 3-methoxy,4-hydroxyphenylethyleneglycol (MHPG), probably reflecting increased activity of noradrenergic neurons. This effect was dose-dependent and was largest in the hypothalamus, especially the medial division. Tryptophan concentrations were also increased throughout the brain. The increase of MHPG peaked around 4 hours after IL-1 administration, parallelling the increase of plasma corticosterone. Both the alpha- and beta-forms of IL-1 were effective, but the activity was lost after heat treatment of the IL-1. Noradrenergic neurons with terminals in the hypothalamus are known to regulate the secretion of corticotropin-releasing factor, thus our results suggest that IL-1 activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis by activating these neurons. Because initiation of an immune response is known to cause systemic release of IL-1, IL-1 may be an immunotransmitter communicating the immunologic activation to the brain. The IL-1-induced changes in hypothalamic MHPG may explain the increases of electrophysiological activity, the changes of hypothalamic NE metabolism, and the increases in circulating glucocorticoids previously reported to be associated with immunologic activation and frequently observed in infected animals.
We have studied effects of an opioid antagonist, naloxone (NLX) on rat brain development. Newborn rats were given daily subcutaneous injection of 1 or 50 mg/kg NLX from birth until weaning (day 21). The 28 day-old rats were examined their brain development. Both doses of NLX reduced the cerebral and cerebellar weights of rats but the body weight loss was significant only in the higher dose (50 mg). However, there were neither morphological changes in the central nervous system nor movement disorders such as abnormal gait and involuntary movements in naloxone treated rats (NLX-rats). We found that serotonin content was decreased significantly in the cerebral cortex and medulla while it was significantly increased in the pons and striatum of NLX-rats. Noradrenaline was decreased significantly in the medulla while it was increased in the pons of the NLX-rats. In contrast, the concentrations of these monoamines did not show any changes in cerebellum and hippocampus of NLX-rats. On the other hand, thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) was significantly decreased in cerebellum and hippocampus of NLX-rats, while it did not show any changes in cerebral cortex, medulla and pons of NLX-rats. These observations suggest that the neurotransmitters influencing the brain development, which are modulated by endogenous opioid systems, may play an important role in the development of rat brain; monoaminergic neurons play a significant role in the development of the cerebrum while TRH containing neurons may be involved in that of the cerebellum.
For most steroid receptor complexes, the transformation to a DNA-binding species can be achieved readily in vitro by incubation at elevated temperatures and/or salt concentrations. Although the aldosterone-Type I receptor complex forms a clear exception to this generalization, a marked increase in its transformation can be achieved by incubation with the chaotropic anion, thiocyanate. Time and concentration-response analyses with brain cytosol revealed that over 40% of the complexes were retained in DNA-cellulose assays after a 15 min pre-incubation at 0 degree C with 100 mM thiocyanate. As expected, molybdate prevented this transformation; however, in contrast to results with heat- and/or salt-induced transformation of other steroid receptors, the molybdate effect was only partially removed by gel filtering the cytosol prior to thiocyanate addition. Thiocyanate-induced transformation should prove useful in the biochemical characterization and purification of non-transformed and transformed aldosterone-Type I receptor complexes.
Lithium, the widely-used antipsychotic drug, is known to exert adverse effects on a number of endocrine organs. In the present investigations, the effects of chronic lithium administration on circulating levels of testosterone and plasma and pituitary levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) were evaluated in order to examine whether or not the pituitary-gonadal axis is a probable target of lithium action. Adult male C57BL/6 mice, maintained on a fixed photoperiodism (LD 14:10), were administered lithium orally, by being fed on a specially prepared chow containing 0.4% lithium chloride for 15 or 30 days, while their matched controls were maintained on standard laboratory chow. At the termination of the respective experimental schedules, the animals were decapitated, their blood collected, and plasma was separated and stored frozen. Pituitaries were quickly removed, weighed, homogenized, centrifuged and their supernatants were stored frozen. Testosterone in plasma and LH in pituitary and plasma were quantitated by standard RIA methods. Plasma Li concentration was determined by using flame photometric methods. A significant suppression in testosterone levels was noted after both 15 (p less than .01) and 30 (p less than .05) days of lithium treatment, but both pituitary and plasma LH levels remained unchanged at both the periods. It is, therefore, suggested that lithium exerts its effect directly at the level of the Leydig cells rather than through the pituitary-gonadal axis. Since the noted lithium-induced reduction of testosterone was manifested when the plasma lithium levels were within (or around) the therapeutic range, these results may have important clinical implications.
Parenteral administration of the imidazobenzodiazepine Ro 15-4513 (a high affinity ligand of the benzodiazepine receptor with partial inverse agonist qualities) produced a dose dependent reduction in sleep time of mice exposed to the inhalation anesthetic, methoxyflurane. The reductions in methoxyflurane sleep time ranged from approximately 20% at 4 mg/kg to approximately 38% at 32 mg/kg of Ro 15-4513. Co-administration of the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist Ro 15-1788 (16 mg/kg) or the inverse agonists DMCM (5-20 mg/kg) and FG 7142 (22.5 mg/kg) blocks this effect which suggests that the reductions in methoxyflurane sleep time produced by Ro 15-4513 are mediated via occupation of benzodiazepine receptors. Moreover, neither DMCM (5-20 mg/kg) nor FG 7142 (22.5 mg/kg) reduced methoxyflurane sleep time which suggests this effect of Ro 15-4513 cannot be attributed solely to its partial inverse agonist properties. These observations support recent findings that inhalation anesthetics may produce their depressant effects via perturbation of the benzodiazepine/GABA receptor chloride channel complex, and suggest that Ro 15-4513 may serve as a prototype of agents capable of antagonizing the depressant effects of inhalation anesthetics such as methoxyflurane.
3-Ethoxy-beta-carboline binds with high affinity to benzodiazepine receptors in the central nervous system (Ki approximately equal to 10.1, 15.3, and 25.3 nM in rat cerebellum, cerebral cortex, and hippocampus, respectively). This compound has pharmacological actions reminiscent of benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonists such as FG 7142 and 3-carboethoxy-beta-carboline. Thus, while not a convulsant, 3-ethoxy-beta-carboline potentiated the convulsant actions of pentylenetetrazole in mice. Furthermore, this compound reduced both the time spent and the total entries in the open arms of an elevated plus maze and also inhibited stress-induced ulcer formation, effects that are also observed with benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonists. These findings suggest that 3-ethoxy-beta-carboline is a partial inverse agonist at benzodiazepine receptors which may prove useful for in vivo studies since it has a higher affinity for benzodiazepine receptors and better solubility than the commonly used partial inverse agonist FG 7142. Furthermore, 3-ethoxy-beta-carboline appears to be less vulnerable to metabolic degradation than ester analogs with a similar pharmacological profile such as 3-carboethoxy-beta-carboline.

The in vitro and in vivo regulation of [3H]Ro 5-4864 binding to peripheral benzodiazepine receptors (PBR) by ion transport/exchange inhibitors was studied in the kidney. The potencies of 9-anthroic acid, furosemide, bumetanide, hydrochlorothiazide and SITS as inhibitors of [3H]Ro 5-4864 binding to renal membranes were consistent with their actions as anion transport inhibitors (Ki approximately equal to 30 - 130 microM). In contrast, spironolactone, amiloride, acetazolamide, and ouabain were less potent (Ki = 100-1000 microM). Administration of furosemide to rats for five days resulted in a profound diuresis (approximately equal to 350% increase in urine volume) accompanied by a significant increase in PBR density (43%) that was apparent by the fifth day of treatment. Administration of hydrochlorothiazide or Ro 5-4864 for five days also caused diuresis and increased renal PBR density. Both the diuresis and increased density of PBR produced by Ro 5-4864 were blocked by coadministration of PK 11195, which alone had no effect on either PBR density or urine volume. The equilibrium binding constants of [3H]Ro 5-4864 to cardiac membranes were unaffected by administration of any of these drugs. These findings suggest that renal PBR may be selectively modulated in vivo and in vitro by administration of ion transport/exchange inhibitors.
Immunohistochemical properties of beta-adrenergic receptor (BAR) in frog erythrocytes have been studied by using antiserum raised against purified guinea pig BAR. Immunoblotting of frog erythrocyte membranes with the anti-BAR serum revealed prominent staining of a protein with Mr of 65,000-67,000. BARs present in intact frog erythrocytes were made visible by incubation with the anti-BAR serum and then goat-anti rabbit IgG conjugated with colloidal gold. About 50-60% of the cells showed small, punctate dots by staining with the anti-BAR serum. After 4 hr exposure of the cells to isoproterenol, the density of the staining was markedly increased. Labeling of BAR after permeabilization of erythrocytes with saponin was markedly enhanced in isoproterenol-desensitized, but not in control cells. The BARs present in cytoslic fraction of desensitized cells migrated in the void volume of Sepharose-4B and were effectively labeled by a lipophilic BAR ligand capable of penetrating the cell membranes, but not by a hydrophilic ligand. Thus, isoproterenol-induced desensitization is associated with alteration of the immunoreactivity of BAR. Moreover, our immunochemical and biochemical data provide further evidence for the internalization of BAR in desensitized frog erythrocytes.
The characteristics of [3H]Ro 5-4864 binding to &quot;peripheral&quot; benzodiazepine receptors (PBR) in the central nervous system and peripheral tissues were examined after chemical sympathectomy with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). One week after the intracisternal administration of 6-OHDA, the number of [3H]Ro 5-4864 binding sites (Bmax) in the hypothalamus and striatum increased 41 and 50%, respectively, concurrent with significant reductions in catecholamine content. An increase (34%) in the Bmax of [3H]Ro 5-4864 to cardiac ventricle was observed one week after parenteral 6-OHDA administration. In contrast, the Bmax of [3H]Ro 5-4864 to pineal gland decreased 48% after 6-OHDA induced reduction in norepinephrine content. The Bmax values for [3H]Ro 5-4864 binding to other tissues (including lung, kidney, spleen, cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus and olfactory bulbs) were unaffected by 6-OHDA administration. The density of pineal, but not cardiac PBR was also reduced after reserpine treatment, an effect reversed by isoproterenol administration. These findings demonstrate that alterations in sympathetic input may regulate the density of PBR in both the central nervous system and periphery in a tissue specific fashion.
Using EL-4 thymoma cell-line we found a binding site similar to the k opioid receptor of the nervous system. The Scatchard analysis of the binding of [3H] bremazocine indicated a single site with a KD = 60 +/- 17 nM and Bmax = 2.7 +/- 0.8 pmols/10(6) cells (51 pmols/mg total cell proteins). To characterize this binding site, competition studies were performed using selective compounds for the various opioid receptors. The k agonist U-50,488H was the most potent displacer of [3H] bremazocine with an IC50 value = 0.57 microM. The two stereoisomers levorphanol and dextrorphan showed the same affinity for this site (IC50 = 2.9 microM and 1.9 microM respectively). While morphine, [D-Pen2, D-Pen5] enkephalin and beta-endorphin failed to displace, except at very high concentrations, codeine demonstrated a IC50 = 60 microM, that was similar to naloxone (IC50 = 69 microM).
Brain concentrations of tryptophan, serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and plasma amino acids were measured after 15 or 30 minutes of intermittent footshock. Footshock treatment significantly decreased the content of 5-HT in prefrontal cortex and hypothalamus, but not brainstem at 15 min, but the decreases were reversed by 30 min. 5-HIAA, the major catabolite of 5-HT, increased in prefrontal cortex after 15 min, and in prefrontal cortex and hypothalamus after 30 min footshock. 5-HIAA:5-HT ratios were increased at both timepoints in all three brain regions. Concomitant changes in the ratios of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) to dopamine and 3-methoxy,-4-hydroxyphenylethyleneglycol (MHPG) to norepinephrine were also observed. Brain concentrations of tryptophan increased progressively during the footshock in all three brain regions. Plasma concentrations of both tryptophan and tyrosine were also significantly increased, while those of histidine and lysine were decreased. It is possible that the stress-related changes in 5-HT metabolism are due to increased plasma tryptophan, in turn causing increased brain tryptophan and 5-HT synthesis. However, the transient decreases in 5-HT suggest a footshock-induced increase of 5-HT release, depleting existing stores of 5-HT, that are replenished by the increased systemic availability of tryptophan.
The relationship between N-acetylserotonin (NAS) in the central nervous system (CNS) and responses to pain was investigated. Using the rat tail-flick model, we initially replicated the work of others showing that intraventricular (IVC) injection of a dipeptide structurally similar to both NAS and serotonin was capable of inducing analgesia in the rat. We then showed that IVC-NAS, but not serotonin elicited analgesia in much the same manner as the dipeptide. This effect proved to be very specific as it required the presence of both an acetyl group on the terminal side chain amine as well as a hydroxyl group on the C-5 position of the indole ring. Substitution of the C-5 hydroxyl by a methoxyl group (melatonin) abolished the analgesic effect. Similarly, removing the N-acetyl substitution (serotonin) also eliminated the analgesia. IVC injection of highly specific antiserum to NAS induced hyperalgesia. Furthermore, an interaction was found between NAS and opiate systems. We demonstrated that while naloxone, the opiate antagonist, has no hyperalgesic properties of itself, it did counteract the analgesia induced by NAS. Similarly, NAS antiserum reversed the analgesia induced by the opiate morphine. This work provides evidence that NAS is an endogenously active substance within the CNS pain network.
A search for literature on the relationship between the autonomic nervous system and speech was performed via the DIALOG Information Service on four databases: BIOSIS Previews, EMBASE, MEDLINE, and PsycINFO. A doctoral candidate in the Department of Audiology and Speech Sciences at Purdue University reviewed the citations retrieved for relevancy. Then, the coverage of the relevant literature by the four databases was analyzed. MEDLINE yielded the greatest number of relevant citations followed by EMBASE, BIOSIS, and PsycINFO. The four databases showed little overlap in coverage of citations or journal titles. This study indicates that it would be advantageous to search all four databases for the speech scientist.

Recent studies have shown that protein synthetic machinery consisting of polyribosomes and associated membranous cisterns is selectively localized beneath synaptic sites on neurons. In the present paper, the role of this machinery in neuronal function will be considered. We will: 1. Summarize the studies that characterize the polyribosomes and define their associations with membranous cisterns. Taken together, these observations suggest the existence of a system for the synthesis and posttranslational processing of proteins at individual synaptic sites; 2. Review the evidence that the protein synthetic machinery is particularly prominent during the initial formation of synaptic contacts (during early development), and during lesion-induced synaptogenesis in mature animals. These observations have led to the hypothesis that the polyribosomes produce proteins that play a role in the formation of the synaptic junction; 3. Review evidence that supports the hypothesis that there is a local synthesis of protein within dendrites, as well as local glycosylation; 4. Describe the evidence suggesting that at least some of the protein constituents of the synaptic junction itself are synthesized locally; and 5. Describe our studies that reveal a mechanism for selective dendritic transport of RNA; this transport mechanism permits the delivery of RNA to postsynaptic sites throughout the dendritic arbor. We will advance the hypothesis that neurons position protein synthetic machinery together with the mRNA's that are appropriate for particular synapses beneath synaptic contact regions. At the synaptic site, this machinery could then direct the synthesis of particular proteins that are critical for synapse formation or maintenance. The positioning of protein synthetic machinery at postsynaptic sites permits a rapid local regulation of the production of key proteins by events at individual synapses.
The reported prevalence of diabetic polyneuropathy varies from 5 to 80%. This unsatisfactory state may relate to evaluation of different patient groups, different minimal criteria for the diagnosis of neuropathy, and different degrees of surveillance. To made matters worse, patients with polyneuropathy tend to be equated ignoring differences in severity. To remedy this situation, four recommendations are made: (1) population-based patients should be studied, (2) nerve conduction should be used to set minimal criteria for neuropathy because the test is objective, sensitive, and repeatable, (3) validated tests of symptoms and deficits should also be used because clinical manifestations of neuropathy cannot be accurately inferred from electrophysiologic measurements, and (4) approaches to staging severity of neuropathy should be developed and used in expressing abnormality. To this end minimal criteria for the diagnosis of diabetic polyneuropathy have been proposed, and validated tests to assess neuropathic symptoms and sensory deficits have been developed. In this report we also propose a staging approach utilizing nerve conduction and neurologic history and examination and validated tests of neuropathic symptoms and deficits.



A range of different dysphoric symptomologies are subsumed under the general diagnostic label of depression. This may lead to problems with inter-laboratory reliability when reporting results of depression research. A partial list of a variety of &quot;unhappiness&quot; is submitted to encourage rigor of definitions and to stimulate discussion. Comments are made concerning the difficulty in drawing definitive conclusions about the possible influence of normal aging on CNS disturbances underlying depression. Also, the need is reinforced for in vivo baseline studies of the human nervous system as well as for creative experimentation using a variety of species. Finally, a plea is made for more openness and cooperation in the neurosciences regarding research activities and findings.
Riege and Metter's comprehensive review deals with many issues pertaining to Alzheimer's disease research. We agree with the authors that early diagnosis and evaluation of disease progression represent key points that must be addressed in an integrated manner. Brain imaging holds great promise for the resolution of both issues.
Quantitative studies of noradrenergic binding sites with aging probably underestimate the functional alterations in this, and other, central synaptic systems. Transmitters like norepinephrine, whose actions are based on amplification and interaction of interneuronal signalling capacity, rely on interactions among receptor subtypes for their complete effect. Thus, slight losses of one or both receptor subtypes with normal aging may have far more devastating effects.
Monoamine contents were measured in the cervical spinal cord of patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. The concentrations of noradrenaline (NA) and its metabolite 4-methyl-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) were highest in ventral horn compared with other regions of the spinal cord in controls. Both NA and MHPG contents were reduced in all regions in 4 MSA patients. But in one case (case 5), which did not show an autonomic dysfunction, NA as well as MHPG level was similar to controls. Similarly, the concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were highest in ventral horn and reduced in all regions in 4 MSA patients who showed mild motor weakness. In one case (case 5), which revealed clinical motor weakness associated with fasciculation and areflexia and pathological degeneration of ventral horn, 5-HT content showed higher values than controls whereas the 5-HIAA level was lower than controls. These results probably indicate that the cell loss of supraspinal monoaminergic nuclei may be one of the causes responsible for neurological dysfunction such as autonomic failures and motor weakness in MSA.

Neurochemical terminology first appeared in the 1850s to describe a broadly-based combination of the chemistry and biology of neural systems. This usage was not maintained and the major theme became &quot;brain chemistry&quot;, more narrowly based on the brain and on organic chemistry. This term was used between the 1880s and the 1930s for sections in physiological and biochemical texts and for monographs. Neurochemistry was re-introduced in the 1940s, first as an administrative subdivision, then as a description of neurochemical workers and then of their work. Its widespread use dates from 1955 and the neurochemical literature of this period is described. The success of neurochemical terminology at its second introduction is attributed to the adequate development of core subjects, of applied aspects which gave funding, and to a general development of neurosciences.

Following intravenous injection of [U-14C]palmitate in awake adult rats, whole brain radioactivity reached a broad maximum between 15-60 min, then declined rapidly to reach a relatively stable level between 4 hr and 20 hr. At 44 hr total radioactivity was 57% of the 4 hr value (p less than 0.05). About 50% of palmitate which entered the brain from the blood was oxidized rapidly, producing 14C-labeled water-soluble components which later left the cytosol. Radioactivity in the cytosolic fraction peaked at 45 min and then declined, coincident with the decline in total brain radioactivity. Membrane fractions were rapidly labeled to levels which remained relatively stable from 1 to 44 hr. Increases in the relative distributions of radioactivity were seen between 1 and 4 hr for the microsomal and mitochondrial fractions, and beyond 4 hr for the synaptic and myelin membrane fractions (p less than 0.05). Radioactivity in membrane fractions was 80-90% lipid, 5-13% water-soluble components and 3-17% protein. The proportion of label in membrane-associated protein increased with time. Proportions of radioactivity in the combined membrane fractions increased from 65% to 76% to 80% at 4, 20 and 44 hr, respectively. The results show that plasma-derived palmitate enters oxidative and synthetic pathways to an equal extent, immediately after entry into the brain. At and after 4 hr, the radiolabel resides predominantly in stable membrane lipids and protein. Brain radioactivity at 4 hr can be used therefore, to examine incorporation of palmitate into lipids in vivo, in different experimental conditions.
Status epilepticus was induced in paralyzed, ventilated rats using bicuculline and was maintained for 50 to 120 minutes. Cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum were assayed for calmodulin kinase II activity in vitro using [gamma-32P]ATP and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Seizures resulted in a 3.2 fold decrease in calmodulin kinase activity in crude synaptic membranes of cortex and in a 8.2 fold decrease in hippocampal membranes. Cytosolic calmodulin kinase activity was slightly increased in rats in status epilepticus but statistical significance was not reached. Status epilepticus did not affect calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase activity in cerebellar membranes or cytosol. These data suggest that intense firing associated with continuous seizure activity decreases calmodulin kinase activity in cortical and hippocampal synaptic membranes, which may result in altered neuronal excitability.
Prolactin concentrations were measured in plasma in unanaesthetized male rats chronically prepared with venous and intracerebral cannulae, before and after treatment with bilateral intracerebral injections of serotonin and fenfluramine. Serotonin 1, 5, and 10 nmol injected in the medial basal hypothalamus caused dose-related rises in prolactin concentrations. The secretion of prolactin was blocked by metergoline (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) and only partially by ketanserin (2.0 mg/kg i.v.). The 5-HT 1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT potently stimulated prolactin at doses of 1 and 5 nmol. Fenfluramine 10 and 100 nmol also caused increases in plasma prolactin when injected in the basal hypothalamus. Prolactin secretion was also evoked by serotonin injections in the preoptic/anterior hypothalamic area, but the response was not blocked by serotonin receptor antagonists. It is concluded that activation of 5-HT 1A receptors on or near prolactin-regulating neurons in the arcuate nucleus causes secretion of prolactin. The effectiveness of fenfluramine in increasing plasma prolactin suggests that endogenous serotonin released from terminals in the basal hypothalamus may mediate prolactin secretion physiologically.
We studied neocortical morphometry (cortical thickness, neurons, and glia), lesion counts (plaques and tangles), and choline acetyltransferase levels in up to 113 Alzheimer brains and 48 controls. Comparisons between young (under 65) and old (over 70) Alzheimer cases revealed more tangles in the former, but no other statistically significant differences in the measured variables. Differences in these parameters between young Alzheimer cases and young controls were similar to the differences found between old Alzheimer cases and old controls. Linear regression analyses correlating some of these variables with age in Alzheimer's disease, considered together with the effects of normal aging on the same parameters, reveal in Alzheimer's disease a spectrum of graded pathologic severity inversely proportional to age. Nevertheless, even in advanced old age (80 to 100), significant differences persist in these parameters between very elderly Alzheimer brains and controls.
The grasping behaviour of an acallosal patient is compared with that of a group of normals. Video records of the hands of the patient and the normals allowed frame by frame analysis of the prehensile movements involved. The normals behaved according to the earlier reports by Jeannerod [Behav. Brain Res. 19, 99-116, 1986; and in Two Hemispheres--One Brain, F. Lepor, M. Ptito and H. H. Jasper (Editors), pp. 369-383, Alan R. Liss, Inc., New York, 1986] with the thumb and forefinger closing upon the object to be grasped by the time it was reached. By contrast the acallosal did not begin to close the finger and thumb until after contact was made with the object. The results are seen as further evidence for (a) the enhanced development of uncrossed ipsilateral pathways in acallosals and (b) absence in acallosals of the normal inhibitory action of the callosum in suppressing such enhanced ipsilateral output which consequently competes with the contralateral output controlling the fingers.
Scopolamine, a muscarinic cholinergic antagonist, is capable of inducing transient memory impairment in normal subjects. Against the background of the cholinergic hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) the present study was designed to investigate the effects of low oral doses of scopolamine on a range of cognitive functions known or hypothesized to be affected in AD. Twenty healthy volunteers (18-48 yr) performed a battery of automated cognitive tasks under each of five treatments: oral scopolamine 0.3 mg, 0.6 mg, 1.2 mg; oral methylscopolamine 0.6 mg; placebo. Alongside analogous tests of verbal and non-verbal memory, the battery enabled assessments of a range of attentional functions: alerting, sustained attention, selective attention, and covert orientation. A profile of effects was observed within and beyond the realm of memory. While some functions were unaffected by the drug (e.g. alerting) and others were impaired at the highest dose (e.g. verbal learning) still others were affected in a linear dose-dependent manner (sustained attention; visual contrast sensitivity). These observations are discussed in the context of the &quot;scopolamine model&quot; of AD.
Studies [Preilowski, B.F.B. in Cerebral Localization, pp. 116-131, Springer, Berlin, 1975; Reynolds, D.M. and Jeeves, M.A. Neuropsychologia 12, 287-290, 1974] of bilateral motor coordination in commissurotomy patients pointed to the importance of direct interhemispheric integration for the fine regulation of the lower motor system within each hemisphere. When external visual feedback was withdrawn in the performance of a bimanual tracking task, partial commissurotomy patients, in whom the anterior portions of the callosum were cut, deviated significantly when drawing lines which required asymmetrical input from the two hands. The task devised by Preilowski was given to two adult acallosals, an 11 yr old acallosal boy, and an 11 yr old girl in whom the centre one-third of the corpus callosum had been sectioned. The acallosals performed in a manner similar to Preilowski's partial commissurotomy patients. The results were interpreted as confirming the interhemispheric integrative function of the corpus callosum. It is argued that they constitute further evidence for the existence of hemispheric dominance for motor control in acallosals. The partial commissurotomy patient did not differ in performance from normals. Her results were consistent with the view that it is the anterior parts of the callosum which are crucial for the interhemispheric integration of the lower motor system in each hemisphere.
Manual preferences of six baboons were tested with three kinds of experimental tasks: (1) a simple reaching on a board or in a hole; (2) a box opening; (3) two visuo-spatial tasks requiring precise alignments of apertures. The distribution of right and left hand preferences was found to be symmetrical for the simple reachings (3 right- and 3 left-handers) and was consistent with the preferences in the box opening task. However, manual tasks with strong visuo-spatial components gave a unimodal distribution with a left hand preference for the group for aligning and adjusting the apertures. These results suggest the coexistence within an individual of two types of preferences according to the distinction between handedness and manual specialization.
The authors report a rare case of ecchordosis physaliphora arising from C2, manifested with clinical symptoms, with the findings of CT scans and MRI.




Perinatal administration of methylazoxymethanol acetate in the rat, as a one time injection on gestational day 21, postnatal days 0, 1 or 2, altered the parallel orientation of cerebellar folia. The effect persisted into adulthood. In animals injected on one of the postnatal days 3, 4 or 5, the folial pattern was not altered. Even when the injection was repeated for three days on postnatal days 3, 4 and 5, changes in the cerebellar surface were not found. However, in animals receiving a low protein diet during the last five days of gestation, the three injection regimen produced a distortion of the folial pattern. The surface of cerebella of animals injected on gestational day 21 through postnatal day 2 was covered with small blebs resembling the surface of a cauliflower head. In sagittal sections, islands of cortical laminae appeared to be isolated from the arbor vitae. However, serial reconstruction of the granular layer from sections revealed that these pieces were continuous with the arbor vitae. Surprisingly, cerebella having malaligned folia also had varying degrees of Purkinje cell somas distributed throughout the granule cell layer rather than in a single layer. This occurred even when the granule cell layer approached normal thickness. Analysis of cerebellar weight from the group injected on the day of birth revealed three levels of weight reduction: severe (greater than 40%), moderate (20-40%) and mild (less than 20%). The granule cell deficit was directly related to the weight reduction of the cerebella. In the severely-affected cerebella, areas of the cortex were virtually devoid of granule cells. The moderately-affected cerebella had a continuous granular layer which was thick and thin. In the mild type, the layer was relatively normal in thickness but, nevertheless, the cerebellar surface was highly distorted. In all animals treated with methylazoxymethanol acetate on days G21 through P5, parallel fibers were disoriented. This occurred even though the folia appeared normal in the G20, P3, P4, P5 and P3-5 injected groups. Bundles of parallel fibers crisscrossed in the plane of the cerebellar surface in all areas where a molecular layer was found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
On mating with a stud male, virgin female mice from an olfactory memory to this male which is essential to their reproductive success. Failure to form this memory results in the stud male being treated as strange, and hence, his pheromones block pregnancy. This study investigates the duration of the olfactory memory, and the factors which determine this. The results show that a single prolonged exposure to the male during mating forms a life-long olfactory memory trace unless pregnancy ensues. In the event of pregnancy the olfactory memory fades significantly faster, an effect which can be replicated by implants of oestradiol in non-pregnant females. Anatomical studies indicate that neurogenesis of the vomeronasal receptors is enhanced during pregnancy, an event which we interpret as being important for the duration of this olfactory memory.
Brief vascular perfusion of the rat brain with a mixture of concentrated aldehydes completely insolubilized the brain protein in less than 30 s and yielded excellent ultrastructural preservation. Abundant synaptic vesicles closely and specifically attached to the presynaptic membrane were constantly detected. These vesicles appeared to undergo progressive transformation into amorphous, electron-dense material. No evidence of vesicle exocytosis was detected in the brains perfused in vivo but fixations performed 1 h after death showed abundant exocytotic-like images. The results suggest that the vesicles may not be exocytotically released to the intersynaptic cleft but disintegrate intracytoplasmically in the immediate vicinity of the presynaptic membrane.
Large amounts of zinc are endogenously present in synaptic vesicles of mammalian central excitatory boutons, and are likely released during synaptic activity; transient elevations in extracellular zinc concentration exceeding several hundred micromolar may accompany intense neuronal excitation. Exposure of mature cortical cell cultures, in mice, to similar concentrations of zinc for several minutes resulted in widespread neuronal injury; the extent of injury was dependent on both the concentration of zinc, and the length of exposure. Quantitative neuronal cell counts suggested an approximate neurotoxic ED50 of 600 microM for a 15 min zinc exposure, and 225 microM for an 18-24 h exposure. High zinc concentrations or long exposure times resulted in the addition of glial injury to the neuronal injury; this glial injury could also be demonstrated in neuron-free glial cell cultures, and hence likely represented a direct effect of zinc rather than a consequence of neuronal injury. Neurons in immature cultures were relatively resistant to zinc-induced injury, suggesting that neuronal vulnerability to zinc increases with maturation in vitro. An early event associated with toxic exposure to zinc was gross neuronal swelling. This swelling was dependent on the presence of extracellular sodium, and, interestingly, could be delayed by the continued presence of zinc itself. Zinc-induced neuronal cell loss, however, occurred even when both sodium and calcium were absent during the exposure to zinc. The present results provide direct evidence that zinc might be a relatively potent, rapidly acting neurotoxin, and somewhat less potent gliotoxin, in the mammalian central nervous system. We suggest that zinc should be included on the growing list of endogenous toxins which may be involved in the acute pathogenesis of central neuronal, and possibly glial, cell loss in some disease states.
Monocular enucleation was performed on rats at birth or on the 8th or 15th day, respectively. The animals were raised and from the age of 3 months the evoked activity was tested in the visual cortex. It was found that monocular enucleation changed the distribution of visually evoked responses. In the right hemisphere (contralateral to the preserved eye) two focuses of evoked potentials appeared with large amplitudes shifted to both sides, towards the lateral and medial borders of the primary visual area. In the left hemisphere the focus of the evoked potentials was shifted slightly laterally and posteriorly. Early enucleation caused an expansion of the somatosensory responses into the visual area. Bimodal neurons (responsive to visual and somatosensory stimuli) were observed in the anterior part of the primary and secondary visual areas contralateral to the enucleation. These changes became moderate with increasing age at which enucleation was performed and were not found in animals enucleated on the 15th day after birth.
The spontaneous and potassium-stimulated release of preloaded taurine and GABA from striatal slices of adult and 7-day-old rats were studied using a superfusion system. Particular attention was paid to mutual interactions of taurine and GABA with dopamine in the release processes. Potassium stimulation (50 mM) enhanced taurine release more in the immature than in the adult striatum, whereas the response was the opposite with GABA release. Spontaneous taurine efflux was increased by dopamine and apomorphine, whereas stimulated release was suppressed by these agents in both age groups. This dopamine effect was partially antagonized by haloperidol, suggesting that dopaminergic systems were able to modify taurine release, possibly via dopaminergic receptors. Dopamine and apomorphine had similar but more inconsistent effects on striatal GABA release, which were not, however, mediated through conventional dopamine receptors. Stimulation with 25 mM K+ caused an 11-fold increase in striatal dopamine release: this effect was potentiated by taurine, while the actions of GABA on dopamine release were variable.
The distribution and origin of the nerve fibres innervating the rat thyroid were studied by immunocytochemistry, retrograde tracing and denervation experiments. Immunocytochemistry revealed nerve fibres containing noradrenaline, neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal peptide, peptide histidine-isoleucine, galanin, substance P, neurokinin A and calcitonin gene-related peptide around blood vessels and follicles. Many of these transmitter candidates were found to co-exist with each other in different combinations in different subpopulations of neurons. Sympathectomy eliminated all noradrenaline- and noradrenaline/neuropeptide Y-containing fibres in the thyroid. Cervical vagotomy eliminated about 50% of the galanin-, substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing fibres. Local denervation (removal of the thyroid ganglion and the thyroid nerve) eliminated all galanin- and substance P-immunoreactive fibres and the majority of noradrenaline-, noradrenaline/neuropeptide Y-, vasoactive intestinal peptide- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing fibres in the thyroid gland. Injection of True Blue into the thyroid gland labelled cell bodies in the thyroid ganglion, the laryngeal ganglion, the superior cervical ganglion, the jugular-nodose ganglionic complex, the dorsal root ganglia (C2-C5) and the trigeminal ganglion. Judging from the number of labelled nerve cell bodies, the superior cervical ganglion and the thyroid ganglion contribute most to the thyroid innervation, while the laryngeal ganglion and the trigeminal ganglion contribute least. The True Blue-labelled ganglia were examined for the presence of various populations of nerve cell bodies (only major populations are listed). The thyroid ganglion harboured neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal peptide and galanin/vasoactive intestinal peptide cell bodies (in order of predominance); the laryngeal ganglion galanin/vasoactive intestinal peptide, vasoactive intestinal peptide and calcitonin gene-related peptide cell bodies; the superior cervical ganglion noradrenaline/neuropeptide Y and noradrenaline cell bodies; the jugular ganglion calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide and galanin/substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide cell bodies; the nodose ganglion vasoactive intestinal peptide and vasoactive intestinal peptide/galanin cell bodies; the dorsal root ganglia (C2-C5) and the trigeminal ganglion calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide and galanin/substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide cell bodies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Gastrin-releasing peptide is a neuropeptide with a wide distribution in the rat small intestine. Most of the GRP-containing fibers are intramural in origin. Local severing of myenteric GRP neurons by circumferential removal of the outer longitudinal muscle layer together with the adherent myenteric ganglia (myectomy) in a segment of the rat jejunum resulted in the disappearance of GRP fibers from the myectomized circular muscle and from myenteric ganglia and both muscle layers for approximately 10 mm anally to the lesion. As examined at different time intervals up to 60 weeks postoperatively fine-varicose GRP fibers of a normal appearance were found to return gradually to the portion anal to the lesion beginning at 20 weeks, first in the more distal portions and then (after 40-60 weeks) also in the more proximally located portions. Also the circular muscle in the myectomized segment became reinnervated during this time period. These fibers were notably coarse, more numerous than in control circular muscle, and arranged in thick bundles (hyperinnervation). Such nerve bundles were particularly frequent 40 weeks after the operation. The results indicate a remarkable plasticity of enteric neurons.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons of the guinea-pig submucous plexus and the actions of 5-hydroxytryptamine on the postsynaptic membrane and on evoked synaptic potentials were examined. 5-Hydroxytryptamine produced two types of direct postsynaptic responses: (1) A depolarization associated with a fall in input resistance was observed in all cells. Voltage-clamp and ion substitutions showed that this depolarization resulted primarily from an inward sodium current. This response could be as brief as 30 ms; it showed desensitization and was selectively abolished by 0.2-2 microM ICS 205-930. (2) A depolarization (or inward current) associated with a decreased conductance was observed in about 50% of neurons, usually after the first response was blocked by ICS 205-930. This response was due to a decreased potassium conductance; the minimum time course of this response was 8-10 s. It did not show desensitization and was not sensitive to blockade by currently available antagonists of 5-hydroxytryptamine, nicotinic and/or muscarinic receptors. Higher concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine were required to produce the sodium conductance increase than the potassium conductance decrease; 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine was equally effective in producing these responses. 5-Hydroxytryptamine also caused a barrage of &quot;spontaneous&quot; nicotinic excitatory post-synaptic potentials which were sensitive to tetrodotoxin. This response desensitized, was blocked by ICS 205-930 and is presumed to reflect excitation of other cholinergic cell bodies in the plexus by the sodium conductance increase mechanism described. The evoked nicotinic excitatory postsynaptic potential and the adrenergic inhibitory postsynaptic potential were decreased by 5-hydroxytryptamine; a portion of this inhibition showed desensitization and was blocked by ICS 205-930 as well as by the muscarinic receptor antagonists, atropine and pirenzepine. The ICS 205-930-insensitive portion of this inhibition could not be attributed to activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine-1 or 5-hydroxytryptamine-2 receptors. Thus, the following conclusions are drawn: 5-hydroxytryptamine excites submucous plexus neurons by activating two distinct 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors. Activation of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor (sensitive to ICS 205-930) produces a depolarization mediated by an increased sodium conductance. The same effect occurring in other cholinergic cell bodies initiates action potentials which are responsible for the 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced release of acetylcholine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The [14C]2-deoxyglucose method was used to investigate the role of the ventrolateral geniculate and raphe nuclei in the control of the metabolism of the suprachiasmatic nuclei in adult female Wistar rats anaesthetized with alphaxalone. Three to seven days before the [14C]2-deoxyglucose studies a stimulating electrode was implanted or a lesion was made in the ventrolateral geniculate nucleus, or the ascending projection from the raphe nuclei was severed. Stimulation of the ventrolateral geniculate nucleus (biphasic rectangular pulses, 30 s on and 30 s off, 50 Hz, 500 microA pulse amplitude and 1 ms pulse duration) led to a significant increase in the relative metabolic activity of the ipsilateral suprachiasmatic nucleus and a smaller increase in the relative metabolic activity of the contralateral suprachiasmatic nucleus. The stimulus also increased significantly the relative metabolic activities of mainly the ipsilateral hypothalamus, midbrain central gray and reticular formation, all of which are too remote from the ventrolateral geniculate nucleus to be affected by current spread. In animals in which the ventrolateral geniculate nucleus had been lesioned, the relative metabolic activity of the suprachiasmatic nuclei was not significantly different from normal. In animals in which the ascending projection from the raphe nuclei had been severed, there was a slight, though significant increase in the relative metabolic activity of the suprachiasmatic nucleus of one side. These results, together with the effects of stimulating the suprachiasmatic nuclei [R. C. Maxwell and G. Fink, Neuroscience 23, 241-263 (1987)], show that the connections between the ventrolateral geniculate, raphe nuclei and suprachiasmatic nuclei are &quot;metabolically functional&quot;, but that the integrity of the ventrolateral geniculate nucleus is not essential for maintaining the relative metabolic activity of the suprachiasmatic nuclei. The raphe nuclei may reduce the relative metabolic activity of the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
Synchronous bursts of firing of locus coeruleus neurons have been observed in unanesthetized rats, particularly in response to various sensory stimuli. In explant tissue cultures, synchronous bursting activity of locus coeruleus neurons was also observed and the possible mechanisms responsible for this synchronous activation have been investigated. Barrages of depolarizing events apparently initiated and continued throughout spontaneous bursts of spikes in the cultured neurons. Simultaneous intracellular recordings from pairs of neurons show a very high degree of synchrony of such barrages between cells. On the basis of tests for electrical coupling in simultaneously recorded cell pairs, and tests for dye coupling with Lucifer Yellow, it was concluded that the synchrony is not due to electrical coupling of locus coeruleus neurons. Small non-synaptic interactions between cell pairs that may reflect elevated extracellular potassium levels have been observed on some occasions. Spontaneous and evoked depolarizations similar to those initiating the bursts appear to be synaptically mediated events, suggesting that locus coeruleus neurons are synchronously activated by a common excitatory input. It was concluded that the neurons providing this common excitation are located within or very close to the locus coeruleus, at least at birth. The synchronization of activation of many locus coeruleus neurons could result in almost simultaneous release of neurotransmitter in the widespread target areas of locus coeruleus projections.
The neurochemical and behavioural recovery following unilateral and bilateral lesions of the nucleus basalis was investigated in adult male Wistar rats 20 days and 6 months after surgery. The lesions were made by stereotaxic injections of ibotenic acid. Twenty days after surgery there was a statistically significant choline acetyltransferase decrease in the frontal and parietal ipsilateral cortex of the unilaterally lesioned rats and in the cortex of both hemispheres after bilateral lesions. Cortical high affinity choline uptake rate was significantly decreased 4 days after lesions but showed a rapid recovery within 20 days post-lesion in unilaterally and bilaterally lesioned rats. However, at this time both groups of lesioned rats showed a marked impairment in the acquisition of passive and active (shuttle-box) avoidance conditioned responses. Six months after surgery the decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity was smaller and statistically significant in the ipsilateral frontal cortex only in the unilaterally lesioned rats and in the frontal and parietal cortex of both hemispheres in the bilaterally lesioned rats. High affinity choline uptake was increased in the contralateral hemispheres of the unilaterally lesioned rats and was significantly larger than in the bilaterally lesioned rats. There was no difference in the acquisition of both passive and active avoidance conditioned responses between the sham operated and unilaterally lesioned rats, while the bilaterally lesioned rats could only negotiate the active avoidance conditioned response. In conclusion, our experiments demonstrate a remarkable neurochemical and behavioural recovery within 6 months in rats with a unilateral lesion of the nucleus basalis and only a limited recovery in the bilateral lesioned rats.
A study has been made of the involvement of spinal peptidergic neurons in ascending tracts at lumbar-sacral levels in rats, by combining the retrograde transport of a protein-gold complex with immunocytochemistry. Ten neuropeptides have been considered for their presence in the cells of origin of the following six ascending tracts, including some involved in pain transmission: the spinosolitary tract, the medial and lateral spinoreticular tracts, the spinomesencephalic tract, the spinothalamic tract and the postsynaptic dorsal column tract. Although there was overlap in the distribution of several of the types of peptidergic cells and some ascending tract cells only a very small percentage of long ascending tract cells were found to contain neuropeptides. Most (90%) of those peptidergic ascending tract cells, however, were clearly congregated in two distinct spinal regions: the lateral spinal nucleus and the region surrounding the central canal (including lamina X). Ascending tract cells in both of these regions contained a wide variety of neuropeptides. Immunoreactivities for a total of seven different peptides were seen. The lateral spinal nucleus had the highest percentage of neuropeptide containing ascending tract cells; cells of all the four populations of peptidergic neurons lying in this region were involved in supraspinal projections; they stained for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, bombesin, substance P or dynorphin and their axons projected in the spinomesencephalic, spinoreticular and spinosolitary tracts. The region surrounding the central canal contained bombesin-, enkephalin-, cholecystokinin- and somatostatin-immunoreactive ascending tract cells; these cells were found at the origin of the spinothalamic, spinomesencephalic, spinoreticular and spinosolitary tracts. In this region only the cells staining for substance P were not involved in supraspinal projections. The peptidergic ascending tract cells in other spinal regions were few; they were found in either lamina I or lateral part of lamina V. Ascending tract lamina I cells reacted for dynorphin or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and their axons projected in the spinosolitary and spinomesencephalic tracts. Ascending tract lamina V cells reacted for somatostatin and were found at the origin of the medial component of the spinoreticular tract. It is proposed that peptidergic ascending tract cells form minor but distinct subgroups within each ascending tract. Each of the ascending tracts are divisible into peptide- and nonpeptide-containing groups of cells which convey information in a parallel fashion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons discharge either in a single spike mode or in a bursting pattern. In order to investigate the influence of these patterns on dopamine release, extracellular dopamine was electrochemically monitored in vivo in the olfactory tuberculum of anaesthetized rats by means of two approaches. In the first, a pure signal, unequivocally corresponding to extracellular dopamine, was recorded every minute from pargyline treated rats by differential normal pulse voltammetry combined with electrochemically treated carbon fibre electrodes. In the second, the differential current solely due to oxidation of all the catechols was monitored every 1 s in drug-free rats by differential pulse amperometry. In basal conditions this current was mainly due to extracellular DOPAC. However, electrical stimulation of the dopaminergic pathway for 20 s elicited an immediate increase in this signal. This effect was due to evoked dopamine release since it was strongly enhanced by amphetamine (2 mg/kg) or pargyline (75 mg/kg) injections. As studied with both approaches, the evoked increase in extracellular dopamine concentration was immediate and lasted as long as the stimulation. The amplitude of the effect depended on the frequency of the stimulation (from 3 to 14 Hz) in an exponential manner but never exceeded 1 microM dopamine. Bursting stimulations (frequency within the trains: 14 Hz) were twice as potent as regularly spaced ones, having the same average frequency (5 Hz). In conditions which mimicked the spontaneous activity of dopaminergic neurons when they switch from one pattern to the other (4 Hz regularly spaced stimulation versus trains at a mean frequency of 6 Hz), the bursting stimulations were found to be up to 6 times more potent. Therefore, as regards the functional efficacy of DA neurons, bursting might be much more important than mean firing frequency.
The effect of aging on axosomatic synaptic terminals in the rat medial nucleus of the trapezoid body was studied using quantitative electron microscopy. In young adult rats (3 months of age), the mean percentage of the surface area of principal cells covered by synaptic terminals is 61.7% (S.E.M. = 4.1) while in aged animals (27-33 months of age) the per cent coverage is 43.7% (S.E.M. = 3.3). Likewise, between 3 and 27-33 months of age, the average number of synaptic terminals present along a 100 micron length of principal cell surface decreases significantly (P less than 0.001) from 28.3 (S.E.M. = 1.3) to 18.9 (S.E.M. = 1.3). Only terminals derived from calyces of Held are lost in the aged animals, displaying a 37% reduction between 3 and 27-33 months of age. The length of apposition by synaptic terminals in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body does not change significantly with aging. We conclude that because of a significant loss of calycine synaptic endings, the structure of calyces of Held becomes less complex with advancing age in rats. This would presumably result in an age-related partial deafferentation of principal cells, causing significant alterations in the processing of auditory information in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body.
Levels of mRNAs specific for the alpha-, gamma- and delta-subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor were measured in chick skeletal muscle by solution hybridization, using a genomic DNA probe containing the intramembrane segments M2 and M3 of the alpha-subunit and probes comprising exons 2-6 and exons 4-8, respectively, of the gamma- and delta-subunit. In the innervated calf musculature of adult chickens, receptor-specific messages were detected in approx. 100-fold excess over the amount required to account for the observed synthesis rate. Within 1 week after section of the sciatic nerve, alpha-, gamma- and delta-subunit message levels rose 112-, 42- and 24-fold, respectively, while receptor expression rate increased about 150-fold. The rise in message levels preceded the denervation-induced increase in receptor concentration. In differentiating myogenic cells all three messages were found in excess over the amounts required for the observed rate of receptor synthesis. Treatment of differentiated myotubes with drugs that change receptor synthesis rate selectively affects alpha-subunit mRNA. In all situations in vitro and in vivo the alpha-subunit mRNA was found to reach final levels faster, and to be from 3 to over 30 times more abundant, than the other messages. These observations corroborate earlier evidence for a regulatory mechanism in which the supply of mRNA determines acetylcholine receptor synthesis rate. They also suggest that receptor expression is not simply proportional to acetylcholine receptor subunit mRNA concentrations, but rather is controlled, to a considerable extent, by the efficiency with which the receptor-specific mRNAs and/or the subunits they code for are subsequently utilized.
The effects of peripheral and central VIth nerve axotomy on abducens nucleus synaptic potentials of vestibular origin and the ultrastructure of intracellularly labeled abducens motoneurons were examined in the anesthetized cat. Subsequent experiments explored the activity of identified abducens motoneurons during spontaneous and vestibular induced eye movements in alert cats prepared for chronic recordings of eye movements, single units and field potentials. Following axotomy the typical disynaptic inhibition of abducens motoneurons induced by electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral vestibular nerve either disappeared or was reduced for 5-30 days. Disynaptic activation produced by contralateral VIIIth nerve stimulation was apparently not affected. These changes were accompanied at the ultrastructural level by a decrease of axosomatic pleiomorphic synaptic endings. No changes were observed in either the number or distribution of synaptic endings on proximal and distal dendrites. Although not expected by results obtained in acute experiments, axotomized motoneurons showed a decreased excitability in the behavioral paradigm. Amplitude of the abducens antidromic field potential was significantly reduced 4-6 days following axotomy and frequent failures were observed in the antidromic somadendritic invasion of single motoneurons. Somatic invasion was obtained by the simultaneous presentation of appropriate visual and/or vestibular synaptic activity. Chronic recordings of field potentials showed their amplitude to recover in 30-40 days. The spontaneous and vestibular induced activity of identified axotomized motoneurons during this period of time differed in several aspects from controls. Motoneurons could not maintain tonic activity during eye fixations and they showed short, low frequency, bursts of activity that followed, rather than preceded, on-directed saccades. In some cases axotomized motoneurons fired during horizontal off-directed and vertical saccades. Position and velocity gains of axotomized motoneurons were lower than control values. The effects of central axotomy were always larger and of longer duration than those following peripheral axotomy. Structural and functional properties influenced by axotomy seemed to recover in 2-3 months, but with independent time courses. The present results differ in many aspects from those described after axotomy in spinal and hypoglossal motoneurons. In addition, they point out that behavior or axotomized neurons in chronic preparations are not predictable on the basis of those described in acute experiments.
The effects of stimulation of the vestibular nerve, spinal trigeminal nucleus, facial and hypoglossal nuclei of the cranial nerves on the neuronal activity in the lateral vestibular nucleus of Deiters were studied in cats anaesthetized with pentobarbitone. Stimulation of these nuclei was found to produce antidromic and synaptic activation of Deiters' neurons. Descending axon collaterals of the vestibular neurons to these brainstem structures were revealed. Stimulation of the VIIIth nerve, spinal trigeminal and facial nuclei evoked mono- and polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials in Deiters' neurons. Stimulation of the spinal trigeminal nucleus evoked mono- and polysynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and disfacilitation in Deiters' neurons. In some vestibular neurons inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were also evoked by stimulation of the nucleus hypoglossus. Convergence of influences from these structures on Deiters' neurons was shown to exist. The peculiarities and functional significance of the effects mentioned are discussed.
This study analyses the course and topography of olivo-vestibular projections originating in the dorsal cap, ventrolateral outgrowth and beta nucleus of albino rabbits. Rabbits were given either single pressure-injections of [3H]L-leucine (20 microCi in 50 nl) or single or multiple injections of 3-acetylpyridine (0.2-0.25 microliter of 27.5 micrograms/microliter in saline) into the medial aspect of the inferior olive. Brains from the former animals were processed for autoradiography after 2-3 days survival; brains from the latter animals were stained for degeneration with cupric-silver methods after a 16-24 h survival. In addition, four rabbits with kainic acid lesions of the flocculus were used to document flocculo-vestibular projections. Olivo-vestibular projections from the dorsal cap ventrolateral outgrowth, beta nucleus and the medial accessory olive diverge from olivo-cerebellar projections at the caudal margin of the flocculus stalk, and course medially in a broad sheet. Fibers (1) ascend in the superior fascicle, with flocculo-vestibular projections, to the superior vestibular nucleus, (2) enter the medial fascicle, with flocculo-vestibular fibers, and course along the dorsolateral border of the 4th ventricle to innervate a distinct rostral subdivision of the medial vestibular nucleus, and (3) enter the lateral fascicle, with flocculo-vestibular fibers, to terminate in pars alpha and beta of the lateral vestibular nucleus and the caudal subdivision of the medial vestibular nucleus. Comparison of different injection cases indicate that the caudal half to two-thirds of the dorsal cap contributes projections to the rostral medial vestibular nucleus, centrolateral and dorsomedial aspects of the superior vestibular nucleus, and a projection to both central and dorsal aspects of the caudal medial vestibular nucleus. By contrast, the rostral third to half of the dorsal cap-ventrolateral outgrowth projects sparsely to the rostral medial vestibular nucleus, contributing dense projections to the central aspect of the superior vestibular nucleus and dorsomedial and lateral regions in the caudal medial vestibular nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In order to investigate the ribosomal origin of the postsynaptic densities during chick cerebellar maturation, a new procedure for synaptosomal preparation was implemented. Samples from embryonic chick cerebellar cortex, from 14 to 20 days of development and young adult chicks, were initially mechanically dissociated after treatment with 1.25% trypsin for 10 min; with this procedure we were able to obtain a dendritic suspension from which an enriched synaptosomal fraction was prepared in a discontinuous Ficoll sucrose gradient. RNA and protein values determined from the synaptosomal fractions showed the following variations: from 46.3 ng RNA/mg of wet weight at day 14 to 616.7 ng RNA/mg of wet weight at day 18; in young adult chicks, the average was 242 ng RNA/mg of wet weight. RNA/protein ratio varied from 78.9 micrograms RNA/mg protein at day 16 to 329.8 micrograms RNA/mg protein at day 18; in the young adult chick, this ratio decreased to 68.4 micrograms RNA/mg protein. The highest value of RNA was obtained at day 18 of chick embryo development coinciding with the maximum period of synaptic formation and consequently of the PSDs. These results seem to reinforce the hypothesis of the ribosomal origin of the PSDs.

Using an immunoperoxidase technique, we have localized by light and electron microscopy GABA-immunostained fibers within a component of the efferent innervation of the organ of Corti. At the light microscopic level, GABA-immunostained fibers were observed within the inner spiral bundle (below the inner hair cells) and the tunnel spiral bundle. The immunostaining was clearly more intense in the upper turns than in the basal turns. Mostly in the upper turns, GABA-immunostained fibers were seen crossing the tunnel of Corti to reach the outer hair cells where they formed large immunostained patches at the base of the cells. Unevenly distributed throughout these upper turns, immunostained fibers were seen climbing along the outer hair cells and traveling near the non-sensorineural Hensen's cells. The electron microscopic observations of GABA-immunostained fibers in the upper turns allowed us to identify within the inner spiral bundle vesiculated varicosities synapsing with radial dendrites connected to the inner hair cells. In the outer hair cell area, the GABA-immunostained fibers made several kinds of synaptic contacts. They included a minor population of the large axosomatic synapses with the basal pole of the outer hair cells and many axodendritic synapses with the spiral dendrites connected to these cells. Occasionally, the GABA-immunostained climbing fibers also synapsed with the outer hair cells at a supranuclear level. These result confirm previous light microscopic data dealing with the projection of the GABA-immunostained fibers along the cochlear partition. Moreover, they extend them in characterizing several kinds of GABA-immunostained synapses. These latter findings agree with previous neurochemical electrophysiological data which suggests an efferent neurotransmitter role for GABA. Nevertheless, such an existence of an efferent innervation predominantly projecting to the upper turns of the cochlea adds another criterion distinguishing the &quot;apical&quot; from the &quot;basal&quot; cochlea.
The aim of this study was to investigate the pattern of [14C]2-deoxyglucose uptake in anaesthetized rat brain produced by electrical stimulation of brain areas implicated, by previous electrical stimulation studies, in the neural control of pituitary hormone and especially gonadotrophin secretion. Stimulation of the median eminence led to a significant increase in the relative metabolic activities of the arcuate, ventromedial hypothalamic, supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and the preoptic area. Stimulation of the suprachiasmatic or paraventricular nuclei or the medial preoptic area, anterior hypothalamic area, the dorsal or ventral hippocampus or amygdala led to an increase in the relative metabolic activity of many brain regions known to have direct connections with these areas, but in addition produced increases in the relative metabolic activity of areas which have secondary connections. Hippocampal stimulation confirmed previous neuroanatomical findings of major intrinsic functional connections between different fields of the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampus. Stimulation of the amygdala, unexpectedly, did not change the relative metabolic activity of the arcuate nucleus and medial preoptic area which have neuroanatomical connections with the amygdala. Similarly, stimulation of the medial preoptic area did not change significantly the relative metabolic activity of the mamillary body and dorsomedial thalamic area. The effect of preoptic area stimulation on the relative metabolic activity of several brain regions was changed by ovariectomy and by injection of oestradiol benzoate. Stimulation of the preoptic area and suprachiasmatic nuclei, but not the anterior hypothalamic area or other brain regions, increased significantly the plasma concentrations of luteinizing hormone. These results show that (i) electrical stimulation of brain areas concerned with the control of gonadotrophin and other pituitary hormone secretion changes the metabolic activity of nuclei and neural pathways extrinsic as well as intrinsic to the hypothalamic-pituitary system, (ii) the [14C]2-deoxyglucose method can detect changes in antidromic as well as orthodromic activity and in multi-synaptic pathways, (iii) neuroanatomical pathways are not always activated metabolically by electrical stimulation, and (iv) the preoptic-suprachiasmatic nucleus gonadotrophin control system is discrete and is little affected by increased metabolic activity of the hypothalamus produced by stimulation of the anterior hypothalamic area or other brain areas.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) produces, in both human and non-human primates, a syndrome very similar to idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The syndrome is associated with degeneration of the dopamine-containing neurons in the substantia nigra, many of which project to the neostriatum. The purpose of the present study was to quantify the regional distribution of midbrain dopamine neurons remaining after MPTP administration to the monkey (Macaca fascicularis) and to develop alternative procedures for maintaining the normal nutrition in MPTP-treated animals. Three monkeys were treated with MPTP and three served as controls. Representative sections were examined from rostral to caudal through the midbrain dopamine cell nuclei and the location of every tyrosine hydroxylase-containing cell was entered into a computer. Midbrain dopamine neuronal cell loss ranged from 36-78%, being most extensive in the two monkeys which exhibited the most severe parkinsonian syndrome. The greatest cell loss (46-93%) occurred in the substantia nigra pars compacta, or nucleus A9, and the loss was primarily in the ventral portion of the nucleus. Contrary to most previous reports, however, there was also a loss of cells in the ventral tegmental area (28-57%) and ventral reticular formation (33-87%), corresponding to nuclei A10 and A8, respectively. Since neuroanatomical tracing studies have shown that the dorsal and lateral portions of the striatum (areas showing the greatest dopamine depletion after MPTP) receive input from cells in the ventral A9 and from cells in the A8 and A10 areas, the present data suggest that MPTP preferentially destroys dopamine cells that project to the striatum (i.e. the mesostriatal cells).
The relationship between horizontal cell membrane potential and the release of GABA was explored in the retina of Xenopus laevis. The intracellularly recorded membrane potential of horizontal cells was monitored while the retina was exposed to different concentrations of depolarizing agents. The dose-response curves obtained revealed a rise from 5 to 95% maximum depolarization in 0.5-1.5 log unit concentration change. The molar concentrations that elicited a 20 mV depolarization were 40 mM (potassium), 0.8 mM (glutamate), 0.8 mM (glycine), 5 microM (kainate) and 1.3 microM (quisqualate). Autoradiography revealed that radiolabel was accumulated almost exclusively by horizontal cells when isolated retinas were incubated in medium containing 1 microM [3H]GABA. Thus, retinal release of radioactivity was used as a measure of [3H]GABA release from horizontal cells. Endogenous GABA released from retinas was measured using high performance liquid chromatography and was taken to reflect both amacrine and horizontal cell GABA pools. The release of both [3H]GABA and endogenous GABA was stimulated by glutamate, kainate and potassium, but not by glycine or quisqualate. Similar dose-response curves for GABA release and for depolarization were obtained in the case of potassium and kainate but not for glutamate. Potassium-evoked release either of endogenous GABA or [3H]GABA was both calcium- and sodium-dependent, whereas kainate- or glutamate-evoked GABA release was sodium-dependent but calcium-independent. The results indicate that depolarization per se is not necessarily associated with transmitter release in Xenopus retinal horizontal cells. It is suggested that the action of a given neurotransmitter upon the efflux of GABA from horizontal cells may depend on the degree to which it modifies the sodium conductance of the horizontal cell.
The adrenal gland of the rat was analysed with immunohistochemistry and antisera to neuropeptide tyrosine, to the catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase, phenyl-ethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, and to acetylcholinesterase and with in situ hybridization using a nick-translated 280 base pair deoxyribonucleic acid probe coding for exon 2 of the rat neuropeptide tyrosine gene. Neuropeptide tyrosine-like immunoreactivity was observed in three structures: chromaffin cells, medullary ganglion cells and nerve fibers. The chromaffin cells were of both the noradrenaline- and adrenaline-type. The ganglion cells did not seem to contain any catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes but exhibited a strong immunoreaction for acetylcholinesterase. They were thus in all probability cholinergic neurons. In situ hybridization using the nick-translated deoxyribonucleic acid probe to rat neuropeptide tyrosine messenger ribonucleic acid revealed a very high-grain density over the ganglion cells, a moderate density over the chromaffin cells and a low background over cortex, in agreement with the immuno-histochemical demonstration of neuropeptide tyrosine-like immunoreactivity both in chromaffin and ganglion cells. The intense neuropeptide tyrosine-like immunoreactivity and low content of neuropeptide tyrosine messenger ribonucleic acid suggest that the chromaffin cells have fairly large peptide stores but that the peptide turnover is low. In contrast, the ganglion cell bodies seem to contain low amounts of neuropeptide tyrosine-like immunoreactivity but exhibit a high neuropeptide tyrosine synthesis rate. Preliminary studies with the amine-depleting drug reserpine revealed an increase in messenger ribonucleic acid both in ganglion cells and medullary cells. In the chromaffin cells the highest activity was seen 3 and 4 days after injection, and the levels were down to normal after 8 days. The present findings demonstrate neuropeptide tyrosine synthesis and storage in two cell populations in the adrenal medulla. In situ hybridization with its cellular resolution can provide information on possible differential effects of drugs and experimental procedures on these two neuropeptide tyrosine stores.
Co-localization of neurotensin and cholecystokinin in tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius of the rat was demonstrated by immunocytochemistry with fluorescent double-staining combined with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. Co-localization of neurotensin/tyrosine hydroxylase or cholecystokinin/tyrosine hydroxylase was consistently found in small neurons in the region dorsomedial to the tractus solitarius at the level of the area postrema with high percentages of co-existence: 91.0% tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons contained neurotensin and 91.1% cholecystokinin, suggesting that they represent the same neurons. Accordingly, co-localization of neurotensin and cholecystokinin was assessed on tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons bisected into two adjacent sections, and then identified in a certain number of the catecholamine neurons in this region. Furthermore these catecholamine neurons exhibited immunoreactivity for an adrenaline-synthesizing enzyme, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase. It was concluded that catecholamine, in particular adrenaline, neurons, characterized by co-localization of neurotensin and cholecystokinin, established a distinct subpopulation in the catecholaminergic system in the dorsomedial medulla of the rat.
The cellular and subcellular distribution of 5'-nucleotidase in tissues of the electric ray Torpedo marmorata has been investigated by means of an antiserum raised against the native enzyme purified from the electric organ. As revealed by immunohistochemistry the enzyme is associated with the surface of the axons of the electric nerves and of spinal nerves. Using the post-embedding colloidal gold technique at the electron-microscopical level 5'-nucleotidase could be located at the plasma membrane of the Schwann cells including the myelin and the fine processes covering the terminal axon ramifications. Also the perineurial sheath of the axons inside the electric organ is 5'-nucleotidase positive. The plasma membrane of the axon and the terminal axon region or the postsynaptic membrane do not contain 5'-nucleotidase. Immunoprecipitation studies using polyacrylamide beads suggest that the ecto-Ca2+- or -Mg2+-adenosine 5'-triphosphatase previously ascribed to synaptosomes of the Torpedo electric organ is not associated with the same membranes as 5'-nucleotidase. Within the electric organ the dorsal plasma membrane of the electroplaque cell, blood capillaries and the connective tissue layer surrounding the columns of electroplaque cells also bind the antibodies. In central nervous tissue solely blood vessels show immunofluorescence. Within the electric lobe both the surface of the electromotor neurons as well as the myelinated axons giving rise to the electric nerve are negative. This also applies to the axons of the optic nerve suggesting that the antiserum is Schwann cell specific, and does not bind to a potential oligodendroglial 5'-nucleotidase. In peripheral tissue the surface of skeletal muscle fibres as well as that of individual myofibrils bind the anti-5'-nucleotidase antibodies. Our results demonstrate that the Schwann cell plasma membrane, including myelin, contains 5'-nucleotidase and that one can distinguish by means of a specific antiserum between Schwann cell and oligodendroglia plasma membranes. The functional significance of the association of 5'-nucleotidase with Schwann cells along the entire surface of axons including the synaptic region as well as with other parts of the electric tissue is discussed regarding its catalytic activity and also the possibility that this surface glycoprotein may be involved in mediating cellular interactions.
In bovine retinal microvessels, alpha 1, alpha 2- and beta-adrenergic receptors were characterized by binding assay, using [3H]prazosin, [3H]para-aminoclonidine and [125I]iodocyanopindolol as radioligands, respectively. The microvessels were purified from bovine eyes by differential centrifugation through a high concentration of bovine serum albumin followed by use of a glass bead filtration technique. In the preparation, specific binding sites for [3H]para-aminoclonidine and [125I]iodocyanopindolol were observed, whereas [3H]prazosin binding was not detected. The [3H]para-aminoclonidine binding sites localized to the microvessels were characterized by high affinity and saturability (KD: 173 +/- 9 pM; Bmax: 394 +/- 11 fmol/mg protein) as well as the [125I]iodocyanopindolol binding sites (KD: 20 +/- 3 pM; Bmax: 43 +/- 4 fmol/mg protein). Furthermore, the specificity of both binding sites was pharmacologically evaluated by measuring the inhibitory effects of various adrenergic reagents on binding. The existence of alpha 2- and beta-adrenergic receptors which were characterized by high affinity, saturability and stereospecificity, leads to the hypothesis that the retinal microcirculation is under neuronal control.
Slices of isolated olfactory cortex from guinea-pig have been used to study the action of adenosine at synapses between axons of the lateral olfactory tract and neurons in the olfactory cortex. Adenosine depressed the excitatory postsynaptic potential, and, with paired or multiple stimuli, the reduced excitatory postsynaptic potentials in adenosine showed more synaptic facilitation. Very small excitatory postsynaptic potentials which were estimated not to be affected by postsynaptic membrane conductance changes were highly sensitive to adenosine. Both observations indicate a presynaptic action of adenosine. To test whether a conductance increase to potassium ions mediated adenosine action, the K-channel blockers, 3,4-diaminopyridine (1-100 mumol/l) or 4-aminopyridine (100-500 mumol/l) were applied or Cs partially substituted for K. These substances reduced or prevented adenosine from having its depressant effect on synaptic transmission. These particular K-channel blockers also prolonged the action potential propagating along the lateral olfactory tract. When the increased excitability was counteracted by high Mg or low concentrations of tetrodotoxin, 3,4-diaminopyridine still blocked adenosine action. UO2 ions prolonged the lateral olfactory tract action potential without blockade of K-conductance, but still supported an adenosine depression of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. Veratridine also supported the adenosine depression. These observations suggest that the action of 3,4-diaminopyridine on adenosine was not solely the result of increased tissue excitability. In contrast, tetraethylammonium (20 mmol/l), Ba (0.5-4 mmol/l) or Rb replacement for K had a negligible effect on the duration of the presynaptic action potential and had no effect on the depressant action of adenosine. These data are compatible with the idea that adenosine enhances an aminopyridine-sensitive potassium conductance in nerve terminals and changes in Ca influx are consequential to this.
Intracellular recordings were made in vitro from neurons in the myenteric plexus of freshly dissected preparations of the duodenum of the rat. Nearly one-quarter of neurons (18 out of 77) had long after-hyperpolarizations following their action potentials. Over 60% of neurons (20 out of 32) which were tested exhaustively by focal stimulation at seven points around the recording site were seen to receive fast excitatory synaptic inputs. These were of very short duration (10-30 ms) and were reversibly blocked by the nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium. Only four out of 18 after-hyperpolarization cells (22%) had visible fast synaptic inputs. Seven out of 32 neurons tested received slow excitatory synaptic inputs lasting up to 60 s that were associated with a decrease in conductance and an increase in excitability. No evidence for muscarinic synaptic potentials was seen; only four cells out of 30 with fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials had slow excitatory synaptic potentials visible after a single-shot stimulus; in none of these were the slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials blocked by atropine (up to 1 x 10(-5) M). No inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in any of the 77 neurons recorded in this study. The effects of five neurotransmitter candidates (acetylcholine, GABA noradrenaline, 5-hydroxytryptamine and substance P) applied by pressure microejection were studied. It is concluded that most of the neurophysiological features reported in the extensively studied guinea-pig small bowel myenteric plexus are present in the rat duodenum. However, the apparent lack of muscarinic synaptic potentials and inhibitory synaptic potentials suggests that there may be some differences between the two species. Our recordings also differ slightly from recently reported studies of rat myenteric neurons grown in cell culture.
The occurrence of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and substance P in nerve fibers within the lung is well established, and both VIP- and substance P-containing nerve fibers are known to supply pulmonary vascular and bronchial smooth muscle and submucosal glands. In the present study, we have investigated the co-localization of these two peptides in cat lung. The co-localization procedure follows a standard immunocytochemical protocol except that the primary and labeled secondary antisera each contain a combination of two antisera allowing the simultaneous detection of two antigens in a single tissue section. Using fluorescence microscopy, VIP- and substance P-containing nerve fibers were co-localized in bronchial smooth muscle, in the walls of pulmonary and bronchial arteries, and around submucosal glands. VIP and substance P were also co-localized in nerve cell bodies that comprised the intrinsic airway ganglia. Substance P-containing nerve fibers were observed within the bronchial epithelium, but VIP was not present at this location. The co-localization of VIP and substance P in the same nerve fibers suggests that airway and pulmonary vascular function may be partially regulated by the simultaneous or sequential release of VIP and substance P from the same nerve fibers. The results also suggest that, in addition to extrinsic nerve fibers that contain substance P, the airways of cats are supplied by substance P-containing nerve fibers that originate from intrinsic nerve cell bodies.

The effects of the mu opioid agonist DAGO were examined in the hippocampal slice preparation. The effects of the drug on active and passive properties of neurons in CA1 and CA2 were examined. Intracellular responses of these neurons to afferent stimulation were examined before and after DAGO application. As seen with other mu agonists, DAGO reduced IPSPs and enhanced the duration of EPSPs but not their rise time. In CA2 cells, DAGO also produced a transient hyperpolarization. Further experiments examined the interactions of the opioid peptides with other neurotransmitter systems in the hippocampus. The effects of DAGO were reduced by prior fornix transection. Some effects of DAGO on generation of a secondary afterdischarge are abolished by an NMDA receptor antagonist, 2-APV. The significance of these results to the understanding of functioning of the hippocampal circuit is discussed.

Low back injury is the most frequent cause of occupational time loss and disability. A small percentage of back injuries represent surgical disease, and great care must be taken in applying surgical therapy to this complex problem. Perhaps the most important factor in surgical management of low back injury is accurate clinical and neurodiagnostic assessment. Because of the high cost of poor surgical outcomes, diagnostic tests and surgical procedures should be chosen on the basis of efficacy rather than cost per individual case. This is because the cost of an unsatisfactory result quickly eliminates any savings accumulated by performing a less precise or less effective procedure. The best surgical outcomes appear to result from a process consisting of (1) thorough clinical evaluation, (2) electrophysiological studies in selected cases, (3) CT scanning with multiplanar reformatting and three-dimensional images as needed, and (4) individually designed surgical procedures. When used as described elsewhere, this sequence appears to best define the association between clinical and radiographic abnormalities, provide the best percentage of successful results, and potentially offer the greatest long-term economies.
The wavelength-discrimination curve of the normal human eye shows minima in discrimination thresholds at about 490 and 580 nm for viewing times of 1 s or longer. A reduction in viewing time was found to yield non-uniform increases in discrimination thresholds in the blue-green region of the spectrum, and these findings were quantified in objective, two-interval, forced-choice discrimination measurements. Monochromatic stimuli were presented foveally in a circular, horizontally oriented, bipartite field of 100 Td and angular subtense 2 degrees. When viewing time was decreased to 3 ms there was a sharp increase in discrimination threshold over 490-520 nm, maximizing near 500 nm. In this region, the fields appeared markedly desaturated. The loss in discrimination was distinct from that exhibited by tritanopes, and a control experiment showed that the effect was not attributable to the reduced energy of the short flash.

Experiment 1 elicited the P1, N1, P2, and N2 components of the long latency auditory evoked potential (AEP) using a 1000 Hz tone presented at 30, 50, or 70 dB SPL and 1-, 3-, or 5-second inter-stimulus intervals to assess the relative effects of the combination of these variables on component amplitude and latency. Four blocks of 16 tone presentations each were recorded from each subject to determine if changes in the AEP would occur because of short-term habituation. Both stimulus factors interacted significantly in a systematic fashion for the amplitude measures, with increases in latency also associated with increases in intensity and inter-stimulus interval. Only minor changes across the four trial blocks for either the amplitude or latency measures were observed over the various stimulus presentation conditions. Experiment 2 employed the same tone stimulus presented at 50 dB SPL and a 3-second inter-stimulus interval. Eight blocks of 64 trials were recorded from each subject on each day for four days to investigate long-term habituation effects. No substantial changes in any of the component amplitudes or latencies were obtained across the 32 trial blocks. It was concluded that intensity and inter-stimulus interval interact to determine AEP amplitude as well as latency values and that the constituent components do not change appreciably with repeated stimulus presentations, even after several days.
I-cell disease (ICD), mucolipidosis II, is an autosomal recessive syndrome resulting from defective phosphorylation of acid hydrolases. The diagnosis is made in early childhood and in most cases death occurs by age 5 as a result of cardiorespiratory complications. Pathologic changes are limited to mesenchymal tissues. We treated two children with ICD who developed atlantoaxial dislocation and myelopathy following minor injuries. The first child developed cardiovascular instability with manipulation of the C1 ring at operation, necessitating removal of the arch of C1 and fusion from occiput to C2. The second child was quadriplegic following anatomic reduction of the C1-C2 dislocation at operation during which somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) showed no deleterious change. The atlantoaxial joint is unstable in ICD due to an incompetent transverse ligament infiltrated by storage cells. A cartilaginous, rather than calcified, odontoid process may contribute to the instability. The intraoperative neural injury occurred during attempts to effect anatomical reduction of the chronically dislocated C1-C2 joints and could have resulted from inadvertent trauma to the vertebral arteries and subsequent infarction of the cord. The lack of change in the intraoperative SSEPs was probably due to relative sparing of the posterior columns during the cord injury. We recommend that children with ICD and atlantoaxial instability undergo closed reduction of any existing malalignment followed by posterior C1-C2 fusion as long as the operative risk is not prohibitive. If preoperative closed reduction is not readily feasible and the cord is severely compromised, the C1 arch should be removed and the occiput fused to C2. Forceful attempts at anatomical reduction of the chronically dislocated C1-C2 segments should be avoided.
Five cases of neonatal cerebral venous thrombosis (NCVT) diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are presented in this report. MRI was specific for the anatomic diagnosis, demonstrating involvement of the superior sagittal sinus in 3 infants or deep venous system in the remaining 2. Four cases were associated with perinatal hypoxia or cranial trauma. Three of these children show significant developmental delays. The increased use of MRI may add significant information on the association of cerebral venous thrombosis with the common systemic illnesses of newborns.
One of the leading hypotheses in SIDS research is that SIDS is due to a subtle defect in brainstem neural circuits which control respiration and/or cardiac stability during sleep. We review the rationale for the brainstem hypothesis and possible mechanisms of sleep-related sudden death. We also summarize the neuropathological studies in SIDS in the context of the neuroanatomy and neurochemistry of cardiorespiration and arousal. Quantitative abnormalities in brainstem reactive astrocytes (scar cells), dendritic spines, and neurotransmitter levels, and number of small myelinated vagal fibers have been reported in SIDS. The cause of these abnormalities is not known, nor is their relationship to each other or sudden death clear. Their complete elucidation, however, is perhaps the most compelling reason for continued SIDS brainstem research, since such abnormalities could be the critical clues necessary for solving SIDS.
Central injection of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) potently blocked the development of, as well as rapidly reversed, 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG)-stimulated hyperglycemia in mice. The antihyperglycemic effect was dose-related, dependent upon the structural integrity of the peptide, dissociated from the peptide's hypophysiotropic action and from its interaction with TRH receptors, and mediated by the cholinergic parasympathetic system. Moreover, TRH blocked the rise in plasma glucose following central injection of corticotropin-releasing factor, enkephalin, clonidine and glucagon, as well as the hyperglycemic response to immobilization, electric foot shock or endotoxin administration. These results indicate that TRH, acting within the central nervous system, can block neurally-mediated hyperglycemia in addition to its previously reported actions to elicit systemic hypoglycemia in normoglycemic mice and to antagonize epinephrine-stimulated hyperglycemia in these animals.
The study of the CNS actions of opioids is complicated by the presence of both multiple opioid receptors and endogenous ligands in the brain. The recent descriptions of opioid isoreceptors, of tonic opioid systems, and of multiple opioid receptors on a single neuron are further technical details which must be considered. In the use of various opiates and opioid peptides to study physiological systems, the multiple opioid affinities of these compounds, as well as potential non-opioid actions, must be controlled for in the experimental design. In conjunction with the multiple receptor affinities of various opiates is the problem of receptor dualism with some drugs; particularly with the agonist/antagonist analgesics. Species differences in the relative proportions of different opioid receptor populations also limit any generalizations of a finding in one species. These limitations in the study of opioid receptors will be discussed with reference to previous neurochemical, neuroendocrine, electrophysiological and behavioral reports of multiple opioid receptors.
Bilateral microinjection of oxytocin (OXY) into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of rat brain produced a significant increase in grooming behaviors at doses from 100 pg to 400 ng. Sites in the caudal region of the VTA were sensitive to lower doses of OXY than sites in the rostral region of the VTA. The time course of action of OXY in the grooming paradigm indicated onset beginning immediately after injection, and termination at 60-75 minutes after injection. Comparison of OXY-induced grooming in male, female, and ovariectomized, estrogen-treated female rats showed no differences in potency for OXY among these groups, suggesting that the grooming effects of OXY are not regulated by sex steroids. Analysis of locomotor activity in rats microinjected with OXY 200 ng bilaterally into the caudal VTA revealed that OXY had no effect on ambulatory locomotion, suggesting that this peptide may activate neurons within the VTA which mediate grooming but not locomotion. The OXY receptor antagonist, [Pen1, pMePhe2, Thr4, Orn8]-OT, blocked OXY-induced grooming when both were simultaneously microinjected into the VTA. The dopamine D-2 receptor antagonist, haloperidol, and the D-1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, when microinjected into the VTA five minutes before microinjection of OXY into the VTA, did not block OXY-induced grooming, suggesting that OXY is not working through a dopamine autoreceptor on the VTA neurons. Systemic pretreatment with haloperidol and SCH 23390 effectively blocked grooming induced by OXY in the VTA, suggesting that OXY is directly stimulating OXY receptors on VTA neurons to release dopamine at postsynaptic sites regulating grooming behaviors.
Exposure to physical stressors has been shown to produce increases in pituitary cyclic AMP in laboratory rats. In this experiment, the generality of these findings has been extended to include a psychological stressor, defined as returning the animals to a situation in which they had been exposed to footshock for four days. Rats in the psychological stress group exhibited increases in pituitary cyclic AMP and in plasma corticosterone and prolactin which were similar to those seen in animals that received the physical stressor on the test day. At present it is not known whether the effects are due to associative conditioning or to sensitization of the neuroendocrine system following repeated presentations of the physical stressor.

Antidepressant drugs and electroconvulsive shock (ECS) have, following repeated administration, been shown to produce diverse biochemical changes in rodent brain. Most drugs and ECS decrease the density of beta-adrenoceptors in the forebrain and several drugs and ECS decrease the function of alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Antidepressant treatments also attenuate the temperature response to the 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT but 5-HT2-receptor number and function are both decreased by antidepressant drugs but increased by ECS. GABAB receptor number and function are increased by antidepressant treatments. It remains unclear which of these changes are involved in the therapeutic mechanism of action.
To investigate the role of the basolateral amygdaloid complex in the sham feeding response to sucrose, rats received bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the basolateral complex and were equipped for sham feeding with implanted chronic gastric cannulas. Rats were also tested on different days with 2.5%, 5%, 10%, and 40% sucrose. After 17 hours of food deprivation, bilateral, amygdaloid-lesioned rats sham fed significantly less 2.5% sucrose than sham operated (control) rats. After no deprivation, amygdaloid-lesioned rats sham fed significantly less 5% sucrose than control rats. Under both deprivation conditions, however, sham intake was a function of sucrose concentrations in both groups of rats and the sham feeding responses of lesioned and control rats to 10% and 40% sucrose were similar. These results demonstrate that cells in the basolateral amygdaloid complex are necessary for the normal sham feeding response to concentrations of sucrose less than 10%, but not for the response to higher concentrations of sucrose.
The period of free-running rhythm was measured with two different devices, Automex and running wheel, in blinded female rats. The period was significantly shorter when measured with a running wheel than with an Automex. After transfer between the two devices, all 13 rats examined showed the same direction of change in the free-running period and that transfer from the Automex to running wheel shortened the period, while transfer from the running wheel to Automex elongated it, with the exception of two rats who did not show any significant change in the period even when they were transferred twice. These results indicate that free access to a running wheel shortens the free-running period in female blinded rats.

We examined the interaction of the metabolic fuels, glucose and free fatty acids (FFA), in the control of food intake in Syrian hamsters. Hamsters were treated with a 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) which inhibits glucose utilization, and methyl palmoxirate (MP), which inhibits fatty acid oxidation. The 2DG and MP, alone or in combination did not enhance food intake in hamsters fed a standard rodent chow diet. Determination of the circulating glucose, FFAs, and ketones confirmed that the drugs were having the intended metabolic effects. The 2DG caused marked hyperglycemia and decreased ketones consistent with an inhibition of glycolysis, and the MP caused increased FFAs and decreased ketones indicating inhibition of fatty acid oxidation. A third experiment examined the hamsters' willingness to ingest a diet made highly unpalatable with NaCl, another measure of hunger motivation. Although food-deprived hamsters ingested more of a salt-adulterated diet than did control animals, hamsters treated with MP and 2DG did not. These experiments provide further evidence that the control of food intake in Syrian hamsters is appreciably different than that of laboratory rats.
The hypothesis that DFP alters circadian rhythms by altering the output of an &quot;internal clock&quot; which is also used to time events in behavioral tasks was tested. Since any clock has a mean rate (ticks/unit time) and an associated variance (changes in the rate across time), measures of time perception which depend upon both the mean clock rate and its variance (discriminability, A'), or only the mean clock rate (Bisection Point) were examined. In Experiment 1, two groups of rats were trained to discriminate between a standard duration and six comparison durations of a light. Six weeks following three injections of DFP (1.0 mg/kg/week) or vehicle (saline and 5% alcohol), the discriminability (A') between the standard and comparison durations was reliably reduced for the DFP-treated animals. In Experiment 2, rats were trained to perform on a temporal bisection task. Relative to performance during the weeks following vehicle (peanut oil) treatments, discriminability (A') during the weeks following treatment with DFP (1.0 mg/kg/week) was reliably degraded but measures of the Bisection Point were unaffected. Since Experiments 1 and 2 both used a light duration as a discriminative stimulus, Experiment 3 examined the possibility that DFP treatments produced a change in visual function rather than clock function. Two groups of rats were trained to discriminate between light-on and light-off periods in a standard free-operant successive discrimination paradigm. No changes in discriminability or response rates were evident following two injections of DFP (1.0 mg/kg/week) or vehicle (peanut oil).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to assess the role of the serotonergic system in the development of overt circadian rhythms in the rat, serotonin neurons in the brain were destroyed either by thermocoagulation of the median raphe (MRL) or by an intracerebroventricular injection of the neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (DHT). The reductions in serotonin content induced by two manipulations with MRL and DHT were 41% and 100% in the striatum, 40% and 66% in the hypothalamus, and 62% and 88% in the hippocampus, respectively. Neither manipulation eliminated the expression of circadian rhythms in corticosterone (CS) secretion, locomotor activity and drinking behavior, and changed the phase relationship in the overt CS rhythm. Also, 5,7-DHT treatments did not significantly affect the free-running period in locomotor activity. However, the emergence of CS circadian rhythm was delayed for one week in both MRL and DHT groups compared to the intact control ones. These results suggested that a serotonergic system would not be essential for the generation of the endogenous rhythm and the photoentrainment of overt circadian rhythms, but seems to participate in the only development of CS rhythms during the early stage of life.
New Zealand albino rabbits received classical conditioning training in which a 35-sec tone conditioned stimulus was paired with a bolus injection of methoxamine hydrochloride (Vasoxyl), an alpha 1-adrenergic agonist. Heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) responses were recorded. Methoxamine produced a precipitous rise in BP and bradycardia as an unconditioned response (UR); pairings of tone and methoxamine over a 5-day period resulted in a gradually appearing tachycardia conditioned response (CR) which occurred shortly following tone onset. On the other hand, the BP CR was a pressor response. Accordingly, the HR CR was opposite in direction and, thus, apparently compensatory to the UR, whereas the BP CR was similar in direction to the UR. Neither of these cardiovascular changes were observed in control animals receiving either unpaired presentations of tone and methoxamine or tones paired with physiological saline. Most animals receiving either paired or unpaired infusions of methoxamine also showed consistent elevations in baseline HR as training progressed, relative to their respective day 1 levels, thus suggesting the development of compensatory HR CRs to the contextual cues associated with training.
A technique for measuring tongue protrusion during licking by rats is described. Liquid is automatically dispensed onto a shelf in front of the rats' cage. An array of 16 optic fibers spaced at 1 mm intervals act as photo detectors to measure tongue protrusion. The fibers activate relays connected to a microcomputer that counts individual beam breaks. The system permits the measurement of large numbers of consecutive tongue protrusions during training and testing of control and brain-damaged rats. It is shown that ventral frontal cortical lesions disrupt tongue protrusion more severely than posterior neocortex removal or dorsal frontal ablations. Complete frontal cortex lesions permit no sparing or recovery of tongue protrusion.



Behavioral responses to ELF electric and magnetic fields are reviewed starting with the simple sensory awareness or detection by an animal and moving on through more-complicated behavioral responses such as behavior that averts exposure. The literature selected in this review is taken primarily from the area of behavioral toxicology. As such, it does not review work on specialized response systems to ELF fields. The most notable of these omitted specialized response systems are electroreception, (see Kalmijn, this volume), which occurs in a number of fish species, and homing/navigation and communication of the location of food that occurs in several species of birds and in honeybees, respectively. The toxicologic orientation of most researches that evaluate the effects of exposure to ELF electric and magnetic fields has been influenced primarily by the &quot;missions&quot; of DOE and the power industry programs to determine the health effects of power frequency (50- and 60-Hz) electric and magnetic fields. Because of these large programmatic efforts, most of the recent research has in fact been done at 50 or 60 Hz. In the context of the above limitations, remarkably few robust behavioral effects have been reported. Those that have been reported probably relate to an animal's perception of the electric field, although there are some exceptions to this generalization. The apparent lack of deleterious effects in animals is consistent with recent studies on humans that have been conducted in the UK. With this in mind, it is tempting to conclude that exposure to an ELF field is a rather innocuous event and, other than possible mini-shocks, is without hazard. However, if this is the case, then what sense are we to make of reports of altered neural function (other than behavior) that result from exposure to ELF fields (e.g., suppressed melatonin and SNAT activity in the rat pineal; efflux of calcium ions from brain cortices; histological change in the cerebellum and hippocampus following perinatal exposure, etc.)? Are these neural effects no more than &quot;noise&quot; to the behaving organism? Possible reasons form the disparity between cell biology, neurochemistry, and behavior have been presented in this chapter, and based on the hypothesized reasons for the existing disparity, a number of experiments were suggested.
Peroxisomes (microbodies) are ubiquitous subcellular organelles whose functions in cellular metabolism are not clear. In recent years peroxisomes have been shown to play roles in the oxidation of long chain fatty acids and ether lipid biosynthesis. The key enzymes of the acyl DHAP pathway i.e. DHAP acyltransferase and alkyl DHAP synthase have been shown to be localized in peroxisomes indicating that these organelles are obligatory for the biosynthesis of cellular glycerol ether lipids. This is proved by the discovery that in the tissues of patients suffering from Zellweger cerebrohepatorenal syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder where peroxisomes are known to be absent, the acyl DHAP pathway enzymes and the ether lipids were also found to be deficient. Based on such biochemical abnormalities a number of similar genetic disorders such as neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, different forms of chondrodysplasia punctata, infantile Refsum disease etc. have been characterized as peroxisomal deficiency disorders. These and other findings show that peroxisomes have a regulatory role in membrane lipid biogenesis. It seems that the main role of peroxisomes is to compartmentalize biochemical reactions which cannot proceed in other cellular organelles either due to formation of toxic product (H2O2) or due to non-availability of crucial metabolite (DHAP). The products of the reactions catalyzed by the peroxisomal enzymes e.g. acetyl CoA or alkyl DHAP are then transported out from peroxisomes to other cellular compartments where they are utilized to produce fatty acids, cholesterol, glycerol ether lipids etc. for membrane biogenesis.

The pathophysiological consequences of endorphin release in anaphylactic shock were investigated through pharmacological studies using opiate antagonists (naloxone, naltrexone, natrexone methyl bromide) as well as agonists (morphine, beta-endorphin). These studies suggest that induction of anaphylaxis provokes the release of endogenous opioids, possibly from the hypothalamus, which contribute to the shock process by stimulating opiate receptors in the CNS. The mechanism of pathophysiologic action of endorphin in anaphylaxis involves, at least in part, inhibition of the central component of the sympatho-adrenalmedullary system. This results in reduced effectiveness of the sympathetic system to physiologically reverse the circulatory effects of the toxic mediators of anaphylaxis. Naloxone, by blocking endorphin action at CNS opiate receptors located at autonomic regulatory centers (e.g. hypothalamus), reverses the sympatho-inhibitory effect of the endorphin peptides. This results in increased central sympathetic outflow to peripheral sympathetic neuroeffector mechanisms; it affords improved sympathetic compensatory responses and increases survival. TRH and DT gamma E physiologically oppose the action of endorphins upon the autonomic system. They stimulate central sympathetic mechanisms through their own receptor systems and increase outflow to peripheral sympathetic effectors. This also results in improved circulatory function and survival.

Glutamate is a potent candidate of the excitatory transmitter at the invertebrate NMJ and the synapse of the vertebrate CNS. But pharmacological studies have not been enough to prove that glutamate functions as an excitatory neurotransmitter. During the past 10 years, we have been studying the effects of various compounds which demonstrate the glutamate blocking action, but the glutamate responses are more effectively blocked by the drugs than the nerve-evoked synaptic response. A marked difference was revealed by TI-233, the minimum concentration of TI-233 on EJP being about a hundred times greater than the minimum threshold concentration on the glutamate-induced responses. The subsequent studies demonstrated that the action of TI-233 was able to be explained by the open channel block of the glutamate-activated ion-channel. The difference does not confute the hypothesis that glutamate is the natural transmitter substance at the crayfish NMJ, notwithstanding the fact that the action of the transmitter candidate on the postsynaptic membrane must be identical in every respect with that of the transmitter. Once something potentially useful has been found it is necessary to know not only what a substance does but how well it does it, so that comparisons can be made and better drugs discovered. Our first task therefore was to find a powerful glutamate blocker. Recently, as a result of synthesizing a series of compounds on the base of the structure-activity relationship in drug design, a series of compounds was found to reduce markedly glutamate responses at the crayfish NMJ and the mammalian central neurones at extremely low concentrations. In addition, a novel potent excitatory amino acid, acromelic acid, was found. This compound markedly excites the crayfish opener muscle and the mammalian central neurones. Agonists and antagonists have provided a very useful tool for neuroscience research, and findings of these new pharmacological tools will lead to progress in pharmacological studies to elucidate the function of glutamate in the body, in addition to other established compounds. The recent advances in our limited understanding of pharmacology of the glutamate receptor are discussed here.
1. Anti-depressant drugs alter the period of circadian rhythms under free running conditions. We have examined whether treatment with anti-depressants alters such rhythms under conditions of entrainment to a lighting cycle or following a phase advance of the lighting. 2. In the first experiment, following entrainment to a 10L:14D lighting schedule, male Long Evans rats were injected daily for three weeks, with either saline, desipramine or clomipramine at a dose of 10 mg/kg. Under these conditions, the resting circadian patterns of serum corticosterone and melatonin were not affected. 3. In a second experiment, male Wistar rats, adapted to a 12L:12D lighting cycle, were implanted with transmitters, permitting continuous recording of temperature. Animals were given chow supplemented with clomipramine or desipramine so that plasma clomipramine levels were within the normal therapeutic range for humans and desipramine levels were at 4-6 times the therapeutic range. After three weeks of drug treatment, the mean 24 h pattern of temperature was decreased and phase advanced by 72 min in the desipramine group compared to clomipramine or controls. Following a 6 h phase advance in the lighting cycle, the three groups responded differently. The clomipramine group evidenced the most rapid advance in the acrophase, equivalent to 6.9 h, while the saline and desipramine treated groups re-entrained significantly more slowly. 4. Clomipramine, given to achieve clinically meaningful blood levels, does not alter the circadian temperature rhythm under constant conditions of alternating light and dark, but significantly accelerates the rate of re-entrainment to a 6 h phase advance of the lighting schedule.

Recent interest in light therapy for depression has stimulated consideration of the nature of the biological defect in affective disorder. One line of thinking suggests that manic-depressive patients are supersensitive to light and that lithium may act by altering light sensitivity and hence entrainment of biological rhythms. This paper focuses on possible mechanisms whereby lithium may influence retinal physiology and the ability to perceive light. Preliminary data were generated using the Dark Adaptation Threshold procedure with a repeated measure protocol. When depressed and unmedicated the patient was found to have significantly lowered thresholds for light detection compared to control values. This supersensitivity was alleviated following lithium treatment. Data are interpreted as suggesting that some of the therapeutic effects of lithium are localized in the retina. It is proposed that: (1) lithium primarily alters the ability of the retina to detect light and not visual acuity; (2) lithium influences sensitivity to light by modulating the functional environment of the rod photoreceptors in the retina and (3) future research should focus on the effect of lithium on the function of rod photoreceptors and the pigmented epithelial cells in patients with affective disorder.
1. Behavioral studies of rats with ibotenic acid-induced lesions of distinctive regions of the rostral striatum demonstrated clearcut motoric impairments after lesions of the lateral striatum, but not after lesions of the medial striatum. 2. Differential effects of dorsolateral and ventrolateral lesions on segmental bodily movements indicated a somatomotor map in the lateral region. 3. Neurotoxic lesions of the lateral striatum produced deficits of motor energizing analogous to those of human parkinsonism. 4. These results support the hypothesis that neurodegenerative processes affecting the lateral striatum (putamen) in humans may specifically account for parkinsonian symptoms. 5. The implications of this hypothesis for the treatment of parkinsonism using the grafting technique are discussed.
1. As part of a systematic investigation of the effects of lithium administration on neuroendocrine function we investigated the luteinizing hormone (LH) response to luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) of healthy males. 2. In healthy volunteers after 3 weeks of therapeutic doses of lithium the LH response to LHRH was significantly increased in comparison with the responses prior to lithium administration. 3. An attempt is made to explain these findings by underlying neurotransmitter changes.
1. This study examined the saturation binding of tritiated gamma-aminobutyric acid [( 3H]GABA) and [3H]diazepam in brain membranes from young (3 month-old) and aged (21-23 month-old) Long Evans male rats killed at two time points in the 24-hour cycle. 2. The daytime density of low-affinity GABA binding sites was significantly (p less than 0.05) lower in cortical membranes from aged animals. There were no differences between young and old rats in low-affinity GABA binding at night, or in high-affinity GABA binding at either time point. 3. Diazepam binding was significantly lower in the brains of aged animals killed during the daytime. There was no differences at night, when diazepam binding in young animals declined to match that of aged animals. 4. There were no differences in the affinities of either GABA or diazepam binding sites. 5. These findings indicate that sampling time significantly influences age-associated changes in the densities of low-affinity GABA and diazepam binding sites. Therefore, the effects of age on brain receptor binding parameters should be measured at several points in the 24-hour light/dark cycle in order to control for possible age-related changes in binding rhythmicity.
Various putative agonists of the 5-HT1A receptor subtype induce feeding in rats, probably by activating raph somatodendritic 5-HT autoreceptors. These drugs also produce a marked increase in plasma concentrations of corticotropin (ACTH). In the present experiment we attempted to localize the site of action of 5-HT1A agonists on the secretion of ACTH and examined the relationship between 5-HT1A agonist-induced feeding and ACTH secretion. Rats were injected with either the high affinity 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (0.016-1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) or the novel anxiolytics buspirone, gepirone or ipsapirone (2.0-16.0 mg/kg, s.c.), and either had their food intake measured 2 hr post injection or were sacrificed 30-40 min post injection for measurement of plasma ACTH. Plasma ACTH also was measured in rats pretreated with the serotonin synthesis inhibitor, para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) for three days (150 mg/kg, i.p. per day) and subsequently injected with 8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.). As previously reported, the 5-HT1A agonists increased both food agonists increased both food intake and plasma ACTH concentrations. After 8-OH-DPAT, ipsapirone and gepirone the amount of food consumed was positively correlated with the concentration of plasma ACTH. No such correlation was evident following buspirone. PCPA pretreatment resulted in near total depletion of brain 5-HT content but had no effect on the ACTH rise induced by 8-OH-DPAT. Therefore, in contrast to the presynaptic site previously proposed for 5-HT1A agonist-induced feeding, the present results suggest a agonist-induced feeding, the present results suggest a postsynaptic location for the 5-HT1A receptor mediating ACTH release.
The obsessions and compulsions noted in 16 cases of obsessive-compulsive disorder in children were compared to the phenomenology seen in 398 cases during a decade. Less obsessions, more compulsions, more frequent washing and repeating compulsions characterised the childhood group.
Coprophagia is an uncommonly reported psychiatric symptom. A young schizophrenic patient exhibiting coprophagia and smearing is described here. The case is discussed in comparison with the very few cases reported earlier, most of which had evidence of brain damage.
761 obsessions were recorded from 410 cases of obsessive-compulsive neurosis seen over a 10-year period. The obsessions were analysed according to form and content: 6 categories of form and 11 categories of content were delineated. Fear of contamination was the single most common theme, followed by thoughts of daily activities, thoughts about the past and fears of harm. The findings are discussed in the light of earlier literature.

Psychopharmacology research in the dementia field is particularly difficult because there are no effective treatments on which to base models. Much effort is devoted to attempts to replace defective brain chemical transmitters or neuropeptides, with particular emphasis on the cholinergic system. There is also interest in noradrenaline, serotonin and somatostatin deficits. New directions include the study of glutamate-related excitotoxins such as quinolinic acid as possible causative agents for cerebral degeneration in dementia. Glutamate receptor antagonists, e.g. MK-801, may have the potential to limit or slow down neurodegenerative processes. Neurotrophic factors, e.g. nerve growth factor, may also possess the ability to protect neurons from irreversible loss.
The influence of environmental variables on the development of tolerance to physostigmine's effects in rats was examined using multiple fixed-ratio, extinction schedules of food presentation. Initial administration of physostigmine (0.4 mg/kg) produced nearly maximal decreases in the number of food pellets delivered, running response rate, and overall response rate, under multiple FR 10, EXT and multiple FR 50, EXT schedules. With repeated administration, tolerance to physostigmine's effects was observed when 10 responses were required to produce reinforcement but was not observed when 50 responses were required to produce reinforcement. Tolerance under the multiple FR 10, EXT schedule of reinforcement was also observed when physostigmine was administered post-session. When tolerance was acquired, it was retained for up to 25 drug-free days. These results suggest that tolerance to physostigmine's effects on schedule-controlled behavior is strongly influenced by response requirement, independently of physostigmine-induced reinforcement loss. Additionally, tolerance is not dependent on experience with the schedule while under the effects of physostigmine, and is retained for a substantial period of time in the absence of continued physostigmine administration.
Sixteen male Fischer-344N rats were trained on a eight-arm radial maze task for food reinforcement. The effects of various doses of baclofen (1.25 or 2.50 mg/kg) and scopolamine (0.188, 0.375, and 0.750 mg/kg) were determined alone and in combination. Relative to vehicle controls, baclofen alone did not affect performance in the radial arm maze (number correct in the first eight responses, total errors) or the time required to complete the maze. Scopolamine alone decreased the number of correct responses in the first eight arm choices, while increasing both the number of errors and the time necessary to complete the maze. When the two drugs were co-administered, baclofen had no effect on the number of errors or time required to complete the maze in the presence of scopolamine; however, in combination with the high dose of scopolamine, it significantly increased the number of errors made during the first eight choices. Baclofen thus can exacerbate some radial arm maze dificits produced by an anticholinergic drug. In a subsequent experiment to test the interaction between scopolamine and baclofen using a nonlearned behavior, baclofen (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg) did not affect motor activity, whereas all doses of scopolamine (0.188-0.75 mg/kg) increased activity. The higher dose of baclofen attenuated scopolamine-induced hypermotility by 50%, but the lower dose of baclofen was not effective. These data demonstrate pharmacological interactions between baclofen, a drug used clinically for spaticity, and a drug having anticholinergic properties.

The effects of three doses of lorazepam (0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mg PO) on various aspects of memory, attention and sedation are described. Lorazepam produced dose-related deficits in verbal secondary memory, choice reaction time and a novel vigilance task. It also produced a dose-dependent increase in subjective sedation, and an enhancement of visual contrast sensitivity. These results are compared with those reported earlier using the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine, and discussed in relation to models of Alzheimer's disease.
There have been recent claims that the 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) elicits chewing and eating of solid but not liquid foods. Therefore, the effects of 8-OH-DPAT and another 5-HT1A agonist gepirone on the consumption of a liquid chow diet, by free feeding male rats, were examined. Both drugs produced a dose-dependent increase in the consumption of liquid diet during a 2 h test. The doses of 8-OH-DPAT and gepirone which increased liquid diet intake in this study were in the same range as those which were found previously to increase food pellet consumption by free feeding rats. The effects of 8-OH-DPAT were also examined in a feeding choice test in which free feeding animals were allowed to choose between food pellets and a liquid chow diet. In this test, 8-OH-DPAT significantly increased total food intake (liquid plus pellet) but had no significant effect on the consumption of either liquid or pellet diets when analysed separately. Thus, there were large individual differences in diet choice after 8-OH-DPAT injection. However, rats did not consistently choose to eat food pellets rather than the liquid diet, as would be predicted if the drug elicited chewing rather than eating. These results provide strong evidence that 8-OH-DPAT elicits a behaviourally specific hyperphagia and not chewing or gnawing.
The 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT, at a dose of 30 micrograms/kg, enhanced the consumption of sweetened wet mash and sweetened milk in non-deprived rats. In partially satiated rats, sensitivity to the hyperphagic effect of 8-OH-DPAT on wet mash intake was substantially increased, so that the minimally effective dose was reduced to 3 micrograms/kg. Similarly, 8-OH-DPAT was more efficacious in increasing milk intake in satiated rats. Thus, 30 and 40 micrograms/kg 8-OH-DPAT produced a 4-fold increase of milk intake in completely satiated rats compared to a 2-fold increase in partially satiated animals at a dose of 30 micrograms/kg. The increased intake of liquid and wet mash diets observed after treatment with low doses of 8-OH-DPAT argues against the involvement of non-specific gnawing in the increased consumption of solid food produced by the drug. Rather, the data suggest that 8-OH-DPAT may specifically stimulate appetite by counteracting a tonic serotonergic inhibition of feeding. The present experiments also showed that 8-OH-DPAT attenuates fenfluramine-induced anorexia which is thought to depend on increased serotonergic neurotransmission.
The effects of selective D-2 and D-1 dopamine (DA) receptor agonists on food consumption were investigated in free-feeding rats. A selective D-2 receptor agonist, (+)-4-propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine (PHNO), increased the consumption of standard food pellets in the dose range of 7.5-120 micrograms/kg, while SKF 38393 (5.0 mg/kg), a selective D-1 receptor agonist, decreased food pellet intake. The increase in food pellet intake produced by PHNO was blocked by haloperidol (an antagonist relatively selective for the D-2 receptor at the dose used, 0.05 mg/kg) and SCH 23390 (20 micrograms/kg, a D-1 receptor selective antagonist). Increasing &quot;arousal&quot; by disturbance associated with repeated food weighing also increased food pellet consumption, but did not diminish PHNO-elicited feeding. However, the same range of doses of PHNO (7.5-120 micrograms/kg) which increased food pellet intake decreased consumption of a liquid diet, and had no overall effect on a highly palatable liquid diet. The increase in consumption of solid food induced by PHNO appears to be secondary to enhancement of chewing behaviors. In contrast, the decrease in food intake induced by SKF 39393 may be due to a direct action of the drug on neural feeding mechanisms.
The locomotor stimulant effects of sustained administration of a potent and selective dopamine (DA) D-2 receptor agonist, [+]-4-propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine (PHNO), in rats were assessed 24 h a day during 12 h light-dark cycles. PHNO was administered continuously with subcutaneous implants of Alzet osmotic minipumps (5 micrograms/h), for 12 h a day with modified osmotic minipumps (5 micrograms/h), or by daily injections (15 micrograms, SC). Tolerance was observed to occur only with 24 h continuous infusions and only during the light period. The other treatment regimens produced sensitization of the locomotor response. Daytime tolerance to continuous infusions of PHNO was reversed following reversal of the light-dark cycle. A normally 'arousing' stimulus also reversed (temporarily) daytime tolerance. The present results indicate that the temporal pattern of administration of DA agonists, the phase of the circadian cycle and environmental stimuli associated with arousal are important determinants of the behavioral consequences of long-term treatment.
Lymphocyte beta adrenergic receptor binding using [125I]CNP was determined in patients with panic disorder (N = 4) or agoraphobia with panic attacks (N = 17) and age- and sex-matched healthy subjects (N = 22). The patients showed a significantly lower number of beta-adrenergic receptor binding sites and a significantly higher affinity of binding than healthy subjects. A past or present history of major depression in the patients did not alter these findings. These results are consistent with a growing body of knowledge implicating noradrenergic dysfunction in the pathophysiology of panic anxiety.
The selective NK-3 tachykinin receptor agonist senktide elicited yawning, chewing mouth movements and sexual arousal following subcutaneous administration (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) in the rat. These responses were not significantly affected by the dopamine antagonist haloperidol (0.03 mg/kg) or by 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal projection. In contrast, the behaviours were markedly attenuated by the peripheral and central muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (1 mg/kg), but not by the peripheral muscarinic antagonist N-methylscopolamine (1 mg/kg). These findings suggest that stimulation of NK-3 receptors produces yawning, chewing and sexual arousal by directly activating central cholinergic neurons.

Techniques of problem-based learning requiring no increase in faculty effort, were applied to a large-group medical neurobiology course. Students were found to learn as effectively, and to enjoy themselves more, when the new format was implemented.


It is argued that rapid evolution of the hominid brain was accomplished by the molecular mechanisms of &quot;regulatory evolution&quot; and &quot;gene duplication&quot;. These genomic processes may have made newly elaborated brain regions--including the association neocortices and parts of the hippocampal formation, nucleus basalis of Meynert and amygdaloid body--vulnerable to Alzheimer's disease, by increasing the value of a disease-specific genomic character function. Trisomy 21, it is proposed, further increases this value.
Recent discoveries in the field of virus receptors have revolutionized our concepts of viral pathogenesis. The lysis of cells resulting from virus infection or immune recognition of infected cells is seen as merely one facet of a spectrum of pathogenic mechanisms which may be subtle and complex. This is particularly relevant to the central nervous and immune systems which share cell-surface receptors for various neuropeptides and neurotransmitters. A number of viruses are now known to share receptors for such endogenous ligands; indeed, some viruses (e.g., human immunodeficiency virus and vaccinia) may themselves be structural analogs of these ligands. There is, therefore, considerable scope for interference by viruses in the normal functioning of the brain and neuroendocrine systems. Brief reactive psychoses are occasionally reported as acute sequels to viral infections, but generally these are regarded as unrelated to schizophrenia. An opposite viewpoint is presented in the article: i.e., that the only reason these reactive psychoses do not progress to schizophrenia is that the majority of individuals affected are not predisposed genetically to schizophrenia. Conceivably, therefore, the genetic predisposition to schizophrenia may be attributable to genes which determine idiosyncratic differences in immune responsiveness to common viral pathogens.
Neuroradiology, originally developed through invasive techniques arising out of cooperation between radiology and neurosurgery, has today become a specialty which, thanks to its new non-invasive methods, can provide much information about diseases of the nervous system. The diagnosis of affections of the brain parenchyma in vivo by computed tomography or magnetic resonance demands intensive cooperation between all the specialties in the field of neurosciences, especially neurobiochemistry. Beyond its diagnostic applications, interventional neuroradiology has opened up promising therapeutic perspectives.
The rat cerebellum was previously shown to contain two polypeptides, a hexadecapeptide termed cerebellin and an apparent metabolite des-Ser1-cerebellin. The cerebellins have a high degree of sequence homology with residues 625-641 of the polyimmunoglobulin (polyIg)-receptor adjacent to its membrane-spanning domain. Since the cerebellins are localized in Purkinje cells and enriched in synaptosomes, this might indicate that cerebellin is a specific proteolytic cleavage fragment of a synaptic protein involved in the transcytosis of an unknown ligand. Using a specific cerebellin radioimmunoassay described here combined with high-performance liquid chromatography, cerebellin immunoreactivity could be demonstrated in the cerebella of all vertebrates examined from man to chicken. Cerebellin immunoreactivity is localized to Purkinje cells in the rat, mouse, and chicken. Furthermore, cerebellin expression is under developmental regulation in both the chicken and mouse. In addition, neurodevelopmental mutations of mice that eliminate granule cells cause a large deficit in cerebellin levels, suggesting some form of transneuronal regulation.
This study has assessed the contributions of the corticostriatal fibers, the ascending striatopetal fibers, and the intrinsic neostriatal neurons to the nerve terminal population found in the rat neostriatum (caudatoputamen). For this purpose, we have analysed the levels of two different synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, synapsin I and protein p38 (also called synaptophysin), in the neostriatum after specific lesions. Our results indicate that 45-50% of the synaptic vesicle proteins in the rat neostriatum derive from the corticostriatal fibers, that approximately 25-30% of the synaptic vesicle proteins are present in kainic acid-sensitive structures, presumably intrinsic terminals and local collaterals, and that ascending fibers contain 20-25% of the vesicle-associated proteins in the neostriatum. These three neuronal populations therefore comprise 95-100% of the synaptic vesicle-associated proteins in the rat neostriatum, and thus make up most of the nerve terminals in this brain region. The results, which are in general agreement with previous morphometric studies on the rat basal ganglia, therefore indicate that nerve terminals in the central nervous system can be quantitated by use of these biochemical nerve terminal markers. The results also indicate that a somewhat higher percentage of neostriatal nerve terminals belongs to the corticostriatal fibers that previously believed.
An autoradiographic analysis of high-affinity binding sites for the vesicular acetylcholine transport blocker [3H]vesamicol (2-(4-phenylpiperidino) cyclohexanol; AH 5183) was conducted in rat brain. [3H]Vesamicol binding was displaced 52-99% by DPPN [( 2,3,4,8]-decahydro-3-(4-phenyl-1-piperidinyl)-2-napthalenol) (IC50 = 14 nM) and by ketanserin (500 nM), haloperidol (43 nM), and vesamicol analogs, but not by drugs selective for adenosine, adrenergic, amino acid, calcium channel, monoaminergic, opioid, PCP, sigma, or several other receptor classes. [3H]Vesamicol binding was most concentrated in the interpeduncular nucleus and fifth and seventh cranial nerve nuclei. Moderate binding was found in the lateral caudate-putamen, medial nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, vertical and horizontal diagonal bands of Broca, and basolateral amygdala. The distribution of [3H]vesamicol binding was similar to distributions of acetylcholine (r = 0.88), acetylcholine esterase (r = 0.97), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) (r = 0.97), and [3H]hemicholinium-3 binding sites (r = 0.95-0.99). Lower correlations were obtained between [3H]vesamicol and muscarinic receptor densities (r = 0.50-0.70). Few exceptions to the match between binding and cholinergic neuronal markers were found, e.g., the molecular layer of the cerebellum and the thalamus. Lesions of cholinergic neuronal projections to the neocortex or hippocampus reduced [3H]vesamicol binding in each of these regions, but to a lesser extent than reductions in ChAT. [3H]Vesamicol binding sites appear to be anatomically associated with brain cholinergic neurons, a locus that is consistent with the control by this site of vesicular acetylcholine uptake.
Protein kinase C and norepinephrine-stimulated adenylate cyclase have been linked to formation of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus. However, little is known about second messenger system interactions regulating synaptic transmission. In electrophysiological studies of the dentate gyrus, we observe synergistic interactions between norepinephrine and phorbol esters, activators of protein kinase C. Norepinephrine markedly potentiates the block of adenosine's inhibitory action by phorbol esters. Norepinephrine's action is mimicked by the beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol and blocked by the beta-adrenoceptor antagonists timolol and propranolol. Forskolin also mimicks norepinephrine's action. Accordingly, norepinephrine's potentiation of protein kinase C appears to be mediated by the cyclic AMP second messenger system. This mechanism may contribute to norepinephrine's facilitation of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus.
PCPP-260 (Purkinje cell phosphoprotein of Mr 260,000), a substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase, appears to be an integral membrane protein highly enriched in Purkinje cells of the mammalian cerebellum (Walaas et al.: J. Neurosci., 3:291-301, 1983; Walaas et al.: J. Neurosci., 6:954-961, 1986). PCPP-260 has now been purified from a crude particulate fraction of bovine cerebellum, using the ionic detergent N-lauryl sarcosine (NLS) as solubilizing agent, and monitoring the purification by silver stain and autoradiography of 32P-phosphorylated samples, after separation by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Concanavalin A was found to bind to PCPP-260, suggesting that it is a glycoprotein. PCPP-260 was therefore extracted, retained on a column of concanavalin A-agarose, and eluted by alpha-methyl mannoside. Further chromatography on Sephacryl S-400 yielded a preparation that was purified approximately 250-fold relative to the initial particulate fraction and that was at least 95% pure. The protein was estimated to represent approximately 0.4% of total membrane protein in the cerebellum. Peptide mapping and phosphoamino acid analysis following phosphorylation of the protein by cAMP-dependent protein kinase showed one major tryptic phosphopeptide containing phosphoserine. A similar, less prominent protein was also found in membranes from other brain regions but could not be detected in liver membranes. The availability of highly purified PCPP-260 should facilitate the investigation of its possible functional roles in the nervous system.
Using two-color immunoperoxidase staining combined with the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase injected into the rostral thoracic spinal cord, substance P-immunoreactive (SPI) and serotonin-immunoreactive (5HTI) varicosities have been observed in contiguity with medullary bulbospinal phenylethanolamine N-methyl transferase-immunoreactive (PNMTI) neurons of the C1, C2, and C3 cell groups. Since PNMTI terminals in the spinal cord are concentrated among sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPGN) in the intermediolateral cell column, the close anatomical associations shown in the present study indicate that substance P- and serotonin-containing pathways in the medulla likely affect activity of SPGN via adrenergic bulbospinal neurons.
The raphe nuclei also contained SP-like immunoreactivity (up to 30%) while few monoamine-synthesizing neurons in the lateral and dorsomedial medulla contained SP-like immunoreactivity (approximately 5% of presumed serotonin-, noradrenaline-, and adren- the adult human. The majority of SP-like immunoreactive neurons were found in four main regions: the lateral medulla, the dorsomedial medulla, the spinal trigeminal nucleus, and the raphe nuclei. The morphology of immunoreactive cells varied according to the region in which they were found. In contrast to previous studies, we found large numbers (90,000) of SP-like immunoreactive neurons throughout the adult human medulla oblongata. The distribution of these SP-like immunoreactive neurons appears to be significantly different from those described in the rat and cat. These results were compared to the distributions of monoamine-synthesizing and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-like immunoreactive neurons in the human medulla previously reported (Halliday et al.: Neuroscience, in press, 1988a; J. Comp. Neurol., in press, 1988b). Colocalization studies revealed that many presumed serotonin-synthesizing neurons in the raphe nuclei also contained SP-like immunoreactivity (up to 30%) while few monoamine-synthesizing neurons in the lateral and dorsomedial medulla contained SP-like immunoreactivity (approximately 5% of presumed serotonin-, noradrenaline-, and adrenaline-synthesizing neurons). The distributions of SP- and NPY-like immunoreactive neurons were similar, although SP-like immunoreactive neurons were concentrated in the lateral regions of the same structures. We have found that the distributions of monoamine-synthesizing, NPY-, and SP-like immunoreactive neurons significantly overlap, particularly in the lateral medulla of the adult human. There is a large increase in the number of these cells in this region compared to other species, emphasizing the neuroanatomical differences between humans and other species.
Branching patterns of dendrites may be modulated by the way in which dendritic growth cone filopodia come into initial synaptic relationships with afferent axons. This synaptotropic hypothesis of dendritic branching predicts that dendritic growth will be directed preferentially into regions containing numerous prospective presynaptic elements. The developing mouse spinal cord provides a natural experiment to test this prediction, because synapses are found exclusively within the marginal zones bordering the motor columns during the early (E11-14) period of synaptogenesis. During this time, therefore, most motor dendritic growth would be expected to be directed laterally or ventrally into the marginal zones, whereas internally directed growth should become more prevalent later, when synaptogenesis begins to take place within the intermediate zone, i.e., the motor columns proper. A computer-assisted three dimensional reconstruction system has been used to test these expectations in Golgi preparations of developing mouse (C57BL/6J) spinal cords ranging in age from E13 through P1. Mean dendritic lengths and branch densities are significantly greater for marginal zone dendrites than for intermediate zone dendrites at early ages (E13-14), but there are no significant differences in these measures at later stages of development (P0,1). These findings are interpreted as meaning that motor dendritic growth is initially biased into the marginal zone by synaptogenic afferents and that this preferential distribution is progressively lost as synapses develop within the intermediate zone to attract or to stabilize internally directed dendritic growth. Thus the findings of this study are consistent with predictions of the synaptotropic hypothesis of dendritic branching.






Monoclonal antibodies directed against nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) were used to identify and characterize cholinoceptive neurons in the chick retina. Two monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), mAb 210 and mAb 270, stained many neurons in both the inner nuclear layer (INL) and ganglion cell layer (GCL). A class of large labeled cells in the inner INL were positioned at the INL/IPL (inner plexiform layer) border and resembled displaced ganglion cells (DGCs). Their identity was confirmed with injections of rhodamine-labeled microspheres into the ventral tectum and nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR). Four days after the injection, large nAChR-positive neurons in the inner INL were labeled with beads. The distribution of these cells matched that reported for DGCs in the chicken and pigeon (Reiner et al., 1979; Fite et al., 1981). Many smaller cells in the INL also exhibited nAChR immunoreactivity. These cells were not retrogradely labeled after bead injections into retinal recipient areas. Their processes entered IPL where they arborized in a band comprised of the inner leaflet of lamina 1 and all of lamina 2. In some instances, a process continued inward to lamina 4. These neurons were tentatively identified as amacrine cells because of their position and branching pattern. Approximately 12-18% of the cells in the GCL exhibited nAChR immunoreactivity. Many of these cells could be classified as ganglion cells as their axons were also labeled following exposure to nAChR antibodies. Their distribution mirrored that of all ganglion cells with a higher density of cells in the central retina than in the periphery (Ehrlich, 1981). A &quot;double label&quot; technique was used to compare the distribution of nAChR-positive neurons with that of the choline acetyltransferase-positive (ChAT), cholinergic neurons in the chick retina. The two antigens were visualized with two different fluorophores: FITC and RITC. We were unable to find any cells in either the INL or GCL that exhibited both ChAT- and nAChR-like immunoreactivity. The nAChR-positive cells and the ChAT-positive cells both arborized in two bands within the IPL. The patterns were in perfect register in the inner IPL (lamina 4). But, in the outer IPL, the nAChR-positive dendrites were observed in the inner leaflet of lamina 1 and in all of lamina 2 while the ChAT-positive dendrites did not extend into the innermost portion of lamina 2.
In 1827, plant biologist Robert Brown discovered what is known as Brownian motion, a class of chaos. Formal derivative of Brownian motion is Gaussian white-noise. In 1938, Norbert Wiener proposed to use the Gaussian white-noise as an input probe to identify a system by a series of orthogonal functionals known as the Wiener G-functionals. White-noise analysis is uniquely suited for studying the response dynamics of retinal neurons because (1) white-noise light stimulus is a modulation around a mean luminance, as are the natural photic inputs, and it is a highly efficient input; and (2) the analysis defines the response dynamics and can be extended to spike trains, the final output of the retina. Demonstrated here are typical examples and results from applications of white-noise analysis to a visual system.
Tunicamycin (TM), an inhibitor of dolichylphosphate-mediated protein glycosylation, was injected intravitreally into the eyes of diurnal rodents with cone-dominated retinas. Injection of 1 microgram of the B2 isomer led to a progressive degeneration of the photoreceptor outer segments and disruption of the RPE-photoreceptor interface that took place over a 10-day period. Cone outer segments were shortened by postinjection day 6 and virtually absent by day 9. The microvilli that normally protrude from the apical surface of the retinal pigment epithelium were replaced by a fringe of shortened processes. The other retinal layers showed no morphological evidence of disruption. Retinal sensitivity, as measured by electroretinographic b-wave threshold, showed a significant and progressive decline over the 10-day course of the experiment that paralleled the disruption of retinal morphology. These results suggest that TM leads to similar morphological and electrophysiological effects on rod and cone photoreceptors.

Psychosomatic thinking in medicine is emphasized by progressive integration of neurobiologic and psychologic (psychoanalytic) results. In recent years data pertaining to the interface between neurosciences and behavioral sciences had been presented. Some of the results in the fields of neuroanatomy, neurobiochemistry, endocrinology and psychoneuroimmunology corresponding to coping-processes are presented.

Corticotropin-releasing hormone-like immunoreactivity (CRH-IR) was measured in control and Huntington's disease brain tissues obtained postmortem. The concentration of CRH-IR was markedly decreased in the caudate/putamen in Huntington's disease; the concentration of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity measured in the same extracts was significantly increased in the caudate/putamen in Huntington's disease compared with the control group. In contrast to previously reported decreases in CRH-IR in the cerebral cortex in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy, no significant differences were observed in the concentrations of CRH-IR between controls and Huntington's disease in frontal, parietal, temporal, occipital and cingulate cortex and in globus pallidus.
Electrophysiological parameters of spontaneous cellular activity in the nucleus accumbens septi (NAS) and responses evoked by afferent (fimbria) stimulation were characterized in halothane-anesthetized rats. A heterogeneous pattern of cell activity and single cell responses to stimulation were observed throughout the NAS. Stimulation-evoked discharges from inactive cells regularly coincided with evoked 'field' responses. Because the NAS is critical for opiate drug self-administration in rats, the effects of systemic heroin and morphine were then observed. These drugs also had mixed effects on the spontaneous activity of NAS cells encountered. While most cells were depressed, other cells were excited or were unaffected. Opiates had no effect on stimulation-evoked activity. These data lend neurophysiological and neuropharmacological support to the neuroanatomical observations of cellular heterogeneity within this structure.
The major substrate for Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase III in mammalian cells is a species of Mr 100,000 that has a primarily cytoplasmic localization. This substrate has now been identified as elongation factor-2 (EF-2), a protein that catalyzes the translocation of peptidyl-tRNA on the ribosome. The amino acid sequence of 18 residues from the N-terminal of the Mr 100,000 CaM-dependent protein kinase III substrate purified from rat pancreas was found to be identical to the N-terminal sequence of authentic rat EF-2 as previously deduced from nucleic acid sequencing of a cDNA (Kohno, K., Uchida, T., Ohkubo, H., Nakanishi, S., Nakanishi, T., Fukui, T., Ohtsuka, E., Ikehara, M., and Okada, Y. (1986) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 83, 4978-4982). CaM-dependent protein kinase III phosphorylated EF-2 in vitro with a stoichiometry of approximately 1 mol/mol on a threonine residue. Amino acid sequencing of the purified tryptic phosphopeptide revealed that this threonine residue lies within the sequence: Ala-Gly-Glu-Thr-Arg-Phe-Thr-Asp-Thr-Arg (residues 51-60 of EF-2). The Mr 100,000 protein was stoichiometrically ADP-ribosylated in vitro by the addition of diphtheria toxin and NAD. The Mr 100,000 protein was photoaffinity labeled with a GTP analog and the protein had an endogenous GTPase activity that could be stimulated by the addition of salt-washed ribosomes. These properties are all characteristic of EF-2. Dephospho-EF-2 could support poly(U)-directed polyphenylalanine synthesis in a reconstituted elongation system when combined with EF-1. In the same system, phospho-EF-2 was virtually inactive in supporting polypeptide synthesis; this effect could be reversed by dephosphorylation of phospho-EF-2. These results suggest that intracellular Ca2+ inhibits protein synthesis in mammalian cells via CaM-dependent protein kinase III-catalyzed phosphorylation of EF-2.
The purpose of this study was to describe the pathways which mediate feline affective defense and quiet biting attack behavior elicited from the midbrain central gray. In these experiments, methods of [3H]leucine and 2-deoxy-[14C]glucose (2-DG) radioautography were utilized in concert with the technique of electrical and chemical brain stimulation. Affective defense behavior elicited from the midbrain central gray is characterized by marked vocalization such as hissing and growling, pupillary dilatation, urination and piloerection. In contrast, quiet biting attack elicited from the midbrain central gray lacks overt autonomic signs observed with affective defense response as well as the stalking component which is typically associated with stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. Nevertheless, central gray-elicited attack resulted in a directed bite of the neck of an anesthetized rat in a manner similar to that observed from the hypothalamus. Affective defense was elicited from the dorsal half of the midbrain central gray, while quiet biting attack was obtained following stimulation of the ventral half of the midbrain central gray, thus indicating a functional differentiation of the central gray with respect to these two forms of aggression. In a separate series of experiments, affective defense or quiet biting attack response was identified by electrical stimulation through a cannula electrode situated in the midbrain central gray. The affective defense responses were subsequently elicited following microinjections of D,L-homocysteic acid through the same cannula electrode in order to demonstrate that these responses were the result of direct stimulation of cell bodies within the central gray. Then, one of the following autoradiographic tracing procedures was utilized: (1) [3H]leucine was injected through a cannula electrode and the animal was sacrificed after a 4- to 14-day survival period; or (2) a 2-DG solution was systemically injected and electrical stimulation was applied through the cannula electrode in order to metabolically activate the pathways associated with each of these responses. In general, the pattern of labelled target regions as indicated by 3H-amino acid radioautography was similar to that obtained from the 2-DG autoradiographic analysis. The principal ascending pathway associated with affective defense was traced to the anteromedial hypothalamus and medial thalamus. Concerning descending projections, label was traced into the central tegmental fields of the midbrain and pons, locus coeruleus and motor and main sensory nuclei of the trigeminal complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution of locus coeruleus axons in the rat spinal cord was studied by anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin in combination with dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Locus coeruleus axons were observed primarily in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. Few locus coeruleus fibers were seen in the vicinity of motoneuron pools or in the intermediolateral cell column of the thoracic spinal cord. The results of this study suggest a selective action of the coeruleo-spinal projection upon sensory inputs to the spinal cord.
This study tested the consequences of 3 stress conditions on feeding consumption in the freshwater snail Helisoma. Two stresses (placement in a hypotonic environment and body wall incision) were without effect on food consumption. In contrast, placement of animals in a hypertonic environment (20% seawater) caused a transient suppression of feeding. Since the osmolarity and composition of molluscan blood is known to be altered under conditions of osmotic stress, we reasoned that a blood-borne agent might be responsible for the observed suppression of feeding. We tested this hypothesis by chromatographic analysis of blood and, based on this analysis, subsequent assay of putative neuromodulatory agents on the patterned motor activity (PMA) expressed by effector neurons of the buccal ganglion. Our analysis shows that a rise and fall of blood acidic amino acids corresponds to the suppression of feeding. Furthermore, bath application of glutamate at its elevated physiological level (100-150 microM) to buccal ganglia caused complete and prolonged suppression of PMA in effector neurons. This suppression is attributable to activation of chloride and potassium currents which shunt patterned synaptic inputs to the effector neurons. We conclude that glutamate, in an endocrine-like fashion, can exert a powerful neuromodulatory action on the feeding effector neurons of Helisoma.
The effect of extracellular ATP on intracellular free Ca2+ was characterized in quin2-loaded parotid acinar cells. ATP specifically increased the intracellular Ca2+ concentration six-fold above a basal level of 180 nM. Of other purine nucleotides tested, only adenylylthiodiphosphate (ATP gamma S) had significant activity. ATP and the muscarinic agonist carbachol increased intracellular Ca2+ even in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. Both agonists stimulated K+ release, which was followed by reuptake of K+, even in the continued presence of agonist. In the absence of Mg2+, ATP was much more potent but no more efficacious in elevating intracellular Ca2+, suggesting that ATP4- is the active species. The effect of ATP was reversed by removal with hexokinase, arguing against a role for an active contaminant of ATP and against a non-specific permeabilizing effect of extracellular ATP. Lactate dehydrogenase release was unaffected by a maximally effective concentration of ATP. These observations are consistent with a possible neurotransmitter role for ATP in the rat parotid gland.
The origins and terminations of the amygdalar connections with middle (ITm) and inferior temporal (ITi) gyri of inferotemporal cortex (area TE) were studied in Japanese monkeys by the horseradish peroxidase method. The ITm gyrus received a major projection from the lateral basal nucleus and a minor one from the accessory basal nucleus of the amygdala, whereas it sent a major projection to the lateral nucleus and a minor one to the lateral basal nucleus. The ITi gyrus had only minor amygdalar projections from the medial basal nucleus and to the medial basal and lateral nuclei.
Inbred Wistar-Kyoto rats which are behaviorally more reactive to stress have a shorter life span than Brown-Norway rats. This is paralleled by higher basal activity and more pronounced changes in the septohippocampal cholinergic system of Wistar-Kyotos after stress. Age- and strain-dependent differences were therefore characterized in the septohippocampal system of 3- and 24-month-old (aged) Wistar-Kyotos and Brown-Norways, and in 30-month-old Brown-Norways. High affinity [3H]choline uptake and newly synthesized [3H]acetylcholine release served as markers for cholinergic terminals in the hippocampus. [3H]Quinuclidinylbenzilate binding served as a marker of muscarinic receptors in the hippocampus. Choline acetyltransferase activity served as a marker for cholinergic neurons and their terminals in the septum and hippocampus respectively. Acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining served to localize cholinergic neurons and their terminals in the septum and hippocampus respectively. In the hippocampus of aged Wistar-Kyotos choline uptake and acetylcholine release were reduced by approximately 50% compared to their young counterparts, but remained unchanged in aged Brown-Norways. Hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity, acetylcholinesterase staining and muscarinic binding were unchanged in aged rats of both strains. Pyramidal cell loss (observed in Cresyl violet stained sections) was detected in hippocampus of 24-month-old Wistar-Kyotos and 30-month-old, but not younger Brown-Norways. Numbers of acetylcholinesterase-stained cells in the septum were reduced by 45 and 25% in 24-month-old Wistar-Kyotos and Brown-Norways respectively, and by 50% in 30-month-old Brown-Norways. Mean diameter of these cells was increased only in aged Wistar-Kyotos (approximately 46%) and in 30-month-old Brown-Norways (40%). The results indicate: (1) there is an ongoing age-dependent degeneration of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons which is associated with two principal compensatory changes in remaining cholinergic neurons: (a) hypertrophy of perikarya and (b) relative increase in activity of presynaptic markers in terminals with unchanged regional distribution, suggesting possible collateral sprouting; (2) age-dependent loss of septal cholinergic neurons precedes loss of hippocampal pyramidal neurons and (3) loss of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus is associated with a compensatory increased muscarinic binding by remaining target hippocampal neurons. The results imply that higher basal and stress-induced activity of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons may be correlated with an accelerated and more pronounced age-dependent degeneration of this cholinergic system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Radiolabeled microspheres were used to examine the effects of paralytic intrathecal doses of dynorphin A (Dyn A1-13) and Dyn A3-13 on rat brain and spinal cord blood flows and cardiac output. Dyn A1-13 produced significant dose-related reductions in blood flow to lumbosacral and thoracic spinal cord without altering cardiac output and blood flow to brain and cervical spinal cord. Naloxone failed to block these effects. Dyn A3-13, which lacks opioid activity, also significantly reduced blood flow in lumbosacral spinal cord. Thus, the paralytic effects of Dyn A in the rat may involve reductions in spinal cord resulting from non-opioid actions of Dyn A.
The regulation of estrogen receptors by the alpha 2-noradrenergic system was studied. A single injection of the alpha 2-noradrenergic antagonist, yohimbine, caused a biphasic effect on the concentration of cytosol estrogen receptors in the mediobasal hypothalamus and anterior pituitary gland. A short-latency increase was seen at 1.5-3 h, followed by a longer-lasting decrease at 8-16 h. Scatchard analysis revealed that the apparent, short-latency increase is in the concentration of binding sites, not in the affinity of the receptor for [3H]estradiol. The increase in the concentration of cytosol estrogen receptors is not blocked by pretreatment with the alpha 2-noradrenergic agonist, clonidine. In addition, no increase is detected in the concentration of cell nuclear estrogen receptors accumulating in response to a saturating dose of estradiol. Therefore, the apparent increase in the concentration of cytosol estrogen receptors may not represent a functional increase in receptors. The decrease in the concentration of estrogen receptors, which occurs 8-16 h after yohimbine treatment, is also seen after injection of the alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist, idazoxan, and is not due to a change in the in vitro rate of association of the receptors with [3H]estradiol. Furthermore, the decrease seems to be a functional decrease in the concentration of receptors capable of cell nuclear accumulation in response to estradiol injection, as indicated by the results of experiments in which the concentration of cell nuclear estrogen receptors was assayed after estradiol injection. These experiments provide further support for the hypothesis that the alpha-noradrenergic system, and perhaps specifically the alpha 2-subtype, is involved in decreasing the concentration of estrogen receptors in parts of the brain and pituitary gland. This interaction provides a mechanism by which the environment could regulate the sensitivity of certain neurons to estradiol. However, the finding that the initial increase in the concentration of cytosol estrogen receptors after yohimbine treatment is not followed by the predicted increase in cell nuclear estrogen receptors after estradiol injection raises questions about the physiological relevance of the apparent increase under some conditions.
5-HT induced a hyperpolarization of the rat superior cervical ganglion in vitro which was resistant to both MDL 72222 (10 microM), a 5-HT3 antagonist, and ketanserin (1 microM), a 5-HT2 antagonist. The 5-HT1-selective ligands 5-carboxamidotryptamine and 8-OH-DPAT also hyperpolarized the ganglion. The 5-HT-induced hyperpolarization was potently antagonised by spiperone. These results suggest that 5-HT hyperpolarizes the rat superior cervical ganglion via a 5-HT1-like receptor which resembles the central 5-HT1A binding site.
Substance P, forskolin and isoprenaline stimulated rat parotid alpha-amylase secretion in vitro. Synergistic responses were observed with combinations of any two of the three secretagogues such that subthreshold doses of one caused a pronounced shift in the dose-response curve to the second. This potentiation of secretion could neither be explained by an interaction at the receptor recognition binding site, as identified by ligand binding, nor wholly by interactions in second messenger systems. Thus forskolin and isoprenaline were unable to alter substance P-induced changes in phosphatidylinositol metabolism. Similarly substance P was without effect on forskolin or isoprenaline-stimulated cAMP production. In contrast the potentiation of isoprenaline-induced amylase secretion by forskolin was preceded by a marked enhancement of cAMP production suggesting that the activation of the adenylate cyclase complex is reflected in the cellular response.
The morphology of retinal ganglion cells in the frog, Rana pipiens, has been examined in retinal flatmounts following backfilling of axons with horseradish peroxidase (HRP). Size and shape of the cell body and of the dendritic arbor, the dendritic branching pattern, and the depth of dendritic arborization within the inner plexiform layer (IPL) were all used to classify these cells. All of the ganglion cells so visualized can be grouped into one of 7 distinct cell classes. Class 1 contains the largest ganglion cells, with a soma size of 323 +/- 5.3 microns2 and dendritic fields of 86,819 +/- 11,817 microns2; the dendrites branch within strata 1 and 2 of the IPL. The second largest cells are class 2, with somas of 245 +/- 19.7 microns2 and dendritic fields of 55,983 +/- 7,392 microns2; the dendrites also branch within strata 1 and 2 of the IPL. Class 3 cells are the next largest class with somas of 211 +/- 11.8 microns2 and dendritic fields of 18,186 +/- 1,394 microns2; there are three varieties of class 3 cells based on the depth of branching of the dendrites: some cells are bistratified, others are tristratified, while still other cells arborize diffusely within the IPL. Class 4 cells are intermediate in size, with somas of 113 +/- 7.4 microns2 and dendrites of 4800 +/- 759 microns2; the dendrites arborize within strata 4 and 5 of the IPL. Class 5 cells have not been quantitatively analyzed because they are heterogeneous in soma and dendritic size. However, class 5 cells all have cell bodies displaced in location into the inner nuclear layer and all have a unique dendritic specialization: they send from 1 to 3 processes into the outer plexiform layer. Class 6 cells are the second smallest cell class with somas of 68.1 +/- 5.13 microns2 and dendritic fields of 888 +/- 182 microns2; the dendrites arborize within strata 3, 4, and 5 of the IP. Class 7 contains the smallest ganglion cells with somas of 62.1 +/- 2.86 microns2 and dendritic fields of 831 +/- 74.2 microns2; the dendrites arborize within strata 3, 4, and 5 of the IPL. The frequency of each cell class is inversely proportional to the size of the dendritic field. Thus, class 7 cells are the most frequent; class 1 cells are the least frequent. Furthermore, each of these 7 classes of ganglion cells has representative cells located in the inner nuclear layer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The isthmo-optic nucleus (NIO) at the origin of the retinopetal pathway was examined in 12 birds of prey (strigiforms and falconiforms) using cytoarchitectonic methods and after the intraocular injection of the regrograde tracers Rhodamine beta-isothiocyanate and Fast blue. The NIO was found to be poorly differentiated and reticular in appearance and depending on the species contained between 900 and 1400 neurons. These values are approximately 10 times less than those recorded in the pigeon and chicken. As in the latter species, the experimental data obtained in the strigiform Tyto alba showed the presence of retinopetal ectopic neurons bilaterally. However the ipsilateral contingent was proportionally larger in the nocturnal raptor. The functional significance of the poorly developed centrifugal visual system in birds of prey is discussed.
The stimulation of inositol phospholipid (PI) hydrolysis by excitatory amino acids was measured in the rat hippocampus or striatum after 3 different chemical or surgical lesions of putative glutamatergic pathways. Intrahippocampal infusions of kainate preferentially destroyed neurons in the CA3-4 areas, denervating the CA1 area of the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampus. Infusions of colchicine selectively destroyed granule cells of fascia dentata, denervating the CA3 area of the ipsilateral hippocampus. Ablation of the frontal cortex selectively reduced the glutamatergic afferents to the striatum. These 3 lesions potentiated the ibotenate, glutamate and quisqualate stimulation of PI hydrolysis, while N-methyl-D-aspartate remained ineffective. This stimulation was inhibited by 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid but not by phencyclidine. These lesions also increased the stimulation of PI hydrolysis elicited by norepinephrine, but failed to enhance the stimulation by carbamylcholine. These results support the hypothesis that signal transduction in a subclass of excitatory amino acid receptors present in rat brain may undergo plastic modifications following denervation.
Recent findings suggest that protein kinase C (PKC) regulates the persistence of long-term potentiation (LTP). To test the hypothesis that PKC inhibition would decrease persistence of potentiation we applied PKC inhibitors (mellitin, polymyxin B, H-7) by micropressure ejection to the intact hippocampus either before or after LTP induction. When inhibitor was given 15 min before LTP, initial potentiation was unaffected, yet responses decayed to baseline levels by 60 min after the onset of potentiation. PKC inhibitor treatment 10 min after LTP onset induced decay of responses to pre-LTP baseline levels within 50 min of ejection. Inhibitor applied 60 min after LTP onset induced substantial decay but not to baseline levels. Potentiation was unaffected by inhibitor treatment 4 h after the induction of LTP. Measurement of PKC subcellular distribution revealed that inhibitor significantly reduced the proportion of PKC associated with the membrane. These findings represent the first demonstration that PKC inhibitors prevent persistence of potentiation. They also suggest that PKC regulates the persistence of synaptic enhancement beginning after its onset, and that PKC's role decreases with time after the induction of enhancement.
Substance P-like immunoreactive (SP-LI) neurons were identified within the inner nuclear layer and ganglion cell layer of the chick retina. The SP-LI cells in the inner nuclear layer consisted of several subtypes of neurons, differing in soma size and dendritic arborization. In the ganglion cell layer a population of moderately labelled SP-LI neurons was also present. About 6-9 microns in diameter and spaced 50-80 microns apart, they formed a regular array across the entire retina, with a density of about 400 cells/mm2 in the superior temporal retina, declining to less than 100 cells/mm2 in the peripheral retina. The total number of SP-LI cells in the ganglion cell layer was approximately 75,000. Individual axons could be followed toward the optic nerve head. Lesions near the optic nerve head resulted in axotomy of ganglion cells within a limited portion of the retina. Two days of postaxotomy there were numerous SP-LI swellings in the proximal segments of axotomized axons. SP-LI neurons in the axotomized zone were larger, more numerous, and showed increased staining of their processes. Fourteen days following a retinal lesion, there was depletion of all SP-LI cells in the ganglion cell layer within the axotomized zone, but the SP-LI neurons in the inner nuclear layer were not noticeably affected. Following a localized injection of rhodamine-coupled latex beads into the optic tectum, a population of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in the contralateral retina was retrogradely labelled. Many of these cells also exhibited SP-like immunoreactivity. Examination of the optic tectum indicated the presence of SP-LI fibres in laminae 2-13 (nomenclature of Cajal: Histologie du Systeme Nerveux. Vol. 2. Paris: Maloine, '11), with immunoreactive terminal regions present mainly in laminae 2-4, 7, and 9-13. SP-LI cell bodies were found predominantly in laminae 10-12 and 13. Fourteen days following a retinal lesion, SP-LI processes and terminals were depleted from laminae 2 and 3. Immunoreactive cells and processes in the remaining laminae of the optic tectum were not noticeably altered. The present report confirms the existence of SP-LI retinal ganglion cells in the chick retina and demonstrates their contribution to lamina specific SP-LI arborization in the optic tectum.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is a substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase both in vitro and in vivo. Recently, it has been demonstrated that phosphorylation of the nicotinic receptor by this kinase increases its rate of rapid desensitization. We now report the identification of the cAMP-dependent phosphorylation sites on the gamma and delta subunits. Two-dimensional phosphopeptide mapping of the phosphorylated gamma and delta subunits, after limit proteolysis with thermolysin, indicated that each subunit is phosphorylated on a single site. Phosphoamino acid analysis of the 32P-labeled subunits demonstrates that phosphorylation had occurred exclusively on serine residues. Purified phosphorylated subunits were cleaved with cyanogen bromide and the resultant phosphopeptides were purified by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. Shorter phosphopeptides, obtained by secondary digestion with trypsin, were purified and subjected to both automated gas-phase sequencing and manual Edman degradation. The results demonstrate that the gamma subunit was phosphorylated at Ser-353, contained within the sequence Arg-Arg-Ser(P)-Ser-Phe-Ile and that the delta subunit was phosphorylated at Ser-361, contained within the sequence Arg-Ser-Ser(P)-Ser-Val-Gay-Tyr-Ser-Lys. Determination of the sites phosphorylated within the structure of the gamma and delta subunits should contribute to the molecular characterization of the regulation of desensitization of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor by protein phosphorylation.

Typical neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) elaborate tens of thousands of membrane specializations at sites of synaptic contacts on their dendrites. To construct, maintain, and modify these specializations, neurons must produce and deliver the appropriate molecular constituents to particular synaptic sites. Previous studies have revealed that polyribosomes are selectively positioned beneath postsynaptic sites, suggesting that in neurons, as in other cell types, protein synthetic machinery is located at or near the sites where particular proteins are needed. The mechanisms that deliver ribosomes and messenger RNA to their specific destinations in cells are therefore of considerable interest. Here we describe a system for RNA transport in dendrites that could provide a mechanism for the delivery of ribosomes and mRNA to synaptic sites in dendrites. Hippocampal neurons grown in culture incorporate 3H-uridine in the nucleus, then selectively transport the newly synthesized RNA into dendrites at a rate of about 0.5 mm day-1. The transport is inhibited by metabolic poisons, suggesting that it is an active, energy-dependent process. The RNA may be transported in association with the cytoskeleton.
First-generation H1-antagonist antihistamines such as hydroxyzine have a significant ability to cross the blood-brain barrier and cause sedation, which limits their usefulness in the treatment of allergic disorders. Cetirizine, a carboxylated metabolite of hydroxyzine, possesses the parent compound's antihistaminic activity but does not cause sedation. This lack of CNS effects may be due to cetirizine's greater selectivity or potency at H1 receptors in the brain, compared with its effects at the receptors involved in sedation, or it may result from the agent's relative exclusion from the CNS compartment. We compared cetirizine's activity at central H1 sites with the activity of hydroxyzine and terfenadine. We also compared the abilities of cetirizine and three other antihistamines to cross the blood-brain barrier. We found the drugs' potency at H1 receptors in the CNS to be similar to their activities in other tissues. However, their selectivity varied widely. Cetirizine, in fact, failed to bind at any of the receptors investigated except H1 sites, even at concentrations as high as 10 micron. Both hydroxyzine and D-chlorpheniramine crossed the blood-brain barrier in significant amounts. Terfenadine did so to a much lesser extent, and cetirizine passed into the CNS only half as readily as terfenadine. We suggest that cetirizine's reduced incidence of sedative side effects may stem partly from its selectivity for H1 receptors over sites involved in sedation, and partly from its relative exclusion from the CNS.
Two acid alpha-glucosidase components of different molecular sizes (80 and 71 kDa) were separated from human placenta by DEAE-cellulose chromatography. Their catalytic properties were similar, and they showed almost the same molecular structure with regard to immunological properties and carboxy-terminal sequences, although the amino acid composition, the total hexose content, and the circular dichroism spectra were different. The pulse-chase labeling acid alpha-glucosidase with [3H]leucine revealed a processing pathway from a 110 kDa precursor to a 95 kDa intermediate form, then finally to 80 and 71 kDa mature forms. However, the sequence of appearance was different between the two mature enzymes. The 80 kDa component appeared first after chase for 5 h, and then the 71 kDa component followed. Their amounts became equal at 2 to 4 days. When ammonium chloride or leupeptin was added to the culture medium after chase for 5 h, the 71 kDa component failed to appear and the 80 kDa component was not converted to 71 kDa. It is concluded that probably only a part of the 80 kDa component is processed to form the 71 kDa component, although another possibility that cannot be excluded is that these two components are converted independently from the common intermediate 95 kDa protein.
1 Pharmacological differences have been observed between the muscarinic agonist-induced depolarizing and hyperpolarizing responses of the rat isolated superior cervical ganglion. 2 Pirenzepine (0.3 microM) selectively reduced the depolarizing response and unmasked the hyperpolarizing response. No such selectivity was observed with a concentration of N-methylatropine which was equipotent with pirenzepine in antagonizing the depolarizing response. 3 The neuromuscular blocking agents gallamine (10 microM) and pancuronium (3 microM) exhibited the oppositive selectivity to pirenzepine, both dramatically reduced the hyperpolarization but only slightly antagonized the depolarization. 4 The potencies of a range of agonists in evoking the depolarizing and hyperpolarizing responses, the latter in the presence of 0.3 microM pirenzepine, have been determined. Methylfurmethide failed to hyperpolarize the ganglion at concentrations which evoked maximal depolarizations. 5 The muscarinic hyperpolarization did not appear to be mediated by the secondary release of catecholamines. 6 It was concluded that the two muscarinic responses on the rat superior cervical ganglion, the slow depolarization and faster hyperpolarization, are mediated by different muscarinic receptor subtypes.
In the present study we employed immunohistochemical techniques using a polyclonal antibody against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) to determine the distribution and cytological features of cholinergic neurons in the developing septal/diagonal band complex of the rat. ChAT-positive perikarya were first clearly detected in this region on embryonic day 17, although the neurons were faintly labeled and lacked the cytological details found in the adult. After birth we observed a dramatic increase in the intensity of the immunolabeling which continued until postnatal day 23. Thereafter, the ChAT-positive neurons assumed their adult-like characteristics.
Intracerebroventricular microinjection of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) potently blocked the development of, as well as promptly reversed, epinephrine-stimulated hyperglycemia in mice. The central antihyperglycemic effect was dose-related (0.1-10 micrograms), could be reproduced by an intravenous injection of a large dose of the peptide (100 micrograms), was independent of experimental factors such as stress and age, was effective against other hyperglycemic stimuli, and appeared to be unique to TRH, as it could not be mimicked by many other centrally active peptides known to influence glucoregulation in normoglycemic animals. Moreover, the antihyperglycemic effect of TRH appeared to depend on the structural integrity of the peptide molecule but seemed to be unrelated to the peptide's hypophysiotropic actions or to interaction of the peptide with previously characterized TRH receptors, as it could be mimicked by various analogs devoid of thyrotropin- and prolactin-releasing influences or by peptides resembling TRH in amino acid composition but lacking substantial binding affinity to TRH receptors. Furthermore, the effect of TRH to reverse epinephrine-stimulated hyperglycemia appeared to be mediated by combined action of peripheral sympathetic and parasympathetic mechanisms to stimulate insulin release from the pancreas, since only complete blockade of the central autonomic outflow, but not selective perturbation of the sympathetic or parasympathetic outflow, or depletion of pancreatic insulin could substantially attenuate the antihyperglycemic action. Taken together, these results suggest a new physiologic role of TRH as a central glucoregulatory neuropeptide involved in autonomic modulation of insulin secretion and prevention of hyperglycemia.
Glutamate induced responses in the surface membrane of Xenopus oocyte by injection with mRNA from crustacea and insect muscle. Glutamate (10(-5) to 10(-4) M) elicited smooth current responses which resembled those induced by kainate. This smooth current reversed direction at about 0 mV and was blocked by a spider toxin (JSTX). Higher concentrations (more than 1 x 10(-3) M) of glutamate induced JSTX-insensitive oscillatory current responses which may be caused by Cl- activation.
Evidence is presented indicating that a cAMP-dependent mechanism activates tryptophan hydroxylase (TrpH), the rate-limiting enzyme for serotonin (5-HT) biosynthesis. Forskolin, a selective activator of adenylate cyclase, stimulated 5-HT formation in synaptoneurosome preparations of rat striatum, substantia nigra, hypothalamus, and amygdala. Further studies of striatum revealed that the forskolin-induced activation of serotonin synthesis is readily reversible. Also, it may be self-limited by a mechanism of desensitization, since after an initial exposure to forskolin followed by removal, a re-exposure of synaptoneurosomes to forskolin was no longer stimulatory. In contrast to these results for 5-HT synthesis, forskolin-induced stimulation of dopamine synthesis persisted following removal of forskolin; hence the response was not rapidly reversible or desensitized. In soluble extracts of striatum, 8-thiomethyl-cyclic AMP enhanced TrpH activity, supporting a direct role of cyclic AMP and cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in regulating TrpH. In agreement with previous reports, 8-thiomethyl cyclic AMP also stimulated tyrosine hydroxylase activity in soluble striatal extracts. We conclude that cyclic AMP is an important regulator of TrpH, in addition to its known effects on tyrosine hydroxylase.
BAY-K-8644 in low concentrations is known to stimulate, and in higher concentrations, to depress calcium-dependent ACTH secretion from mouse clonal (tumor) pituitary corticotrophs, AtT-20/D16-16 (AtT-20). In the present study, voltage-dependent inward calcium currents in these cells were potentiated by low concentrations of this compound and depressed by higher concentrations consistent with its actions on ACTH secretion. A similar relationship was demonstrated for a different but related compound, CGP 28,392. Each of BAY-K-8644's enantiomers, BAY-R(-)5417 and BAY-R(+)4407, had opposing effects upon these inward calcium currents and ACTH secretion. The (+)isomer antagonized both inward calcium currents and ACTH secretion. In contrast, the (-)enantiomer was responsible for the stimulatory effects of BAY-K-8644. Nevertheless, some antagonistic properties were noted with high concentrations of this latter enantiomer. The stimulation of ACTH secretion in AtT-20 cells by low concentrations of BAY-K-8644 can be attributed to a potentiation of voltage-activated calcium currents by one of its enantiomers, BAY-R-(-)5417. In contrast, the depression of secretion that occurs at higher concentrations is likely to be the result of the reduction of these currents by the other enantiomer (BAY-R(+)4407).
Galanin immunoreactivity was observed in nerve cell bodies and nerve fibres, but not in enteroendocrine cells, in the small intestine of the guinea-pig. Nerve terminals were found in the myenteric plexus, in the circular muscle, in submucous ganglia, around submucous arterioles, and in the mucosa. Lesion studies showed that all terminals were intrinsic to the intestine; those in myenteric ganglia arose from cell bodies in more orally placed ganglia. Myenteric nerve cells were also the source of terminals in the circular muscle. Galanin (GAL) was located in a population of submucous nerve cell bodies that also showed immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and in a separate population that was immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y (NPY). Processes of the GAL/VIP neurons supplied submucous arterioles and the mucosal epithelium. Processes of GAL/NPY neurons ran to the mucosa. It is concluded that galanin immunoreactivity occurs in several functionally distinct classes of enteric neurons, amongst which are neurons controlling (i) motility, (ii) intestinal blood flow, and (iii) mucosal water and electrolyte transport.
We report the presence of endogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) in chicken peripheral nerve. The molecule has been detected with antibodies to mouse salivary gland NGF, using immunohistochemical and immunoelectrophoretic techniques. Previous studies have shown that these antibodies inhibit the survival activity of extracts of chicken peripheral nerve. The NGF accumulated distal, but not proximal, to a ligature placed on a peripheral sympathetic nerve demonstrating that it was retrogradely transported. This transport was detected in intact nerve fibers as well as in nerves from which the peripheral target had been ablated 6 hr or 7 days previously. The results indicate that avian NGF is present in adult chicken peripheral nerves and that this molecule shares antigenic determinants with the mouse molecule. The results further demonstrate that regenerating neurons retrogradely transport NGF supplied by cells within the peripheral nerve (presumably Schwann). The possibility that these cells also provide NGF to intact neurons is discussed.
The chronological pattern of transcallosal response (TCR) and its recovery cycle were studied by single or paired stimulation of the homotopic primary and the secondary (contralateral) cortical site before, during and after primary site premotor cortical kindling in Papio papio. Prior to kindling, the sequential pattern of TCR was early positive (P1), negative (N1), late small positive (P2) and large negative (N2) components. The recovery cycle of both P1 and N1 showed a marked supernormal phase at an inter-stimulus interval of 15-200 msec with a peak at about 30 msec, showing maximal facilitation up to 300%. Kindling, with or without prior low frequency cortical stimulation, resulted in a long-lasting amplitude potentiation of both P1 and N1 and a significant modification of the late components. However, a transient amplitude reduction was noted immediately following completion of stage 5 kindling, presumably due to repeated generalized convulsions. These changes occurred only during primary (kindling), but not secondary, homotopic site stimulation. These findings suggest that a persistently increased callosal transmission is probably due to primary site kindling-induced functional alteration of the synaptic site at the homotopic secondary site cortex. In contrast, the supernormal phase of the TCR recovery cycle was suppressed significantly at the secondary site cortex. Since a similar suppressive effect was observed with a small dose of pentobarbital in naive baboons, kindling is considered to produce enhancement of the inhibitory mechanism. However, a diminished suppressive effect on the supernormality 20 days after the termination of kindling suggests that this suppressive effect is transient. It is probably related to the repeated kindled convulsive seizures rather than to the kindling process itself.
Transcallosal response (TCR) and its recovery cycle were studied in the chronic photosensitive baboon, Papio papio. Bipolar premotor intracortical stimulation evoked early positive (P1) and negative (N1) sequences followed by late small positivity (P2) and large negativity (N2) in the contralateral homotopic site. The sequential pattern of P1 and N1 was similar to that previously described in acute preparations. The recovery cycle as measured by means of paired stimuli with varying inter-stimulus intervals (ISI) showed a marked supernormality of P1 and N1 at an ISI of 15-200 msec with maximal facilitation up to 250-300% of the conditioning response at an ISI of 30-50 msec. Pentobarbital (10 mg/kg) suppressed this supernormality without causing a constant TCR amplitude change. In contrast, a significant increase in both the TCR amplitude and the supernormality of the recovery cycle was observed with a subconvulsive dose (3 mg/kg) of Megimide, a presumed antagonist of pentobarbital. Our results suggest that (a) the recovery cycle is a more sensitive measure than amplitude for assessing the effect of neurotropic drugs on TCR, and (b) the P1, N1 amplitudes and the supernormality may represent different neuronal processes involved in the TCR.
Mongolian gerbils were enucleated, and a crystal of HRP placed on the cut surface of the transected optic nerves emerging from the eyeballs. After incubation in an oxygenated medium, glutaraldehyde fixation, cryo-sectioning and reaction of the sections for peroxidase activity, HRP-labelled fibres were observed in the optic nerve fibre layer of the retina. Some of the labelled fibres penetrated in the external direction from the ganglion cell layer into outer retinal layers. HRP-labelled fibres were observed in the inner plexiform layer, inner nuclear layer, as well as the outer plexiform layer. In the outer plexiform layer arborization of the fibres was prominent especially close to the outer nuclear layer. In all layers some fibres were beaded. Due to the lack of trans-synaptic transport by use of this in vitro method the study strongly indicates the presence of an efferent innervation of the retina of the Mongolian gerbil. A preliminary report on this research has been presented at the Tenth European Neuroscience Meeting, Marseille (1986).
We have reviewed the structure and properties of the neural protein 1B236/MAG. This molecule consists largely of five Ig-like domains separated from its carboxyl terminal tail by a single membrane-spanning region. Two forms of the protein differ in the length and sequence of the carboxyl terminus: these are encoded by alternatively spliced mRNAs that are differentially expressed during postnatal neural development. The Ig-like domains of 1B236/MAG are unusual in having structural similarities to Ig V domains but with short Cys-Cys distances characteristic of C domains. Several other Ig-like molecules exhibit this structural feature, including the cell adhesion molecule N-CAM, which is most closely related in sequence to 1B236/MAG. We have proposed 1B236/MAG as the prototype for this subgroup of the Ig family and offer a model for this type of Ig domain structure. 1B236/MAG probably acts as a cell adhesion molecule to mediate interactions between cells in a fashion similar to that proposed for N-CAM. In particular, 1B236/MAG may be involved in interactions between myelinating oligodendrocytes or Schwann cells and axons or between adjacent layers of myelin membrane during the process of myelin compaction. It is most likely that the homophilic or heterophilic interactions of 1B236/MAG occur through binding to the Ig-like domains. The structure of 1B236/MAG is therefore quite consistent with its proposed function and may serve as the model for this class of cell-cell interaction molecules. One would predict, for example, that the neuron-glia cell adhesion molecule Ng-CAM, also known as NILE or L1 (Bock et al. 1985, Friedlander et al. 1985), which mediates interactions between neurons and glial cells, would have a very similar structure to those of N-CAM and 1B236/MAG. In addition, the carboxyl terminal tails of the 1B236/MAG proteins may also be involved in interactions with cytoskeletal components, during membrane vesicle transport through the glial cytoplasm during myelination or through neuronal axoplasm or cytoplasm. The availability of full-length cDNA clones of 1B236/MAG mRNAs with the ability to express these products in vitro will enable the structure and interactions of 1B236/MAG to be tested in detail.

The mRNAs for two isotypes of alpha-tubulin, termed T alpha 1 and T26, are known to be expressed in the rat nervous system. We have compared the expression of these two alpha-tubulin mRNAs during neural development, using RNA blotting and in situ hybridization techniques with probes directed against unique sequences of each mRNA. T alpha 1 mRNA is highly enriched in the embryonic nervous system but is markedly less abundant in the adult brain; T26 mRNA is expressed in many embryonic tissues with little change in abundance during development. Within the nervous system, T alpha 1 mRNA is enriched in regions with neurons actively undergoing neurite extension, such as the cortical plate, whereas T26 mRNA is relatively homogeneous in distribution, with some enrichment in proliferative zones. Expression of T alpha 1 mRNA is also increased in PC12 cells induced to differentiate and extend neurite processes by nerve growth factor. Taken together, the data indicate that T alpha 1-tubulin mRNA is expressed at high levels during the extension of neuronal processes. The abundant expression of T alpha 1-tubulin mRNA may therefore reflect either a means to increase the available pool of alpha-tubulin or a specific requirement for the T alpha 1 isotype for neurite extension.
The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans contains two major groups of muscle cells that exhibit organized sarcomeres: the body wall and pharyngeal muscles. Several additional groups of muscle cells of more limited mass and spatial distribution include the vulval muscles of hermaphrodites, the male sex muscles, the anal-intestinal muscles, and the gonadal sheath of the hermaphrodite. These muscle groups do not exhibit sarcomeres and therefore may be considered smooth. Each muscle cell has been shown to have a specific origin in embryonic cell lineages and differentiation, either embryonically or postembryonically (Sulston, J. E., and H. R. Horvitz. 1977. Dev. Biol. 56:110-156; Sulston, J. E., E. Schierenberg, J. White, and J. N. Thomson. 1983. Dev. Biol. 100:64-119). Each muscle type exhibits a unique combination of lineage and onset of differentiation at the cellular level. Biochemically characterized monoclonal antibodies to myosin heavy chains A, B, C, and D and to paramyosin have been used in immunochemical localization experiments. Paramyosin is detected by immunofluorescence in all muscle cells. Myosin heavy chains C and D are limited to the pharyngeal muscle cells, whereas myosin heavy chains A and B are localized not only within the sarcomeres of body wall muscle cells, as reported previously, but to the smooth muscle cells of the minor groups as well. Myosin heavy chains A and B and paramyosin proteins appear to be compatible with functionally and structurally distinct muscle cell types that arise by multiple developmental pathways.
Two patients with infantile autism by DSM-III criteria and with atypical bipolar symptomatology were treated with lithium carbonate. Both children demonstrated a significant response with levels above 1.0mEq/liter. Factors that may be useful in discovering patients with autism who may respond to lithium treatment include a family history of bipolar illness; extreme hyperactivity not responsive to a stimulant; a definite cyclic component to symptomatic behaviors; sustained laughter, irritability, or giddiness that is not stereotypic; and/or the presence of many or all of the symptom criteria for bipolar disorder.
A review of the anatomic organization of ascending serotonin projections is followed by recent findings showing that these axonal projections are not diffuse but have an intricate and orderly pattern. The dorsal and median raphe nuclei and the B9 cell group have overlapping but differential projections to all parts of the forebrain. While most raphe projections extensively overlap, the dorsal raphe projects most heavily to frontal cortex and striatum, while the median raphe predominantly innervates hippocampus and septum. Small clusters of raphe cells project in a mosaic pattern to multiple, widely distributed islands of cortex. Yet, a coarse topographic order is preserved in the ascending dorsal raphe projections. Recent studies demonstrate two classes of serotonin axon terminals that differ in axon morphology, cells of origin, regional distribution, and response to psychotropic drugs. Dorsal raphe axons are extremely fine and highly vulnerable to certain neurotoxic amphetamines, e.g., 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine; median raphe axons have large varicosities and are resistant to these mood-elevating drugs. We propose that there are two anatomically and functionally distinct serotonergic projections to cortex and that neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus appear to play a major role in the control of affective state.
Results of electrophysiological single-cell recording studies suggest that most, if not all, types of antidepressant treatments increase 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurotransmission. Tricyclic antidepressants, electroconvulsive shock treatment, mianserin, adinazolam, and possibly sleep deprivation may exert their therapeutic effect through sensitization of postsynaptic neurons to 5-HT. Serotonin reuptake blockers may relieve depression through an increased efficacy of the presynaptic element resulting from a desensitization of somatodendritic and terminal 5-HT autoreceptors. Similarly, monoamine oxidase inhibitors may act by increasing the efficacy of 5-HT neurons. Intensification of 5-HT function appears to be a common denominator to antidepressant treatments; however, evidence suggests that this modification may only be a link in a chain of events leading to an antidepressant response.
Humoral antibody responses to Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) capsid proteins were examined. Rabbit antisera produced against the native BeAn strain of TMEV and against the isolated capsid proteins (VP1, VP2 and VP3) were tested for their ability to bind or neutralize virus and to inhibit the virus-induced haemagglutination of human O+ erythrocytes. Western immunoblotting analysis showed that isolated VP1, VP2 and VP3 each primed for a specific antibody response, but that native virions primed for antibodies specific for VP1 and VP2, but not VP3. Virus neutralization studies revealed that a dominant TMEV neutralizing determinant(s) lay on VP1, as did the haemagglutinating determinant. The possible location of the neutralizing epitopes are discussed on the basis of molecular modelling of the predicted amino acid sequence of TMEV from that of the closely related Mengo virus for which the three-dimensional structure is known.
This article presents a tentative theoretical framework for the study of asymmetry in the context of human bimanual action. It is emphasized that in man most skilled manual activities involve two hands playing different roles, a fact that has been often overlooked in the experimental study of human manual lateralization. As an alternative to the current concepts of manual preference and manual superiority-whose relevance is limited to the particular case of unimanual actions-the more general concept of lateral preference is proposed to denote preference for one of the two possible ways of assigning two roles to two hands. A simple model describing man's favored intermanual division of labor in the model are the following. 1) The two hands represent two motors, that is, decomplexity is ignored in the suggested approach. 2) In man, the two manual motors cooperate with one another as if they were assembled in series, thereby forming a kinematic chain: In a right-hander allowed to follow his or her lateral preferences, motion produced by the right hand tends to articulate with motion produced by the left. It is suggested that the kinematic chain model may help in understanding the adaptive advantage of human manual specialization.
We have previously shown that, in the myelin-deficient jimpy mutant mouse, 74 nucleotides are absent from the mRNA for proteolipid protein (PLP) as a result of aberrant RNA processing. To define the exact site of the jimpy mutation, we have analyzed the PLP gene obtained from a jimpy mouse genomic library. We find that the nucleotide sequence that is absent from jimpy PLP mRNA is fully preserved in the jimpy PLP gene. The missing segment corresponds to a separate exon, equivalent to exon 5 of the human PLP gene. The nucleotide sequence at the 3' end of intron 4 in the jimpy PLP gene contains a single point mutation. A base change A----G in the 3' acceptor splice site has altered a position that is 100% conserved in all published splice acceptor sequences. We conclude that the primary genetic defect of the jimpy mouse is a single base change in the PLP gene disabling an invariant recognition sequence of RNA splicing.
The localization of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) immunoreactivity in canine distal oesophagus was studied using different fixation and embedding procedures and labelling with protein A-gold. The retention of immunoreactivity and the preservation of ultrastructure was best after fixation with a mixture of 0.1% glutaraldehyde and 4% paraformaldehyde, and embedding in 'LR White' resin using the 'cold-cured' method. VIP immunoreactivity was localized exclusively over large granular vesicles in the myenteric plexus and in nerves of the circular muscle. Most varicose profiles in circular muscle were labelled, but some large granular vesicles in the same profiles which contained labelled vesicles as well as some varicose profiles with large granular vesicles were unlabelled. From these data it was uncertain whether unlabelled large granular vesicles contained VIP or other neuropeptides. A striking finding was the dense and close innervation of the interstitial cells of Cajal with nerve containing VIP-labelled large granular vesicles. This finding is consistent with earlier suggestions that VIP-immunoreactive nerves may innervate these cells which are in gap junction contact with smooth muscle and that this arrangement may be involved in the transmission of non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic nerve activity in distal oesophagus.
15-Deoxyspergualin (DSG), a novel antitumor antibiotic, was tested for treatment of acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in Lewis rats. Clinical and histologic signs of EAE by active sensitization with myelin basic protein were profoundly inhibited by prophylactic administration of DSG in a dose-dependent manner. By the treatment during the inductive phase, the onset of EAE was significantly delayed. Antigen-specific proliferation of lymph node cells and the ability of spleen cells to transfer EAE were suppressed but concanavalin A-induced lymphocyte proliferation was not altered. Passive EAE induced with an encephalitogenic T cell line was also prevented by DSG-treatment, although DSG did not suppress but rather augmented the activation of T cells in vitro. Taken together, DSG is not a non-specific lymphocyte toxin but a unique immunomodulator that can suppress both inductive and effector phases of EAE.
Histopathological and morphometric studies of murine dystrophic muscles in the early postnatal period were performed. In dy mice, obtained by in vitro fertilization, scattered necrotic fibers were noted at 10 days of age followed by poorly compensated regeneration leading to muscle fiber loss, marked variation in fiber size, and fibrous and adipose tissue proliferation. In mdx mice, clusters of necrotic muscle fibers seen at 10-15 days were followed by well compensated regeneration with little fibrosis. There appeared to be no delay in muscle fiber growth and fiber type differentiation in both dy and mdx mice up to 10 days of age since there was no distinct difference in muscle fiber size, fiber type differentiation and the incidence of myosatellite cells between dystrophic muscles and those from age-matched control mice. Muscle fibers appeared to undergo necrosis only when they had reached a certain stage of maturation since at early stages of development or regeneration they rarely became necrotic. The difference in clinical symptoms between dy and mdx mice may result from differences in their regenerative response to necrosis.
Recent experimental evidence from the somatosensory, auditory, and visual systems documents the existence of functional plasticity in topographic map organization in adult animals. This evidence suggests that an ongoing competitive organizing process controls the locations of map borders and the receptive field properties of neurons. A computer model based on the process of neuronal group selection has been constructed that accounts for reported results on map plasticity in somatosensory cortex. The simulations construct a network of locally connected excitatory and inhibitory cells that receives topographic projections from 2 receptor sheets corresponding to the glabrous and dorsal surfaces of the hand (a typical simulation involves approximately 1500 cells, 70,000 intrinsic and 100,000 extrinsic connections). Both intrinsic and extrinsic connections undergo activity-dependent modifications according to a synaptic rule based on heterosynaptic interactions. Repeated stimulation of the receptor sheet resulted in the formation of neuronal groups-local sets of strongly interconnected neurons in the network. Cells in most groups were found to have similar receptive fields: they were exclusively glabrous or dorsal despite equal numbers of anatomical connections from both surfaces. The sharpness of map borders was due to the sharpness of the underlying group structure; shifts in the locations of these borders resulted from competition between groups. Following perturbations of the input, the network underwent changes similar to those observed experimentally in monkey somatosensory cortex. Repeated local tapping on the receptor sheet resulted in a large increase in the magnification factor of the stimulated region. Transection of the connections from a glabrous region resulted in the organization of a new representation of corresponding dorsal region. The detailed simulations provide several insights into the mechanisms of such changes, as well as a series of predictions about cortical behavior for further experimental test.
The translocation of protein kinase C between membrane and cytosol has been implicated in several cellular processes (Kraft and Anderson, 1983; Wooten and Wrenn, 1984; Akers et al., 1985, 1986; Hirota et al., 1985; Wolf et al., 1986). We desired to identify potential trigger mechanisms underlying the translocation of protein kinase C activity to neural membranes following the synaptic plasticity observed after long-term potentiation (LTP; Akers et al., 1986). Takai et al. (1979) have suggested an important role for calcium in protein kinase C translocation; we have therefore studied the effects of Ca2+ on both the translocation of protein kinase C activity and the in vitro phosphorylation of its endogenous substrate, protein F1, in rat hippocampal synaptosomes. Since identical free Ca2+ levels were maintained in subsequent assays of synaptosomal membranes (SPM) and cytosol preparations, alterations in endogenous enzyme activity and in vitro phosphorylation were due to the Ca2+ present during treatment of synaptosomes, and not to the Ca2+ present during assays of enzymatic activity. This afforded the opportunity to relate directly such enzyme translocation to endogenous substrate phosphorylation. The major findings were as follows: 1. Following treatment of synaptosomes with Ca2+, protein kinase C activity in synaptic membrane and protein F1 in vitro phosphorylation were elevated in a dose-dependent manner. 2. The greatest increment in membrane protein kinase C activity and protein F1 in vitro phosphorylation occurred when Ca2+ was increased from 0.1 to 1.0 microM. Maximal levels of enzyme activity were seen following treatment with 10 microM Ca2+, and minimum levels were observed following treatment with EGTA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Enzymes involved in the synthesis of catecholamines were detected in amacrine and what appeared to be a specific class of horizontal cells in the ferret retina. Antisera directed against the enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), which converts tyrosine to DOPA, and phenylethanolamine N-methyl-transferase (PNMT), which converts norepinephrine to epinephrine, were used with conventional immunohistochemical techniques. A population of perikarya located at the outer margin of the inner nuclear layer (INL) exhibited TH-like immunoreactivity. The cell bodies were 9-12 micron in diameter and gave rise to stout dendrites that tapered rapidly after emergence from the somata. The processes formed a planar array in the inner half of the outer plexiform layer (OPL) slightly external to the cells of origin. We could not detect any inwardly directed processes. A population of PNMT-positive cells was also observed in the outer tier of cells in the INL. These cells were very similar to those exhibiting TH immunoreactivity. An apparent difference between the 2 populations was that there were areas of intense, somewhat punctate PNMT immunoreactivity in the outer OPL. These were not observed in the TH-stained sections. Examination of horizontal sections showed that each TH-positive cell body gave rise to 4-5 major dendrites that branched to form a roughly circular dendritic field. In the periphery of the retina, an individual cell's dendrites encompassed an area up to 170 micron in diameter. The dendritic fields of cells near the center of the retina were substantially smaller.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Alcoholism is a chronic, progressive disease that devastates the patient and family. The chronic abuse of alcohol results in a multitude of pathological changes, particularly in the central nervous system. The toxic effects of acetaldehyde, a metabolic by-product of alcohol, and alcoholic beverage congeners have been associated with pathological changes in the central nervous system. Toxic effects of alcohol and addiction to alcohol reflect central nervous system changes. The alcohol withdrawal syndrome poses a potential life-threatening complication for the alcoholic patient. This paper discusses the pathological changes in the central nervous system, pharmacology of alcohol, and the alcohol withdrawal syndrome. Nursing implications to assist the neuroscience nurse in providing a highly specialized plan of care for the alcoholic patient are presented.
Diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) have been recognized as an integral part of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) since the beginning of the epidemic. This large patient population has both major physical problems and severe cognitive disabilities. Professional neuroscience nurses who are knowledgeable about and sensitive to the unique physical and emotional needs of these patients can best serve them. This article presents a care plan and case study with interventions for a patient with nervous system dysfunction attributed to AIDS.
Four out of ten acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) patients develop neurologic complications. Because of the complex nervous system dysfunction experienced by these patients, neuroscience nurses face an extraordinary challenge. To provide care for patients with neurological complications of AIDS, the neuroscience nurse must understand the nature of the disease and its effects on the central nervous system. With this broad knowledge base, effective nursing interventions can be implemented.

Using the patch-clamp, single-channel recording technique, the authors determined conductance and kinetics of gamma-aminobutyric acid-activated Cl- channels recorded from membrane patches excised from neonatal rat cortical neurons in primary culture. The anxiolytic benzodiazepine flunitrazepam increased the channel opening frequency, but it did not change conductance or channel opening burst duration. The anxiogenic compound methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate decreased gamma-aminobutyric acid-activated Cl- channel opening frequency without changing conductance or opening duration. An increase and decrease in the number of channel bursts were elicited by flunitrazepam and methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate, respectively. The effects of both drugs were antagonized by ethyl-8-fluoro-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo[1,5][1,4] -benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate (flumazenil), a benzodiazepine antagonist, which per se failed to modify Cl- channel kinetics and conductance.
A distributed computing facility that subserves a wide variety of clinical and research neurophysiology functions is described. The backbone of the system is an Ethernet local area network to which are attached a number of &quot;sub&quot;-networks defined by functional requirements. A variety of computer systems are attached to the network, many of which are mounted in portable racks. The capabilities of the overall system are described along with the functions it serves.
A Zenith Z-100 PC system was used to control an automated feeding system for determining the angular limits at which a monkey would respond to a food stimulus. Raisins secured to the end of a rotating arm by means of vacuum pressure were delivered to the monkey alternately from clockwise and counterclockwise directions at a fixed radius. The point at which the monkey took a raisin from the end of the arm was determined by an increase in negative pressure. The arm position was measured by using a potentiometer mounted in the arm gear train. The computer system controlled the experiment as well as the on-line recording and plotting of data.
Patterns of gonadotropin storage in individual gonadotropes change with alterations in the physiological state. After castration in the male rat, there is a 2.5-fold increase in the percentage of gonadotropes and an increase in the proportion of gonadotropes storing both LH and FSH. In addition, there are 6- to 8-fold increases in the pituitary concentrations of LH beta subunit mRNAs. In order to determine whether these changes are due to increases in the number of gonadotropes containing subunit mRNA, or the amount of mRNA per cell or both, an in situ hybridization technique using a photobiotinylated rat LH beta cRNA probe (bio-LH beta-cRNA) was applied to detect LH beta mRNA in fixed whole rat pituitary cells from intact or castrated rats. After hybridization, the bio-LH beta-cRNA was localized with either avidin-biotin peroxidase complex or the fluorescent streptavidin phycoprobe methods. The cells containing LH beta mRNA were then counted and the amount of mRNA per cell was measured by video microdensitometry. Ten percent of the anterior pituitary cells from intact animals contained LH beta mRNA. After castration (2-4 weeks) this percentage rose to 19-24.5%. Image and microdensitometric analyses showed that castration produced a 1.9-fold increase in the amount of LH beta mRNA per cell, and a 2.2-fold increase in the area of cells containing LH beta mRNA. Hence, castration resulted in an increase in the level of LH beta mRNA per cell as well as the number of LH beta mRNA-containing cells. When in situ hybridization was followed by immunocytochemistry in cells from intact rats, 83% of gonadotropes that stained for LH beta and 80% of gonadotropes that stained for FSH beta contained LH beta mRNA whereas after castration 99% of LH-storing and 93% of FSH-storing cells contained LH beta mRNA. This new in situ hybridization protocol is rapid and allows quantification of mRNA within individual gonadotropes. In addition, since the hybridization protocol does not apparently alter the gonadotropin antigens, the hormone content of the same gonadotrope may be defined by immunocytochemistry.
The structural determinants of sigma receptor affinity have been evaluated by examining a wide range of compounds related to opioids, neuroleptics, and phenylpiperidine dopaminergic structures for affinity at sigma receptor-binding sites labeled with (+)-[3H]3-PPP. Among opioid compounds, requirements for sigma receptor affinity differ strikingly from the determinants of affinity for conventional opiate receptors. Sigma sites display reverse stereoselectivity to classical opiate receptors. Multi-ringed opiate-related compounds such as morphine and naloxone have negligible affinity for sigma sites, with the highest sigma receptor affinity apparent for benzomorphans which lack the C ring of opioids. Highest affinity among opioids and other compounds occurs with more lipophilic N-substituents. This feature is particularly striking among the 3-PPP derivatives as well as the opioids. The butyrophenone haloperidol is the most potent drug at sigma receptors we have detected. Among the series of butyrophenones, receptor affinity is primarily associated with the 4-phenylpiperidine moiety. Conformational calculations for various compounds indicate a fairly wide range of tolerance for distances between the aromatic ring and the amine nitrogen, which may account for the potency at sigma receptors of structures of considerable diversity. Among the wide range of structures that bind to sigma receptor-binding sites, the common pharmacophore associated with high receptor affinity is a phenylpiperidine with a lipophilic N-substituent.
In C6-2B astrocytoma cells the Beta NGF content and secretion rate are increased by isoproterenol activation of beta-adrenergic receptors (Schwartz and Costa, 1977). Utilizing poly (A+) RNA hybridization analysis with a cRNA probe for mouse Beta NGF it was found that isoproterenol activation of C6-2B cells produces also a 4 fold increase of the content of messenger RNA encoding Beta NGF. This increase is specifically antagonized by 1-propanolol, but not by phentolamine. Furthermore, addition of dibutyryl-cAMP induces an increase of Beta NGF mRNA content similar to that obtained with isoproterenol. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that regulation of Beta NGF synthesis in neuroglial cells may be modulated by beta-adrenergic receptor activation.
In primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells the activation of excitatory amino acid receptors by 1-glutamate enhances the steady state level of c-fos proto-oncogene messenger RNA. This effect is blocked by magnesium (1mM) as well as by the glutamate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphono-valerate (APV). Among the other excitatory amino acid agonists N-methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) and quisqualate also increased c-fos mRNA content, the latter however to a significantly lesser extent, while kainate failed to modify the basal level of c-fos expression. The addition of the muscarinic agonist carbachol or of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA did not affect the basal level of c-fos mRNA. This data demonstrate for the first time that activation of signal transduction at a specific excitatory amino acid receptor subtype can increase the steady state level of c-fos proto-oncogene mRNA in primary culture of cerebellar neurons.
The distribution of catecholaminergic cells in the human pons and medulla was illustrated by immunocytochemistry using a polyclonal antibody directed against the catecholamine synthetic enzyme, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. The antibody specifically recognizes dopamine-beta-hydroxylase in putative adrenergic and noradrenergic neurons. The adrenergic and noradrenergic neurons are found in the brain stem from caudal levels of the medulla through the caudalmost levels of the midbrain. Large numbers of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive cells were observed in cell groups of the medulla. Additionally, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive cells were concentrated in the nucleus locus coeruleus and the nucleus subcoeruleus in the pons. These studies confirm that immunocytochemical localization of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase can be used to identify noradrenergic and adrenergic neurons and their terminal varicosities in the pons and medulla in routine autopsy material. These studies have also illustrated that the distribution of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase in the adult human brain is comparable to the distribution in other species.
Subcutaneous treatment of rats with low doses of lithium and pilocarpine or a high dose of pilocarpine results in a severe seizure--brain damage syndrome. Rats thus treated were studied with multiple-depth electrodes, quantitative [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiography, and light and electron microscopy. Rats receiving lithium-pilocarpine did not differ from high-dose pilocarpine rats in behavioral, electrographic, metabolic or histopathological findings, but lithium-pilocarpine reproduced the syndrome more reliably and with a lower acute mortality rate. Organized electrographic seizure activity developed just prior to the onset of behavioral forelimb clonus and appeared to originate from ventral forebrain in the vicinity of the ventral pallidum and/or nucleus accumbens. From these sites activity spread rapidly to involve other regions. Once initiated, electrographic seizures persisted for hours. Increased glucose utilization was found in most brain regions during the period of continuous seizure activity. The greatest increases were found in the ventral pallidum, globus pallidus, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, amygdala, lateral septum, substantia nigra, ventrobasal and mediodorsal thalamus and frontal motor cortex. Animals sustaining seizures displayed a disseminated pattern of neural degeneration not involving globus pallidus or ventral pallidum but otherwise coinciding with the above pattern of enhanced glucose utilization. No consistent correlation was observed between the pattern of brain damage and known regions of high muscarinic cholinergic receptor density. Ultrastructurally, the cytopathological changes, like those associated with various other sustained seizure syndromes, resemble the excitotoxic type of damage glutamate is known to cause. This seizure-brain damage syndrome and that induced by systemic kainic acid appear to be similar in behavioral but not in electrophysiological or metabolic manifestations. During kainic acid seizures, electrographic changes are first recorded in the hippocampus while they are first detected in the ventral forebrain region in pilocarpine seizures. Pilocarpine also induced metabolic activation of ventral forebrain sites not activated by kainic acid. The cytopathology associated with the two syndromes is identical in type but not in pattern, the cholinergic model being characterized by much greater neocortical and slightly less hippocampal damage. Further study of these cholinergic models may provide new insights into the roles of the major excitatory neurotransmitter systems (cholinergic and glutamergic) in limbic epilepsy.
Nicotine, locally applied to identified neurons in the rat cerebellar cortex, excites inhibitory interneurons, but depresses the discharge of Purkinje cells. Alpha-bungarotoxin blocked the excitatory actions of nicotine on the inhibitory interneurons. The antagonism of nicotine excitatory actions is largely irreversible and also insurmountable with higher doses of nicotine. The antagonism by alpha-bungarotoxin is, in addition, selective since there is no blockade of the inhibitory actions of nicotine on Purkinje neurons. The present data suggest that the excitatory actions of nicotine on inhibitory interneurons are mediated by neuromuscular-type nicotinic receptors in the cerebellum. Moreover, the present data also supports the hypothesis of multiple nicotinic sites of action in mammalian brain.
This paper examines the structure and cytoarchitecture of the cerebellum of the weaver mutant mouse with particular emphasis on regional differences along the mediolateral and anterior-posterior axes. We have uncovered several, previously undescribed features of the weaver cerebellar phenotype. Perhaps the most dramatic example of our findings is the severe disruption of the folial structure of the hemispheres of the weaver cerebellum. A dorsal overgrowth of tissue occurs in the hemispheres that forms a finger-like projection superficial to an atrophic but structurally more normal cerebellar mass underneath. While this folial abnormality is most evident in the homozygote (wv/wv) the antecedents of its appearance are already apparent in the heterozygote (+/wv). At the level of the cytoarchitectonics of the mutant brain, we find substantial variation in the positioning, numbers and density of both Purkinje and granule cells. As a whole, Purkinje plus Golgi II cell numbers are down by over 40%, but this reduction occurs almost exclusively in the medial half of the cerebellum. The hemispheric region contains a nearly normal number of cells per sagittal section (although their positions are predominantly incorrect). The granule cells also show numerical variation; they are nearly absent at the midline, but a substantial number of them survive in the lateral cerebellar cortex. In the paraflocculus, for example, granule cells can be observed in a modest internal granule cell layer as late as 38 postnatal days. These results are discussed in terms of a model of wv gene action in which we propose that the effect of the mutation is a general disruption of cellular distribution in the cerebellar cortex, affecting both Purkinje and granule cells and beginning prenatally.
An ultrastructural examination of cultured bovine chromaffin cells permeabilized with Staphylococcus aureus alpha-toxin or digitonin revealed differences in the preservation of cell morphology. The toxin-treated cells closely resembled control cultured cells whereas digitonin-treated cells showed gradations in cytoplasmic densities suggesting extraction, some swelling of the endoplasmic reticulum and, occasionally, discontinuities in the plasma membrane and free granules in the extracellular medium. In both cell models, there was a swelling of the mitochondria. Horseradish peroxidase labelling of permeabilized cells marked the cytoplasm of digitonin-treated cells but only the surface of toxin-treated cells, demonstrating that larger lesions were caused by digitonin. In stimulated cells, the decrease in volumetric density of chromaffin granules correlated well with catecholamine release. The sites of secretory activity could be demonstrated in toxin-treated cells using horseradish peroxidase as a surface marker. Although both cell systems secrete catecholamines in response to calcium stimulation, their calcium requirements and the kinetics of release were different. In alpha-toxin-treated cells, 100 microM free calcium induced maximal catecholamine release. In digitonin-treated cells, 20 microM evoked maximal release but secretion was blocked at 100 microM. Catecholamine release terminated in digitonin-treated cells within 10 min but continued in alpha-toxin-treated cells for at least 60 min. In addition, the maximal release observed in toxin-treated cells (50%) was always greater than that observed in digitonin-permeabilized cells (20%). The results suggest that both exocytosis and granule translocation are operational in alpha-toxin-treated cells, but that the translocation step or the docking of granules at the plasma membrane may be impaired in digitonin-treated cells.
Adenosine triphosphate synthesis and metabolism in cultured sympathetic neurons was studied after the incorporation of [2-3H]adenine into intact or microdissected neurites to determine whether ATP is provided locally during neurite outgrowth, when and where it is synthesized and how its levels are regulated at rest and following depolarization. Neurites maintained an independent capability for synthesis of ATP at any stage of growth: [3H]ATP levels increased in neurites in direct proportion to neurite length and equivalent amounts of [3H]ATP were synthesized by intact neurites, by neurites separated from cell bodies or by neurites further segmented into sections. Thus, metabolic labelling of cultured neurons with [3H]adenine provides a simple method to measure relative neurite outgrowth. Neurite ATP was maintained mainly by respiration but also by glycolysis and [3H]ATP levels were stable for at least 14 h after adenine withdrawal when cells were at rest. Depolarization overcame respiratory control, causing a quantitative conversion of ATP to adenosine monophosphate (AMP) and inosine monophosphate (IMP) and the release of nucleosides (adenosine and inosine) and nucleotides [adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and adenosine monophosphate (AMP)]. Release of nucleosides, but not of nucleotides or [3H]noradrenaline, was enhanced by NaN3 or 2-deoxyglucose under nondepolarizing conditions and was prevented by the adenosine transport inhibitor p-nitrobenzyl-6-thioinosine. It is concluded that neurites can use local mechanisms for ATP synthesis that do not depend on a functional connection to the cell body. Any metabolic stress which causes ATP breakdown causes these cells to express a transient purinergic phenotype involving release of adenosine and inosine by facilitated diffusion. To promote the release of purine nucleotides, however, more specific stimuli are required.
Immunocytochemical methods were used to examine the ultrastructural features and cellular interrelationships of GABA and serotonin afferent fibers to the rat red nucleus. GABAergic nerve endings were identified in two ways, either using a pre-embedding immunoperoxidase procedure with an antibody against glutamate decarboxylase, the GABA-synthesizing enzyme, or after post-embedding immunogold labelling with an anti-GABA antibody. With the latter approach, it was possible to simultaneously visualize the GABAergic and serotoninergic innervation of the red nucleus (magnocellular part) in electron microscope preparations. This procedure involved GABA labelling of ultrathin sections obtained from specimens previously immunostained for serotonin using the pre-embedding peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. The doubly stained sections showed gold and peroxidase markers to be present in two distinct populations of axonal varicosities. Unlike the GABAergic nerve endings, which were found to be profusely distributed throughout the nucleus, the serotonin nerve endings were relatively scarce. They contacted dendrites of large-sized neurons usually endowed with several GABA-gold labelled terminals. Not uncommonly, direct appositions between serotonin and GABA-positive terminals were also encountered. These data provide morphological evidence that red nucleus outputs may be dually regulated by GABAergic and serotoninergic afferents, while suggesting that presynaptic GABA/serotonin interactions might also play a significant part in red nucleus functions.
An original pathway of centrifugal acetylcholinesterase-positive fibres is described in the olfactory bulb of the rat. A dense network of positive fibres spreads out superficially at the boundaries of the lateral olfactory tract and the glomerular layer. These labelled fibres converge towards atypical glomerular structures lying close to the classical olfactory glomeruli. The atypical glomeruli are located dorsally at the medial border of the accessory olfactory bulb, in the area previously described as the &quot;modified glomerular complex&quot;, and in the ventrolateral bulbar area. They structurally differ from typical glomeruli, as suggested by observations on semithin sections. The ultrastructural distribution of acetylcholinesterases into axonal and dendritic profiles, around and inside atypical glomeruli, is consistent with the hypothesis of centrifugal modulatory influences at this level. This study illustrates several new aspects of morphofunctional heterogeneity in the olfactory system. The glomerular layer of the main olfactory bulb can no longer be considered as morphologically and functionally uniform. Atypical glomeruli located in the mediodorsal and the ventrolateral boundaries of the glomerular layer are characterized by both structural features and an uncommonly high convergence of acetylcholinesterase-positive centrifugal fibres. Such areas might be involved in the processing of specific olfactory signals as demonstrated elsewhere for the &quot;modified glomerular complex&quot;.
The stimulation-dependent translocation and redistribution of intracellular calcium was studied in synapses of the rat superior cervical ganglion. For the cytochemical demonstration of calcium at the ultrastructural level the oxalate-pyroantimonate technique was used. Calcium-containing deposits were observed as electron-dense particles in synaptic vesicles and occasionally in presynaptic mitochondria. On the postsynaptic side, vesicles and vacuoles in dendrites contained increased amounts of reaction product. Following a short train of impulses (20 s, 20 c.p.s.), the ganglionic response to a single stimulus was increased. This potentiation effect which lasted about 1-5 min was accompanied by a change in the distribution of calcium at fine structural level. In ganglia fixed 1 and 5 min after the train, but not later, the number of calcium-containing synaptic vesicles and postsynaptic vacuoles increased significantly.
Dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta are excited by nicotine and acetylcholine, and possess both high-affinity nicotine binding sites and intense acetylcholinesterase activity, consistent with a cholinoceptive role. A probable source of cholinergic afferents is the pedunculopontine nucleus, which forms part of a prominent group of cholinergic perikarya located caudal to the substantia nigra in the tegmentum. Although pedunculopontine efferents, many of them cholinergic, project to the substantia nigra pars compacta, it has not been established whether they terminate in this structure. In the first experiment, which combined retrograde tracing with immunohistochemical visualization of cholinergic neurons, cholinergic cells in and around the pedunculopontine nucleus were found to send projections to the substantia nigra. This projection was almost completely ipsilateral. Subsequent experiments employed anaesthetized rats; kainate was microinfused into tegmental sites in order to stimulate local cholinergic perikarya, and concurrently, extracellular recordings were made of single dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Consistent with our anatomical findings, unilateral microinfusion of kainic acid in or near the pedunculopontine nucleus increased the firing rate of dopaminergic neurons situated remotely in the ipsilateral substantia nigra. The kainate-induced excitation of nigral dopaminergic neurons was dose-related and was prevented by intravenous administration of the centrally-acting nicotinic cholinergic antagonist mecamylamine. These results suggest that cholinergic perikarya in the vicinity of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus innervate dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta via nicotinic receptors.

Diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to disorders of the central nervous system (CNS) are particularly difficult to develop because of the relative inaccessibility of the mammalian brain to study and chemical treatment, the complexity and interconnectedness of CNS subsystems, and the profound and continued lack of fundamental understanding of the relationship between structure and function in the CNS. Neural grafting in the CNS has recently suggested a potential approach to CNS therapy through the selective replacement of cells lost as a result of disease or damage. Independently, studies aimed at direct genetic therapy in model systems have recently begun to suggest conceptually new approaches to the treatment of several kinds of human genetic disease, especially those caused by single-gene enzyme deficiencies. We suggest that a combination of these two approaches, namely the grafting into the CNS of genetically modified cells, may provide a new approach toward the restoration of some functions in the damaged or diseased CNS. We present evidence for the feasibility of this approach, including a description of some current techniques for mammalian cell gene transfer and CNS grafting, and several possible approaches to clinical applications.
The distribution of neuromedin Us, uterus-stimulating and hypertensive peptides newly identified in porcine spinal cord, was examined in the rat brain by the indirect immunofluorescent method. Neuromedin U-like immunoreactive structures were found to be unevenly distributed in the neuronal system. Neuromedin U-like immunoreactive neurons were present in the cranial motor nuclei, reticular nuclei, nucleus vestibularis lateralis, trigeminal sensory nuclei, colliculus superior and inferior, lemniscus lateralis, nucleus pontis, nucleus ruber, zona incerta, substantia innominata, horizontal limb of the diagonal band and cerebral cortex. The immunoreactive fibres were found in the above areas, particularly near the labelled cells, forming a fibre plexus with various intensities of immunoreactivity. In addition, dense plexuses were also seen in the nucleus reticularis thalami, nucleus ventralis posteromedialis, nucleus ventralis posterolateralis, nucleus tegmentalis dorsalis and ventralis, vertical limb of the diagonal band, nucleus olivaris superior, and nucleus pontis. In the first six structures, no labelled neurons were present and in the remaining structures, a few scattered neurons were noted. This indicates that these fibres are probably of extrinsic origin.
Cerebral blood flow was sequentially determined (every 2-3 min) with helium clearance in two &quot;vulnerable&quot; structures: the hippocampus and the frontoparietal cortex during bicuculline (n = 11) and kainic acid (n = 9)-induced seizures in unanaesthetized, spontaneously breathing rats. Tissue partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were continuously and simultaneously evaluated in the same brain areas. All these variables were measured by mass spectrometry with a single gas sampling cannula previously implanted in each structure. The systemic variables, arterial blood pressure, arterial partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide, pH, and bicarbonate concentration were also determined. Arterial and venous catheters were chronically implanted several days prior to the definitive experiments. Bicuculline induced short (about 15 min), recurrent, generalized seizures, with an abrupt rise in arterial blood pressure, an arterial metabolic acidosis and comparable blood flow increases (4-fold) in the hippocampus and the neocortex. A marked increase in tissue partial pressure of oxygen was always preceded by an increase in tissue partial pressure of carbon dioxide. After the seizures, in the 5 rats that survived, cerebral blood flow was significantly lowered; tissue partial pressure of oxygen and partial pressure of carbon dioxide also decreased, but to a lesser extent. Histological examination revealed two types of lesions: predominantly selective chromatolysis but also ischaemic cell change. Kainic acid first induced a decrease in arterial pressure and then hypertension during status epilepticus, with a return of arterial pressure towards basal levels during the recovery period (4 h after the injection). Respiratory alkalosis occurred throughout the experiment. Cerebral blood flow increased progressively to become maximal during status epilepticus. This vasodilatation was greater in the hippocampus (x 8) than in the neocortex (x 4). During recovery, cerebral blood flow tended to decrease but remained significantly elevated. In both structures, tissue partial pressure of oxygen was first lowered while tissue partial pressure of carbon dioxide was elevated; with the occurrence of the wet dog shakes, tissue partial pressure of O2 increased and tissue partial pressure of CO2 decreased. The changes in tissue gases were maximal during status epilepticus and tended to return to their basal levels thereafter, but no decrease in tissue partial pressure of O2 was observed, even 4 h after kainic acid administration. Histological analysis demonstrated ischaemic cell changes, particularly in the limbic system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neurofilament heterogeneity has been demonstrated using a monoclonal antibody (CH1) specific for the 150,000 molecular weight neurofilament subunit. In the peripheral nervous system of adult rats CH1 stained selectively sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons and a subpopulation of small neurons in the sensory dorsal root ganglia. Somatic motor neurons and large neurons in dorsal root ganglia were completely unreactive. In contrast, the anti-neurofilament antibody iC8, directed against the 150,000 molecular weight subunit, labelled all peripheral nervous system neurons. The immunostaining pattern with both antibodies was unchanged by phosphatase treatment. These data indicate that two antigenically distinct variants of the 150,000 molecular weight neurofilament subunit exist in somatic and autonomic neurons of adult animals. In addition, the phosphatase treatment suggests that the antigen recognized by CH1 is not masked by phosphorylation. In contrast, all neurons were labelled by this antibody in the peripheral nervous system of newborn rats. It is suggested that CH1 identifies a fetal 150,000 molecular weight neurofilament polypeptide isoform whose expression is prevented by the growth of somatic neurons and is selectively maintained in autonomic and small sensory neurons.
The distribution of peptide histidine-isoleucine (PHI) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), two peptides derived from the same precursor molecule, was analysed with immunohistochemistry in the central nervous system of the rat, and to a limited extent in some other species including sheep, monkey and man. Special attention was focused on possible cross-reactivity between PHI antisera and corticotropin releasing factor in parvocellular neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus projecting to the external layer of the median eminence. (1) Characterization of the PHI and VIP antisera revealed that they recognized different sequences of the peptide molecules. One of the PHI antisera (PHI-N), although mainly N-terminally directed, also probably contained an antibody population directed against the C-terminal amino acid in PHI which is an amidated isoleucine. Rat and human corticotropin releasing factor but not ovine also have an amidated isoleucine in C-terminal position. (2) PHI- and VIP-like immunoreactivity were found with parallel and overlapping distribution in all areas investigated in the rat central nervous system. In many cases coexistence of the two immunoreactivities could be directly demonstrated. PHI neurons were found in some areas so far not know to contain PHI/VIP neurons, including the dorsal septum, the septofimbrial nucleus, the stria terminalis and lamina V of the spinal cord. (3) Using an antiserum directed against the amino acid sequence 111-122 of the VIP/PHI precursor, immunoreactive cell bodies were seen in some areas containing VIP and PHI neurons. PHI- and VIP-like immunoreactivity were expressed in parallel in increasing amounts in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn after transection of the sciatic nerve [G. P. McGregor et al. (1984) Neuroscience 13, 207-216; S. A. S. Shehab and M. E. Atkinson (1984) J. Anat. 139, 725; S. A. S. Shehab and M. E. Atkinson (1986) Expl Brain Res. 62, 422-430]. (5) The PHI-N antiserum stains large numbers of immunoreactive cells in the parvocellular part of the paraventricular nucleus and these cells are mostly identical with corticotropin releasing factor-positive neurons. Absorption experiments suggested that this PHI-N-like immunoreactivity to a large extent represented cross-reactivity with rat CRF and that earlier demonstration of many PHI-positive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus probably represents an artefact as proposed by F. Berkenbosch et al. (Neuroendocrinology 44, 338-346). However, some cells did, in fact, contain VIP- as well as PHI-like immunoreactivity as was shown with antisera not cross-reacting with corticotropin releasing factor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The dorsal cochlear nucleus is a highly organized nucleus in the auditory system in which the ramifications of depletion of specific cell types during development can be studied. Granule cells, small interneurons that are located in all layers of the DCN in the adult hamster, proliferate postnatally and are, therefore, potentially vulnerable to anti-mitotic agents that are administered after birth. The present experiments describe the effects of alpha-difluoromethylornithine, a drug that inhibits proliferation of cerebellar granule cells, on the granule cells in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. As in the cerebellum, the density of granule cells in the dorsal cochlear nucleus is reduced after alpha-difluoromethylornithine treatment. In hamsters treated with alpha-difluoromethylornithine (200 or 500 mg/kg subcutaneously (s.c.), twice daily on postnatal days 4-14), the numerical density of granule cells was reduced in the superficial dorsal cochlear nucleus at 15 days; by 40 days this effect was also apparent in the deep layer, suggesting that cells located superficially that would have migrated into the deep dorsal cochlear nucleus had either failed to develop or did not arrive at their final location. This evidence suggests that the cells normally migrate down from the superficial proliferative zone into the deeper layers. In the drug-treated animals, a layer of mixed granule cells and fusiform cells was thinner than in controls probably due to the reduction in interspersed granule cells since the number of fusiform cells was unaffected. There was also a dose-dependent effect on cell growth; fusiform cells were affected at both doses, while giant cells were only affected at the highest dose. Granule cells form a major input to the fusiform cells and their depletion may account for some of the effects on fusiform cell growth. There could also be additional direct actions of alpha-difluoromethylornithine on this population.
Syrian hamsters kept in long day-lengths have active gonads and high circulating levels of gonadal steroids. Under the influence of the pineal gland, animals exposed to short photoperiods undergo testicular regression, have low circulating levels of testosterone and gonadotrophins and elevated levels of beta-endorphin within the hypothalamus. This paper describes the interaction between testosterone and photoperiod in the regulation of beta-endorphin levels in three regions of the hypothalamus. Hypothalamic beta-endorphin levels were measured by a combination of high-performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay techniques that allows separation of the beta-endorphin (1-31) peptide from its metabolites and precursors. All of the beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity in the hypothalamus of the male hamster, in both photoinhibited and photostimulated conditions, was found to represent the 31-amino-acid peptide. In photostimulated hamsters, chronic castration was associated with a significant increase of beta-endorphin levels in the anterior hypothalamus and mediobasal hypothalamus, which was reversed by treatment with exogenous testosterone. Castration prevented the ability of naloxone, an opiate receptor antagonist, to release luteinizing hormone, and this effect was also reversed by exogenous steroid. In photoinhibited hamsters, however, castration had no effect upon beta-endorphin levels in the preoptic area or mediobasal hypothalamus, and there was only a small increment in the anterior hypothalamus. Significantly, beta-endorphin levels in all areas of the hypothalamus of photoinhibited castrates were not decreased by testosterone treatment. In addition, administration of exogenous testosterone did not restore sensitivity to naloxone in these animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The integrative role of the nucleus accumbens and subpallidal area in relaying hippocampal signals to the mesencephalic locomotor region in the brainstem was investigated electrophysiologically in urethan-anaesthetized rats. A behavioural study of the functional connections was also performed in freely moving rats. In the electrophysiological experiments, subpallidal output neurons to the pedunculopontine nucleus and the adjacent ventral gray were first identified by their antidromic responses to electrical stimulation of the pedunculopontine nucleus. Hippocampal stimulation was then shown to inhibit orthodromically some of these subpallidal neurons. The inhibitory response was attenuated following microinjection of a dopamine D2 agonist (LY 171555), but not a D1 agonist (SKF 38393), into the accumbens. This suggests that signal transmission from the hippocampus to the subpallidal output neurons to the pedunculopontine nucleus is modulated by a D2 receptor-mediated mechanism in the nucleus accumbens. Injections of N-methyl-D-aspartate into the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus resulted in a threefold increase in locomotor responses. Injection of a D2 agonist into the accumbens reduced the hyperkinetic response dose-dependently and suggests that D2 receptors regulate locomotor responses initiated by the hippocampal-accumbens pathway. Injection of nipecotic acid, a GABA uptake inhibitor, into the subpallidal area or of procaine, a neural transmission blocker, into the region of the pedunculopontine nucleus, also reduced significantly the hippocampal-induced hyperkinetic response. These results provide evidence of limbic (e.g. hippocampus) influences on locomotor activity by way of nucleus accumbens-subpallidal-pedunculopontine nucleus connections which may contribute to adaptive behaviour. Signal transmission from the hippocampus may be regulated by a dopamine D2 receptor mechanism in the accumbens, presumably mediated by the converging mesolimbic dopaminergic input from the ventral tegmental area.
The effect of imipramine on the responsiveness of CA1 pyramidal neurons to dopamine was studied in hippocampal slices, obtained from rats treated acutely or repeatedly with imipramine (10 mg/kg, 14 days, twice a day p.o.). In slices from non-treated rats the bath-applied dopamine evoked mainly potentiation, while SKF 38393 produced diminution of the firing rate of hippocampal CA1 neurons. Acute imipramine did not significantly affect the reactiveness of neurons to dopamine, whereas repeated imipramine administration increased both the strength and duration of the response to dopamine. In animals pretreated both acutely and repeatedly with imipramine, SKF 38393 induced the excitatory, and not the inhibitory response, the obtained effect being more potent after repeated administration of imipramine. Haloperidol antagonized the excitatory reaction to dopamine but not to SKF 38393. SCH 23390 did not affect the excitation evoked by dopamine and SKF 38393. It is concluded that repeated imipramine administration induces supersensitivity of hippocampal dopamine D2 receptors in the rat which--in the light of our earlier studies--are responsible for the dopamine-evoked excitatory effect in the rat hippocampal slices.
This study examines the proposal that striatonigral pathways support circling mediated by dopamine D1 receptors, but not D2 receptors, in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats. In this model the D1/D2 agonist apomorphine, the D1 agonist 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride and the D2 agonists N-n-propyl-N-phenylethyl-P-(3-hydroxyphenyl) ethylamine hydrochloride, trans-(-)-4aR,4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1H-pyrazolo-(3, 4-g) quinolino monohydrochloride and lisuride evoked a characteristic spectrum of motor responses when administered systemically. In addition apomorphine, 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride and lisuride replicated their systemic effects following stereotaxic injection into the supersensitive caudate nucleus. Three months after injecting the pars reticulata of the dopamine-denervated nigra with kainic acid (1 microgram in 1 microliter), all motor responses to intracaudate dopamine agonists were reduced or abolished. Systemic responses were modified differentially, often as early as one day post-kainate. Contraversive circling and posturing were reduced, or even reversed (apomorphine only), grooming was attenuated (all drugs) and 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride-induced forepaw nibbling and dyskinesia were abolished. By contrast, sniffing, movements of the head and locomotion were either unaffected, or significantly potentiated, suggesting these components of behaviour arose from dopamine receptors outside the denervated striatum. These behavioural changes showed no signs of recovery three months after kainate, and were not produced by partial lesions of the reticulata (1 microgram kainate in 0.2 microliter). Contrary to earlier opinion our results indicate that the structural integrity of the substantia nigra pars reticulata is essential for the development of all forms of dopamine behaviour mediated by striatal D1 and D2 receptors, though not necessarily by dopamine receptors present at other locations.
Acetylcholinesterase staining and studies on the uptake of [3H]choline into the subsequent efflux of tritium from collicular slices were carried out in order to provide evidence for a neurotransmitter function of acetylcholine in rabbit superior colliculus. Acetylcholinesterase staining was dense and homogeneous in superficial layers whereas the staining was arranged in patches with slightly higher density caudally than rostrally in the intermediate layers. The accumulation of tritium in slices incubated with [3H]choline depended on time, temperature and concentration, and was inhibited by hemicholinium-3. Accumulation was slightly higher in caudal than in rostral slices. Electrical stimulation enhanced tritium outflow from slices preincubated with [3H]choline. Tetrodotoxin and a low calcium medium inhibited the evoked overflow whereas hemicholinium-3 caused an enhancement. Oxotremorine decreased the evoked overflow; atropine prevented this effect. The opioids [D-Ala2, MePhe4, Glycol5]enkephalin, [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin and ethylketocyclazocine caused an inhibition. The effects of the latter two agonists were antagonized by naloxone. The GABAB-receptor-agonist (-)-baclofen decreased the evoked overflow at lower concentrations than GABA, whereas the GABAA-receptor-agonist muscimol was ineffective. Serotonin produced an inhibition which was prevented by metitepin, alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor as well as dopamine-receptor ligands caused no change. It is concluded that in the rabbit superior colliculus the pattern of acetylcholinesterase staining is comparable, but not identical to the distribution in other species. The accumulation of [3H]choline, as well as the tetrodotoxin-sensitive and calcium-dependent overflow of tritium upon electrical stimulation (reflecting presumably release of [3H]acetylcholine) indicate that acetylcholine has a neurotransmitter function in this tissue. The release of [3H]acetylcholine was modulated by various transmitter substances and related compounds. The pattern of modulation of release differed from the pattern in other cholinergically innervated tissues.
1. The existence of direct projections to spinal motoneurons and interneurons from the raphe pallidus and obscurus, the adjoining ventral medial reticular formation and the locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus is now well substantiated by various anatomical techniques. 2. The spinal projections from the raphe nuclei and the adjoining medial reticular formation contain serotonergic and non-serotonergic fibres. These projections also contain various peptides, several of which are contained within the serotonergic fibres. Whether still other transmitter substances (e.g. acetylcholine) are present in the various descending brainstem projections to motoneurons remains to be determined. 3. The spinal projections from the locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus are mainly noradrenergic, but there also exists a non-noradrenergic spinal projection. 4. Pharmacological, physiological and behavioural studies indicate an overall facilitatory action of noradrenaline and serotonin (including several peptides) on motoneurons. This may lead to an enhanced susceptibility for excitatory inputs from other sources. 5. The brainstem areas in question receive an important projection from several components of the limbic system. This suggests that the emotional brain can exert a powerful influence on all regions of the spinal cord and may thus control both its sensory input and motor output.
Oyster larvae can be induced to metamorphose by exposure to the natural vertebrate adrenergic agonists, epinephrine and norepinephrine. The larval receptors mediating this induction were pharmacologically characterized by testing the ability of a variety of adrenergic agonists and selected structural analogs of epinephrine and norepinephrine to induce oyster metamorphosis, and by testing the ability of various adrenergic antagonists to block the induction of metamorphosis by epinephrine. Oyster metamorphosis can be induced by vertebrate adrenergic agonists with relative potencies: cirazoline greater than epinephrine greater than phenylephrine greater than or equal to norepinephrine greater than alpha-methylnorepinephrine greater than isoproterenol much greater than methoxamine = clonidine. Other structural analogs of epinephrine and norepinephrine, including dopamine and octopamine, were ineffective at inducing metamorphosis. Induction of metamorphosis by epinephrine can be blocked by vertebrate adrenergic antagonists with relative potencies: chlorpromazine greater than or equal to prazosin greater than phentolamine greater than WB4101 greater than propranolol greater than yohimbine greater than metoprolol. These data demonstrate that receptors similar to vertebrate-type alpha 1-adrenoceptors mediate oyster metamorphosis. This is the first evidence for alpha 1-adrenoceptors in molluscs, and provides an important clue to the control of the complex process of molluscan metamorphosis and to the evolution of vertebrate adrenergic receptors.
Administration of the drug 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine induces a parkinsonian syndrome in primates. Intraperitoneal injections of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) produced symptoms of rigidity, akinesia and tremor which persisted for at least one month. However, after this time, considerable behavioural recovery occurred, although animals were still severely bradykinetic compared with controls. Marmosets were allowed to survive for 1, 3 1/2 or 7 months prior to histological and immunocytochemical analysis. Detection of catecholaminergic neurons using antibodies directed against the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase revealed a profound (80%) loss of dopaminergic cells from the substantia nigra one month after initiation of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment. This was accompanied by a severe gliosis. Fewer cells were lost from the adjacent ventral tegmental area (45%), but dopamine-containing cells in other brain areas were not obviously affected. At longer survival times the substantia nigra was less damaged, with a proliferation of glia in the pars compacta and a loss of approximately 20% of the dopaminergic perikarya. Using immunohistochemical techniques, the distribution of neuropeptides substance P, [Met]enkephalin and dynorphin 1-17-like immunoreactivity were examined and found to exhibit distinctive patterns in the marmoset substantia nigra. The integrity of these systems appeared intact at all times after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment. These results support the hypothesis that the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine produces a clinical syndrome, indistinguishable from Parkinson's disease, via a selective destruction only of neurons with perikarya in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area. The findings that the peptidergic input to these cells together with most non-nigral dopaminergic cell groups are not damaged, indicate that the selectivity of the lesion produced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine appears greater than that seen in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The neurotoxic effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in the marmoset may not be permanent since both behavioural and biochemical recovery were observed after several months.
beta-Endorphin was infused bilaterally into the medial preoptic area-anterior hypothalamic continuum at doses of 5, 10 and 40 pmol each side. The highest dose selectively abolished mounting, intromitting and ejaculating in sexually experienced male rats paired with an oestrous female. Males infused with 40 pmol beta-endorphin still followed the female, investigated her anogenital region and other parts of her body, but made abortive attempts to mount. A dose of 5 pmol beta-endorphin had no effect, but 10 pmol proved partially effective. The same males, in other tests, were allowed to ingest a highly preferred, sweet, non-calorific solution (acesulfame-K) in the absence of a female. beta-Endorphin infusions (up to 40 pmol) into the same area of the hypothalamus had no effect on this behaviour. Control males allowed simultaneous access both to an oestrous female and to the sweet solution copulated normally but reduced their ingestive behaviour, despite there being sufficient time during tests for both to occur. beta-Endorphin (40 pmol) infused into the preoptic area-anterior hypothalamic continuum under these conditions suppressed sexual interaction, but ingestion of acesulfame-K increased to values observed when the female was absent. beta-Endorphin infused into neighbouring areas of the brain had different behavioural effects. Sexual behaviour was not inhibited, and ingestion of acesulfame-K was unaltered, when beta-endorphin was infused either into the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis or the rostral ventromedial hypothalamus. However, infusions of cholecystokinin-8 into the ventromedial hypothalamus suppressed acesulfame-K ingestion in most animals, showing that the cannulae were placed in an area regulating ingestive behaviour. The inhibition of sexual behaviour after preoptic area-anterior hypothalamic continuum infusions of beta-endorphin was prevented by either pretreating rats with 1 mg/kg naloxone intraperitoneally, or by infusing a putative delta opiate receptor blocker (0.5 pmols ICI 174864) into the preoptic area-anterior hypothalamic continuum 5 min prior to beta-endorphin treatment. ICI 174864 administered alone significantly increased mount rate and reduced the post-ejaculatory refractory period in copulating males. These experiments suggest that there is both neurochemical and neuroanatomical specificity relating beta-endorphin to sexual behaviour in the male rat.
Loyez' myelin stain sometimes impregnates the perikarya and processes of neurons. This is rare in normal adult mice, but can be provoked by various means including electrical stimulation and mild ischaemia shortly before fixation. Passing a direct current or a train of pulses across the dura of the cerebral cortex produces a patch at the site of stimulation in which the neurons, but not the glia, are Loyez-impregnated; pulse-trains evoke such impregnation even at remote sites, presumably through orthodromic and/or antidromic activation. The strength and duration of stimulation necessary to provoke impregnation are below the threshold for causing an overt lesion. Local ischaemia produced by irreversibly occluding a small subarachnoid artery for as little as 7 min evokes a small patch of impregnated neurons in the superficial layers adjacent to the occluded artery. After slightly longer-lasting (e.g. 17 min) ischaemia, the impregnated zone spans most of the cortical depth. Mild global ischaemia produced by irreversibly occluding one or both common carotid arteries 30 min before fixation causes large numbers of neurons to be impregnated in many parts of the brain. That interventions as different as electrical stimulation and arterial occlusion both lead to neuronal impregnation may most plausibly be explained by the fact that they both cause cells to be depolarized. The method will be useful for visualizing overstimulated or ischaemic neurons, and may be applicable to the tracing of neural pathways.
The distribution and fine structure of 5-hydroxytryptamine-, thyrotropin-releasing hormone- and substance P-immunoreactive synaptic boutons and varicosities were studied in the motor nucleus of the spinal cord segments L7-S1 in the cat, using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunohistochemical technique and analysis of ultrathin serial sections. The 5-hydroxytryptamine-, thyrotropin-releasing hormone- and substance P-immunoreactive boutons had a similar ultrastructural appearance as judged from serial section analysis. The boutons could be classified into two types on the basis of their vesicular content, with one type containing a large number of small agranular vesicles together with only a few, if any large granular vesicles, while the other type contained a large number of large granular vesicles in addition to small agranular vesicles. The vesicles were spherical or spherical-to-pleomorphic. Postsynaptic dense bodies (Taxi bodies) were occasionally observed in relation to all three types of immunoreactive boutons, which almost invariably formed synaptic junctions with dendrites. Judged by the calibre of the postsynaptic dendrites, the boutons were preferentially distributed to the proximal dendritic domains of motoneurons. In one case, a substance P-immunoreactive bouton formed an axosomatic synaptic contact. In addition to synaptic boutons, 5-hydroxytryptamine-, thyrotropin-releasing hormone- and substance P-immunoreactive axonal varicosities containing a large number of large granular and small agranular vesicles but lacking any form of conventional synaptic contact were observed. Such varicosities were either directly apposing surrounding neuronal elements or separated from the neurons by thin glial processes. The origin of the immunoreactive boutons was not traced, but it was thought likely that the main source of the boutons was neurons with their cell bodies located in the medullary raphe nuclei.
The neurokinins, physalaemin, substance P, neurokinin A and bradykinin, were tested on the responses of single spinal neurons to the purines, adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and adenosine 5'-monophosphate and to GABA. Experiments were done on anaesthetized cats, recording extracellularly from functionally identified sensory neurons in the lumbar dorsal horn. All compounds were administered by iontophoresis. Neurokinins caused a slow, prolonged excitation which outlasted the period of application. Physalaemin was tested on responses to ATP in 24 units. In each case application of ATP caused either depression, excitation or a biphasic response when the application was not pre-conditioned by ejection of physalaemin. For 11 units, with ATP applications subthreshold to alter the on-going firing rate, such applications caused depression when they were preceded by administration of physalaemin. Three units were tested with ATP applications which caused the excitatory response; when the applications of ATP were preceded by ejection of physalaemin, there was then a depressant component in the response. In these 14 cases, the magnitude of the depression or of the depressant component of the response, was measured using currents which failed to produce depression in the absence of physalaemin ejection; the mean magnitude of this depression was 34.7 +/- 1.6% (+/- S.E.M.). With the 10 remaining units, responses to ATP were unaffected by application of physalaemin. The early components of the biphasic and excitatory responses were unaffected by physalaemin and hence it appeared to have a differential effect, enhancing only the depressant effects of ATP. The enhancement of depression was reversible, lasting up to 30 min following a single ejection. Neither control current nor glutamate mimicked the effect of physalaemin in the responses to application of ATP. The depressant response to adenosine 5'-monophosphate was also enhanced by physalaemin: ejections of adenosine 5'-monophosphate subthreshold to affect the on-going firing rate caused depression after physalaemin application in 3 of 8 units (average depression: 35.0 +/- 3.3%). On the other hand, depression induced by GABA was unaffected by physalaemin in every case (n = 8); in 4 of these cases GABA was tested on units for which purine-induced depression was enhanced by physalaemin. Thus, physalaemin preferentially affected depressant responses to ATP and to adenosine 5'-monophosphate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Dendrotoxin and mast cell degranulating peptide are highly potent convulsant polypeptides from mamba snake and bee venoms, respectively. Electrophysiological techniques and binding assays were used to study their interaction with fast-activating, voltage-dependent potassium channels in rat neurons. Intracellular recordings in sensory ganglion cells showed that mast cell degranulating peptide blocks the same slowly inactivating potassium current as dendrotoxin but with lower potency, the respective IC50 values in sensory A neurons of nodose ganglion being 2.1 nM and 37 nM. In contrast, the transient potassium current (IA) in superior cervical ganglion neurons was unaffected by either toxin, highlighting the heterogeneity of these potassium channels and the selective action of the toxins. Using biologically active 125I-labelled derivatives of dendrotoxin and beta-bungarotoxin (a related snake protein), the binding of mast cell degranulating peptide to two subtypes of high-affinity acceptors in rat cerebrocortical synaptosomal preparations was examined. Mast cell degranulating peptide antagonized the specific binding of both radioiodinated toxins to each of the acceptor species, in the membrane-bound state; additionally, [125I]dendrotoxin binding in detergent-solubilized extracts was, likewise, blocked by mast cell degranulating peptide. Notably, the observed inhibitory constants (KI) for mast cell degranulating peptide were appreciably larger than for dendrotoxin, consistent with their different efficacies in blocking the potassium conductances. It is concluded that the specific interaction of this apian polypeptide with dendrotoxin acceptors must underlie its selective action on potassium conductances, emphasizing a functional relationship between these membrane acceptors and the potassium channel variants, sensitive to both dendrotoxin and mast cell degranulating peptide.
In the present study, we examined the peptidergic content of lumbar spinoreticular tract neurons in the colchicine-treated rat. This was accomplished by combining the retrograde transport of the fluorescent dye True Blue with the immunocytochemical labeling of neurons containing cholecystokinin-8, dynorphin A1-8, somatostatin, substance P or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. After True Blue injections into the caudal bulbar reticular formation, separate populations of retrogradely labeled cells were identified as containing cholecystokinin-like, dynorphin-like, substance P-like or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity. Retrogradely labeled somatostatin-like neurons were not identified in any of the animals examined. Each population of double-labeled cells showed a different distribution in the lumbar spinal cord. The highest yield of double-labeling occurred for cholecystokinin, with 16% of all intrinsic cholecystokinin-like neurons containing True Blue. These double labeled neurons were found predominantly at the border between lamina VII and the central canal region. About 11% of intrinsic vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like neurons in the lumbar spinal cord were retrogradely labeled from the bulbar reticular formation. These neurons were found mostly in the lateral spinal nucleus, with only a few double-labeled cells located deep in the gray matter. Dynorphin-like double-labeled neurons were localized predominantly near the central canal; a smaller population was also seen in the lateral spinal nucleus. It was found that double-labeled dynorphin-like neurons made up 8% of all intrinsic dynorphin-like neurons. Retrogradely-labeled substance P-like neurons were rare; the few double-labeled neurons were found in the lateral spinal nucleus and lateral lamina V. These findings suggest a significant role for spinal cord peptides in long ascending systems beyond their involvement in local circuit physiology.
The neural input to the frog bladder was characterized in vitro. The nerve-evoked bladder contraction consists primarily of an early parasympathetic cholinergic component and a later, longer-lasting non-adrenergic non-cholinergic component. This slow non-adrenergic non-cholinergic contraction is not only resistant to cholinergic and adrenergic antagonists, but also to H1 and H2 histaminergic antagonists and to the serotoninergic antagonist, methysergide. It is concluded that the non-adrenergic non-cholinergic contraction is mediated by an efferent action of the sensory system because it is resistant to ganglionic nicotinic antagonists and because it is elicited specifically by stimulation of the peripheral cut end of the dorsal root. 5-Hydroxytryptamine is a potent and specific inhibitor of the sensory non-adrenergic non-cholinergic contraction. Although the bladder smooth muscle is innervated by terminals containing a somatostatin-like substance, somatostatin does not cause a bladder contraction. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, enkephalin, histamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, adenosine and adenosine 5 monophosphate are also unlikely candidates for the non-adrenergic non-cholinergic transmitter because they do not produce bladder contractions and/or their antagonists are ineffective on the nerve-evoked contraction. A putatively sensory network of fibers containing a substance P-like material is located within the wall of the bladder. Substance P produces bladder contractions at concentrations as low as 10(-9) M and so it, or a related substance, is a viable transmitter candidate in this system. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP)(10(-5) M) also causes a bladder contraction and remains a possible candidate as well. The data demonstrate that the bladder contraction resulting from electrical stimulation of the bladder nerves is due in large part to the &quot;antidromic&quot; stimulation of sensory axons. The likely presence therefore of potent and releasable substances in the peripheral sensory terminals of the bladder suggests that this sensory system may exert significant local, efferent control of bladder smooth muscle (i.e. independent from the central nervous system).
Human trigeminal root evoked potentials have been recorded using signal averaging techniques during radiofrequency trigeminal rhizotomy and lidocaine blocks in patients with trigeminal neuralgia. Both short and long latency trigeminal root potentials have been recorded which appear to represent fast- and slow-conducting fiber activity respectively. Long latency trigeminal root potentials appear in recordings at the noxious threshold as perceived by the awake patient and are relatively selectively abolished in a reversible fashion by lidocaine block and irreversibly by radiofrequency heat. Evaluation of these trigeminal root potentials provides an objective assessment of the results of pain surgery directed at differential destruction of slow-conducting fiber activity.
Among medications targeted at the central nervous system, sedative/hypnotics are the most widely prescribed. The use of sedative/hypnotics is reviewed in the context of historical influences on prescribing practice and from a current neuroscience perspective. Recommendations are made regarding appropriate applications for these drugs, and the principles for choosing one drug over another are emphasized.
In primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, protein kinase C (PKC) translocation and activation can be triggered by the stimulation of excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter receptors. Glutamate evokes a dose-related translocation of 4-beta-[3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate ([3H]-P(BtO)2) binding sites from the cytosol to the neuronal membrane and stimulates the incorporation of 32P into a number of membrane proteins, particularly protein bands in the range of 80, 50, and 40 kDa. The glutamate-evoked PKC translocation is Mg2+ sensitive, is prevented by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and phencyclidine, is not inhibited by nitrendipine (a voltage-dependent Ca2+-channel blocker) but is abolished by the removal of Ca2+ from the incubation medium, suggesting that glutamate-mediated Ca2+ influx is operative in the redistribution of PKC. Exposure of granule cells to the gangliosides trisialosylgangliotetraglycosylceramide (GT1b) or monosialosylgangliotetraglycosylceramide (GM1) inhibits the translocation and activation of PKC evoked by glutamate. These glycosphingolipids fail to interfere with glutamate binding to its high-affinity recognition site or with the [3H]P(BtO)2 binding, nor do they affect the Ca2+ influx. These gangliosides may prevent PKC translocation by interfering with the PKC binding to the neuronal membrane phosphatidylserine.
Two cDNA clones encoding prepro-sphingolipid activator protein 1 (SAP-1) were isolated from a lambda gt11 human hepatoma expression library using polyclonal antibodies. These had inserts of approximately 2 kilobases (lambda-S-1.2 and lambda-S-1.3) and both were both homologous with a previously isolated clone (lambda-S-1.1) for mature SAP-1. We report here the nucleotide sequence of the longer two EcoRI fragments of S-1.2 and S-1.3 that were not the same and the derived amino acid sequences of mature SAP-1 and its prepro form. The open reading frame encodes 19 amino acids, which are colinear with the amino-terminal sequence of mature SAP-1, and extends far beyond the predicted carboxyl terminus of mature SAP-1, indicating extensive carboxyl-terminal processing. The nucleotide sequence of cDNA encoding prepro-SAP-1 includes 1449 bases from the assigned initiation codon ATG at base-pair 472 to the stop codon TGA at base-pair 1921. The first 23 amino acids coded after the initiation ATG are characteristic of a signal peptide. The calculated molecular mass for a polypeptide encoded by 1449 bases is approximately 53 kDa, in keeping with the reported value for pro-SAP-1. The data indicate that after removal of the signal peptide (23 amino acids) mature SAP-1 (78 amino acids) is generated by removing an additional 7 amino acids from the amino terminus and approximately 373 amino acids from the carboxyl terminus. One potential glycosylation site was previously found in mature SAP-1. Three additional potential glycosylation sites are present in the processed carboxyl-terminal polypeptide, which we designate as P-2. The molecular mass of glycosylated pro-SAP-1 is estimated at approximately 69 kDa, assuming glycosylation of all four sites. The value is close to the reported 70-kDa value for glycosylated pro-SAP-1. A computer search failed to reveal homology between P-2 and the sequence of any other protein; its function is uncertain. The 3' untranslated region is composed of 90 base pairs and is incomplete, since it does not contain a polyadenylylation site or a poly(A) tail.
Neurothermography is a new, clinically useful method of detecting autonomic sympathetic peripheral nerve dysfunction. Body symmetry of the skin temperature as maintained by symmetrically functional peripheral nerves is the key to detecting a normal state. Persistent 1 degree C temperature asymmetry in the pattern of a peripheral nerve (thermatome) is a highly reliable method of detecting autonomic peripheral nerve disorder.

Brain tissue pressure (BTP) in pre- and post-natal anesthetized rabbits, held in a stereotactic head holder, was measured with a fluid filled 23 gauge open-ended cannula connected distally to a pressure transducer. By advancing the cannula step wise through a hole in the cranium it was possible to sequentially measure pressure from the cranial subarachnoid space, cortex, ventricle and basal ganglia. Separate cannulas and transducers were used to measure CSFP from the cisterna magna and arterial and/or venous pressure. Pressure recordings obtained when the tip of the BTP cannula was located in the cranial subarachnoid space or ventricle exhibited respiratory and blood pressure pulsations equivalent to and in phase with CSF pulsations recorded from the cisterna magna. When the tip was advanced into brain parenchymal sites such pulsations were suppressed or non-detectable unless communication with a CSF compartment had been established inadvertently. Although CSF pressures in the three spinal fluid compartments were equivalent, in most animals BTP was higher than CSFP. However, after momentary venting of the system BTP equilibrated at a pressure below that of CSFP. We speculate that venting of the low compliance system (1.20 x 10(-5) ml/mmHg) relieves the isometric pressure build-up due to insertion of the cannula into brain parenchyma. Under these conditions, and at all ages examined, BTP in the rabbit is consistently lower than CSFP and, as with CSFP, it increases as the animal matures.
Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) is used to analyze neuropeptides in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained from patients suffering from lower-back pain. Because CSF contains only femtomole to picomole amounts of those peptides, it is important to minimize any sample memory effect, while maximizing peptide recovery and avoiding any potential artifactual peak formation during chromatography. This study describes the phenomenon of active site occupancy by peptides on the RP-HPLC column, which is crucial when studying CSF where femtomole to picomole amounts of neuropeptides could be lost. Knowledge of those basic chromatographic factors is important whenever biologic extracts of peptides are applied to and eluted from an RP-HPLC column and then detected off-line with a radioreceptor assay, which is sensitive at the picomole level.
Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) injection into the tooth pulp of the left lower canine in 4 adult cats resulted in labeling a maximal number of nerve cell bodies of 45 and 149 ipsilaterally in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (MTN) and trigeminal ganglion (TG), respectively. In a cat subjected to HRP application to the same canine and subsequent 3 posterior teeth, the respective numbers of labeled neurons in MTN and TG were increased to 92 and 933, respectively.
In the present study, the distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-stained fibers and varicosities are demonstrated in the lumbar spinal cord of the monkey at the light microscopic level. Immunostained fibers and varicosities form a dense plexus in laminae I, IIo, the reticulated region of lamina V, and in the region of the central canal. The intervaricose fibers consistently measured 1 micron or less in diameter suggesting a population of finely myelinated or unmyelinated fibers. At the electron microscopic level, two types of terminals were labeled: a glomerular type where one CGRP-labeled profile was indented by several unlabeled postsynaptic profiles and an axodendritic type with one or sometimes two postsynaptic elements. The most noteworthy cytologic feature of CGRP-labeled profiles was the presence of many relatively large vesicles with dense cores. These findings are steps towards understanding the synaptic interactions of CGRP in the monkey dorsal horn.
We describe here the purification and characterization of a form of acid lipase from human liver (designated ALII), which differed from the more abundant Mr-29000 form (ALI). ALII was solubilized from frozen human liver with Triton X-100 and purified 8500-fold by chromatography over concanavalin A-sepharose, CM-cellulose and finally h.p.l.c. over a Mono S column. ALII migrated as a single band on polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis in both the presence and the absence of SDS. The Mr of ALII was estimated to be 58,500 by SDS/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. Gel filtration on Sephacryl S-200 gave an apparent Mr of 69,000. 4-Methylumbelliferyl (4MU) palmitate, cholesterol oleate and triolein were substrates for ALII, with apparent Vmax values of 5000, 1100 and 2500 nmol/min per mg respectively and Km values of 1.0, 1.5 and 1.8 mM respectively. Cholesterol oleate and triolein were hydrolysed optimally by ALII at pH 4.5, whereas 4MU palmitate was hydrolysed optimally at pH 5.3. Antisera were raised against ALI and ALII and, on immunoblot analysis, no antigenic similarity was observed between ALI and ALII. Cellulose acetate electrophoresis followed by reaction with 4MU palmitate revealed two forms of lipase, corresponding to ALI and ALII. The two enzymes were also separated by hydrophobic chromatography. The activity of ALII was stimulated by several proteins and was partially inhibited by millimolar concentrations of NaCl, CaCl2 and MgSO4.
Human lymphoblast and fibroblast cell lines from a patient with I-cell disease and normal individuals were characterized with respect to certain properties of UDP-N-acetylglucosamine:lysosomal enzyme precursor N-acetylglucosamine phosphotransferase. The enzyme isolated from normal lymphoblast and fibroblast cell lines expressed similar kinetic properties, substrate specificities and subcellular localizations. Coincident with the severe reduction of N-acetylglucosamine phosphotransferase activity in both I-cell fibroblast and lymphoblast cell lines, there was an increased secretion of several lysosomal enzymes compared to normal controls. Subsequent examination of N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase secreted by the I-cell lymphoblasts demonstrated a significant increase in adsorption of the I-cell enzyme to Ricinus communis agglutinin, a galactose-specific lectin. However, the I-cell lymphoblasts did not exhibit the significant decrease in intracellular lysosomal activities seen in I-cell fibroblasts. Our results suggest that lymphoblasts not only represent an excellent source for the purification of N-acetylglucosamine phosphotransferase, but in addition, represent a unique system for studying alternate mechanisms involved in the targeting of lysosomal enzymes.

Explants of the metencephalic basal plate from stage 11 (40-hour) chick embryos containing the trigeminal (V) motor nucleus were cultured in standard control medium, in medium supplemented with nerve growth factor (NGF), in medium supplemented with NGF and specific antibodies to NGF (anti-NGF), and in medium supplemented with anti-NGF alone. The explants grown in the presence of NGF displayed an enhanced density and complexity of neuritic outgrowth, with this growth significantly surpassing that seen in the control group (p less than .001). The explants grown in NGF plus anti-NGF and those grown in anti-NGF alone did not differ from controls. The results indicate that this early cholinergic population is specifically responsive to NGF. This finding is consistent with recent studies in which NGF receptor binding has been found in this and other early brainstem and spinal cord motor neuron populations. The possible relevance of these observations to the normal sequence involved in the development of the V motor nucleus is discussed, particularly as they may relate to the relationship between the V ganglion and the developing V motor population.

Inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (InsP4) is produced rapidly upon stimulation of the phosphoinositide system and may serve as a second messenger in hormone and neurotransmitter action. In this report we demonstrate specific binding sites for [3H]InsP4 in rat tissue membranes. In cerebellar membranes, [3H]InsP4 binding sites are displaced both by InsP4 and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) with similar potency (IC50 approximately equal to 300 nM) whereas several other inositol phosphates are much weaker. We have distinguished the InsP4 binding site from the InsP3 receptor binding site by differences in brain regional and tissue distribution, affinity for InsP4 and InsP3, and sensitivity to calcium.
The effects of supramaximal concentrations of substance P and the cholinergic agonist carbachol on the accumulation of inositol trisphosphate and the elevation of the intracellular free calcium concentration were compared in rat parotid acinar cells. Substance P was fully as effective as carbachol at initial times, but there was a rapid loss of the substance P responses while the effects of carbachol were well maintained. The loss of the substance P responses represented desensitization rather than degradation of the peptide since further additions of substance P were without effect. Desensitization to substance P did not involve long-term loss of substance P receptors as it was fully reversible in less than twenty minutes, the minimum time to extensively wash previously desensitized cells.
The response latency of golden hamsters to nociceptive stimuli was measured under cyclic lighting conditions and during constant illumination. A day-night rhythm of nociception was demonstrated; response latencies were significantly longer during the day. A circadian rhythm of nociception was displayed by hamsters maintained for 30 days in constant dim light. Short response latencies noted under these conditions were associated with the inactive period of the animals circadian cycle (subjective day). The experiments provide data which indicate the phase relationship between the circadian rhythms of nociception and locomotor activity differs under entrained and free-running conditions.
Application of molecular biology, by means of linkage analysis and DNA probes that demonstrate restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs), has resulted in the chromosomal localization of the genes responsible for a number of neurological disorders. Characterization of the structure and function of individual genes for these diseases is in an early stage, but information available indicates that the molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic expression of neurological diseases encompass a wide range of genetic errors ranging from the most minor (a single-base pair mutation) to large chromosomal deletions. Linkage analysis can now be used for genetic counseling in several of these disorders.
Beta-N-Methylamino-L-alanine (BMAA) and beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine (BOAA) are chemically related excitant amino acids present in the seeds of Cycas circinalis and Lathyrus sativus, respectively. Consumption of these seeds has been linked to Guam amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (BMAA) and lathyrism (BOAA) (a form of primary lateral sclerosis). We report that the acute neuronotoxic actions of these amino acids are blocked selectively by specific glutamate receptor antagonists. Administration of BOAA and BMAA to neonatal mouse cortex explants (EC100 = 28 microM and 1.6 mM, respectively) rapidly induces postsynaptic vacuolation (PSV) and neuronal degeneration characterized by dark/shrunken (D/S) cells. BOAA-mediated neuronotoxic effects are attenuated in a concentration-dependent manner by cis-2,3-piperidine dicarboxylic acid (PDA), an antagonist of quisqualate (QA)-preferring and kainate (KA)-preferring glutamate receptors. PDA maximally protected against BOAA-induced PSV by 84% at 1 mM and D/S cells by 80% at 0.5 mM. BMAA-induced cellular changes were antagonized selectively in a concentration-dependent manner by 2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoic acid (AP7), an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate-receptor antagonist. AP7 maximally protected against BMAA-induced PSV and D/S by 88% at 1.0 and 0.5 mM, respectively. These protective actions were selective and specific since AP7 failed to attenuate BOAA-induced alterations, and PDA was ineffective in ameliorating BMAA-induced changes. Other glutamate receptor antagonists (glutamic diethyl ester and streptomycin) failed to protect the explants from the destructive action of either toxin. Taken collectively, our data indicate that the acute neuronotoxic actions of BOAA and BMAA (or a metabolite) operate through different glutamate receptor species.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Chemical (C) kindling by means of repeated spaced injections into the amygdala (AM) of a subconvulsive dose of L-glutamate and L-aspartate combined in a molar ratio of 1:3. (Glu/Asp) produced progressive seizure development culminating in generalized convulsion strikingly similar to electrically kindled Stage 5 seizure in rats. These C-kindled AM sites responded readily to electrical stimulation with very rapid development of kindled seizure. When a separate group of rats electrically kindled at the AM were subjected to identical C-kindling at the kindled AM site, a similar positive transfer effect was observed. In addition, 30 days following the last injection, kindled Stage 5 seizure was triggered with a single injection of Glu/Asp, one-half of the dose used for C-kindling. These results suggest that the glutamate and/or aspartate systems participate in the development and persistence of increased seizure susceptibility induced by AM kindling.
Tolerance to ethanol was tested with 24 adult, male, Wistar rats using a modified Geller-Seifter paradigm. This design consisted of three components: an unpunished random interval-30 sec (RI-30) schedule, a time-out period, and a punished plus continuous reinforcement (conflict) schedule. This procedure allowed for a distinction to be made between the sedative and the &quot;anxiolytic&quot; effects of ethanol. Rats were trained on this procedure until response rates stabilized. They were then randomly divided into three groups. One group served as a control group for two experiments. In the first experiment, the test group received ethanol (0.75 g/kg IP) on days 2-8 and saline on days 1 and 9. For the second experiment, the control group received saline and the test group received ethanol three times in one day at three hour intervals. The &quot;anxiolytic&quot; action (defined as an increase in the rate of punished responding or antipunishment effect) was observed to undergo rapid tolerance (by day 4 in experiment one and by the second session in experiment two), while tolerance to the sedative action (defined as a decrease in the rate of unpunished responding) developed more slowly (only by day 7 in experiment one, but by the third session in experiment two). These results suggest that rapid tolerance develops to the &quot;anxiolytic&quot; actions of ethanol and this may have important implications for the development of ethanol abuse.
The effects of the antiprogesterone compound RU 486 on preterm delivery, myometrial gap junctions, and plasma levels of steroid hormones were investigated in pregnant rats. Injection of RU 486 on day 16 of gestation resulted in prolonged delivery beginning after 24 hours. The preterm birth initiated by RU 486 was preceded and accompanied by the extensive development of gap junctions between myometrial cells. R 5020, but neither progesterone nor dexamethasone, prevented preterm birth and the development of gap junctions. Estrogen and progesterone levels declined after RU 486 treatment but only after a major proportion of the fetuses were delivered. This study indicates that progesterone may normally inhibit uterine contractility by suppressing the genome responsible for the expression of gap junctions.
The neural mismatch theory of space motion sickness asserts that the central and peripheral autonomic sequelae of discordant sensory input arise from central integrative processes falling to reconcile patterns of incoming sensory information with existing memory. Stated differently, perceived novelty reaches a stress level as integrative mechanisms fail to return a sense of control to the individual in the new environment. Based on evidence summarized here, the severity of the neural mismatch may be dependent upon the relative amount of attention selectively afforded to each sensory input competing for control of behavior. Components of the limbic system may play important roles in match-mismatch operations, be therapeutically modulated by antimotion sickness drugs, and be optimally positioned to control autonomic output.
A pulse-chase study in human skin fibroblasts showed that a 110 kDa precursor of acid alpha-glucosidase was synthesized as a membrane-bound protein, which was solubilized in vitro not by mannose 6-phosphate or 1M KCl but by Triton X-100 or trypsin. This 110 kDa precursor form bound to the membrane was detected in control fibroblasts treated with tunicamycin and in I-cell disease fibroblasts as well. The precursors in human placenta were found also in the membrane fraction. It was concluded that the newly synthesized acid alpha-glucosidase precursor is located on the surface of the membrane, and the phosphomannosyl receptor does not participate in the enzyme-membrane binding.
Social anxiety, social performance and self-esteem are suggested to be important factors in the social adjustment of severely head-injured patients. The present study attempted to remediate some of these deficits in social interaction and adjustment by adopting theoretical models of the development of self-understanding, and of the general process of recovery from head injury, together with the application of existing methodology from social skills training. Reassessment after one year of group treatment did not show any statistically significant results, but some important individual changes in social performance and social anxiety were found. Reasons for the apparent failure to change are discussed, with recommendations for more intensive treatment and refinement of measures.
To assess the possibility that dye coupling among neurons in hypothalamic slices might require dendrotomy, as has been suggested for neocortical neurons, dye coupling was studied in horizontally cut slices containing the supraoptic nucleus (SON). Since the dendrites of SON neurons project toward the pial surface, dendritic damage due to slicing can be avoided in the horizontal plane. Intracellular injections of Lucifer Yellow into individual SON neurons in slices from male, virgin female and lactating, mother rats yielded the following results. When dendrotomy occurred there was a significantly lower incidence of dye coupling than was observed when dendrites were intact. Higher order coupling (3 or more cells dye coupled after a single injection) was only seen among neurons without dendrotomy. Independently of dendritic damage, incidence of dye coupling in nursing mothers was reliably greater than for virgins, confirming previous results from coronal slices. The results of this study indicate that dendrotomy is not an inducer of dye coupling in SON neurons. Taken together with other recent findings, these data suggest that a reinterpretation of the effects of dendrotomy on cortical cell dye coupling may be in order.
We report a patient with chronic, untreated idiopathic hypoparathyroidism who presented with papilledema and progressive deterioration of visual function. The papilledema resolved with treatment of the hypocalcemia. Visual acuity progressively improved as the serum calcium rose during treatment with vitamin D and calcium supplements. Lumbar puncture may also have contributed to the normalization of cerebrospinal fluid pressure and recovery of vision in this patient. The association of hypoparathyroidism and pseudotumor cerebri is rare, and a retrospective review of 41 patients with hypoparathyroidism admitted to two local general hospitals revealed no other cases.
We report the experience at a large teaching hospital over a 10 year period with Miller Fisher Syndrome, facial diplegia, and multiple cranial nerve palsies. In these patients, absence of drowsiness on examination, normal cranial CT scans, albumino-cytological dissociation on CSF examination and slowing of nerve conduction, all suggest that a peripheral nerve dysfunction is the underlying mechanism. Pertinent literature is reviewed, in an attempt to separate these probable variants of Guillain-Barr Syndrome from brainstem encephalitis, with which they may be confused.
The primary purpose of this study was to investigate the possible direct toxic effect of alloxan on the Ca2+ handling by microsomal membranes isolated from rat mesenteric arteries. It was found that preincubation of the vascular muscle microsomal membranes with alloxan had a suppressive effect on both binding of Ca2+ (in the absence of ATP) and ATP-supported Ca2+ transport. Such an inhibition was time, dose, pH, and temperature dependent. ATP-supported Ca2+ transport was more susceptible to the inhibitory action of alloxan than Ca2+ binding. Unlike alloxan, another commonly used diabetogenic drug, streptozotocin, was not effective in causing such an in vitro inhibition of Ca2+ handling.

Evidence is summarized that some structural changes in resistance arteries (hyperplasia of smooth muscle and others) precede the development of vessel changes in genetic hypertension. Additional changes, such as hypertrophy of vascular muscle and altered collagen and elastin, accompany hypertension and contribute to its maintenance. Furthermore, some membrane defects, including reduced Ca2+-pumping by sarcolemma of vascular smooth muscle, contribute to the causation of genetic and experimental hypertension, as well as to some changes in hypertension associated with volume expansion. Analysis of these causative factors may aid in treatment and, ultimately, allow the prevention of hypertension.
We have examined the clonal progeny descended from individual blastomeres injected with lineage-tracer dye in the zebrafish embryo. Blastomeres arising by the same cleavages in different embryos generated clones in which the types and positions of cells were highly variable. Several features of early development were correlated with this diversity in cell fate. There was no fixed relationship between the plane of the first cleavage and the eventual plane of bilateral symmetry of the embryo. By blastula stages the cleavages of identified blastomeres were variable in pattern. Moreover, cell fate was not easily related to the longitudinal and dorsoventral position of the clone in the gastrula. These results establish that single blastomeres can potentially generate a highly diverse array of cell types and that the cell lineage is indeterminate.
&quot;Epilepsy&quot; describes a heterogenous group of disorders bound together by their tendency to produce seizures. Recent advances in the basic neurosciences provide new insights into the pathophysiology and treatment of seizures. In the last decade, revisions of the classification schemata have led to improvements in the recognition of seizure types and of different epilepsies and epileptic syndromes. The clinical utility of these definitions is apparent in diagnosis, therapy, prognostication, and genetic counseling. A plan for the diagnostic evaluation of patients with epilepsy is presented. The therapeutic options for seizure treatment are reviewed including the withdrawal of anticonvulsants. Patients who should probably not be treated with anticonvulsants are identified. Psychological and life-style issues in the management of seizure patients are considered. The concept of adequate control is discussed. Surgical management, an increasingly employed therapeutic modality, is described.
Changes in EMG activity in the wrist flexor muscles were studied in response to electrical stimulation of digital nerves and to sudden extension perturbations at the wrist produced by a torque motor in human subjects with unilateral cerebral hemisphere lesions. With the subjects maintaining a steady voluntary contraction against a constant load, digital nerve stimulation produced a series of excitatory and inhibitory changes in tonic EMG activity from the wrist flexors in both the normal and paretic arm. The most consistent response was a period of EMG inhibition beginning approximately 38 msec after the stimulus and lasting approximately 35 msec. With relatively weak electrical stimuli, there was less EMG inhibition in the paretic arm than in the normal arm; with stronger stimuli, the inhibitory response was similar in the two arms. The electrical stimuli and mechanical perturbations were then delivered together, with the interval between them adjusted so that the expected period of inhibition following electrical stimulation coincided with either the early (M1) or the long latency (M2) components of the stretch reflex. In the normal arm electrical stimulation produced more inhibition of the M2 component than of the M1 component. In the paretic arm, inhibition during the M2 component was less marked and similar in degree to that which occurred during M1. These results are compatible with the view that M1 and M2 are normally mediated by separate neural pathways. The long latency EMG activity evoked by muscle stretch in the paretic arm of hemiplegic patients may be generated by pathways or mechanisms different from those in the intact arm.
Gonadotropes from cycling female rats were studied to investigate possible mechanisms for the nonparallel release of LH and FSH. The percentages of total gonadotropes increased from 14% during estrus (E) to 18% by diestrous day 2. More of these cells became multihormonal on the morning of proestrus (P; from 46% during diestrus to 69%). Since LH-containing cells increased from 7% at E to 13.3% during early proestrus, this suggests that monohormonal FSH cells may have contributed by synthesizing LH. Gonadotrope cell areas were greatest just before the LH surge (P 1600 h). Microdensitometric measurements demonstrated that the amount and density of immunoperoxidase stain for either gonadotropin subunit were highest during the midafternoon of P. Interestingly, the amount of stain for LH continued to increase during the LH surge, suggesting that the stain had detected newly synthesized LH beta. At the same time, the average density of the LH beta stain decreased. In contrast, the amount, concentration, and density of stain for FSH beta increased during the afternoon of P and decreased during late P and early E. The percentages of granules that contained immunogold stains for only LH or FSH (monohormonal granules) at P 1600-P 1700 h were 3-4 times higher than those in diestrous rats. The percentages of monohormonal LH granules declined during the proestrous surge, whereas percentages of monohormonal FSH granules declined during the first rise (P 1900 h) and after the second rise in serum FSH (E 0800 h). Finally, the average number of gold particles per micron 2 granule area rose over the value in diestrous rats during P 1600-P 1700 h. These studies suggest that multihormonal gonadotropes support nonparallel gonadotropin release by changing the rate of subunit packaging and transit in the Golgi complex.
The temporal relationship between the degree of photosensitivity and the intensity of kindling stimulus response was examined in four Senegalese baboons, Papio papio, kindled at the premotor cortical area. When fully kindled, the intensity of photosensitivity diminished significantly in all the animals. With successive daily intermittent light stimulation, two animals showed partial recovery and the other two showed complete recovery to the prekindling level of photosensitivity. When premotor cortical kindling stimulation was subsequently reapplied, three-quarters of the animals failed to respond with kindled seizures and additional stimulations were necessary to reestablish kindled seizure. Two of these three animals also required increased stimulus intensity before the previously established generalized seizure threshold could be reinstated. The frontorolandic cortex is known as the most epileptogenic area in photosensitive Papio papio. In this species, spontaneous generalized convulsive seizures, intermittent light stimulation-induced seizures, and kindled generalized convulsive seizures are all known to share a common electroclinical phenomenology. The reciprocal inhibition observed in this study between generalized seizures induced by either intermittent light stimulation or by premotor cortical kindling stimulation further strengthens the possibility that they also share a common neuronal mechanism.
Beta-Adrenergic agonist-stimulated hyperpolarization, whole-cell cAMP accumulation, and activity of isoproterenol-stimulated membrane-bound adenylate cyclase (EC 4.6.1.1) in Xenopus laevis ovarian oocytes are entirely dependent on the presence of nascent follicle cells. A method was developed to remove rapidly and completely all extra-oocyte cell types to yield defolliculated oocytes that exhibited normal viability and resting membrane potentials yet lacked beta-adrenergic receptor (beta AR)-stimulated responses. Purified follicle membranes contained beta AR-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity, whereas oocyte cell membranes did not. Purified oocyte membrane preparations from X. laevis oocytes previously microinjected with C6-2B rat astrocytoma mRNA, and subsequently defolliculated, exhibited novel beta AR and forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. These experiments demonstrate that oocytes expressed rat C6-2B mRNA coding for the beta-adrenergic receptor and the components necessary for forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity.






Two major aminopeptidases, an aminopeptidase B and an aminopeptidase M-like enzyme, were purified from human skeletal muscle by DEAE-cellulose, HPLC gel filtration, and hydroxyapatite column chromatographies. The purified aminopeptidase B exhibits a molecular weight of 76,000 under both native and denaturing conditions. The activity of the aminopeptidase B is regulated by C1 ions and other anions in vitro. On the other hand, the aminopeptidase M-like enzyme is a monomeric protein having a molecular weight of 96,000. It is capable of significantly cleaving Phe-, Leu-, Arg-, and Ala-aminoacyl bonds in the presence of 2-mercaptoethanol. The pH optima for both enzymes are around 7.0, and bestatin is an effective inhibitor of both enzymes.
The cellular and network effects of acetylcholine (ACh) on the control system for feeding in Limax maximus were measured by intracellular recordings from feeding command-like interneurons and whole nerve recordings from buccal ganglion motor nerve roots that normally innervate the ingestive feeding muscles. The buccal ganglion motor nerve root discharge pattern that causes rhythmic feeding movements, termed the feeding motor program (FMP), was elicited either by attractive taste solutions applied to the lip chemoreceptors or by ACh applied to the cerebral ganglia. The ability of exogenous ACh applied to the cerebral ganglia to trigger FMP was blocked by the cholinergic antagonists curare and atropine. If the strength of the lip-applied taste stimulus was in the range of 1-2 times threshold, cerebral application of the cholinergic antagonists blocked or greatly decreased the ability of lip-applied taste solutions to trigger FMP (5 of 8 trials). The cerebral feeding interneurons, some of which activate FMP when stimulated intracellularly, are excited by small pulses of ACh applied directly to the cell body from an ACh-filled micropipette. A pulse of ACh that activates several of the feeding interneurons simultaneously triggers FMP. The data suggest that under certain stimulus conditions an obligatory set of cholinergic synapses onto the feedininterneurons must be activated for taste inputs to trigger ingestion. The determination of ACh's action within the feeding control system is necessary for understanding how enhanced cholinergic transmission leads to prolonged associative memory retention (Sahley, et al., 1986).
Neutral amino acid (NAA) transport across the blood-brain barrier was examined in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats with an in situ brain perfusion technique. Fourteen of 16 plasma NAAs showed measurable affinity for the cerebrovascular NAA transport system. Values of the transport constants (Vmax, Km, KD) were determined for seven large NAAs from saturation studies, whereas Km values for five small NAAs were estimated from inhibition studies. These data, together with our previous work, provide a complete set of constants for prediction of NAA influx from plasma. Among the NAAs, Vmax varied at least fivefold and Km varied approximately 700 fold. The apparent affinity (1/Km) of each NAA was related linearly (r = 0.910) to the octanol/water partition coefficient, a measure of NAA side-chain hydrophobicity. Predicted influx values from transport constants and average plasma concentrations agree well with values measured using plasma perfusate. These results provide accurate new estimates of the kinetic constants that determine NAA transport across the blood-brain barrier. Furthermore, they suggest that affinity of a L-alpha-amino acid for the transport system is determined primarily by side-chain hydrophobicity.
Serotonin stimulated adenylate cyclase in Aplysia neurons with a Kact of 0.7 microM. Under the same conditions, 1-[2-(4-aminophenyl)ethyl]4-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)piperazine stimulated adenylate cyclase with a Kact of 20 microM. The azido derivative of this compound, 1-[2-(4-azidophenyl)ethyl]4-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)piperazine, or of serotonin, (4-amino, 3-nitrophenylazido-serotonin), also stimulated the cyclase in the dark, but with lower efficiency (Kact greater than 10(-4) M). Irradiation of the membranes in the presence of 100 microM 1-[2-(4-azidophenyl)ethyl]4-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)piperazine abolished 75% of the cyclase activity stimulated by 5 microM serotonin. Under the same conditions, 100 microM 4-amino, 3-nitrophenylazido-serotonin did not inhibit serotonin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. When [3H]1-[2-(4-azidophenyl)ethyl]4-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)piperazine (20 microM) was irradiated with membranes for 5 min at 4 degrees C, a dozen peptides were labeled, as revealed by a fluorogram of sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels. Among them, the labeling of five polypeptides (molecular weights of 45,000, 55,000, 63,000, 80,000, and 94,000) was protected by the presence of 0.2 mM serotonin during photolysis. These peptides may be related to serotonin receptors.
Radioactivity within individual brain compartments was determined from 5 min to 44 h after intravenous injection of [14C]palmitate into awake Fischer-344 rats, aged 21 days or 3 months. Total radioactivity peaked broadly between 15 min and 1 h after injection, declined rapidly between 1 and 2 h, and then more slowly. In 3-month-old rats, the lipid and protein brain fractions were maximally labeled within 15 min after [14C]palmitate injection, then retained approximately constant label for up to 2 days. Radioactivity in the aqueous brain fraction comprised mainly radioactive glutamate and glutamine, and peaked at 45 min, when it comprised 48% of total brain radioactivity, then decreased to 27% of the total at 4 h, 15% at 20 h, and 10% at 44 h. Percent distribution of radioactivity within the different brain compartments, 4 h after intravenous injection of [14C]palmitate, was similar in 21-day-old and 3-month-old rats, despite higher net brain uptake in the younger animals. The results indicate that about 50% of plasma [14C]palmitate that enters the brain of adult rats is incorporated rapidly into stable protein and lipid compartments. The remaining [14C]palmitate enters the aqueous fraction after beta-oxidation, and is slowly lost. At 4 h after injection, 73% of brain radioactivity is within the stable brain compartments; this fraction increases to 86% by 20 h.
The induction of central-peripheral distal axonopathy in hens singly dosed with some organophosphorus (OP) compounds, such as di-n-butyl-2,2-dichlorovinyl phosphate (DBDCVP), requires greater than 80% organophosphorylation and subsequent intramolecular rearrangement (&quot;aging&quot;) of a protein [neuropathy target esterase (NTE)] in the axon. Suprathreshold biochemical reaction, 24 h after dosing with DBDCVP (0.75-1.00 mg/kg s.c.), is shown to be associated with progressive decrement of retrograde axonal transport in sensory and motor fibers. The maximum transport deficit (about 70% reduction) is reached 7 days after DBDCVP, prior to the appearance of axonal degeneration and the onset of clinical signs of neuropathy (day 10-11). By contrast, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (30 mg/kg s.c.), an agent that prevents the development of OP neuropathy by inhibiting NTE without the &quot;aging&quot; reaction, had no effect on axon transport, nerve fiber integrity, or clinical status and, when administered prior to a neurotoxic dose of DBDCVP (1.00 mg/kg s.c.), prevented DBDCVP effects. Paraoxon (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) neither inhibited NTE nor caused deficits in retrograde transport or neuropathy. Taken in concert, these studies demonstrate that induced deficits in retrograde transport are associated with the pathogenesis of OP-induced nerve-fiber degeneration and the threshold-initiating mechanism thereof.
Analysis of 176 autopsy cases of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) demonstrated that (1) hospitalized patients showed longer life spans than their non-hospitalized affected maternal uncles, (2) patients hospitalized recently lived longer than those hospitalized in the past, and (3) pulmonary infection has become a less frequent cause of death in recent years, whereas dystrophic changes of the cardiac and respiratory muscles are more closely related with recent fatal cases. These results indicate the changing life span expectancy of patients with DMD and the changes in cause of death over the last decade, probably owing to the benefits of a hospital care program.
1. The active contraction or shortening of the nerves of Aplysia kurodai and Aplysia juliana was examined. 2. A particular neuron in the abdominal ganglion controlled the contractions of the nerves, and the neuron was identified as a gill- and siphon-contractor motoneuron previously identified as L7. This was based on the following observations, which agreed closely with those reported for L7: the position, shape, and color of the cell body of the neuron; the synaptic and antidromic activation of the neuron by stimulation of various nerves; and the configurations of the major axons as revealed by dye injection into the soma of the neuron. Finally, the activation of the neuron contracted the gill, and the characteristics of the contraction were those reported for L7. 3. L7 was the only neuron we could find in the abdominal ganglion that directly controlled the contractions of the nerves. This was supported by the following observations: 1) direct or synaptic activation of L7 made the nerves shorter in a firing frequency-dependent manner. 2) Even single action potentials of L7 contracted the nerves. 3) When L7 was destroyed, no contractions of the nerves were observed however strongly a stimulation was applied. 4) When every synaptic connection in the abdominal ganglion was blocked by bathing the ganglion in Cafree artificial seawater, direct or spontaneous activation of L7 still made the nerves shorter. 4. A sensitive marker, cobaltic-lysine complex solution, was injected into the cell body of L7, and many fine axonal branches were newly found in the epineurium of the nerves. With the use of spike-triggered averaging, small potentials were recorded from the contracting nerves. This suggested that the action potentials were conducted along the newly found fine branches of the axon to innervate the epineurial muscles. 5. We found that L7 is a multifunctional motoneuron that contracts nerves.
The concentration and relative distribution of glycine receptors were determined for gerbil brain stem auditory nuclei using 3H-strychnine and quantitative autoradiographic techniques. Significant binding was observed in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus, the dorsal cochlear nucleus, the lateral superior olivary nucleus, and the inferior colliculus. A non-uniform distribution of binding was seen in 3 of these nuclei, such that the greatest concentration of glycine receptors was located in the high-frequency regions. An analysis of neuron soma density suggested that the amount of post-synaptic membrane could partially explain the distribution of receptor.
The concentration and relative distribution of glycine receptors were determined for the gerbil lateral superior olive at several postnatal ages. Quantitative autoradiographic techniques revealed significant 3H-strychnine binding to all regions of the nucleus from 4 to 90 d. However, during the first 20 d, a nonuniform distribution of binding emerged, such that the greatest concentration of receptor was found in the high-frequency region of the nucleus. An analysis of neuron packing density showed an approximate 2-fold distribution along the same axis at all ages. This evidence is consistent with an elimination of glycine receptors in the ventral region of the lateral superior olive as maturation progresses.
Previous correlative and interventive work from this laboratory has suggested that activation of protein kinase C (PKC) is important for the maintenance of the hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) response. One such study demonstrated that application of the cis-unsaturated fatty acid, oleate, a newly discovered PKC activator, could prolong the time course of LTP. The present study explored the mechanism of cis-unsaturated fatty acid action on LTP produced by perforant path stimulation. First, neither oleate application nor high-frequency stimulation alone produced a persistent change in synaptic transmission, while the 2 in conjunction did so. This suggests that oleate acts synergistically with the consequences of this stimulation to produce an enhancement of the LTP response. Second, oleate enhancement of LTP was more potent when applied in the perforant path synaptic terminal zone than in the dentate hilus, implying that the site of oleate action is at the synapse (where PKC is reported to be enriched). Third, translocation of PKC activity to the membrane was significantly increased after oleate-enhanced LTP relative to vehicle controls. PKC translocation was found to be unaltered by oleate application alone. Fourth, mepacrine blockade of the Ca2+-dependent enzyme phospholipase A2, which releases endogenous oleate from membrane phospholipids, inhibited the time-course of a persistent LTP response. This inhibition was shown to be reversible with oleate application. We propose that high-frequency stimulation produces an elevation of intracellular Ca2+, which then triggers phospholipase A2-mediated oleate release. This free oleate then could act in synergy with processes that render PKC oleate-sensitive to produce a persistent activation of PKC, which is critical for and leads to the persistence of the LTP response.
We describe a method for assessing the periodic elements of variations in a time series and illustrate it with examples drawn from infant cardiac beat-to-beat intervals. Compared with averaging techniques, the procedure has the advantage of providing quantification of periodical elements in a non-stationary time series. Moreover, the procedure is robust to artifacts such as those which frequently contaminate beat-to-beat interval data. The method examines successive increments of the time-series plot, and when they become negative or positive, peaks and troughs are noted in the curve. Two successive troughs confine a wave which may be described by its amplitude and period. The set of all waves, terminated by the sequence of troughs, is defined as the &quot;high-frequency component&quot; of the series. Waves of the next low-frequency component are delineated when only the high-frequency peaks (or troughs) are considered. Thus, low-frequency peaks are defined as peaks of the curve formed by the high-frequency peaks, and lower-frequency troughs are the troughs of the curve formed by the high-frequency troughs. The process iterates to assess variations at lower and lower frequencies and any specific frequency component is being characterized by the median and interquartile range of its wave amplitudes and wave periods.
We find that quartz is better than borosilicate glass as a material for micropipettes for certain microelectrode applications, including ion-selective microelectrodes of the liquid membrane type. Details are given of a graphite heating element that can be mounted on a standard microelectrode puller and used for making quartz micropipettes. A novel method of silanizing micropipettes is described. Experience with a novel miniature beveller that is fitted on a microscope stage is reported.
The case is presented of a 34-year-old man with subarachnoid hemorrhage from rupture of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm. The magnetic resonance imaging and angiographic findings are reported. Angiography showed the aneurysm plus an unusual anastomosis between the intracavernous portions of both internal carotid arteries. The anastomosis crossed posterior to the base of the dorsum sellae and was associated with absence of the right internal carotid artery and the A1 segment of the right anterior cerebral artery. This is the 11th case of such an unusual intercarotid anastomosis reported in the literature.
A new experimental model of chronic subdural hematoma in mice is described. A single intraperitoneal injection of 6-aminonicotinamide (25 mg/kg body weight) on the 5th postnatal day induced hydrocephalus in mice with almost 100% success. Approximately 60% of the mice spontaneously developed intracranial hemorrhage 20 days after the injection. About 1 week after the hemorrhage, a lens-shaped or spherical subdural hematoma was observed, accompanied by marked dilatation of the lateral ventricles and intraventricular hemorrhage. Histological examination revealed that the hematoma contained well-organized outer and inner membranes. Fresh hemorrhage surrounded by many hemosiderin-laden macrophages was seen at the margin of the hematoma adjacent to the organizing outer membrane, in which many fibroblasts and blood vessels were noted. The inner membrane of the hematoma was made up of several tiers of flattened cells with thin-walled blood vessels. The gross morphology and histology of these hematomas closely resembled those of human chronic subdural hematoma.
In pithed rats, neurally mediated chronotropic responses to thoracolumbar stimulation were reduced substantially 1 day after animals were treated with the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-HDA), which produced a subtotal destruction of postganglionic sympathetic nerve terminals. However, the chronotropic responses of 6-HDA-treated rats recovered to near normal within 1 week despite 90% depletion of cardiac norepinephrine (NE). This recovery of function appeared to depend upon function in surviving sympathetic nerves, and was associated with increased synthesis and release of NE from those neurons as well as diminished inactivation of NE. The gradual development of post-junctional changes, most notably an increase in the density of myocardial beta adrenergic receptors, resulted in enhanced sensitivity to NE and contributed to cardiac function 3 weeks after 6-HDA treatment. In addition, the adrenal medulla increased its synthesis of catecholamines after 6-HDA treatment and thereby contributed to cardiac function, which was especially evident during prolonged sympathoadrenal stimulation. Some of these same adaptations have been observed when rats are subjected to chronic stress, and thus common mechanisms of neuroplasticity may mediate the sympathoadrenal responses to stress and to subtotal injury.
Previous studies using mouse strains with limited genetic differences and H-2 haplotypes demonstrated that susceptibility to Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV)-induced demyelinating disease strongly correlated with chronically high levels of TMEV-specific delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH), but not with TMEV-specific T cell proliferation (Tprlf), serum antibody responses, or with CNS virus titers. To determine if this correlation would be supported by analysis of these parameters in a more thorough genetic survey, ten inbred mouse strains, representing a wide variety of genetic backgrounds and H-2 haplotypes, were inoculated intracerebrally (i.c.) with the BeAn strain of TMEV. Significant TMEV-specific DTH was observed in all highly susceptible strains, but was not detectable in intermediate and resistant strains. TMEV-specific serum antibody titers also appeared to correlate with susceptibility to demyelinating disease, however even resistant strains had high antibody responses. Significant differences in CNS TMEV titers existed between strains, but did not correlate with disease susceptibility. DTH and Tprlf responses were observed in 3/4 resistant strains following peripheral immunization with UV-inactivated TMEV indicating that most resistant strains are genetically capable of mounting virus-specific cell-mediated immune (CMI) responses. The data extends our knowledge of host immune responses and virus titers in many different inbred mouse strains persistently infected with TMEV, supports the hypothesis that the demyelination in highly susceptible mice involves a TMEV-specific DTH response, and suggests that the genetic ability to mount specific DTH responses is necessary, but not sufficient for development of the demyelinating disease.
Many bioactive peptides terminate with an amino acid alpha-amide at their COOH terminus. The enzyme responsible for this essential posttranslational modification is known as peptidyl-glycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase or PAM. We identified cDNAs encoding the enzyme by using antibodies to screen a bovine intermediate pituitary lambda gt11 expression library. Antibodies to a beta-galactosidase/PAM fusion protein removed PAM activity from bovine pituitary homogenates. The 108,207 dalton protein predicted by the complete cDNA is approximately twice the size of purified PAM. An NH2-terminal signal sequence and short propeptide precede the NH2 terminus of purified PAM. The sequences of several PAM cyanogen bromide peptides were localized in the NH2-terminal half of the predicted protein. The cDNA encodes an additional 430 amino acid intragranular domain followed by a putative membrane spanning domain and a hydrophilic cytoplasmic domain. The forms of PAM purified from bovine neurointermediate pituitary may be generated by endoproteolytic cleavage at a subset of the 10 pairs of basic amino acids in the precursor. High levels of PAM mRNA were found in bovine pituitary and cerebral cortex. In corticotropic tumor cells, levels of PAM mRNA and pro-ACTH/endorphin mRNA were regulated in parallel by glucocorticoids and CRF.
Muscarinic binding was analyzed in the hippocampus and frontal cerebral cortex of 3 (young) and 24-month-old (aged) inbred Wistar-Kyoto (WKY), Brown-Norway (BN) and Lewis rats, by the specific binding of the antagonist quinuclidinylbenzilate (QNB). While no age-related changes were detected in the hippocampus of all strains, complex changes were found in the cortex. Maximal binding capacity (Bmax) of [3H]QNB was decreased in the cortex of aged WKY rats, remained unchanged in the BN strain and was elevated in Lewis rats. We conclude that regional differences exist in age-related changes in forebrain muscarinic binding which are probably due to differences in the types and connections of cholinoceptive neurons in these regions. The results suggest that it is the rate of these changes which is affected by the rat genotype.
Alzheimer's disease of early onset versus that of late onset represent different syndromes, with distinct neuropathologies. Patients with early onset disease exhibit a more severe and more widespread loss of neurons from cortical and sub-cortical regions and the neurochemical changes involve not only the cholinergic system, but also neurons containing GABA, somatostatin and norepinephrine.
We have attempted to identify those attitudes, skills, and competencies in the clinical neurosciences that every graduating medical student should possess. Curricular guidelines are provided that may act as a model educational outline, to be adapted and utilized as individual circumstances dictate and resources permit. A universal, although not lockstep, curriculum emerges from these considerations.
Miniature endplate potentials were recorded from the isolated pectoralis cutaneous muscle of the frog during very stable recording conditions and low noise levels. Two to 5 x 10(3) miniature endplate potentials were filmed at eight unstressed junctions that met rigorous experimental criteria for analysis. Seven junctions generated enough sub-miniature endplate potentials (1-3%) to produce a bell-shaped amplitude distribution. The sub-miniature endplate potential means were usually 9-10 times smaller than the modal bell-miniature endplate potential values. The standard deviation of the sub-miniature endplate potential class was calculated by subtracting the noise and measurement error from the measured sub-miniature endplate potential distribution. The coefficients of variation of the sub-miniature endplate potential distribution were 9-16%. Half of the bell-miniature endplate potential amplitude distributions showed 4-6 integral peaks in the central part of the distributions and the positions of these peaks were maintained with increasing sample size. The remaining distributions were not smooth and suggested integral peaks. The intervals between the peaks were about the same size as the sub-miniature endplate potential mode. These data provide further evidence for the subunit hypothesis of the quantum of transmitter release and describe the amplitude distribution of the sub-miniature endplate potential class of the adult preparation.
Miniature endplate potential amplitude distributions, miniature endplate potential frequencies and the percentage of sub-miniature endplate potentials were studied during treatment with hypertonic saline (with sucrose) during the initial high frequencies of release and after fatigue. Small muscle fibers were selected which had normal miniature endplate potential frequencies of 0.1/s to 1/s so that the miniature endplate potential amplitude distributions could be determined at the height of the hypertonic effect (first 5-15 min) at which time the miniature endplate potential frequency increased two-hundredfold. During the first few minutes of the effect, there was little change in miniature endplate potential amplitude or in the profiles of their amplitude histograms. Subsequently, after the occurrence of as few as 10(4) miniature endplate potentials, the size of the mean bell-miniature endplate potentials decreased. Later (25 min) the amplitude profiles became uniform, and finally (45 min) the percentage of sub-miniature endplate potentials and smaller miniature endplate potentials increased until many miniature endplate potentials (30-70%) were of the sub-miniature endplate potential class and the overall distributions were skewed. The mean sub-miniature endplate potential amplitude did not appear to change. After the initial high frequency of release, many miniature endplate potentials showed a definite break on the rising phase and the amplitude of the break was usually that of the sub-miniature endplate potential. The rapid decrease in miniature endplate potential size, change in miniature endplate potential amplitude profile and breaks on the miniature endplate potential rising phase can be explained with the subunit hypothesis. The edge fibers of the sartorius muscle were used so that physiologically studied edge junctions that were producing various miniature endplate potential histograms could be identified for electron microscopy. Synaptic vesicle diameters and the coefficient of variation of vesicle diameters were not changed either during high miniature endplate potential frequencies or in those junctions that generated mainly sub-miniature endplate potentials. Thus, the quantal class (i.e. sub-miniature endplate potential or bell-miniature endplate potential) cannot be determined from the vesicle diameter.
Tachykinin- and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivities were localized by immunohistochemistry in the same nerves of the kidney, renal pelvis and ureter as well as in spinal ganglion cells of both the guinea-pig and man. The tachykinin and CGRP-immunoreactive nerves in the ureter were present within the smooth muscle layers, around blood vessels, close to and within the lining epithelium. The levels of neurokinin A-, substance P- and CGRP-like immunoreactivity per tissue weight, as determined by radioimmunoassay, were about 30-100-fold higher in the guinea-pig than in the human ureter, which was in good agreement with the relative density of immunoreactive nerve fibres, as seen by immunohistochemistry. Capsaicin treatment caused an almost total disappearance of both neurokinin A-, substance P- and CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibres in the guinea-pig ureter and a 90% depletion of neurokinin A, substance P- and CGRP-like immunoreactivity, further supporting a sensory origin of these nerves. Reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography of water extracts of the human ureter revealed the presence of neurokinin A- and eledoisin-like material using antiserum K12, which does not cross-react with substance P. Most of the CGRP-like immunoreactivity in human ureter extracts co-eluted with synthetic human CGRP. Capsaicin both caused inhibition of spontaneous motility of the human ureter in vitro and initiated contractions in some preparations. Neurokinin A and neuropeptide K potently initiated phasic contractions of the ureter, while substance P had only minor contractile effects. CGRP inhibited both spontaneous and neurokinin A-induced ureteric contractions. In conclusion, peptides with potent opposite motility effects are present in the same, presumably sensory nerves of the ureter in both the guinea-pig and man. It will be of importance to determine whether local release of neuropeptides can account for ureteric motility changes accompanying sensory nerve activation upon ureteral obstruction, by e.g. renal calculi.
The intranuclear organization of the cat locus coeruleus neurons was investigated anatomo-physiologically. The locus coeruleus neurons project to the forebrain through the dorsal noradrenergic bundle and to the spinal cord. Horseradish peroxidase, a retrograde tracer, was pressure-injected into either the dorsal noradrenergic bundle or the ventrolateral funiculus of the high cervical cord (C1-C2). The cats (n = 12) were killed after a 2- or 3-day survival period. The frontal sections (100 micron) throughout the locus coeruleus were observed by light microscope after carrying out the diaminobenzidine reaction. The labeled locus coeruleus neurons were located predominantly in the rostral locus coeruleus proper and locus coeruleus alpha when horseradish peroxidase was injected into the dorsal noradrenergic bundle, whereas they were predominantly located in the caudal locus coeruleus alpha and subcoeruleus when horseradish peroxidase was injected into the spinal cord. In the electrophysiological experiments, cats (n = 30) were anesthetized with alpha-chloralose and two stimulating electrodes were placed stereotaxically in the dorsal noradrenergic bundle and the ipsilateral ventrolateral funiculus of the high cervical cord (C1-C2), respectively. Monophasic square-wave pulses (2.5 Hz, 100 microsecond duration, 800 microA) were delivered. A recording glass electrode, filled with 2 M NaCl saturated with Fast Green, was placed in the locus coeruleus. Neurons with different conduction velocities, which were evoked by the antidromic stimulation of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle and spinal cord, were verified in the locus coeruleus and the adjacent areas. The slow conductive neurons with a conduction velocity of less than 1 m/s had a slow firing rate (1.6 +/- 0.9/s). They were located predominantly in the rostral locus coeruleus proper and locus coeruleus alpha by the dorsal noradrenergic bundle stimulation. From the anatomical and electrophysiological experimental results, it was concluded that the conduction velocities of the horseradish peroxidase-labeled neurons observed in locus coeruleus proper and locus coeruleus alpha were mostly slow and less than 1 m/s. Most of the slow conductive neurons were considered to be noradrenergic. Neurons evoked antidromically by both the dorsal noradrenergic bundle and spinal cord stimulation were not observed.
Mller's extraocular smooth muscle is reinnervated by sympathetic nerves following denervation by ipsilateral superior cervical ganglionectomy in neonates but not in older animals. Experiments were performed to determine: (1) the source and extent of reinnervation, (2) the role of impulse activity in sympathetic outgrowth and (3) the effects of reinnervation on smooth muscle maturation. Mller's muscles were evaluated structurally (muscle volume, catecholamine histochemistry, retrograde labeling of sympathetic neurons) and functionally (contractile responses to electrical stimulation of postganglionic innervation and adrenoceptor agonist) in control preparations and in muscles following neonatal ipsilateral superior ganglionectomy, ipsilateral decentralization, ipsilateral superior ganglionectomy combined with contralateral decentralization of chemical (guanethidine) sympathectomy. Fluorescent tracer injections of muscles in adult control rats labeled cells in the ipsilateral superior (98%) and middle cervical ganglia. Acute ipsilateral superior ganglionectomy produced complete degeneration of sympathetic innervation of Mller's muscle in neonatal and adult rats. In preparations denervated neonatally and maintained chronically, muscles were reinnervated by neurons in both the contralateral superior and ipsilateral middle cervical ganglia. The total number of neurons reinnervating the muscle was one half that of controls. Sectional density of innervation was 45% of control. Electrical stimulation of postganglionic axons in the contralateral pathway produced muscle contractions with a prolonged time course. Reinnervation alleviated, in part, deficits in muscle volume and contraction which occurred following sustained denervation by chemical sympathectomy. Decentralization decreased ipsilateral muscle volume but did not affect numbers of neurons projecting to or nerve density within the muscle. Stimulation frequencies required to produce a 50% maximum contraction were reduced in these preparations. Decentralization of the contralateral ganglion did not impede sprouting into the denervated muscle, as nerve density and number of labeled cells were comparable to muscles reinnervated by contralateral ganglia with intact preganglionic innervation. However, maximum contraction to electrical stimulation was reduced. Comparisons with ipsilaterally decentralized muscles revealed that increased stimulation frequencies were required for 50% maximum contraction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In order to study the emergence of different components of learning and memory, we investigated developmental changes in behavioural, neurophysiological and histochemical experiments in newborn and adult terrestrial snails (Helix lucorum L.). The absence of sensitization and inability to develop avoidance-conditioned reactions were revealed in behavioral experiments in juvenile snails under 1 month old. Investigation of neural mechanisms of this behavioral deficit showed the absence of sensitization in spike reactions to repeated nerve stimulation in command neurons for the avoidance behaviour in juvenile snails. The same dynamics of response amplitude, as in juvenile snails, was seen in adults only after selective impairment of serotonergic neurons by treatment with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. During 1 month after hatching, the serotonin content investigated with fluorescence techniques was very low in the nervous system. This result suggests that the absence of sensitization, as well as inability to be aversively conditioned is related to 5-hydroxytryptamine level, which changes during postnatal development in the snail.
Neurons innervating the locust salivary glands have been investigated using the electron microscope. We have examined the projections in the suboesophageal ganglion of two identified salivary neurons by differential double labelling with cobalt ions, followed by silver intensification. Numerous synaptic inputs occur on the arborizations of the salivary neurons, particularly on fine branches and on small spines arising from larger branches. Although a few instances occur of common input to both salivary neurons from a single presynaptic element, many of the appositions between branches seen in the light microscope do not represent functional connections. A few structures resembling presynaptic dense bodies have been observed in salivary neuron profiles, but with few synaptic vesicles. Large dense granules are present in some labelled profiles, but not in the vicinity of synapse-like membrane specializations. We have also examined unidentified neuron profiles within the acini of the salivary glands, which contain large dense granules and small vesicles. There is good evidence that these unidentified terminals correspond to the suboesophageal salivary neurons. The central arborizations of the salivary neurons appear to serve largely as sites of synaptic input, whereas the peripheral terminals are likely sites of transmitter release. The results are considered in the context of the known immunoreactivity of the salivary neurons with antibodies to 5-hydroxytryptamine, and compared with analogous systems in other insect groups.
The coordination of breathing activity with chest movements was compared in the same decorticate rabbit preparations prior to and after a transection at the C2 spinal level. Pharmacological activation was induced with a combination of nialamide and DOPA in the latter situation. The preparation was curarized and chest inflations and deflations were induced by a respirator whose parameters could be modified. In decorticate preparations, phrenic activity was coordinated 1:1 with the respirator period over a large range of imposed periods. Beyond the extreme values a new coupling was achieved with a ratio of either 1:2 or 2:1. Throughout the range of 1:1 coordination, phrenic bursting always happened at a preferred time in the respirator period, although this time differed for the various imposed periods. This coordinated activity required vagal inputs. After spinal transection the phrenic nerves were totally silent; DOPA administration allowed rhythmic activity to develop. In some preparations, phrenic bursts were coordinated 1:1 with the respirator period and remained so for all the imposed periods: the phase of these phrenic discharges relative to the respirator cycle was kept unchanged for the different periods. In addition, there was a modulation of amplitude superimposed on this 1:1 coupling. These spinal phrenic bursts were generally suppressed when the respirator was turned off. From these results, the coordination of phrenic activity with the respirator rate appears to be produced by different mechanisms in the decorticate and in the spinal preparations. In the decorticate animal the periodic vagal inflow reset the activity of the medullary inspiratory generator and entrains it at its own rate. The coordination observed in the spinal preparation results from a periodic peripheral activation of premotoneuronal or motoneural phrenic elements during inflation. If the central bursts provided by the spinal &quot;respiration&quot; generator can fire phrenic motoneurons above threshold, their timing is not dependent on the peripheral inflow; when the motoneurons are fired below threshold by these central inputs, they are probably summing together the central and peripheral excitations, which could account for the amplitude modulation of the coordinated phrenic bursts of pure reflex origin. Possible afferent pathways are discussed.
The suppression of lingually or cortically induced postsynaptic potentials produced by conditioning stimulation of the cerebral cortex or the lingual nerve was studied in cat hypoglossal motoneurons. We have demonstrated that lingually or cortically induced inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were effectively suppressed by a conditioning stimulus of the cerebral cortex or the lingual nerve. In hypoglossal motoneurons after blocking inhibitory postsynaptic potentials by the administration of strychnine, lingually induced excitatory postsynaptic potentials and spikes were effectively suppressed by cortical stimulation. Whereas, a conditioning stimulus of the lingual nerve suppressed only a long-latency excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked by a test stimulus of the cerebral cortex, while a short-latency excitatory postsynaptic potential was unaffected. Picrotoxin and bicuculline appeared to act by reducing the suppression of lingually induced excitatory postsynaptic potentials produced by cortical conditioning stimulation.
In anaesthetized or decerebrate cats, motor axons in lumbosacral ventral roots or hindlimb muscle nerves were stimulated with random trains of brief electrical pulses, and Renshaw cell spike sequences were recorded. Spectral analysis was used to determine the range of linear operation of Renshaw cells, via coherence computations, and to calculate their frequency-dependent gains and phases. The analysis showed that the dynamic behaviour of Renshaw cells was different for different strengths of their synaptic input from motor axons and for different mean stimulus rates. In general, the changes in dynamics associated with variation of these two input parameters followed a common trend. This can be related to the average response of Renshaw cells per stimulus, as assessed by peri-stimulus time histograms. For axons having a strong excitatory effect on a Renshaw cell (as judged from the size of early peri-stimulus time histogram peaks), and for low mean stimulus rates (10-23 pulses per second), the linear range of signal transmission (assessed by coherence computation) was usually very broad (from zero sometimes up to over 100 Hz, but mostly up to 50-100 Hz). Following an initial elevation in the range 2-15 Hz, the gain showed first a rapid decrease with frequency, down to a value which at 30-50 Hz could be a tenth of the gain at lower frequencies (2-15 Hz); it then continued to decline slowly. Otherwise the linear range was narrower and/or the coherence was generally lower; the gain was lower and showed little decline with frequency. The phase curves of Renshaw cells generally showed a low-frequency phase lead (up to roughly 10 Hz) and an increasing phase lag thereabove that was generated in part by the conduction delay. The results show that Renshaw cells can follow, particularly sensitively, inputs in a frequency range encompassing the steady firing rates of many alpha-motoneurons. This range of high gain also covers that of a component of physiological tremor (ca. 6-12 Hz), a basic mechanism of which is probably related to unfused contractions of newly recruited motor units firing in this range. It can therefore be expected that recurrent inhibition via Renshaw cells is especially powerful in this physiologically important range of alpha-motoneuron firing.
Fourteen dorsal horn neurons with axons projecting through the dorsal columns were identified either by electrophysiological methods (and subsequently injected with horseradish peroxidase) or by retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase in cats. All neurons were contacted by small (less than 2 micron) boutons containing spherical or elongated agranular vesicles. One neuron with its soma located in lamina III received additional contacts from central elements of glomerular complexes. Neurons with somata located more ventrally (deep lamina IV and V) were also postsynaptic to large (greater than 2 microns) electron lucent profiles which formed multiple synapses with the labelled cells. Some boutons presynaptic to postsynaptic dorsal column neurons were themselves postsynaptic to profiles containing pleiomorphic agranular vesicles at axoaxonic synapses. They also occasionally participated in triadic complexes. It is concluded that the synaptic arrangements formed by boutons in association with postsynaptic dorsal column neurons differ significantly from those associated with spinocervical neurons. Such differences might provide the anatomical substrate for the observed receptive field characteristics of these neurons.
The intense immunohistochemical reaction for the enzyme adenosine deaminase displayed by neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus in the rat was used to study the distribution and morphology of cells comprising this nucleus, their fiber fields within the posterior hypothalamus and their projection pathways from the hypothalamus. Neurons immunoreactive for adenosine deaminase were found along ventricular and basal aspects of the hypothalamus from the level of the dorsomedial nucleus to the caudal pole of the mammillary body. Approximately 4500 neurons were seen on each side of the brain. Positive neurons showed a complex distribution, largely avoiding nuclear boundaries within the posterior basal hypothalamus and mammillary body. This distribution is mapped in detail and a nomenclature based on topography is introduced so that different regions of the cell distribution may be discussed more easily. Reactive neurons showed a Golgi-like staining which allowed careful study of their morphology. In general, neurons were large, with major axes of from 22 to 30 micron, and bipolar in shape. A second, smaller cell type, 14-16 micron in diameter was also seen and, although often less intensely stained, it was considered a constituent of tuberomammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus as well. Stained dendritic arbours extended considerable distances from the parent cell bodies and branched regularly. Dendrites showed very sparse spines and had an apparently scalloped surface. Features suggestive of varicose segments of dendrites were also noted. The long, smooth dendrites of positive neurons were often seen to aggregate into bundles which avoided nuclear boundaries and tended to collect adjacent to basal and ventricular surfaces of the posterior hypothalamus. Varicose fibers immunoreactive for adenosine deaminase formed a dense network within the hypothalamus. These fibers were considered to derive from the positive neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus and were similar to adenosine deaminase-immunoreactive fibers seen throughout much of the rest of the brain. The density of this type of positive fiber was, however, much greater within the hypothalamus. The region of the posterior basal hypothalamus also contained relatively sparse populations of adenosine deaminase-positive fibers, apparently distinct from this network. These consisted of a field of fine fibers in the median division of the medial mammillary nucleus and a few large varicosities in the dorsolateral part of the median eminence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Sodium-independent taurine binding to mouse brain membranes treated twice with Triton X-100 exhibited properties of positive co-operativity, suggesting that two or more taurine molecules interact at the binding site. The proposed taurine antagonist 6-aminomethyl-3-methyl-4H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazine-1,1-dioxide and the new anticonvulsant taurine derivative taltrimide as well as glycine and GABA with their antagonists displaced taurine binding, strychnine being the most effective.
The distribution of vasoactive intestinal peptide binding sites in the rat brain was examined by in vitro autoradiography on slide-mounted sections. A fully characterized monoiodinated form of vasoactive intestinal peptide (M-[125I]VIP) previously shown to maintain in the central nervous system the full biological activity of native vasoactive intestinal peptide was used for this study. In initial kinetic and pharmacological experiments the binding of M-[125I]vasoactive intestinal peptide to slide-mounted sections was shown to be time-dependent, saturable and reversible. Association of M-[125I]VIP specific binding was maximal within 90-120 minutes. Specific binding, corresponding to approximately 50% of total binding was saturable, of high affinity (Kd of 76.6 pM) and low capacity (fmol/mg prot range). Dissociation of M-[125I]VIP was maximal at 10 minutes. Unlabeled vasoactive intestinal peptide and the two structurally related peptides &quot;peptide-histidine-isoleucine&quot; (PHI) and secretin competed in a concentration-dependent manner for sites labeled by M-[125I]vasoactive intestinal peptide with the following rank order of potencies: vasoactive intestinal peptide greater than PHI greater than secretin. Vasoactive intestinal peptide receptors, as revealed by quantitative autoradiography, are present at various levels of the neuraxis. High densities were observed in olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex (highest in layers I, II, IV and VI), dentate gyrus, subiculum, various thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, superior colliculus, locus coeruleus, area postrema, subependymal layer and pineal gland. Intermediate densities were found in the amygdala, nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, CA1 to CA4 fields of the hippocampus and central gray. No specific binding of M-[125I]vasoactive intestinal peptide was observed in white matter tracts such as corpus callosum, anterior commissure, medial forebrain bundle and fornix. The mapping of M-[125I]vasoactive intestinal peptide binding sites as revealed by autoradiography on slide-mounted sections indicates an association, although not exclusive, of vasoactive intestinal peptide receptors with brain regions involved in the processing of specific sensory inputs.
Using immunocytochemistry, morphological characteristics and distribution of serotonin-containing neurons and fibers of the sheep myelencephalon, brainstem and diencephalon were studied, employing highly specific antibodies to serotonin. The immunocytochemical procedure described here allowed the visualization of endogenous, and thus presumably physiological, pools of serotonin, because no pharmacological treatments (colchicine, inhibitors of monoamine oxidase or 5-hydroxytryptophan) were used to increase the endogenous amount of antigen. The distribution of serotonin cell bodies observed in the study is in agreement with that described by other authors in the rat using a similar method. The present work also shows more numerous groups than the formaldehyde-induced fluorescence method, because five additional groups were revealed, designated S1 to S5. Compared with those in the rat, sheep serotonergic structures exhibit striking specific characteristics: (1) greater scattering of cell bodies within the different groups visualized, (2) absence of group B4 and hypothalamic groups, (3) only a weak serotonergic innervation of the suprachiasmatic nuclei area.
The evolution of paradoxical sleep, slow-wave sleep and arterial pressure was studied following microinjection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine in the nucleus tractus solitarius in rats. The extent of the lesions was assessed using immunohistochemistry for serotonin. Global lesions of serotoninergic nerve terminals of the intermediate and commissural regions of the nucleus produced an important and long-lasting increase in paradoxical sleep (+50-70%), a decrease in slow-wave sleep (-20%) and a moderate increase of arterial pressure during all states of the sleep-wake cycle. In addition, more discrete lesions indicated that only the lesion of the area near the obex produced the longer term increase of paradoxical sleep whereas only the lesion of the commissural region of the nucleus produced the long-term decrease of slow-wave sleep. These data demonstrate that serotoninergic projections to the nucleus tractus solitarius exert a regulatory influence upon the specific mechanisms responsible for paradoxical sleep and slow-wave sleep in rats. Furthermore, they suggest that serotonin within the nucleus tractus solitarius plays an important role in the homeostatic cardiovascular and sleep-wake-cycle regulation in rats.
Intracellular potentials were recorded from presumed relay neurons in the rat dorsolateral geniculate nucleus maintained in vitro preparations. In this material, the neuronal circuit includes the excitatory optic tract which innervates monosynaptically both relay and intrinsic neurons, the latter providing a feed-forward GABAergic inhibition on the former. Electrical stimulation of the optic tract evokes in the dorsolateral geniculate neurons an early excitatory postsynaptic potential followed by an inhibitory postsynaptic potential which precedes a so far unreported long-lasting late hyperpolarization. The properties of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential are consistent with the notion that they are of disynaptic (feed-forward) origin and that they are the consequence of GABAA receptor activation. In contrast, the late hyperpolarization, which was found in almost every neuron, was enhanced by GABAA blockers, without accompanying changes in the resting membrane potential or the input resistance of the recorded cells. The late hyperpolarization had a lower threshold than the excitatory postsynaptic potential, a long latency (m = 38 +/- 4 ms, n = 10) and was of long duration (m = 308 +/- 57 ms, n = 10). The occurrence and threshold for producing these two potentials were uncorrelated, and paired stimulations of the optic tract showed a marked difference of their recovery time-courses. The late hyperpolarization could be elicited only by afferent stimulations; it never followed intracellularly induced depolarizations and/or anodal break calcium spikes. It was associated with a small conductance increase, sufficient, however, to inhibit high-frequency discharges induced by intracellular injection of depolarizing currents. The late hyperpolarization decreased in amplitude with membrane hyperpolarization and ultimately reversed polarity. The apparent reversal potential followed shifts in extracellular potassium concentration in an almost Nernstian relation (47 mV for a tenfold increase in [K]0). Involvement of GABAB receptors in the generation of this potential may be postulated since baclofen readily hyperpolarized the neurons and decreased their input resistance in the presence of GABAA blockers. We conclude that the late hyperpolarization is a postsynaptic potential mediated by an increased conductance to K ions. Our results further suggest that a minimal disynaptic feed-forward circuit impinging on the relay neurons of the dorsolateral geniculate nucleus is sufficient to subserve this late hyperpolarization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Effects of peroxidative damage on neuronal excitability were investigated with electrophysiological techniques in CA1 pyramidal cells of the hippocampal slice preparation. Hydrogen peroxide alone or combined with ferrous ions (peroxide/iron) is likely to produce hydroxyl free radicals through the Fenton reaction. Intracellularly recorded excitatory postsynaptic potentials and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were significantly reduced by exposure to peroxide, while responses to iontophoretically applied GABA and glutamate were unaffected. These results suggest that peroxide has presynaptic actions. Peroxide and peroxide/iron also increased frequency adaptation; after exposure, neurons fired fewer action potentials at a lower frequency in response to the same depolarizing current step. A voltage clamp analysis revealed that the potassium currents were unaffected by peroxide/iron. Calcium current was not obviously altered by exposure to peroxide. Sodium spike threshold was also unaffected. Calcium spike threshold was significantly increased by peroxide. This action of peroxide may underlie its presynaptic actions. It is concluded that peroxide produces both presynaptic and postsynaptic damage. This damage is likely to result from the production of free radicals which have been postulated to underlie a number of pathological states.
Immunocytochemical techniques were used to study changes of GABA immunoreactivity in the rat hippocampal CA1 region during kindling epileptogenesis, gradually developing over a period of two weeks by daily electrical tetanization of Schaffer collaterals/commissural fibres. The number of GABA-immunoreactive somata per mm2 was quantified in CA1 region after 6 and 14 stimulus-induced afterdischarges and in fully kindled animals. The absolute values were compared with those obtained from controls and the relative difference between the side where the stimulations were applied and the contralateral side was determined. In comparison to controls the rats showed, after 6 afterdischarges at the ipsilateral, stimulated side, a slight increase in cell density of about 10%; after 14 afterdischarges, there was a significant increase of 38% together with an enhanced labelling density, while in fully kindled rats (34 afterdischarges) there was no significant difference with controls. At the contralateral side, we observed a different pattern of, respectively, a small decrease (17%), no significant difference, and a significant increase of 22% in fully kindled animals. This result is discussed in relation to observations that fully kindled rats, investigated 24 days after the last seizure of the acquisition phase, showed rather a significant decrease by 35% of cell density at the stimulated side and a regional loss of immunoreactivity of varicosities. At this point in time, no significant changes were found at the contralateral side. The complex time-course of GABA immunoreactivity during epileptogenesis consists of a transient increase in the early phase of kindling acquisition followed by a process of gradual reduction that leads to the long-term decrease of GABA immunoreactivity and high excitability.
Responses to GABA were recorded from 87 neurons of rat visual cortical slices. Pyramidal and nonpyramidal cells were identified by intracellular dye injection, and their responses were compared. All identified pyramidal and nonpyramidal cells, as well as unstained cells, responded to GABA ejected from a pipette that was positioned within 300 micron of the soma. Their responses were similar, regardless of their morphology. In addition, GABA responses of visual cortical neurons could not be distinguished from those of other areas of the neocortex, or pyramidal cells in area CA1 of hippocampus. Depending on the site of application, there appeared to be two types of GABA responses that were present in all cells. The first was generated by application of GABA to the soma (GABAs response; mean reversal potential = -71.7 mV). The second occurred when GABA was applied on dendrites (GABAD response; mean reversal potential = -49.3 mV). When GABA was ejected on proximal dendritic regions, both responses could be observed in combination. Both GABAs and GABAD responses were accompanied by extremely large increases in conductance. In some cells, a third type of GABA response was elicited following somatic or dendritic GABA application. This response was a relatively small-amplitude, long-lasting hyperpolarization which followed a GABAS and GABAD response (late hyperpolarization, mean reversal potential = -79.8 mV).
The central neurotoxicity of the endogenous tryptophan metabolite, quinolinate, has been postulated to participate in the pathogenesis of the neuronal cell loss associated with several neurological disease states. In the present study, quinolinate neurotoxicity was quantitatively studied in dissociated cell cultures prepared from the fetal mouse neocortex. Sufficient exposure of cortical cultures to quinolinate was associated with considerable neuronal cell loss, but no glial cell loss; this neurotoxicity could be blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and kynurenate, drugs known to block N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The quinolinate dose-toxicity relationship showed that the potency of quinolinate as a neurotoxin is relatively low, especially with brief (20 min) exposure times, where an ED50 of 2 mM was observed. However, with longer exposure times of 24 and 96 h, quinolinate is more potent: the latter exposure was characterized by an ED50 of 250-400 microM. Ion substitution experiments suggested that quinolinate neurotoxicity can be separated into two distinct components on the basis of differences in time course and ionic dependence: an acute, sodium-dependent &quot;excitotoxic&quot; component, marked by early cell swelling; and a late, calcium-dependent component, marked by delayed cell degeneration. Acute neuronal swelling was seen only with exposure to quinolinate concentrations in excess of 1 mM, so under actual pathophysiological conditions, quinolinate neurotoxicity might be nearly completely related to the calcium-dependent component, with little or no &quot;excitotoxic&quot; contribution.
Dynorphin B(20-32) was visualized by immunohistochemistry in guinea-pig and rat perivascular nerve fibers and was measured by radioimmunoassay within the walls of feline, canine, bovine and human cephalic and systemic arteries and veins. Canine vessels contained the highest levels. When human blood vessels or trigeminal ganglia were subjected to reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, dynorphin immunoreactivity exhibited a retention time identical to that of synthetic dynorphin B. No differences in dynorphin-like immunoreactivity were measurable between feline systemic arteries and veins, or between cephalic and systemic vessels. The highest amounts were present in leptomeninges devoid of large pial arteries. Relatively high levels were also measured in feline and human trigeminal ganglia and feline superior cervical and sphenopalatine ganglia, three sources of projecting perivascular axons. Levels did not diminish, however, in ipsilateral feline cephalic vessels following either unilateral trigeminal or superior cervical ganglionectomies. Hence, dynorphin-containing fibers may project from parasympathetic cell bodies or perhaps from intrinsic brain sources. Previously published reports indicate that the kappa agonist dynorphin does not modify vessel tone when added in vitro but does inhibit release of neurotransmitters from afferent and sympathetic axons via prejunctional receptors. These observations suggest a pharmacological role for dynorphin on sensory and autonomic functions of the vasculature.
Tizanidine with its predominant alpha 2-adrenergic properties is a potent myorelaxant drug used clinically in spastic patients. The aim of this study is to analyse further the mechanisms by which this substance exerts its influence on spinal reflexes. It was found that tizanidine dose-dependently diminished flexor reflexes in intact chloralose-anaesthetized rats, and also, but slightly less, in unanaesthetized decerebrate rats. In spinalized rats (1-5 days postoperatively), flexor reflexes were, however, enhanced by tizanidine, especially by the higher doses. Pretreatment with the alpha 2-blocker yohimbine antagonized the depressant action of tizanidine in intact rats whereas the alpha 1-blocker prazosin antagonized the facilitatory action of tizanidine in the spinalized rats. The reflex depression might be explained by a removal of a tonic facilitation of spinal neurons by the descending noradrenergic fibres, because tizanidine is likely to reduce, like clonidine, the spontaneous activity of locus coeruleus neurons by presynaptic autoinhibition. In spinalized preparations, a net facilitatory alpha 1-mediated action may be revealed by the higher doses of tizanidine that would be unopposed by the alpha 2-mediated disfacilitation.
The effects of steady iontophoretic applications of serotonin on the spontaneous discharge and on the excitatory responses induced in deep cerebellar nuclei neurons by iontophoretic pulse applications of L-glutamate, L-aspartate, N-methyl-D,L-aspartate and quisqualate were studied in rat cerebellar slices maintained in vitro. Serotonin increased the spontaneous firing rate of deep cerebellar nuclei neurons in 91% of the tested cells by 109% on the average and had no effect on the remaining recorded neurons. Conversely, the monoamine induced a depression of the excitatory responses induced by four agonists tested and the depressant potency of serotonin was in the order quisqualate, glutamate, aspartate, N-methyl-D,L-aspartate. These effects persisted in low calcium high magnesium solution, suggesting that the serotonin receptors involved in these phenomena were, at least partially, postsynaptically located. The serotonin-induced increase in the cell firing rate appeared to be methysergide-resistant whereas the serotonin-induced decrease in the responses elicited by excitatory amino acids was depressed by this antagonist, which could indicate that these differential effects of serotonin are mediated via different mechanisms and/or serotonin receptor subtypes.
Interactions between neuronal responses mediated by dynorphin A1-8 and GABA were investigated in the substantia nigra zona reticulata. Extracellular recordings and microiontophoresis were performed using five-barrel microelectrodes in chloral hydrate-anesthetized male rats. When iontophoresed alone, dynorphin A1-Q significantly inhibited the firing of 22% of the neurons tested. The inhibition was rapid in onset and recovery and was dose-dependent. In another 22% of the cells, iontophoretic dynorphin produced an increase in the baseline firing rate which was slow in both onset and offset; the remaining 56% were unaffected by dynorphin. When GABA and dynorphin A1-8 were applied in conjunction, the inhibitory action of GABA was attenuated in 61% of the cells; whereas, when dynorphin and GABA were ejected simultaneously onto the cells that were inhibited by dynorphin A1-8, the respective inhibitory effects of dynorphin and GABA appeared to be additive. The kappa antagonist, MR-2266, failed to block the ability of dynorphin A1-8 to attenuate the action of GABA. In addition, the non-opiate peptide des-tyr-dynorphin A2-17, produced effects similar to that of dynorphin A1-8. The role of dynorphin in the basal ganglia and its interaction with the other major transmitter in the substantia nigra zona reticulata, GABA, is discussed.
The main site of action for botulinum neurotoxin is cholinergic motor nerve terminals where specific acceptors concentrate the toxin on the cell surface, thereby facilitating its internalization and inactivation of a component essential for transmitter release. In this study, the interaction in vitro of [125I]botulinum neurotoxin type A with central and peripheral nerve terminals of different types was investigated using Ultrofilm and electron-microscope autoradiography. It was found that: (i) The neurotoxin binds to synapse-rich areas of rat brain, particularly in the hippocampus and cerebellum; identity of the neuron types labelled is unclear although cholinergic nerves seem to be labelled, perhaps not exclusively, in many areas. (ii) Toxin uptake at central nerve terminals appears to be minimal and its penetration into intact brain slices is restricted; this may account for the toxin's lower central toxicity. (iii) Selective labelling of cholinergic nerves but not purinergic, peptidergic or adrenergic nerve terminals in mouse ileum suggests that the toxin may be a specific marker for cholinergic nerves in the periphery. Based on these localization studies and published pharmacological observations, it is concluded that efficient toxin-induced blockade of neurotransmission depends on the presence of specific acceptors of high affinity for the toxin and of an effective neuronal uptake mechanism. Inhibition of the release of numerous transmitters from different kinds of nerve terminals lacking one of these features can be produced by high toxin concentrations when uptake occurs via low affinity acceptors or by non-specific means. Notably, this widespread action of the toxin indicates the occurrence of a common intracellular target in several, possibly all, nerve types.
Isolated neurointermediate lobes or neural lobes of the rat pituitary gland attached to the pituitary stalk were incubated in vitro and the spontaneous or electrically (pituitary stalk stimulation, 5 Hz, 1,500 pulses) evoked release of 5-hydroxytryptamine was determined. The evoked release of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the neurointermediate lobe was increased fivefold in the presence of the dopamine receptor antagonist (-)-sulpiride (1 microM). The evoked release of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the isolated neural lobe was not altered by (-)-sulpiride. The evoked release of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the isolated neural lobe in the presence of (-)-sulpiride was less than 5% of that from the combined neurointermediate lobe showing that most of the 5-hydroxytryptamine released from the combined neurointermediate lobe originated in the intermediate lobe. The evoked release of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the neurointermediate lobe in the presence of (-)-sulpiride showed a diurnal variation. It was three to five times higher between 9.30 and 14.00 h than between 8.30 and 9.30 h or between 14.00 and 16.00 h. The 5-hydroxytryptamine tissue content at the end of the incubation experiments also showed similar variations which were, however, less pronounced. The evoked release of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the neurointermediate lobe, in the presence of (-)-sulpiride, was reduced by the preferential GABAA receptor agonist muscimol or the selective GABAB receptor agonist (-)-baclofen in a concentration-dependent manner. Bicuculline, a selective GABAA receptor antagonist inhibited the effect of muscimol, but not that of (-)-baclofen. Bicuculline alone did not affect the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the gland. It is concluded that the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the intermediate lobe is influenced by both dopaminergic and GABAergic mechanisms.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor has recently attracted great interest due to its nonlinear current-voltage behavior. In order to evoke a large depolarizing postsynaptic current, the synaptic-induced conductance change must be paired with a postsynaptic depolarization. This temporally tuned AND gate could underlie a number of different operations throughout the nervous system. We propose that the synapses made by the optical nerve onto projection cells in the mammalian dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus are of the N-methyl-D-aspartate type. [In this Commentary, we have pooled data regarding sensory thalamic nuclei from a number of different mammalian species. Unless otherwise mentioned, we have referred to the dorsal division of the cat lateral geniculate nucleus.] About half of all synapses in these cells--located almost exclusively in the peripheral two-thirds of the dendritic tree--are associated with axons originating in layer VI of visual cortex. It then follows that the massive corticogeniculate pathway controls the gain of the retinogeniculate pathway via its action on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Thus, near-simultaneous activation of the retinal and the cortical input will transiently enhance the geniculate cell response. Generalizing to other thalamic sensory nuclei, afferent information will be routed through the thalamus and on to the cortex as long as cortical activity is congruent with sensory input to the thalamus. Experimental evidence argues for such a mechanism to control the gain of the somatosensory input to the ventrobasal thalamic nucleus.
The actions of Ruthenium Red on the synaptic membrane were studied at the neuromuscular junction of the frog Rana pipiens. Ruthenium Red blocks mitochondrial calcium transport and thus is expected to elevate the intracellular calcium level [Alnaes and Rahamimoff (1975) J. Physiol., Lond. 248, 285-306]. The postjunctional membrane sensitivity was reduced by Ruthenium Red as determined by (a) the amplitude of the miniature endplate potentials, (b) iontophoretic application of carbachol, (c) microperfusion of carbachol. Desensitization was assayed by measuring the decline in the amplitude of the postsynaptic depolarization produced during repetitive iontophoretic application of carbachol. Following Ruthenium Red treatment desensitization was increased. This action of Ruthenium Red was enhanced by raising the extracellular calcium concentration from 1.8 to 10 mM.
Substance P-like immunoreactive nerve fibres were located in the trigeminal sensory system of the infrared-sensitive snake, Trimeresurus flavoviridis, using the immunohistochemical method. There are two trigeminal sensory systems in the medulla of this animal: the descending nucleus and the lateral descending nucleus. The descending nucleus is equivalent to the trigeminal spinal nucleus in other vertebrates, and the lateral descending nucleus is a special trigeminal sensory nucleus belonging to the infrared sensory system. In the present study we determined that the lateral descending nucleus is completely ensheathed by large numbers of substance P-like immunoreactive fibers. The distribution of these fibers seems to be similar to that of the thin vagal unmyelinated fibers, rather than to that of the thick trigeminal myelinated fibers. More substance P-like immunoreactive nerve fibers were observed in the lateral descending tract than in the descending tract. Almost no dense substance P-like immunoreactive fibers were found in these tracts rostral to the lateral descending nucleus or rostral to the subnucleus caudalis of the descending nucleus. The substance P-like immunoreactive fibers in the lateral descending tract extended to those of Lissauer's tract of the spinal cord, and the substance P-like immunoreactive fibers surrounding the Lissauer's tract were similar in appearance to those of the lateral descending nucleus. This nucleus seems to have developed from the elements existing in Lissauer's tract, and also to have a similar modulating function. The primary nucleus of the infrared sensory system is the most substance P-like immunoreactive nucleus in the trigeminal sensory system of this animal. Even in the trigeminal sensory system, substance P-like immunoreactive fibers seem not to be related solely to the nociceptive sensation.
The properties of whole cell Ba2+ currents were studied in immunocytochemically identified, normal bovine lactotrophs using the patch clamp technique. In the current clamp mode, current-induced and spontaneous Ba2+ action potentials were recorded. These were of longer duration and showed less inactivation with stimulation frequency when compared with Na+ action potentials. Under voltage clamp, isolated Ba2+ currents had an activation threshold of about -35 mV and peak value at -15 mV to +20 mV. Inactivation of the current to a potential-dependent, non-zero steady-state level indicated the presence of one rapidly and one slowly inactivating component to the current. These two components were also distinguished by: (1) the voltage dependence of the inactivation time constant of the current, (2) the differential frequency-dependent inactivation of the peak and steady-state currents, and (3) the presence of two half-inactivation potentials for the current. Analysis of the ensemble current variance of the non-inactivating component gave a single-channel amplitude of 0.19 pA at 0 mV and a slope conductance of 3 pS. Fluctuation analysis of the voltage-activated Ba2+ current noise revealed two time constants, one which was voltage dependent and the other was independent of potential. The contribution of these two currents to Ca2+-dependent hormone secretion remains to be clarified.
The effects of GABA, the analogues muscimol and baclofen, and the antagonist bicuculline were investigated on cultured primary bovine lactotrophs using the patch clamp technique. Under voltage clamp in the whole cell mode using solutions containing chloride as the only permeable ion, GABA application increased the amplitude of mean membrane current and fluctuations of current about this mean. Statistical analysis of current fluctuations induced by GABA showed that the power density spectra in 8 of 12 cells were best fitted to double Lorentzian functions and the variance was smallest around the estimated equilibrium potential of chloride ions. The underlying channel open time estimated from noise analysis was only weakly voltage-dependent. The variance of current noise increased with GABA concentration within the range of 1-30 microM, although a slight decrease of variance in one cell could be observed at 30 microM, suggesting that desensitization to GABA might occur. Muscimol mimicked the effect of GABA but baclofen was without effect under these conditions. Bicuculline reduced the GABA-activated membrane current fluctuations. GABA- or muscimol-activated channels recorded in isolated outside-out patches had a slope conductance of about 20 pS. Mean open times of the channel were characterized by two exponential decay functions. We conclude that bovine lactotrophs have GABA-activated chloride channels, which appear to be voltage-independent. In addition, the action of GABA appears to be mediated through the GABAA receptor subtype.
Neurons depend upon the processes of axonal and transneuronal transport for intra- and intercellular communication and trophic support. Experimental studies in the last decade have elucidated the mechanisms underlying these processes, and provided evidence for their role in the spread of viral and toxic diseases through the nervous system. Recent advances in neuroanatomy, and in the pathological study of certain degenerative conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease, suggest that the same principles may underlie the anatomical specificity of cell loss in a variety of system degenerations. In Alzheimer's disease, as well as in olivo-ponto-cerebellar atrophy, progressive supranuclear palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, primary autonomic failure of the Shy-Drager type, and other system degenerations, the main feature that marks the affected populations of neurons is their anatomical interconnectivity. We consider here the possibility that, in these conditions, the processes of axonal and transneuronal transport may subserve the transmission from neuron to neuron of a toxic or infectious agent, or alternatively that the diseases may result from the failure of normal transport of a trophic agent. This hypothesis not only provides a unifying framework in which to view a variety of seemingly disparate conditions, but also suggests certain approaches to identifying the causative agents.
Adequate sensitivity, reliability, and validity are features of scientific testing in all fields. Accordingly, these have been central concerns in the development of behavioral methods for assessing neurotoxicity. Advances during the last 10 years have established behavioral tests that show high degrees of sensitivity and reliability both within and across laboratories. This was demonstrated in the recently completed National Center for Toxicological Research (NCTR) Collaborative Behavioral Teratology Study and other collaborative studies. Validity of behavioral testing has been based on: (a) the use of known neurotoxins; (b) comparison of agents causing behavioral dysfunction in humans; and (c) theoretical considerations of domain of central nervous system (CNS) function to be evaluated. These approaches have worked well, however, the neurochemical/neuropathologic to behavior correlations have been effective only under circumstances where a neurotoxic compound, as recognized by an identifiable neurobiologic signature, has been available. Behavioral methods are important in neurotoxicity evaluations because they provide an assessment of overall CNS functional integrity, whereas other methods in the neurosciences are directed towards specific subsystems. This presentation discusses the validity of measurements in: (1) behavioral testing; (2) neuropathologic evaluations; (3) neurochemical tests; and (4) electrophysiological techniques for detecting neurotoxicity.
Advances in the neurosciences have led to a greater understanding of the anatomical, biochemical, and molecular loci involved in injury to, and adaptation of, the central nervous system. Recent research has permitted the elucidation of the mechanisms for some neurotoxicants whose actions have been studied for decades, as in the example of the pyrethroid insecticides. In contrast, the mechanism of the neurotoxicity of the organophosphate insecticides and nerve gases has been known for many years, but our understanding of the many resulting sequelae has been markedly increased by recent discoveries. Two examples illustrate the strengths and weaknesses of such methods in predicting neurotoxicity. Studies of the parkinsonian-like toxicity caused by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (a by-product of synthesis of illicit opiates) exemplify the best application of current methods in neurotoxicology. It has been shown that the expression of MPTP toxicity requires both metabolism of MPTP to the proximal toxicant 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) and active uptake into central dopamine neurons. The discovery of binding sites of MPP+ in these cells has clarified how dopamine neurons are destroyed, thereby causing neurological signs. This illustrates two key concepts: first, the bioconversion of compounds to proximal toxicants is often ignored, and second, these events are unlikely to be detectable by in vitro studies that focus on a few biochemical endpoints. Another useful example was that of erythrosin (FD&amp;C Red No. 3), in which numerous in vitro studies suggested that this food color was a potential neurotoxicant. However, this was shown to be an artifact of the ability of this color to disrupt biomembranes at high in vitro concentrations, and this idea was supported by negative data from both behavioral and clinical studies. Thus, the plethora of possible molecular and biochemical targets in the central nervous system (receptors, second messenger events, transmitter-modulator synthesis, storage and release, membrane maintenance, etc.) preclude the likelihood of developing a single test or a battery of neurochemical or biochemical tests that will be able to screen for neurotoxicants randomly or efficiently. Use of in vitro methods is likely to detect both false positives and negatives. While the availability of theoretical or phenomenological data provides the best start to the application of available biochemical and molecular techniques, predictions of neurotoxicity best can come from theoretical comparison of the structure of suspect compounds (and hypothesized metabolites) with known target sites in the CNS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We report 3 children with posterior circulation strokes. Cerebellar infarction is rare in children; therefore, it was not the clinical diagnosis suspected primarily in 2 of these patients. The diagnostic value and limitations of neuroimaging studies, including computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, in cerebellar infarction in children are discussed. Because 3 patients were examined in a 2 year period in one institution, this entity may be more prevalent than generally believed and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of posterior fossa lesions in children.
Electroencephalograms were performed on 11 girls with Rett syndrome between the ages of 4 and 14 years. Electroencephalographic abnormalities included slowing and disorganization of background activity while awake, multifocal epileptiform discharges maximal over the central and temporal regions, and intermittent, high-amplitude discharges followed by relative attenuation of background activity during sleep. Electroencephalographic patterns were remarkably similar in all patients and may be of diagnostic assistance in suspected cases.
An array of signs pathognomonic of child abuse is described for three young children. The eponym &quot;tin ear syndrome&quot; describes distinct unilateral ear bruising, radiographic evidence of ipisilateral cerebral edema with obliteration of the basilar cisterns, and hemorrhagic retinopathy. Rotational acceleration produced by blunt trauma to the ear is shown to be a necessary and sufficient cause for the production of this syndrome. An approximate value of 4,670 radians/s2 produced by a force of 309 to 347 N (70 to 80 lb) results in shear stress and tearing of the subdural veins, loss of cortical vasomotor tone, cerebral hyperemia, herniation, and death. Past history and environmental circumstances implicated child abuse in every case.
The short-term cardiovascular effects of dynorphin A (1-13), as well as its effects upon morphine bradycardia were investigated. In unanesthetized, unrestrained rats, intracerebroventricular (ICV) dynorphin A (1-13) injections (10-20 micrograms) produced a dose-related pressor effect, whereas intravenous (IV) dynorphin A (1-13) (1.0 mg/kg) produced a depressor effect; these responses persisted less than five min. Heart rate was not significantly altered by these doses or routes of administration. Dynorphin A (1-13) also produced behavioral effects in the unanesthetized animals, such as wet dog shakes in response to IV administration and wet dog shakes accompanied by barrel rolling in response to ICV administration. To evaluate the effects of dynorphin A (1-13) pretreatment on the bradycardic response to IV morphine, rats were pretreated with 10 micrograms dynorphin A (1-13) ICV four, six or eight hours prior to challenge with morphine sulfate (0.1 mg/kg IV). Four hour pretreatment with dynorphin A (1-13) (tested at 14:00 hr) resulted in a potention of morphine bradycardia, with six hours pretreatment (tested at 16:00 hr) no effect was observed, and eight hours following dynorphin A (1-13) pretreatment (tested at 18:00 hr) morphine bradycardia was attenuated. Additionally, the bradycardic response to IV morphine alone became more exaggerated as rats approached their nocturnal activity cycle. These data further establish that dynorphin A (1-13) exerts a potent, long lasting modulatory effect on morphine bradycardia and emphasize the importance of circadian variables in altering the magnitude of cardiovascular responses to opioid agonists.
The interaction of [3H] (-)sulpiride with D2 dopamine (DA) receptors in the striatum, anterior pituitary and medial-prefrontal cortex was studied in rats, using an improved [3H] (-)sulpiride radioreceptor binding technique. Incubation on ice and a fast filtration resulted in higher specific binding (approximately 85% of total binding) a lower affinity constant (about 3 nM) and higher Bmax than reported with previous procedures. Pharmacological interactions confirmed the high selectivity of [3H] (-)sulpiride for D2 DA receptors.
The amino acid sequences surrounding three major phosphorylation sites in rat and bovine synapsin I have been determined by employing automated gas-phase sequencing and manual Edman degradation of purified phosphopeptide fragments. Site 1 is a serine residue phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase and by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I. The sequence around site 1 was derived from tryptic/chymotryptic phosphopeptides and overlapping cyanogen bromide cleavage fragments. This sequence, identical in rat and bovine synapsin I, is Asn-Tyr-Leu-Arg-Arg-Arg-Leu-Ser(P)-Asp-Ser-Asn-Phe-Met. Site 1 is located at the NH2 terminus of the protein, within the collagenase-resistant head region. Sites 2 and 3 are serine residues phosphorylated by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. The sequences surrounding bovine site 2 and site 3 were derived from tryptic phosphopeptides and overlapping fragments generated by cleavage with chymotrypsin, collagenase, and endoproteinase Lys-C. The sequence around bovine site 2 is Thr-Arg-Gln-Thr-Ser(P)-Val-Ser-Gly-Gln-Ala-Pro-Pro-Lys, and the sequence around bovine site 3 is Thr-Arg-Gln-Ala-Ser(P)-Gln-Ala-Gly-Pro-Met-Pro-Arg. Sites 2 and 3 are located within the COOH-terminal, collagenase-sensitive tail region of the molecule, separated by 36 amino acids. The sequences surrounding rat site 2 and site 3 were derived from tryptic phosphopeptides. The sequence around rat site 2 is Gln-Ala-Ser(P)-Ile-Ser-Gly-Pro-Ala-Pro-Pro-Lys, and the sequence around rat site 3 is Gln-Ala-Ser(P)-Gln-Ala-Gly-Pro-Gly-Pro-Arg. Thus, the sequences surrounding the four sites that are phosphorylated by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, namely sites 2 and 3 in rat and bovine synapsin I, exhibit a high degree of homology.
[14C]Palmitate was injected intravenously in awake gerbils at various times after 5 minutes of bilateral carotid artery occlusion or a sham operation. Regional rates of incorporation of plasma palmitate into the hippocampus and other regions of the anterior circulation were determined relative to the mean rate of incorporation into regions of the posterior circulation using quantitative autoradiography and a ratio method of analysis. One day after bilateral carotid occlusion, relative palmitate incorporation was elevated significantly by 16% in the CA4 pyramidal cell layer and by 20% in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus compared with sham-operated gerbils. At 3 days, significant elevations of this magnitude were found in the CA3 and CA4 cell layers, whereas relative incorporation was reduced by 26% in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer. At 7 days, the only significant difference from control was a 15% elevated incorporation in the CA3 pyramidal cell layer. Histologic examination indicated substantial cell death in the CA1 pyramidal layer at 3 days, with extensive glial reaction and phagocytic invasion at 7 days. Our results suggest that the turnover of palmitate-containing lipids is reduced in the CA1 layer of the gerbil hippocampus but that lipid synthesis is stimulated in hippocampal regions (CA3, CA4, dentate gyrus) affected by but recovering from transient bilateral carotid occlusion.
Intracellular spontaneous activity was recorded in neostriatal slices from rats with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the left nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. Recordings were made at different times after denervation. Dopaminergic denervation caused the appearance of spontaneous synaptic potentials, which were present even after 8 months. The results suggest a tonic inhibitory influence of the dopaminergic innervation on the synaptic input of neostriatal neurons.
REM sleep deprivation induced by means of the platform technique (72 h) was followed by a period of latency to sleep characterized by a marked excitement in rats. The administration of naloxone at the end of the REM deprivation period reduced this latency to sleep while morphine, beta-endorphin and DADLE prolonged it. The dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 was extremely potent (0.003 mg/kg) to reduce the latency to sleep and the excitement while the D1 agonist SKF 38393 induced an opposite effect. The dopamine D2 receptor antagonist L-sulpiride was inactive up to a dose of 25 mg/kg. These data suggest that hyperactivity of the opioid and dopamine systems (specifically mediated through D1 receptors) is involved in such behaviour.

High performance liquid chromatography studies documented the presence of an enzyme activity, N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALA dipeptidase), in rat brain membranes that cleaves the endogenous brain dipeptide, N-acetyl-L-aspartyl-L-glutamate to N-acetyl-aspartate and glutamate. With ion exchange chromatography, which quantitatively separated [3,4-3H]glutamate from N-acetyl-L-aspartyl-L-[3,4-3H]glutamate, we found that NAALA dipeptidase activity was essentially restricted to nervous tissue and kidney. We characterized NAALA dipeptidase activity in lysed synaptosomal membranes obtained from rat forebrain. Membrane-bound NAALA dipeptidase activity was optimal between pH 6.0 and 7.4 at 37 degrees C. Eadie-Hofstee analysis of kinetic data revealed a rather high apparent affinity for N-acetyl-L-aspartyl-L-glutamate with a Km = 540 nM and a Vmax = 180 nM/mg of protein/min. While NAALA dipeptidase showed a requirement for monovalent anions such as Cl-, the polyvalent anions phosphate and sulfate inhibited enzyme activity 50% at 100 microM and 1 mM, respectively. The divalent metal ion chelators EGTA, EDTA, and o-phenanthroline completely abolished activity, which was partially restored by manganese. Treatment of membranes with 1 mM dithiothreitol abolished NAALA dipeptidase activity. NAALA dipeptidase activity was also sensitive to the aminopeptidase inhibitors bestatin and puromycin, although not to the selective aminopeptidase A inhibitor amastatin. Structure-activity relationships inferred from inhibitor studies suggest that this enzyme shows specificity for N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptides. NAALA dipeptidase was also potently inhibited by the excitatory amino acid agonist L-quisqualate. Comparison of the properties of NAALA dipeptidase to those of previously characterized enzymes suggests that this is a novel peptidase which may be involved in the synaptic degradation of N-acetyl-L-aspartyl-L-glutamate.

Two monoclonal antibodies to monkey brain choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) were obtained. Immunoblot analysis indicated that both antibodies revealed two adjacent protein bands on a sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. ChAT was demonstrated immunohistochemically by one of the antibodies in the motoneurons in the monkey brainstem and spinal cord. This antibody also revealed ChAT-positive terminal-like structures in the neuropils of lamina IX of the cervical spinal cord and interpeduncular nucleus.
cis-Fatty acids such as oleic acid or linoleic acid have been previously shown to induce full activation of protein kinase C in the absence of Ca2+ and phospholipids (Murakami, K., and Routtenberg, A. (1985) FEBS Lett. 192, 189-193; Murakami, K., Chan, S.Y., and Routtenberg, A. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 15424-15429). In this study, we have investigated the effects of various metal ions on protein kinase C activity without the interference of Ca2+ since cis-fatty acid requires no Ca2+ for protein kinase C activation. Here we report a specific interaction of Zn2+ with protein kinase C in either a positive or negative cooperative fashion in concert with Ca2+. At low concentrations (approximately 5 microM) of Ca2+, Zn2+ enhances protein kinase C activity induced by both oleic acid and phosphatidylserine/diolein. In contrast, Zn2+ inhibits the activity at higher concentrations (over 50 microM) of Ca2+. In the absence of Ca2+, Zn2+ shows no effect on protein kinase C activity. Our results suggest that Zn2+ does not recognize or interact with protein kinase C in the absence of Ca2+, that protein kinase C possesses high and low affinity Ca2+-binding sites, and that at least one Zn2+-binding site exists which is distinct from Ca2+-binding sites.
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase III (Ca2+/CaM kinase III) phosphorylates a protein of Mr = 100,000 (the 100-kDa protein), a major substrate for Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein phosphorylation found in many mammalian tissues and cell lines (Nairn, A.C., Baghat, B., and Palfrey, H.C. (1985) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 82, 7939-7943). Treatment of PC12 cells with nerve growth factor (NGF) or forskolin resulted in a decrease in the depolarization-dependent phosphorylation of the 100-kDa protein in intact cells and in a decrease in the Ca2+/CaM-dependent phosphorylation of the 100-kDa protein in cytosolic extracts. In experiments using cytosolic extracts, the initial effect of NGF on the phosphorylation of the 100-kDa protein was observed in less than 1 h, was maximal (70% decrease) after 12 h, and began to recover after 24 h. The effect of forskolin was more rapid and the maximal effect was greater (90-95% decrease). Decreased Ca2+/CaM kinase III activity was also found in PC12 cells treated with epidermal growth factor, 2-chloroadenosine plus isobutylmethylxanthine, or dibutyryl cAMP. The effect of forskolin did not reverse unless it was removed. Cycloheximide blocked the recovery of Ca2+/CaM kinase III activity observed following the removal of forskolin but did not affect the ability of forskolin to reduce kinase activity. Short-term treatment with phorbol ester had little effect on Ca2+/CaM kinase III activity; long-term treatment with phorbol ester, which results in the disappearance of enzymatically detectable protein kinase C, had no effect on the ability of NGF or 2-chloroadenosine to reduce Ca2+/CaM kinase III activity. The level of the 100-kDa protein as determined by immunological techniques was not changed by any treatment. These results suggested that the effect of treatment of PC12 cells with NGF or forskolin was to reduce the level of Ca2+/CaM kinase III per se.
In the present study we employed quantitative morphometric techniques to assay the response of septal cholinergic neurons following unilateral transection of the fimbria/fornix and supracallosal stria. Analysis of 50-micron-thick tissue sections with a Quantimet 920 image analysis system demonstrated a reduction in ChAT immunoreactivity as early as 1 day following denervation. This decrease was associated with a drop in the number of labeled cells ipsilateral to the lesion and a decrease in the area of cholinergic perikarya on the lesioned and nonlesioned side of the septum. The response at 1 day, however, was transient, and at 4 days the number of labeled neurons was not significantly different from controls. By 8 days we observed a dramatic reduction in the number and size of ChAT-positive cells ipsilateral to the lesion and a reduction in the size of cholinergic perikarya on the contralateral (i.e., nonlesioned) side. These values persisted throughout the remainder of the study. To assess more completely the morphologic response of neurons to axotomy than can be determined in 50-micron-thick tissue sections, we embedded the adjacent immunolabeled tissue section in Epon and then serially sectioned it to a thickness of 0.75-1.0 micron. By using this method, we were able to measure the area, length, and width of the cell, the area of the nucleus and nucleolus, and the position of the nucleus (i.e., eccentricity). Measurements were performed on ChAT-labeled and nonlabeled cells. The results of our studies demonstrate that cholinergic and noncholinergic cells responded to axotomy in a characteristic yet different fashion from each other and that this response could be quantitatively assayed. In general, labeled and nonlabeled cells on the lesioned side of the septum shrink in response to denervation. This shrunken state was reflected in measurements of cellular area, length, width, and nuclear area. Moreover, other measurements of cellular morphology (i.e., area of the nucleolus, position of the nucleus) indicate that none of the neuronal populations examined in the present study displayed morphologic evidence of regeneration. Our results indicate a dramatic loss of cholinergic perikarya ipsilateral to the lesion. Moreover, although a few neurons do persist they do so in a shrunken state. These data provide an essential baseline for the second study in this series, which will evaluate the effect of nerve growth factor on the survival of denervated septal neurons.
We investigated the localization of alkaline phosphatase (AP) in the peripheral and central nervous systems of the frog (Rana pipiens) and rat. In the frog sciatic nerve, AP reaction product was seen as a precipitate within caveolae and vesicular profiles of perineurial cells, and frequently filled the extracellular space. In the rat peripheral nerve, AP reaction product appeared as small tufts on the cell surfaces and within vesicular profiles of endoneurial blood vessels. AP reaction product was not detected in the rat perineurium or in endoneurial blood vessels of the frog. In the frog central nervous system, AP reaction product was detected in the arachnoid membrane adjacent to the subarachnoid space, but not in the cerebral or pial vessels, whereas in the rat it was detected in the outer arachnoid membrane and in the cerebral and pial blood vessels. Biochemical analysis indicated a sevenfold higher AP activity in the frog perineurium over the endoneurium, whereas in the rat, threefold more activity was measured in the endoneurium over the perineurium. Levamisole, an AP inhibitor, decreased the enzyme activity by 95% in rat tissues, and by 70% in frog tissues and in plasma from both animals. Similar decrements were observed cytochemically. This study suggests that: (1) the distribution of AP varies between species, but that it is always present in at least one component of the blood-brain and blood-nerve barriers, (2) because barrier tissues of the nervous system have enzymatic activity, they may biochemically modify the adjacent environment, (3) vesicular profiles and caveolae in the blood vessels and perineurium may function as microenvironments for enzymatic activity, and (4) in the rat and frog, different isozymes of AP may be present.

When silicone regeneration chambers are implanted empty, axonal regeneration fails if the interstump gap length is greater than 10 mm. Previous experiments using the 10-mm gap model demonstrated that regeneration success correlated with the dimension and/or consistency of the naturally formed acellular fibrin matrix. Both spatial and temporal parameters of regeneration could be stimulated through modifications of the fibrin matrix by prefilling the chambers at the time of implantation either with phosphate-buffered saline or plasma dialyzed against phosphate-buffered saline. In the present experiments, similar modification of matrix formation was found to promote successful regeneration across 15-mm and 20-mm interstump gap lengths. In addition, prefilling 15-mm-gap chambers with dialyzed plasma resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the incidence of functional restitution detected at 8 weeks after implantation over the outcome with chambers prefilled with phosphate-buffered saline.
An expression vector was constructed that placed the cDNA for human neuropeptide Y (NPY) under the control of the mouse metallothionein promoter and was used to transfect the AtT-20 mouse anterior pituitary corticotrope cell line. AtT-20 cells normally process the pro-ACTH/endorphin precursor but do not produce detectable levels of NPY. The resulting AtT-20/NPY cell line (Mt.NPY1a) was used to study the ability of the corticotrope cells to synthesize, process, and secrete the foreign proNPY-related peptide products. The stable cell line created contains approximately 40 copies of proNPY cDNA per cell. NPY mRNA levels and proNPY synthesis were increased at least 35-fold when maximally induced with cadmium; proNPY synthesis was also induced by glucocorticoids. Upon induction the NPY secretion rate was equimolar to that of the endogenous peptides. ProNPY, NPY, and the COOH-terminal peptide produced by this cell line had molecular weight and amino acid-labeling pattern predicted from cDNA sequence data and from previous isolation of NPY-related molecules from NPY-producing cells. The structures of secreted proNPY, NPY, and COOH-terminal peptide, as well as determination of the site of proteolytic cleavage between NPY and the COOH-terminal peptide, were determined by tryptic mapping and Edman degradation of secreted biosynthetically labeled peptide products. The proNPY molecule appears to be processed in the same pathway responsible for cleavage of the endogenous pro-ACTH/endorphin precursor. Secretion of proNPY-derived peptides paralleled secretion of endogenous pro-ACTH/endorphin-derived products, under both basal and stimulated conditions. With induction proNPY expression there is a dose-dependent inhibition of both proNPY and pro-ACTH/endorphin proteolytic processing.
In this report we describe the immunomodulatory effects of subcutaneous morphine pellets in mice, a model commonly used in the study of opiate tolerance and dependence. Mice given a single 75 mg morphine pellet displayed marked atrophy and reduced cellularity of the spleen and thymus, and an attenuated lymphocyte proliferative response to T- and B-cell mitogens (concanavalin A and bacterial lipopolysaccharide, respectively). These immunosuppressive effects were observed 72 hr following implantation of the pellet, a time point by which the mice also had developed tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of the pellet. Splenic and thymic atrophy with reduced mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferative responses and opiate tolerance were also apparent in mice subjected to a multiple pellet implantation schedule. However, implantation of a pellet containing 37.5 mg morphine did not suppress mitogen-stimulated lymphocyte proliferation, which was slightly elevated in this group. These findings concur with other observations suggesting immunosuppression with morphine tolerance. Furthermore, we suggest that chronic morphine treatment acts as a pharmacologic stressor that mimics behavioral stress.
Behavioural responses to tachykinins were observed following intracisternal administration in mice. The synthetic NK-3 agonists senktide and L-363,851 caused behaviour typically associated with serotonergic stimulation, including head twitches, reciprocal forepaw treading and hindlimb splaying. Neurokinin B produced some features of the serotonin (5-HT) syndrome, while substance P, neurokinin A and eledoisin failed to elicit any such behaviours. Senktide-induced head twitches were prevented by pretreatment with the 5-HT2 antagonists ketanserin and ritanserin, while forepaw treading was attenuated by the 5-HT1 antagonists (-)-pindolol and methysergide. These data suggest that NK-3 agonists interact with central 5-HT mechanisms.
Systemic administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) prompts an abrupt increase in circulating levels of oxytocin (OXY) but not vasopressin (VP) in rats. The present study determined whether CCK-8 selectively stimulated OXY-secreting neurons in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus of pentobarbital-anesthetized male rats. Antidromically identified neurosecretory neurons were categorized into putative OXY- and VP-secreting cells on the basis of their firing patterns and response to peripheral baroreceptor activation. Of 36 OXY-secreting cells studied, 30 demonstrated a 50-200% increase in firing frequency within 2 min of administering CCK-8 by intravenous or intraperitoneal injection, whereas none of the eight VP-secreting neurons studied was activated. In related experiments, 4-10 ml of air were used to inflate an intragastric balloon in rats; 20 of 22 OXY-secreting neurons displayed an abrupt and readily reversible increase in firing frequency, whereas only 2 of 17 VP-secreting cells were activated. Gastric distension similarly elevated plasma OXY levels in unanesthetized rats with indwelling gastric cannulas. Together with previous findings that the effects of CCK-8 on OXY release were attenuated by gastric vagotomy, these observations clearly demonstrate the existence of a sensitive neural link between the stomach and the neurohypophysis in the rat.
We examined the calcium contents of desheathed peripheral nerve, perineurial sheath, and whole sciatic nerve in the frog as a function of the steady-state plasma concentration of ionized calcium. Chronic hypocalcemia was induced by parathyroidectomy and by bathing frogs in a phosphate medium. Chronic hypercalcemia was induced by administering vitamin D3 and by bathing frogs for up to 2 wk in medium containing 50 mM CaCl2. Calcium was measured with a calcium-sensitive electrode and by atomic absorption spectroscopy. The calcium contents (mmol/kg wet wt) in whole nerve, desheathed nerve, and the perineurial sheath varied linearly with slopes of 0.72, 0.71, and 1.72, respectively, with plasma concentration (mM) of ionized calcium, which ranged from 0.3 to 8.0 mM. In the same animals the calcium content in the cerebrum was independent of plasma calcium between 0.5 and 1.5 mM but rose at higher plasma concentrations. Our results indicate that net calcium concentration in the frog peripheral nerve is not regulated during chronic hypocalcemia and hypercalcemia, whereas brain calcium is regulated at plasma calcium concentrations less than 1.5 mM. The lack of calcium regulation in the nerve is attributed to the lack of calcium regulation in the endoneurial compartment.
We previously reported that the monoclonal antibody Alz-50 recognizes a protein (A68) with an apparent molecular weight of 68,000 daltons in the brains of patients who died with Alzheimer's disease, but not in brain tissue from individuals free of neurological disease. We now report that substantial quantities of this protein are found in brain tissue only from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Although trace amounts of A68 may be detected in cases of Guam-Parkinson dementia complex and Pick's disease, accumulation of A68 in neuronal perikarya and particularly in neuronal processes appears to be a unique feature of Alzheimer's disease. A68 can readily be detected in cerebrospinal fluid after concentration and partial purification. These data, combined with the quantitation of immunoreactivity in other neurological diseases, suggest the usefulness of detection of A68 in cerebrospinal fluid for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
Yohimbine, an alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist that increases noradrenergic function, was administered to 16 healthy subjects and 18 drug-free schizophrenic patients with (n = 10) and without (n = 8) tardive dyskinesia (TD). Outcome measures of this double-blind, placebo-controlled study included changes in behavior, plasma 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenylglycol (MHPG) level, blood pressure, and heart rate. A subgroup of six patients experienced a notable dysphoric arousal reaction that occurred 60 to 90 minutes following administration of 20 mg of yohimbine, this reaction was not observed in healthy subjects. The schizophrenic group as a whole (not the subgroup) showed a statistical trend toward a greater yohimbine-induced increase in plasma MHPG level and systolic sitting blood pressure. The patients with TD did not differ from those without TD or from healthy controls in their response to yohimbine. These results do not support the hypothesis that noradrenergic dysfunction plays a strong central role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia or TD. However, further studies of noradrenergic dysfunction in sub-groups of patients with schizophrenia are indicated.
Associated movements, postural adjustments and synergies are three motor concepts directly related to each other, although their historical developments have followed relatively independent paths. We show in this study how some notions, often very old, are evolving and become more precise as the number of observations and experimental results increases. We show also how the relationships between these notions and the terms associated with them may vary depending on the historical period and on the authors. The various kinds of muscular activity related to a movement, which are the object of this review, present several aspects, each of them being often described by different terms, which are analyzed. On the other hand we study the various meanings of some terms or expressions, which may correspond to very different aspects of the motor system. The three concepts analyzed have in common a definition from final manifestations (essentially muscular and mechanical) of motor activity. This characteristic is probably due to the lack of enough experimental data to use more refined criteria for definition, like those based upon nervous structures implicated, mechanisms involved or functional significance. The situation may change in the near future, as this field of investigation is now entering a phase of rapid development.


Two cases with 'pure' apraxia of speech are reported. The articulatory disturbances were quite similar. One of the two cases was a left-handed male with a subcortical haemorrhage and the other a right-handed male with a cerebral infarct. The MRI and CT scans showed that the first case had a lesion that mainly involved the right precentral gyrus and its deep white matter, and that the second had a lesion mainly affecting the lower parts of the left precentral and postcentral gyri and their deep white matter. These findings and a literature review suggest that a corticosubcortical lesion of the lower part of the left precentral gyrus in most right handers and a lesion of the symmetric region in the right hemisphere in some left handers cause apraxia of speech. The omission errors for sounds articulated by the tongue and the hard palate were analysed using electropalatography, which records visually the dynamics of the palatolingual contact. The results demonstrated that there were three kinds of omission errors: true omissions (no palatolingual contact); omissions with incorrect contact (palatolingual contact for a different sound or undifferentiated sound); and omissions with correct contact (correct palatolingual contact for a target sound). The latter two types of omission error were observed for initial consonants and they were probably caused by a delay in air flow. The patients also showed a tendency to substitute one of the two consonants/t, t/for other sounds, which suggested that they had difficulty in the inhibition of tongue activity.
Clinicoanatomical observations on a patient with partial interhemispheric disconnection associated with complete ischaemic destruction of the splenium and of the posterior part of the body of the corpus callosum are presented. Neuropathological examination of the areas containing degenerated white matter indicated that the lesions affected the transcallosal fibres that link the cortex of the occipital lobes and the superior parietal lobules (SPL). The white matter situated in the temporal lobes was intact. This suggests that in man, and contrary to what has been described in the monkey, the callosal pathway followed by the temporal fibres is rostral to the one followed by the parietal or at least by the SPL fibres. The most prominent disconnection syndrome elements were left tactile anomia (in spite of a rather good tactile-motor integration between the hemispheres), left visual anomia, agraphia of the left hand and 'diagnostic' apraxia. The fact that the anterior part of the corpus callosum was intact accounts for the preservation of interhemispheric transfer of somatic sensory information and for the absence of left extinction during the dichotic listening test. An attempt is made to give a more detailed explanation of the results obtained during the different tests.
Apraxia usually follows a left hemisphere lesion in right-handers with left hemisphere speech representation. Apraxia following a right hemisphere lesion in left-handers is rare, however, and not well documented in the literature. Two left-handed patients are described in whom apraxia and aphasia followed a right hemisphere lesion. Both the apraxic and the aphasic deficits improved but were still demonstrable 6 weeks following the infarct. The data are consistent with those for right-handers with left hemisphere lesions in suggesting some overlap of anatomical structures for the control of speech and praxis.

The uptake of 3H-2-deoxyglucose (3H-2-DG) in selected brain structures was determined subsequent to electrical stimulation of insular cortex (Ins) and the mediodorsal (MD) nucleus of the thalamus in rabbits. Stimulation of Ins elicited parasympathetic-like responding (i.e., bradycardia and depressor responses); whereas MD stimulation produced sympathetic-like responses (bradycardia and pressor responses). Stimulation of Ins also resulted in increased 3H-2-DG activity in ipsilateral MD and the ventromedial/ventroposterior complex as well as the contralateral Ins compared to nonstimulated control subjects. The central nucleus of the amygdala also showed increased activity after Ins stimulation. In 2 animals stimulation of Ins resulted in increased 3H-2-DG activity in the caudate/putamen complex. Stimulation of MD resulted in ipsilateral increases in 3H-2-DG activity in the midline, agranular prefrontal cortex, as well as the ipsilateral Ins, and the caudate nucleus and putamen/globus pallidus complex. Two animals also showed increases in 3H-2-DG activity in ipsilateral substantia nigra. However, no increased activity was observed in the lateral hypothalamus, the parabrachial nuclei, the nucleus tractus solitarius, or the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, although it has been shown that efferents from Ins reach these areas. A more significant finding however, was that the reciprocal connections of MD and Ins appear to be activated by stimulation of either structure, even though their relationship to autonomic function appears to be quite different.
Neonatal rats 3 to 5 days of age were exposed to the ultrasound beam from a medical ultrasound imaging system. Dorsal nerve roots were examined by electron microscopy. Comparison between exposed and sham-exposed controls revealed disruption of the nodes of Ranvier attributable to ultrasound. Morphologic changes ranged from vacuole formation in the paranodal region to frank demyelination and were still evident after 24 h of recovery. Rats of this age are at a stage of myelination similar to that of a human fetus 4 to 5 months. The ultrasound intensities used in this study are consistent with those used for human imaging (SPTA 0.135 mW/cm2, SATA 0.045 mW/cm2, SPTP 8.7 W/cm2, SPPA 1.9 W/cm2), but the relevance of these findings to clinical ultrasound will require further study.
The peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor is a site identified by its nanomolar affinity for [3H]diazepam, similar to the affinity of diazepam for the central-type benzodiazepine receptor in the brain. The peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor occurs in many peripheral tissues but has discrete localizations as indicated by autoradiographic studies showing uniquely high densities of the receptors in the adrenal cortex and in Leydig cells of the testes. Subcellular localization studies reveal a selective association of the receptors with the outer membrane of mitochondria. Photoaffinity labeling of the mitochondrial receptor with [3H]flunitrazepam reveals two discrete labeled protein bands of 30 and 35 kDa, respectively. The 35-kDa band appears to be identical with the voltage-dependent anion channel protein porin. Fractionation of numerous peripheral tissues reveals a single principal endogenous ligand for the receptor, consisting of porphyrins, which display nanomolar affinity. Interactions of porphyrins with the mitochondrial receptor may clarify its physiological role and account for many pharmacological actions of benzodiazepines.
Immunohistochemistry revealed nerves containing VIP-like and 5-HT-like material in both gallbladder wall and bile duct of the rainbow trout, while endocrine cells containing gastrin/CCK-like and substance P-like material were present in the mucosa of the bile duct and the duodenum. Fluorescence histochemistry showed adrenergic nerves close to the muscle layer of the gallbladder.Sulphated CCK8, caerulein and non-sulphated CCK8 (in this order of potency), 5-HT and acetylcholine were excitatory on isolated strip preparations, while VIP and adrenergic agonists were inhibitory. The adrenergic drugs were probably actingvia a beta-adrenergic receptor, while the effects of 5-HT and cholinergic drugs were antagonized by methysergide and atropine respectively.Electrical stimulation of the gallbladder nervesin situ failed to show any effect or under certain conditions induced a rebound effect.It is concluded that the motility control of the rainbow trout gallbladder may involve an inhibitory innervation by adrenergic and possibly VIP-releasing nerves, while 5-HT, acetylcholine and a CCK-like substance may be involved in the excitatory control.


The distribution of nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity has been examined in the embryonic mouse with special reference to the CNS. The intensity of the immunoreactive stain was found to be greatest on embryonic days 15 and 16. The antigen is widespread and present in high concentrations in both the PNS and CNS. Most intense staining was detected in cranial nerve tracts, hippocampus, developing white matter of the spinal cord and tegmentum. Lower intensities were found within diencephalic regions, spinal cord grey matter, medullary fibre tracts and cerebellum. These results support the increasing evidence suggesting that the trophic molecule nerve growth factor has an important role to play in the development of central as well as peripheral neurons.
Percutaneous electrical stimulation of the trigeminal root was performed in 18 subjects undergoing surgery for idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia or implantation of electrodes into Meckel's cave for recording of limbic epileptic activity. All subjects had normal trigeminal reflexes and evoked potentials. Sensory action potentials were recorded antidromically from the supraorbital (V1), infraorbital (V2) and mental (V3) nerves. In the awake subject, sensory potentials were usually followed by myogenic artifacts due to direct activation of masticatory muscles or reflex activation of facial muscles. In the anaesthetised and curarised subject, sensory potentials from the three nerves showed 1.4-2.2 ms onset latency, 1.9-2.7 ms peak latency and 17-29 microV amplitude. Sensory conduction velocity was computed at the onset latency (maximum CV) and at the peak latency (peak CV). On average, maximum and peak CV were 52 and 39 m/s for V1, 54 and 42 m/s for V2 and 54 and 44 m/s for V3. There was no apparent difference in CV between subjects with trigeminal neuralgia and those with epilepsy. A significant inverse correlation was found between CV and age, the overall maximum CV declining from 59 m/s (16 years) to 49 m/s (73 years). This range of CV is compatible both with histometric data and previous electrophysiological findings on trigeminal nerve conduction. Intraoperative intracranial stimulation is also proposed as a method of monitoring trigeminal function under general anaesthesia.
1. The ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve (V1), which carries extraocular proprioceptive afferents, was sectioned unilaterally or bilaterally in kittens and adult cats. Depth perception was measured behaviorally in these sectioned cats, as well as in control cats. 2. For kittens that underwent unilateral V1 sections at 6-11 wk of age, postsurgical values of binocular depth perception--measured 1.5-3 mo later--were 2-3 times worse than in normal control animals. Cats that underwent unilateral V1 sections as adults, however, showed no postsurgical deficits in binocular depth perception. 3. For kittens that underwent bilateral V1 sections at 6.5-7.5 wk of age, similar longterm impairments were found in binocular depth perception. No impairment was found in two kittens bilaterally sectioned at 11.5 wk of age. A cat that underwent bilateral sections as an adult also showed no binocular depth perception deficits. 4. Although these behavioral effects were observed only when unilateral and bilateral V1 sections were performed up to a certain age in development, they differed in two ways. 1) Imbalance of extraocular proprioceptive inflow produced by unilateral section had a deleterious effect at an age when the final adult level had been reached. At that stage, complete suppression of inflow produced by the bilateral section failed to impair the final level of binocular performance. 2) Short-term effects observed during the week following the section appeared in bilaterally operated animals as a transient freezing of the presurgical binocular performance whatever the age of the section during the sensitive period. In contrast, short-term effects produced by unilateral section were found to be age dependent: a progressive slowing down in the normal rate of improvement of binocular thresholds was observed following a section performed at 5 wk of age; an arrest in development was found when surgery was done at 6-7 wk of age. A significant impairment appeared within 2 days when the section was performed at 11 wk of age. 5. In all experimental kittens, monocular depth perception thresholds were unaffected or impaired only to a minor extent (less than 15% change) following the unilateral or bilateral section. In unilaterally operated kittens, there were no consistent differences associated with the side of the section. 6. A sham-operated kitten, in which the V1 was visualized but not cut, showed no impairments in binocular or monocular depth perception.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The electrophysiological effects of section of extraocular muscle proprioceptive afferents have been investigated in kitten area 17. Extraocular proprioceptive afferents were interrupted by cutting the ophthalmic branch of the fifth trigeminal nerve (V1 nerve) unilaterally in 15 normally reared kittens (NR) between 3 and 12 wk postnatal, in 3 NR adult cats, and in 7 dark-reared (DR) kittens at 6 wk postnatal. Bilateral sections of the V1 nerve were performed in two kittens at 6 wk postnatal. NR kittens were maintained in a normal environment after the section. DR kittens were returned to the darkroom until the recording session. Receptive-field properties of area 17 neurons were studied after a postsurgical delay of 4-7 wk in most NR kittens and of 4 days to 5 wk in DR kittens. In one NR kitten and in the operated adult cats, the delay was 1-2.5 yr. This study is based on a total sample of 1,190 visual cortical units. 2. When performed in NR kittens between 4 and 8 wk of age, the unilateral section of extraocular proprioceptive afferents significantly reduced the proportion of binocular cells: 1 mo after the section of the V1 nerve, half of the visual cortical cells were monocularly activated. A similar reduction in the proportion of binocular cells was also observed in DR kittens operated at 6 wk of age and then maintained in the dark for 5-7 wk. In contrast to the unilateral section, the bilateral section of the V1 nerve performed in 6-wk-old NR kittens did not disrupt cortical binocularity. 3. In 10 of the 22 kittens that had undergone unilateral sections, there was a strong asymmetry in the ocular dominance distribution in favor of one eye. This asymmetry was not related to the side of the section and was the same in both hemispheres for a given kitten. 4. The postsurgical delay played an important role in the appearance of the cortical deficit: binocularity loss was not found within the week following the section but was present 1 mo after the section. This functional impairment appeared to be permanent, since it was still observed 2.5 yr after the section. 5. Cortical cells were classified in two ways on the basis of their receptive-field organization: 1) into S- or C-types (38, 73), and 2) into small area slow (SAS), large area slow (LAS), or Fast (F)-types (42, 57).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neuroprotective effects of MK-801, a noncompetitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, were evaluated in models of cerebral ischemia using Mongolian gerbils. Bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries for a period of 5 min resulted in a consistent pattern of degeneration of hippocampal CA1 and CA2 pyramidal neurons, which was quantified using an image analyzer. Systemic administration of MK-801 (0.01-10 mg/kg, i.p.) 1 hr prior to the occlusion caused a dose-dependent protection of the CA1 and CA2 neurons. The ED50 value for neuroprotection by MK-801 was calculated to be 0.3 mg/kg, and at doses greater than or equal to 3 mg/kg the majority of animals were completely protected against the ischemic insult. Systemic administration of MK-801 (1 or 10 mg/kg, i.p.) 1 hr prior to unilateral occlusion of the right carotid artery resulted in significant protection against hippocampal neurodegeneration following 10 min of occlusion, and increased the survival rate after 30 min of occlusion. The potent neuroprotective effects of MK-801 in these cerebral ischemia models add further weight to the evidence that NMDA receptors are involved in the mechanism of ischemia-induced neuronal degeneration.
A computer-based system was developed to (1) train freely standing cats to match various target forces with the left hindlimb, (2) perturb the left ankle joint when the cat was maintaining a desired force and (3) compare reflex responses before and after decerebration. Cats quickly learned to stand unaided on 4 pedestals. During a training session, a range of target force windows was presented to the cat. A successful trial consisted of maintaining the force applied on the left rear pedestal within the target window for a preset time period. To assist the cat, a light was turned on whenever the force was within the target window. A food pellet reward was delivered by the computer after each successful trial. To test reflex responses, the position of the left hindlimb could be briefly perturbed by activating a servo-controlled printed motor configured to rotate the pedestal about the axis of the ankle joint. Perturbations that either flexed or extended the ankle joint were presented pseudo-randomly by the computer. This approach has been used to quantify the magnitude of muscle afferent volleys and the reflex EMG in ankle extensor muscles of normal and decerebrated cats, in response to similar mechanical perturbations. It has also been used to study dynamic features in the electroneurogram recorded from a cutaneous nerve by implanted nerve cuff electrodes, and the correlations among the electroneurogram, the vertical contact force applied on the pedestal and the force recorded from muscle tendons by implanted transducers. This approach may have general applications in the study of postural control, including the study of the discharge patterns of individual motor, sensory or spinal cord neurons in freely standing cats.
Trace amounts of [14C]2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) were used to detect regions of the brainstem involved in forelimb stepping in thalamic and low spinal cats. Under ether anesthesia, cats were transected at the stereotaxic A12 level and T10 segment. Two hours later, 50 microCi/kg of 2-DG was infused i.v. and one of 4 procedures was followed: 3 cats stepped on a motor-drive treadmill (Stepping), 3 were kept in a stationary standing position (Rigidity), 2 were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (Anesthetized), and 2 were stimulated in the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR-induced). Absolute optical densities of the autoradiograms corresponding to identified anatomical structures of the brainstem were generally in the following order: Stepping greater than Anesthetized greater than MLR-induced greater than Rigidity. The 2-DG uptake relative to the pyramidal tract (2-DG ratio) also was compared for each of the 4 experimental procedures. In the Stepping cats, the 2-DG ratio was highest in the vestibular nuclei, periaqueductal gray, red nucleus and thalamic nuclei. In the Rigid cats, the 2-DG ratio was highest in the medial vestibular nucleus and subthalamic and thalamic nucleus. These findings suggest that the 2-DG tracer method can be useful in associating neural structures with specific kinds of motor functions within a cat. This is particularly true when using the relative activities of different neural structures and in comparing specific neural structures across cats under different experimental conditions when the amount of 2-DG infused is standardized and the optical densities of the autoradiograms are calibrated to a specific level of 2-DG.
A Phase 1-2 study of high-dose photoradiation therapy was performed in 23 patients with cerebral tumors. Twenty-two patients had high-grade gliomas (13 glioblastomas, six recurrent glioblastomas, two anaplastic astrocytomas, and one recurrent anaplastic astrocytoma) and one had a right frontal metastasis from a carcinoma of the lung. Hematoporphyrin derivative was administered to these patients in a dose of 5 mg/kg and, 24 hours later, they all underwent a craniotomy with radical excision of the tumor. The tumor bed was then irradiated with 630 nm of laser light from either an argon dye laser or a gold metal vapor laser for between 43 and 94 minutes, receiving total doses of 70 to 120 J/sq cm (six cases) or 120 to 230 J/sq cm (17 cases). The temperature of the tumor bed was kept below 37 degrees C by irrigation. Fifteen patients who developed new tumors underwent postoperative radiotherapy (45 Gy in 20 divided doses). There was no evidence of increased cerebral edema and no other toxicity from the therapy. All patients were discharged from the hospital within 18 days of surgery. Four of seven patients with gliomas have suffered a further recurrence at 12 to 16 weeks, and two of 15 patients with primarily treated gliomas experienced recurrence at 3 and 13 months following therapy. Fifteen patients have had no recurrence of their tumor and are alive and well at a median follow-up period of 7 months (range 1 to 16 months). It is concluded that photoradiation therapy using 5 mg/kg of hematoporphyrin derivative and 630 nm light at doses of up to 230 J/sq cm can be used as an adjuvant to surgery and radiotherapy with no additional complications.
In the search for an objective measure of a biologically meaningful encoding scheme for cochlear implants, we recorded responses to tones from the alert auditory cortex. Neurons in the primary auditory field (A1) are typically characterized by filter characteristics resembling those of eighth nerve afferent fibers (filter neurons). In contrast, a different class of neurons has been found thus far only outside of the cochleotopic A1 array. These cells are sharply tuned to pure tones, and corresponding fundamental frequencies of harmonic complexes (F0 neurons). Thus these cells are specific for various tones of the same pitch. Sharpened pure- and complex-tone tuning can be accounted for by lateral inhibition. Time patterns for tonal and noise responses can vary dramatically.
We report here the differential time course of recovery of [3H]ketanserin-labeled serotonin2 (5-HT2) receptors in frontal cortex of mature (4 months old) and senescent (28 months old) male Fischer 344 rats. We provide evidence that the irreversible modification of 5-HT2 serotonin receptors by N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline occurs at the ligand binding site and that this treatment does not appear to affect the interaction of these receptors with their guanine nucleotide regulatory protein. Senescent rats exhibited significantly reduced (-20%) maximum receptor density levels of 5-HT2 receptors compared with their mature counterparts. The time course of recovery of [3H] ketanserin binding to 5-HT2 receptors after irreversible receptor modification by a single peripheral injection of N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline was significantly slower in senescent rats. The slower recovery was a function of decreases in both the receptor production rate and the degradation rate constant in senescent rats compared with mature rats. Interestingly, chronic reserpine treatment resulted in a significant decrease in control maximum receptor density values in both mature (-17%) and senescent (-18%) rats. Although the receptor production rate and receptor degradation rate constants in both mature and senescent reserpinized rats were slightly decreased, there was no significant change in the overall rates of receptor recovery when compared with their respective age-matched nonreserpinized counterparts. These data indicate that both the steady state levels and &quot;turnover&quot; of 5-HT2 receptors are decreased in senescence and that these receptors can be down-regulated by chronic reserpine treatment.
In membranes prepared from frontal cortex of rats receiving desmethylimipramine (10 mg/kg i.p. twice daily) or imipramine (7.5 mg/kg i.p. twice daily) for 3 weeks, the density of high-affinity gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)B recognition sites is increased when measured by [3H]GABA binding in the presence of an excess of bicuculline, but it is unchanged when measured by [3H](-)-baclofen binding. When the atypical antidepressant maprotiline was administered (10 mg/kg i.p. twice daily for 3 weeks), no change in the density of GABAB recognition sites was observed using either [3H]GABA or [3H](-)-baclofen as ligands. In addition, a protracted treatment with imipramine, desmethylimipramine and maprotiline failed to change GABAB receptor-coupled signal transduction as monitored by the ability of (-)-baclofen to inhibit the forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in membranes prepared from frontal cortex and hippocampus or the cyclic AMP formation in slices from frontal cortex. Hence, after protracted antidepressant treatment, the increase of [3H]GABA binding may not reflect changes in the characteristics of the recognition sites of the GABAB receptors subclass coupled to the adenylate cyclase through a guanine nucleotide binding protein inhibitory (Ni).
Dioxadrol exists in four isomeric forms. alpha-(+)-Dioxadrol (dexoxadrol) showed phencyclidine (PCP)-like activity in rhesus monkeys trained to discriminate s.c. administration of ketamine, but neither alpha-(-)-dioxadrol (levoxadrol) nor beta-(+/-)-dioxadrol showed such activity. In addition, response-contingent i.v. dexoxadrol maintained higher rates of responding than either levoxadrol or beta-dioxadrol in monkeys experienced with ketamine self-administration. The order of potency in displacing bound 1-[1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine from binding sites in rat brain homogenates was dexoxadrol much greater than levoxadrol = beta-(+/-)-dioxadrol. Viewed in the context of previous studies with stereochemical probes of the PCP receptor, these results extend and confirm the supposition that dexoxadrol and levoxadrol are the stereochemical probes of choice in the study of effects mediated through PCP receptors. The absolute configuration of dexoxadrol was determined to be 4S, 6S by X-ray crystallography, thus defining the optimum chirality necessary for receptor binding and PCP-like activity in the dioxadrol series. Based on these and other considerations, receptor-active conformations of dexoxadrol and PCP are proposed.
1. Retinal ganglion cells of one eye were axotomized in goldfish either by sectioning the contralateral optic tract or by ablating the contralateral lobe of the optic tectum. Between 2 and 40 days later, multiunit activity in response to diffuse light flashes was recorded from the axotomized and normal optic nerves, and from the optic tectum. 2. Two days after tract section, the amplitude of the integrated multiunit response of the axotomized nerve was normal. By 16 days it had fallen to 15% of control values, at which time visual responses carried by the regenerating tract were first recorded in tectum. Activity in the axotomized nerve then recovered gradually. 3. After ablation of one tectal lobe, multiunit responses in the axotomized nerve had not recovered by 40 days. 4. Integrated spontaneous activity in the axotomized nerve was depressed with a similar time course to the depression of light-evoked activity, both after tract section and tectal ablation. 5. Retinal ganglion cell nuclear size, a morphological indicator of the cell body reaction, varied inversely with evoked activity, whether axotomy was by tract section or by tectal ablation. 6. Electrically evoked compound action potentials of normal amplitude could be recorded from an axotomized nerve despite depressed responses to light flashes. 7. It is concluded that optic nerve axotomy in goldfish reduces the number of optic fibres carrying impulses and/or the frequency of their discharge. The effect is closely linked to morphological changes occurring in the retinal ganglion cell bodies. Recovery of impulse activity and morphology depends upon the regenerating optic fibres innervating an appropriate target.
Intern responses to a questionnaire were used to evaluate an undergraduate clinical neurosciences programme. The data obtained were judged an authentic measure of instructional efficacy. Most interns rated themselves competent in performing the neurological examination but ill-equipped to interpret their findings and to manage effectively common problems, especially emergencies. Neurological diseases and the non-biomedical aspects of patient care were identified relatively infrequently as matters needing greater emphasis. Explanations for these findings may include a curriculum of traditional format, differences in teaching and assessing theoretical and practical competence, and the typical responsibilities of interns in an academic hospital. Intern evaluation of undergraduate clinical programmes can provide data useful to their development.
In the 45 years since the first description of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT; EC 2.3.1.6.), significant progress has been made in characterizing the molecular properties of this important neurotransmitter synthetic enzyme. We are now on the verge of understanding its genetic regulation and biological function(s). The Drosophila cDNA has been cloned, sequenced, and expressed in both a eucaryotic and a procaryotic system. The levels of ChAT specific mRNA have been determined during Drosophila development. Monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies have been produced to the enzyme from a variety of sources and used for biochemical and immunocytochemical studies. Two well characterized genetic systems have identified the ChAT gene and described a series of useful alleles. As a nervous system specific protein expressed only in the subset of neurons using acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter, ChAT is a good model for uncovering the processes and factors responsible for regulating genes involved in neurotransmitter phenotype selection and maintenance. Recent studies have described the purification of a cholinergic factor from muscle conditioned medium and indicated the potential importance of nerve growth factor (NGF) for regulating ChAT expression in the central nervous system. These factors, or ones remaining to be discovered, may be involved in the etiology or disease process of neurodegenerative nervous system disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.

The silicone chamber model permits the investigation of the cellular and molecular events underlying successful regeneration of the rat sciatic nerve across a 10 mm gap. When 25 microliter chambers are implanted prefilled with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), it takes 5-7 days before sufficient fibrin matrix (derived from plasma precursors) accumulates naturally to form a complete bridge across the chamber gap; at 1 week postimplantation, cellular migration into the matrix from the nerve stumps is just beginning. The temporal progress of regeneration might be stimulated if a fibrin matrix, conducive to cell migration, was provided to the nerve stumps at or shortly after the time of chamber implantation. To test this hypothesis, chambers were prefilled, at the time of implantation, with different preparations of homologous plasma. A solution of 90% platelet-free plasma dialyzed against PBS (DP) formed a fibrin matrix by 24 hours postimplantation that, like the naturally formed matrix, had a predominantly longitudinal orientation. The temporal progress of regeneration was stimulated in the DP-prefilled chambers; at 17 days postimplantation, the extents of Schwann cell migration and axonal elongation were significantly greater than in the control system. In contrast, prefilling chambers with either non-citrated plasma or DP + calcium resulted in the generation of a matrix within 8 minutes that was composed of randomly oriented fibrin polymers. These matrices significantly retarded the progress of regeneration.
We compared MRI and CT in a study of 175 patients; 87 infarcts within a week, 40 from 1 to 40 weeks, 25 a year after onset, and 23 hemorrhages, 18 within 2 weeks and 5 in 4 to 8 weeks. Fifty-nine infarcts and eight hemorrhages had sequential scanning. MRI is more sensitive than CT in the early detection of cerebral infarcts. CT is the method of choice to rule out intracerebral bleeding, but MRI is more specific in later stages of hemorrhage. Periventricular hyperintensity is seen more frequently with diabetes than without. Hyperintense white matter patches are often unrelated to clinical events. MRI is useful in following the evolution of strokes and distinguishing acute and chronic infarcts without contrast agents.
A patient with see-saw nystagmus had a lesion localized by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) to the paramedian ventral midbrain with involvement of the right interstitial nucleus of Cajal. This the first MRI study of see-saw nystagmus associated with a presumed brainstem vascular event. Our findings support animal and human studies suggesting that dysfunction of the interstitial nucleus of Cajal or its connections is central in this disorder.
Unit activity of the dorsal hippocampus was recorded in partially restrained but awake and undrugged rats during a &quot;conditioning to time&quot;. In this type of conditioning, only one stimulus, the equivalent of the unconditioned stimulus of the usual procedures, is used. It is delivered at a constant interval which, in principle, is the conditioned stimulus. In our experiments, the unconditioned stimulus was a mechanical stimulation of a vibrissa; two successive unconditioned stimuli were separated by a 24-s interval. In 11/18 rats, anticipatory movements of a &quot;trained&quot; vibrissa developed at the end of the interstimulus interval. In a number of cases, in parallel to this conditioned behavior, there was a significant change in unit activity, either an increase or a decrease, during the last third of the interstimulus interval. Controls showed that these changes in unit activity did not merely reflect modifications of arousal state or of vibrissa and body movements. From autocorrelograms, it appeared that anticipatory increases in unit activity were associated with the development of a bursting mode of discharge. These data constitute one of the rare examples of a neurophysiological correlate of a &quot;conditioning to time&quot; at the unit level and the first recorded from the dorsal hippocampus of rats.
The hippocampus taken from E18-E19 rat embryos was dissociated into a cell suspension and was either grafted into the hippocampus of adult rats or cultured. The growth of GABAergic neurons was examined using a GABA directed antiserum. The implanted tissue was capable of survival and growth without exhibiting a laminar organization. Most of the various morphological neuronal types could be observed, establishing different types of synapses; however, granule neurons were rarely encountered. A substantial proportion of GABA-positive neurons was detected within the graft with profuse labelling of the neuropil. In cultures issued from the same cell suspension, GABA-immunoreactive neurons were numerous and had different morphologies. Altogether these data suggest that GABA neurons express a high potential for growth and sprouting in vitro and in vivo.
The effect of pairing two vibrissa stimulations on unit responses of the barrel field of the somatosensory cortex were studied in partially restrained but awake and undrugged rats. Before pairing, one of the stimulations (S2) evoked a stable, short-latency and excitatory response from the recorded unit. Depending on the neuron, the other stimulation (S1), preceding S2 by 500 ms, did or did not have an effect before pairing. In a number of cases, the S1-S2 association produced significant changes in the unit responses: (1) the appearance of an excitatory response to S1 when that stimulus was ineffective before pairing; (2) the modification of pre-existing responses to S1 and/or S2. In all instances these modifications consisted in the decrease or disappearance of the &quot;afferent inhibition&quot; and/or the appearance of long-latency excitatory components. These effects appeared after some 30-100 trials and persisted in some cases up to 20 min after interruption of pairing. Our observations provide the first physiological data on the plasticity of the vibrissa projections in the chronic adult rodent. Though the underlying plastic neural elements and mechanisms remain to be specified, these phenomena suggest that &quot;learned&quot; changes in unit activity may occur in sensory systems and not only in &quot;non-specific&quot; ones.
It is shown that human subjects are incapable of producing with the arm, in free space, planned or extemporaneously drawn trajectories in which the plane of wrist motion changes smoothly or continuously. The three-dimensional nature of these movements results from the fact that the plane of motion changes abruptly from one segment of the trajectory to the next, being confined to one plane during each segment (i.e. piecewise planar).
A kinematic analysis of human arm trajectories which underlie the production of learned, continuous movements (such as drawing of 'figure 8s' and stars) in free space is presented. The objective of this investigation was to see if a set of rules, which had been identified previously and which are appropriate for generating circular or elliptical motion of the wrist in an arbitrary plane, also hold true for arbitrary, learned trajectories provided one additional assumption is made: that apparently continuous complex movements are composed of unit segments. The results presented in this paper are consistent with this hypothesis. Furthermore, as predicted by the hypothesis, the wrist trajectory deviates little from planar motion in each segment while the plane of motion can change abruptly from one segment to the next.
Light microscopic observations indicated that cellular differentiation of the primary olfactory pathway in human fetuses was relatively advanced by the end of the first trimester. However, immunohistochemical staining showed that olfactory marker protein was present in the receptor cells only at about 28 weeks post-conception. At about 32 weeks, modest amounts of the protein could be found in the peripheral olfactory nerve layer and a few glomeruli, with increased staining observed in subsequent weeks. The results show conclusively that human fetal olfactory neurons synthesize olfactory marker protein during the later half of gestation.
Using a pre-embedding peroxidase technique, we have investigated the ultrastructure of elements that react with antibodies to 5-hydroxytryptamine in the central nervous system of the locust. Reactive neuron profiles are widespread, and contain a variety of vesicle types: small lucent vesicles, some of which are stained only on their outer membranes while others are stained internally, and large dense granules that again differ in the staining properties of their cores. Some of the reactive profiles contain synaptic specializations, while others receive synaptic inputs from unlabelled elements. The heterogeneity of reactive profiles makes it impossible to define ultrastructural characteristics of putative serotonergic terminals that might be generally applicable. The differential reactivity both of small vesicles and of large dense granules may indicate functional differences within these categories.
An antiserum raised against tryptophan tetrahydropterine oxygen oxidoreductase was used to examine in rat brain the immunohistochemical localization of this rate-limiting enzyme catalysing the biosynthesis of serotonin. Tryptophan tetrahydropterine oxygen oxidoreductase was detected in numerous nerve cell bodies, proximal dendrites and axon varicosities or terminals corresponding to those of serotonin neurons as judged by their anatomical distribution and concomitant immunoreactivity to an antiserum against serotonin. In hypothalamus, a serotonin-containing nerve cell group previously visualized in the pars ventralis of the nucleus dorsomedialis by radioautography after serotonin uptake, and by serotonin immunohistochemistry after tryptamine loading, remained tryptophan tetrahydropterine oxygen oxidoreductase-unreactive even in rats treated with colchicine. On the other hand, a small group of tryptophan tetrahydropterine oxygen oxidoreductase-positive cells was identified in the rostrolateral portion of nucleus dorsomedialis, which could play a part in the intrinsic serotonin innervation of hypothalamus. There was no overlap between tryptophan tetrahydropterine oxygen oxidoreductase immunostaining and the cellular distribution of N-acetyl serotonin as reported in earlier studies. It is therefore likely that the synthesis of N-acetyl serotonin from tryptophan does not take place in N-acetyl serotonin-containing neurons.
The selective excitant and neurotoxic action of capsaicin on vagal sensory neurons in the rat has been investigated in vitro using three techniques: extracellular recording of compound spike potentials from the whole nerve; intracellular recording from ganglion cells using single-electrode current and voltage clamp; and electron microscopy of the nerve and nodose ganglion. Capsaicin (0.1-10 microM) depolarized vagal sensory C fibres and cell bodies, and produced an increased conductance. The conductance increase appeared to be due to an increased permeability to sodium and calcium, plus a secondary increase in potassium (and perhaps chloride) conductance consequent upon calcium entry. The early entry of calcium seems to be a significant priming event in the neurotoxic process, since dramatic ultrastructural changes take place within a few minutes of capsaicin application, which are minimized by removing extracellular calcium ions. The observations indicate that in sensory C neurons capsaicin opens a conductance of limited specificity and that a resultant large calcium entry is closely involved in the rapid development of cell injury.
The influences exerted by the substantia nigra on reticulospinal neurons and the nature of the synaptic transmitter subserving these projections have been studied in adult cats and rats. Nigral stimulation evokes discharge changes in a significant number of reticulospinal cells (32.4% in cats and 39.1% in rats) on both ipsi- and contralateral sides. The responses were short-latency inhibitions (69.5% in cats and 76.5% in rats), short-latency excitations (22.2% in cats and 23.6% in rats) and in the remaining few cases long-latency excitations. Short-latency excitations, quite similar to the nigra-induced ones, were the predominant response pattern (95.2% in cats and 96.9% in rats) elicited on reticulospinal cells following stimulation of cerebral peduncle. The stimulation of substantia nigra in rats submitted to chronic ablation of sensorimotor cortex elicited only inhibitory responses while stimulation of nigral area in rats with intranigral injection of kainic acid was still capable of evoking short-latency excitations but not short-latency inhibitions. Therefore, the former can be ascribed to activation of corticoreticular fibers running in the cerebral peduncle whereas the latter can be considered as depending on activation of nigral efferents. The nigra-influenced cells were both 'fast' and 'slow' reticulospinal neurons and resulted mainly located in most rostral regions of reticular formation. Ionophoretic application of GABA suppressed the spontaneous firing of reticulospinal cells while no effect was observed following application of dopamine. The nigra-induced inhibitions were abolished by GABA-antagonist bicuculline and not by dopamine-antagonist fluphenazine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The mesostriatal projections from the dopamine-containing cells groups A8, A9 and A10 have been studied in the cat in relation to the histochemical compartments known to exist in the striatum. In order to do this, we made stereotaxic injections in the substantia nigra of either [3H]proline-[3H]leucine, [35S]methionine, wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase, or the two last tracers combined, and compared the location of anterograde labeling in the striatum to the locations of striosomes and extrastriosomal matrix identified by their low or high content, respectively, of the enzyme acetylcholinesterase. A discrete innervation of dorsolateral striosomes by a caudal densocellular subdivision of the substantia nigra pars compacta was found. This densocellular zone of the pars compacta was readily identifiable in sections stained for tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity and corresponded to the uniquely acetylcholinesterase-poor zone detected in the substantia nigra pars compacta in serially adjacent sections stained for this enzyme. Selective anterograde labeling of the extrastriosomal matrix occurred in cases with injection sites centered in cell group A8. Tracer deposits in cell group A10 also elicited a preferential labeling of the extrastriosomal matrix, but this innervation was sparse compared to the prominent labeling of fibers in the ventral striatum. An almost exclusive innervation of caudal and ventral striosomes of the head of the caudate nucleus occurred after a deposit of tracer in the pars lateralis of the substantia nigra. Mixed labeling of striosomes and matrix occurred with injection sites centered in the rostral, cell-sparse part of the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. Clusters of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons within this zone, most likely representing finger-like extensions of the caudal densocellular zone of the pars compacta, might have accounted for part of the striosomal labeling in these cases. We conclude that different subdivisions of the A8-A9-A10 dopamine-containing cell complex of the cat's mesencephalon project preferentially to striosomes or to extrastriosomal matrix. On this basis we suggest that there may be different functional channels in the mesostriatal projection, including, from cell group A8, a channel providing dopaminergic modulation of sensorimotor processing in the striatal matrix, and, from the densocellular zone of the substantia nigra pars compacta, a channel leading to limbic-related mechanisms represented in the striosomal system.
The projection from the lateral reticular nucleus to the cerebellum was examined using the retrograde fluorescent double labelling method in the rat. A quantitative analysis of the extent of axonal branching and of nucleotopic (topographic) organization in this projection was carried out. It was shown that lateral reticular nucleus neurons show axonal branching both within and between parasagittal zones of the cerebellar cortex, but that branching within zones is more common. Neurons projecting to different zones were found to be significantly spatially separated, but those projecting to different sites within the same zone were intermingled. Thus a limited degree of nucleotopic organization was found. The results are discussed in relation to the parasagittal zonation in the olivocerebellar projection.
Specific high-affinity neurotensin binding sites were labeled in sections of the rat caudal brainstem using a monoiodinated ligand, and their distribution was examined by light microscopic radioautography after fixation with glutaraldehyde. In the medulla, labeled binding sites were mainly concentrated within the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the external cuneate nucleus, the lateral reticular nucleus, the medial vestibular nucleus, the retrofacial nucleus, the linearis nucleus, the paragigantocellular nucleus and the nucleus raphe pallidus. Within the pons, neurotensin binding sites were detected in the reticulotegmental nucleus, the pontine nuclei, the dorsal tegmental nucleus, the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei and the nuclei raphe dorsalis and medianus. Most nuclei found here to contain high densities of neurotensin binding sites have been shown to stain intensely for acetylcholinesterase, suggesting a possible association between this enzyme and neurotensin receptors.
The projections of the subiculum, as the main output structure of the hippocampal formation, to the striatum were studied in the rat using the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. It appears that not only the entire nucleus accumbens, part of the so-called ventral striatum, receives fibres from the subiculum, but that the hippocampal projection area in the striatum includes also the most medial, ventral, rostral and caudal parts of the caudate-putamen complex. Moreover, a relatively small number of fibres and terminals are present in the striatal elements of the medial part of the olfactory tubercle. The projections to the ventral and caudal parts of the caudate-putamen are predominantly derived from the ventral subiculum, whereas the projections to the rostral part of the caudate-putamen are derived from the dorsal subiculum. Furthermore, with respect to the subiculum-accumbens pathway a topographical organization could be established. Thus, the ventral or temporal part of the subiculum projects predominantly to the caudomedial part of the nucleus accumbens, and to a lesser degree to its rostromedial portion, whereas progressively more dorsal or septal parts of the subiculum send fibres to successively more lateral and rostral portions of the nucleus accumbens. Very sparse projections are found to the contralateral nucleus accumbens, arranged in a topographical manner similar to the ipsilateral projections. An important observation with respect to the structure of the nucleus accumbens is that the subicular terminations are inhomogeneously distributed, although a relation with earlier described mosaic patterns in the connectivity and neurochemical composition of the nucleus is not yet clear. Subicular fibres have their densest terminations in relatively cell-poor regions of the nucleus accumbens, and in particular tend to avoid small cell clusters.
In the present study, the structural and functional role of smooth endoplasmic reticulum was investigated in bullfrog olfactory axon terminals. Structural evidence obtained from this study indicated that this vesiculotubular organelle becomes a more elaborate network of anastomosing tubules near the nerve terminal, located in the olfactory lobe of frog brain. Further structural evidence suggested that membranes of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum pinch off to give rise to some electron-lucent vesicles of approximately 50 nm diameter (microvesicles). Ultrastructural cytochemistry was employed in the present study to demonstrate that olfactory axon terminal smooth endoplasmic reticulum actively sequesters Ca2+. However, a variable amount of electron-dense product (calcium oxalate) was associated with microvesicles located at a distance from the synapse, in contrast to those clustered near the synapse which usually did not contain this reaction product. Results from Ca2+-Mg2+-adenosine-5'-triphosphatase (ATPase) cytochemistry showed a similar pattern of distribution, with smooth endoplasmic reticulum being densely labeled with ATPase reaction product (lead phosphate), but aggregated microvesicles in the nerve terminal generally lacking this electron-dense product. Therefore, it is concluded that olfactory axonal smooth endoplasmic reticulum plays a role in the regulation of intraneuronal Ca2+ levels, and that the Ca2+-sequestering activity of this membranous organelle is dependent upon enzymatic hydrolysis of ATP. Conversely, the microvesicles, particularly those accumulated near the synapse, lack this Ca2+-pumping capacity. Thus, if some of the microvesicles originate from smooth endoplasmic reticulum membranes which are capable of pumping Ca2+, but these vesicles themselves lack this capacity, one can postulate that the Ca2+ pumps are either removed from the newly formed microvesicle membranes or are somehow incapacitated in situ in the membrane.
We have shown that monoclonal antibody, G10, labels developing rat cerebellum in a manner consistent with the presence of microtubule-associated protein 1x in growing axons. In this paper we show that all growing axons investigated in post-natal and pre-natal developing rat brain contain microtubule-associated protein 1x and that neither dendrites, cell bodies nor glia are labelled by G10. The distribution of the G10 epitope as shown by immuno-electron microscopy is consistent with its localization to axonal microtubules. On Western blots there is only a small decrease in microtubule-associated protein 1x from first-natal day 7 to adulthood, in contrast to the dramatic decrease in immunofluorescence during axonal maturation. The G10 epitope is therefore probably masked in adult brain. The spatial and chronological coincidence of the G10 epitope with axonal elongation offers the possibility of using this monoclonal antibody to probe the function of the cytoskeleton during neuronal growth.
The enzyme carbonic anhydrase is widespread in brain tissue. In rodent brains it has been reported to be exclusively in oligodendroglia but there has been some debate about the generality of this finding. To investigate the cellular distribution of carbonic anhydrase by an independent technique, we have examined the chick brain by in situ hybridization to detect mRNA from the carbonic anhydrase-II gene, using as controls the actin and vimentin genes. The most intense carbonic anhydrase-II hybridization is to the choroid plexus, to the Bergmann glia of the cerebellum, and to the Mller cells in the retina. Elsewhere, some brain regions are negative while others show many individual strongly positive cells; carbonic anhydrase-II mRNA is particularly abundant in some parts of the hyperstriatum, tectum and thalamus. Some of the larger labelled cells are identifiable as neurons. By histochemistry, we confirm the presence of the carbonic anhydrase enzyme in choroid plexus and Bergmann glia, but the enzyme is also present in blood vessel walls where there is no carbonic anhydrase-II mRNA; this may be a different isozyme. During embryogenesis, carbonic anhydrase-II mRNA appears in the retina as early as two days of incubation, but does not appear in the brain until much later.
Using a monoclonal antibody against the microtubule-associated protein tau we compared the distribution and the biochemical maturation of this protein in hippocampal pyramidal neurons in the rat in tau and in culture. In tissue sections from mature animals tau was localized heterogeneously within neurons. It was concentrated in axons; dendrites and somata showed little or no staining. In hippocampal cultures ranging from 12 h to 4 weeks in vitro tau was present in neurons but not in glial cells, as it is in situ. Within cultured neurons, however, tau was not compartmentalized but was present throughout the dendrites, axons and somata. Immunoblotting experiments showed that the biochemical maturation of tau that occurs in situ also failed to occur in culture. The young form of tau persisted, and the adult forms did not develop. In contrast the biochemical maturation and the compartmentalization of microtubule-associated protein 2 occurred normally in hippocampal cultures. These results show that the biochemical maturation and the intraneuronal compartmentalization of these two microtubule-associated proteins are independently controlled. Despite the non-restricted distribution of tau in hippocampal neurons in culture, and despite the presence of only the immature isoform which has a lessened stimulatory effect on microtubule polymerization, axons and dendrites appear to grow normally and to exhibit appropriate functional properties.
The study examined the effects of dopaminergic agonists on the extracellularly recorded spontaneous activity of CA1 neurons in hippocampal slices of the rat. Dopamine evoked excitation or inhibition of the neuronal firing rate, the first reaction being more sensitive to the substance. Having used selective dopaminergic agonists (pergolide and 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepines) and selective antagonists (haloperidol, spiperone, sulpiride and (R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3- benzazepine-7-ol), it was concluded that the excitation evoked by dopamine was due to activation of D2 dopamine receptors, while the inhibition was the result of D1 receptor activation. The effects of the dopamine agonists on the firing of CA1 neurons were long-lasting, which suggests a modulating role of dopamine in the hippocampus.
As determined by autoradiographic techniques, multiple high doses of methamphetamine elicited a reduction in dopamine receptor population (both D1 and D2) in several areas of the rat central nervous system. D1 receptors were labeled with the D1-selective antagonist, [3H]SCH 23390, and D2 receptors were labeled with the D2-selective neuroleptic, [3H]sulpiride. Scatchard analysis, obtained from saturation data in caudate-putamen, indicated that the receptor alterations were due to a decrease in the number of receptors (Bmax) without an apparent change in affinity (Kd). A time course demonstrated that five doses of methamphetamine were required to elicit significant changes in receptors in most brain areas examined. The onset of the receptor alterations in various brain regions correlated with the development of methamphetamine-induced depression of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase activity. In most brain areas, the dopamine receptors returned to normal within 7 days following methamphetamine.
Corticotropin-releasing factor initially stimulates the release of beta-endorphin and dynorphin from rat hypothalamic slices in vitro; with time, in the continued presence of corticotropin-releasing factor, the release of both these peptides declines. The studies described here were undertaken to test whether this decline could be due to the operation of inhibitory feedback mechanisms associated with the function of the opioidergic neurons. When the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone was added to the superfusion medium in the presence of corticotropin-releasing factor, the time-related decrease in opioid release was not observed. Potassium ions also caused an increase, followed by a decrease, in opioid peptide release, and naloxone also prevented the latter from occurring. In addition, naloxone on its own, produced a Ca2+-dependent increase in the non-stimulated release of beta-endorphin and dynorphin, and this action was resistant to tetrodotoxin. These findings suggest that opioid receptors mediate inhibitory feedback effects upon the secretory activity of beta-endorphin and dynorphin neurons in the hypothalamus.

The effects of the two toxic proteins Pardaxin I and II isolated from the gland secretion of the flatfish Pardachirus marmoratus on frog neuromuscular transmission have been investigated and compared to those of the gland secretion. Pardaxin I and II showed pre- but not postsynaptic neurotoxic effects. They increased the frequency of the spontaneous release of transmitter quanta in a dose-dependent and temperature-influenced way up to more than 100 times control values. At the same time the quantal content of the evoked end-plate potentials was greatly elevated. Pardaxin I was about 5 times more effective than Pardaxin II, and both were roughly in the same range of efficacy as the original gland secretion (w/v). The glycosteroids isolated from the same gland secretion were relatively ineffective in promoting neurotransmitter release; however, at high doses they had postsynaptic effects, as shown by a diminution of the amplitude of the evoked end-plate potentials. They did not reinforce the effect of the Pardaxins. At higher doses both the Pardaxins and the gland secretion induced depolarization of postsynaptic membranes, muscle cell contractions which could not be blocked by (+)-tubocurarine or by tetrodotoxin, and eventually also physical disruption of muscle cells. No effects on nerve conductance were observed. Pore-forming activity of the Pardaxins has already been demonstrated. It is suggested that their presynaptic effects are a result of a possible affinity to the nerve terminals, of their hydrophobicity and mainly of this pore-forming activity. These toxins might be valuable tools in neuroscience research.
The electrical properties of pigeon's optic tectum neurons located in the non-retinorecipient region of layer II have been studied in vitro slice preparations by using intracellular recordings. As judged from the somatodendritic characteristics of cells intracellularly labeled with horseradish peroxidase recordings were obtained from pyramidal neurons, the main morphological type, as well as from ganglion cells. When stimulated with depolarizing current pulses of 300-500 ms duration, three distinct modes of firing were observed. Most neurons (Type I) responded with a continuous firing of fast action potentials whose frequency rate increased regularly when current strength was raised. Another group of cells (Type II) also exhibited sustained firing. However, in Type II cells, grouped discharges formed by 2-6 fast action potentials per group fired in rapid succession were elicited within a certain range of current intensity. Finally, another group of cells (Type III) responded at all intensities tested by a short train of fast action potentials only at the onset of the current step. At current strength close to threshold the spike undershoot of type I neurons was followed by a slow hyperpolarizing afterpotential while the spike undershoot of Type II cells was followed by a hump-like depolarization and a slow hyperpolarizing afterpotential. In Type II cells, we have also observed a pronounced increase of the hyperpolarizing afterpotential after a grouped discharge. Type III cells were characterized by a small amplitude and short duration hyperpolarizing afterpotential, barely visible in most of them. In Type I and II cells the slow hyperpolarizing afterpotential was blocked by replacing Ca2+ with Mg2+ or Cd2+ in the saline. These results support the idea that in these two types of neurons the slow hyperpolarizing afterpotential is primarily caused by a Ca2+-dependent K+ conductance. Furthermore, blocking the slow hyperpolarizing afterpotential provoked a pronounced increase of the firing frequency of Type I cells. In Type II cells blockade of the slow hyperpolarizing afterpotential had a greater effect on firing behavior: i.e. when Ca2+ was replaced with Mg2+ or Cd2+, Type II neurons exhibited repetitively fired action potentials at high frequency but were incapable of discharging repetitive grouped discharges. These observations indicate that the Ca2+-dependent K+ conductance involved in the generation of the slow hyperpolarizing afterpotential is the main modulator of the firing behavior of both types of cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The densities of beta-1 and beta-2-adrenergic receptors in normal and reeler mice brains were compared using in vitro autoradiography. For the most part, the regional distribution of the beta-receptor subtypes in mouse brain was similar to that of rat [Rainbow et al. (1984) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 81, 1585-1589]. The most striking differences in beta-adrenergic receptor localization between the mouse and rat brain were in the superficial layer of the superior colliculus and the bed nucleus of stria terminalis. The superficial layer of the mouse superior colliculus had high densities of beta-1 receptors and much lower densities of beta-2 receptors, while the superficial layer of the rat superior colliculus had moderately high densities of beta-2 and lower densities of beta-1 receptors. The mouse bed nucleus of stria terminalis had greater densities of beta-1 receptors than beta-2 receptors. This structure in the rat possessed roughly equivalent densities of beta-1 and beta-2 receptors. In general, the distributional pattern of beta-1 and beta-2 receptors in the reeler mouse brain matched that of the normal mouse brain. In regions which neuronal malpositioning had been reported, such as the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum, beta-1 and beta-2 receptors were still present in proportions similar to normal mice; however, the pattern of beta-receptors within each of these regions was altered. The beta-receptor subtypes in these structures showed an abnormal radial distribution similar to the abnormal radial positioning of neurons in these structures.
Opiate receptors have been localized autoradiographically to many regions of the rat central nervous system. The interpeduncular nucleus has an especially high concentration of these receptors. We used [3H]naloxone and [125I] [D-Ala2,MePhe4,Glyol5]enkephalin as ligands to map the distribution of opiate receptors among the subnuclei of the interpeduncular nucleus. The rostral subnucleus contains label that is densest dorsally. More caudally, high densities of opiate binding sites are found in the lateral, rostral, and central subnuclei. The dorsal subnucleus contains a moderate density of binding sites and the intermediate subnuclei contain almost none. Opiate receptors have also been localized to the medial habenulae and the fasciculi retroflexi, which provide a major afferent input to the interpeduncular nucleus. Lesions of the fasciculi retroflexi decreased the density of opiate binding sites in the rostral and lateral subnuclei of the interpeduncular nucleus. There were no changes seen in the dorsal, intermediate or central subnuclei. These results suggest that a minority of opiate receptors in the interpeduncular nucleus are located presynaptically on fasciculi retroflexi axons. Immunocytochemical studies have demonstrated that the rat interpeduncular nucleus contains substance P, serotonin and enkephalin, and each has a distinct subnuclear distribution. Although the opiate binding sites have a wider distribution than substance P, serotonin, or enkephalin individually, the pattern of opiate binding most closely parallels substance P distribution. The combined distribution of substance P, serotonin, and enkephalin is equivalent to that of the opiate binding sites.
The binding characteristics of [3H]saxitoxin and its binding site were examined in bovine adrenal medullary cells. These cells showed a specific binding of [3H]saxitoxin which was saturable and reversible. Scatchard analysis showed a single class of high-affinity binding sites with an equilibrium dissociation constant of 5.8 nM and a maximum binding capacity of 427.2 fmoles/10(7) cells (124.2 fmoles/mg of cell protein). A Hill plot revealed that there were no co-operative interactions among the binding sites. Unlabeled saxitoxin inhibited the specific binding of [3H]saxitoxin as well as veratridine-induced 22Na influx with a similar potency as did tetrodotoxin. However, veratridine, aconitine and scorpion venom, at concentrations that increased 22Na influx, did not inhibit [3H]saxitoxin binding. These results indicate that saxitoxin binds to a specific site on voltage-dependent Na channels and inhibits the influx of 22Na. [3H]Saxitoxin would be useful for the detailed analysis of voltage-dependent Na channels in adrenal medullary cells.
We investigated quantitative changes in markers of possible neurotransmitters in the dorsal column nuclei following transection of the dorsal column in the cat. Seven days after unilateral transection of the dorsal column at the upper cervical level, choline acetyltransferase activity and concentrations of glutamate, aspartate, gamma-aminobutyrate and substance P were measured throughout the longitudinal axis of the dorsal column nuclei. In addition, high-affinity uptake of choline, D-aspartate and gamma-aminobutyrate into the synaptosomal fraction of the dorsal column nuclei were also measured. Choline acetyltransferase activity and high-affinity choline uptake were reduced by approx. 30% on the caudal to the obex. Reduction of high-affinity uptake of D-aspartate by approx. 30% was observed on the operated side in the central part of these nuclei, although the decrease in glutamate and aspartate was not significant in the nuclei on the operated side compared with that on the intact side. No significant changes were found in the high-affinity uptake of gamma-aminobutyrate or the contents of gamma-aminobutyrate and substance P in any areas of the dorsal column nuclei. These results suggest that not only glutamate and/or aspartate but also acetylcholine may be neurotransmitter candidates for the ascending fibres terminating in the dorsal column nuclei, whereas there may be few fibres containing substance P or gamma-aminobutyrate in the dorsal column.
This study examined the medullary distribution of peptide-containing neurons at the origin of bulbospinal pathways in the rat. Antisera directed against substance P, methionine-enkephalin-arg-gly-leu and dynorphin B were used on sections in which spinally projecting brainstem neurons had been identified by the retrograde transport of a protein-gold complex that was injected into the spinal cord. Both the relative numbers and distribution of the different peptide-immunoreactive spinally projecting neurons differed. Methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons were twice as numerous as the substance P-immunoreactive cells and seven times more numerous than the dynorphin B-positive neurons. The methionine-enkephalin cells were found in all medullary raph nuclei, and in the ventromedial and ventrolateral medullary reticular formation. Caudally, the methionine-enkephalin cells were concentrated laterally; more rostrally they were located more medially. Three major loci of methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive cells were found: (1) the nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis lateralis, at levels caudal to the facial nucleus, (2) the B3 cell group (nucleus raph magnus and the nucleus reticularis magnocellularis, pars alpha) and the most rostral part of the B1 and B2 cell groups (nuclei raph pallidus and obscurus), (3) a dense cluster of cells that flanks the dorsal surface of the dorsal accessory olive (referred to as the nucleus interfascicularis hypoglossi, pars dorsalis). Substance P-like cells were seen in all raph nuclei except for the most anterior portion of the B3 cell group. Substance P-immunoreactive cells were also seen in both the ventromedial (nuclei reticularis ventralis and magnocellularis) and ventrolateral medulla (nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis lateralis). Finally there was a dense concentration of substance P neurons in the nucleus interfascicularis hypoglossi, pars ventralis. The distribution of dynorphin-immunoreactive neurons differed significantly from that of methionine-enkephalin and substance P. Dynorphin cells were almost exclusively found in the ventrolateral medulla (nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis lateralis), at all levels between the lateral reticular nucleus and the caudal pole of the facial nucleus. The proportion of each of these peptidergic-immunoreactive cells at the origin of bulbospinal pathways differed considerably. Substance P spinally projecting neurons were more numerous than methionine-enkephalin spinally projecting neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The regulation of histamine synthesis was studied on rat brain slices or synaptosomes labeled with L-[3H]histidine. Depolarization by increased extracellular K+ concentration enhanced by about twofold the [3H]histamine formation in slices of cerebral cortex. This stimulation was also observed, although to a lesser extent, in synaptosomes from cerebral cortex and slices from the posterior hypothalamus where most histaminergic cell-bodies are located, suggesting that it may occur in nerve endings as well as in perikarya. In the presence of exogenous histamine in increasing concentrations the K+-induced stimulation was progressively reduced by up to 60-70%. The effect of exogenous histamine appears to be receptor-mediated as shown by its saturable character, high pharmacological specificity and competitive reversal by histamine antagonists. The EC50 value of histamine for synthesis reduction (0.34 +/- 0.03 microM) was similar to its EC50 value for release inhibition known to be mediated by H3-receptors. In addition, whereas mepyramine and tiotidine, two potent antagonists at H1- and H2-receptors, respectively, were poorly effective, the H3-receptor antagonists burimamide and impromidine reversed the histamine effect in an apparently competitive manner. These effects were observed in slices of cerebral cortex or posterior hypothalamus as well as in cortical synaptosomes. Furthermore, even in the absence of added histamine, H3-receptor antagonists enhanced the depolarization-induced stimulation of [3H]histamine synthesis, indicating a participation of released endogenous histamine in the synthesis control process. The potencies of H3-receptor antagonists were similar to those of these agents at presynaptic autoreceptors controlling [3H]histamine release. It is concluded that H3-receptors control not only release but also synthesis of histamine at the level of nerve endings and also, presumably, of perikarya. A relationship between the two regulatory processes, possibly via intracellular calcium, seems likely but remains to be investigated at the molecular level.
Zener card representations were presented visually for 15 sec. every 30 sec. for a total of 40 trials per session over 17 sessions to a single subject who displayed temporal lobe lability. During the 15 sec. before the presentation of one of the symbols (target) either a specific 4-Hz magnetic field pattern or a 1-Hz or 7-Hz magnetic field was presented bilaterally at the level of the temporal lobes. Field strengths were in the order of milligauss (about 1000X background values). The subject was required to anticipate the next symbol for each trial. Only when the 4-Hz field preceded the target symbol did the subject's accuracy of guessing remain systematically above (50%) chance (20%) over the sessions. These results suggest that exogenous magnetic fields may become discriminative stimuli through temporal association. Evidence of habituation was also obtained.
The 87-kDa protein, a major specific substrate for protein kinase C, has been purified 500-fold to apparent homogeneity from bovine forebrain supernatant. The purification procedure included batch adsorption to DE-52 (DEAE-cellulose), (NH4)2SO4 precipitation, and chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel, Bio-Gel HTP (hydroxylapatite), Sephacryl S-400, and fast protein liquid chromatography ProRPC. The amino acid composition was notable for its high proportion of alanine (28.6 mol%) and its enrichment in glutamate/glutamine (18.1 mol%), glycine (12.6 mol%), and proline (11.3 mol%). The partial specific volume was 0.702 ml/g; the Stokes radius and sedimentation coefficient were 85 A and 2.11 S, respectively. Although the relative molecular mass of the protein on NaDodSO4/8% PAGE was 87-90 kDa, the molecular mass as determined from the above values was 68 kDa. The frictional ratio was 3.2, and the axial ratio was 60, indicating that the 87-kDa protein is an extremely elongated monomer. The purified 87-kDa protein was phosphorylated by purified protein kinase C to a stoichiometry of 2.2 mol of 32P per mol of 87-kDa protein (calculated using a value of 68 kDa for the molecular mass). Phosphorylation was exclusively on serine residues.
Progressive amyloid deposition in senile plaques and cortical blood vessels may play a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. We have used x-ray diffraction and electron microscopy to study the molecular organization and morphology of macromolecular assemblies formed by three synthetic peptides homologous to beta protein of brain amyloid: beta-(1-28), residues 1-28 of the beta protein; [Ala16]beta-(1-28), beta-(1-28) with alanine substituted for lysine at position 16; and beta-(18-28), residues 18-28 of the beta protein. beta-(1-28) readily formed fibrils in vitro that were similar in ultrastructure to the in vivo amyloid and aggregated into large bundles resembling those of senile plaque cores. X-ray patterns from partially dried, oriented pellets showed a cross-beta-conformation. A series of small-angle, equatorial maxima were consistent with a tubular fibril having a mean diameter of 86 A and a wall composed of pairs of cross-beta-pleated sheets. The data may also be consistent with pairs of cross-beta-sheets that are centered 71-A apart. [Ala16]beta-(1-28) formed beta-pleated sheet assemblies that were dissimilar to in vivo fibrils. The width of the 10-A spacing indicated stacks of about six sheets. Thus, substitution of the uncharged alanine for the positively charged lysine in the beta-strand region enhances the packing of the sheets and dramatically alters the type of macromolecular aggregate formed. beta-(18-28) formed assemblies that had even a greater number of stacked sheets, approximately equal to 24 per diffracting domain as indicated by the sharp intersheet reflection. Our findings on these homologous synthetic assemblies help to define the specific sequence that is required to form Alzheimer-type amyloid fibrils, thus providing an in vitro model of age-related cerebral amyloidogenesis.

Binding of 2-[125I]iodomelatonin in hamster brain synaptosomal membranes at 0 degrees C is rapid, saturable, reversible and sensitive to heat and trypsin treatment. Computer resolution of curvilinear Scatchard plots yielded high- and low-affinity components as follows: Kd1 = 0.32 +/- 0.14 nM, Bmax1 = 5.6 +/- 1.7 fmol/mg protein and Kd2 = 10.5 +/- 3.2 nM, Bmax2 = 123 +/- 33 fmol/mg protein (n = 3). Competition experiments indicated that 2-iodomelatonin and prazosin are the most potent inhibitors of high-affinity binding. Unlike prazosin, several alpha-adrenergic agents and various neurotransmitters were ineffective. These findings suggest that prazosin may be a potent antagonist at a unique, non-alpha-adrenergic, high-affinity binding site for melatonin.
The nerve growth factor (NGF) synthesis/secretion by cultured mouse astroglial cells was modulated by catecholamine. In quiescent cells, epinephrine (EN) and dopamine (DA) markedly increased the NGF content in the conditioned medium (CM). Conversely, EN, DA, and norepinephrine (NE) decreased the NGF content in growing cells. Cholinergic agonists, metacholine and carbamylcholine, slightly increased the NGF content in quiescent cells, but showed no effects on growing cells. Other neurotransmitters tested had no effects on either growing or quiescent cells. These results suggest that catecholamine is one of the molecules responsible for regulation of NGF synthesis/secretion in the mouse brain.

Ketamine and (+)-N-allylnormetazocine ((+)-NANM) were found to generalize in a rat operant drug discrimination paradigm to the interoceptive stimulus induced by phencyclidine (PCP). Intraperitoneal administration of the non-competitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, MK-801, and intracerebroventricular injection of the competitive antagonist, 2-DL-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (2-APH), also resulted in a dose-dependent generalisation to the PCP discriminative stimulus. The results suggest that NMDA receptor antagonism may play an important role in the mediation of the discriminative stimulus properties of PCP. The low potency of MK-801 and 2-APH to displace [3H](+)-NANM binding in vitro argues against an involvement of the haloperidol-sensitive sigma recognition site in the behaviour.
Axonal transport of fluorescent dyes, Diamidino yellow dihydrochloride (DY) and Fast blue (FB), applied to the cut distal ends of dorsal and ventral roots, respectively, was studied in order to determine whether any dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons have processes in both dorsal and ventral roots. A total of 359 DRG neurons are double labeled in 14 ganglia (L6 and S1) from 6 different animals, thus suggesting a possibility of many DRG neurons having multiple central processes. The somata of the double-labeled DRG neurons are small to medium in size with a mean diameter of 29 microns. These data are consistent with findings that the majority of ventral root afferent fibers are unmyelinated or small myelinated axons.
The effect of electrolytic lesion of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) on yawning and penile erection induced by apomorphine, oxytocin and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH1-24) was studied in male rats. In sham-operated rats, apomorphine (50 micrograms/kg s.c.), oxytocin (30 ng i.c.v.), and ACTH1-24 (10 micrograms i.c.v.) significantly increased the number of yawning and penile erection episodes. In PVN-lesioned rats, apomorphine- and oxytocin-, but not ACTH-induced responses were strongly reduced. These results confirm our previous observations showing that the PVN has a crucial role in the expression of yawning and penile erection induced by dopamino-mimetic drugs and oxytocin, and suggest that ACTH-derived peptides induce the above responses by a mechanism not involving PVN hypothalamic dopamine or oxytocin.
The time course of the appearance of degenerating synapses and the loss and reappearance of intact synapses was investigated in the medial amygdaloid nucleus (MAN) following lesions of the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB). Degenerating synapses were concentrated in the molecular layer of MAN. A quantitative electron microscopic analysis of the molecular layer was performed at 2, 4, 8, 16, 32 and 64 days after the placement of kainic acid injections within AOB. At each survival time, counts of synapses were made from photomicrographic montages. The degenerating synapses were observed at 2 days after lesion. Their density reached a peak at 2 or 4 days after the lesion and decreased thereafter. No degenerating synapses were found at 64 days following the lesion. Shrinkage of the thickness of molecular layer was observed following the AOB lesion. This was most pronounced at 4 or 8 days after the lesion at which time the thickness was 70-75% of the contralateral molecular layer. The shrinkage receded moderately (85% of contralateral layer at 64 days after lesion). The compensated synaptic density of intact synapses was reduced to less than half of the control density at 4 or 8 days after the lesion. Thereafter synaptic density increased gradually and reached more than 80% of control density at 64 days after lesion. The recovery in number of intact synapses following the lesion suggests the possibility of synaptic reorganization by remaining afferent fibers.
The rearrangement of terminations from the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BST) was examined in the medial amygdaloid nucleus (MAN) at 2 months following the lesion of the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) using an electron microscopy and degeneration study. At 2 days following a BST lesion, the number of degenerating synapses was 0.7 +/- 0.1 (mean +/- S.E.M.) per unit area (2500 microns2) in the molecular layer, and 3.0 +/- 0.3 in the cellular part. At 2 months after an AOB lesion, the degenerating synapses from the AOB had completely disappeared from the MAN. The BST was then lesioned at 2 months after the AOB lesion and, at 2 days following this BST lesion, the degenerating synapses were counted in MAN. The numbers observed were 3.3 +/- 0.6 per unit area in the molecular layer and 4.5 +/- 0.4 in the cellular part. Therefore, the number of these degenerating synapses increased significantly within the molecular layer, though, in the cellular part the number of synapses was not significantly elevated over control. No differences in postsynaptic profiles (ratio of synapses on dendritic spine to dendritic shaft) were observed after the AOB lesion. These results indicate that the BST fibers formed new synapses in the molecular layer following the denervation of AOB fibers. The possibility of new synapse formation by other afferent fibers in addition to the AOB fibers is discussed as is the relationship between lesion induced synaptic reorganization and functional recovery after injury.
The effects of continuous exposure to ethanol on the cytological and physiological development of a central nervous system (CNS) neuron were studied using the cultured Purkinje neuron of the rat cerebellar cortex. Purkinje neurons in fetal rat brain cultures which are established at one day before birth show development comparable to that described in vivo in other studies. In culture, Purkinje neurons progress from immature rounded cells with fine neurites to mature neurons with a branched dendritic structure. These structural changes are accompanied by an increase in the duration and complexity of the excitatory response to glutamate, by transitions in the patterns of spontaneous activity, and by an increase in mean firing rate. Our results demonstrate that chronic exposure to a low concentration of ethanol (90 mg%; 19.5 mM) during development selectively alters the electrophysiological but not the morphological properties of Purkinje neurons. Specifically, ethanol treatment reduces the responsiveness of these neurons to glutamate, delays the expected developmental transitions in patterns of spontaneous activity, and induces increased spontaneous bursting activity, particularly at the stage of dendritic formation. Impairment of responsiveness to glutamate is significant in that it may reflect the compromise by ethanol of a major excitatory pathway in the cerebellar cortex, resulting from the decreased efficacy of glutamatergic input from parallel fibers. In contrast to the results of other studies using adult neurons as a model for the effects of ethanol, our work suggests that the developing CNS neuron does not become tolerant; that is, in the continuing presence of ethanol, it does not express physiological function equivalent to that of the control.
The morphological transformation of astrocytes in primary culture from flat to process bearing is induced by cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Calcium currents in cultured astrocytes are also enhanced by cAMP. This correlation suggests the hypothesis that cAMP-induced calcium entry causes the morphological differentiation. The experiments reported here show that cadmium or cobalt, which block astrocyte calcium channels, also block the cAMP-induced morphological differentiation. These results support the hypothesized link between calcium entry and astrocyte differentiation.
The one-equation and the two-equation logistic models were used to predict tested subjects' susceptibility to motion sickness in KC-135 parabolic flights using data from other ground-based motion sickness tests. A data set containing data from 6 provocative tests, 2 vestibular function tests, and 1 motion sickness experience questionnaire from 162 subjects was used in this study. The prediction results from the logistic models were compared with those from the previously-used Bayes linear discriminant analysis procedures. The results based on this data set show that the logistic models correctly predicted substantially more cases (an average of 13%) in the data subset used for model building. In the data subset used for model cross-validation, the logistic models correctly predicted 4% and 5% more cases in the prediction of vomit or nonvomit, and of degree of susceptibility, respectively. Overall, the logistic models ranged from 53 to 65% predictions of the three endpoint parameters, whereas the Bayes linear discriminant procedure ranged from 48 to 65% correct for the cross validation sample.
Accurate prediction of space motion sickness is dependent, in part, upon the reliability of terrestrial-based motion sickness susceptibility tests. In the present study, test-retest reliability values were derived from motion sickness susceptibility scores obtained from two successive exposures to each of three tests: 1) Coriolis Sickness Sensitivity Index (CSSI); 2) Staircase Velocity Movement Test (SVMT); and 3) Parabolic Flight Static Chair Test (PSCT). The reliability of the three tests ranged from 0.70 to 0.88. Normalizing values from predictors with skewed distributions improved the reliability. The apparent inconsistency between our finding of high reliability of predictive tests, and previous reports of low correlations between ground-based predictors and space motion sickness may be due to unreliability in assessment of the sickness criterion. Issues of reliability and validity of predictor and criterion measures, and their implications for future development of ground-based predictive tests are discussed in some detail.
A study was designed to establish baseline normative responses to the MIT/Canadian Spacelab vestibular test battery. Three tests used a linear acceleration sled to measure otolith function: 1) perception of linear motion (threshold determination); 2) compensatory eye movements (linear VOR); 3) closed-loop nulling, in which the blindfolded subject nulls his velocity with a joystick under the influences of a pseudorandom sled disturbance. Rotational VOR was measured at 0.3 and 0.8 Hz in the dark and the light. Static visual-vestibular interaction was tested with a standard rod and frame apparatus, while dynamic interaction was assessed by susceptibility to roll vection induced by a rotating peripheral visual field. Two examples are presented of how results from this study can aid in the interpretation of data from preflight/postflight testing of Space Shuttle/Spacelab crews on these same experiments.
Our goal was to determine whether the vestibular response to vertical, z-axis body rotation in the dark is influenced by the magnitude of gravitoinertial force. We measured the nystagmus and the duration of illusory self-motion elicited in blindfolded subjects by cessation of such rotation during the free-fall, high, and terrestrial force phases of parabolic flight maneuvers. Both measures were significantly lower in zero G than in 1 G, and lower to a smaller extent in 1.8 G. The decreased intensity of nystagmus was due specifically to a decrease in the time constant of slow phase velocity decay with no decrement in peak velocity. This pattern of findings is consistent with the responses we had observed earlier to constant levels of Coriolis, cross-coupled stimulation during parabolic flight maneuvers both in terms of the mode of nystagmus suppression and the effect of G-level. Attenuation of the vestibular response to rotary acceleration in free-fall causes sensory-motor mismatches during natural head movements in orbital flight that may be important factors in the evocation of space motion sickness.
Astronauts report that head movements in flight tend to bring on symptoms of space motion sickness (SMS). We evaluated how head movements in pitch, yaw, and roll--made both with normal vision and eyes-occluded--affect susceptibility to motion sickness in the zero G phase of parabolic flight maneuvers. The findings are clearcut: pitch head movements are most provocative, yaw least provocative, and roll intermediate. Susceptibility is greater with normal vision than with eyes occluded. The same susceptibility pattern emerged for head movements in the 1.8-2.0 G phase of parabolic flight. These experiments suggest that SMS is not a unique nosological entity but, rather, is the consequence of exposure to nonterrestrial force levels. Head movements during departures in either direction from 1 G elicit symptoms. This implies that, rather than speaking of &quot;space motion sickness,&quot; it would be more appropriate to think in terms of &quot;nonterrestrial motion sickness.&quot;
Gastrointestinal (Gl) symptoms in space motion sickness (SMS) are significantly different from those in ordinary motion sickness (MS). Vomiting is sudden, often unexpected, infrequent, never prolonged and usually without nausea. Inflight bowel sounds are absent in those with SMS but present after recovery and in those not affected. Recording and tabulation of sounds was the only technique that could be used as a measure of motility during spaceflight operations. There were 17 subjects, 6 unaffected by SMS, who made ambulatory recordings pre- and inflight. With one exception, all those affected had sharply reduced sounds while those unaffected had increases or moderate reductions. The mechanism of vomiting in SMS appears to be secondary to this ileus in contrast to vomiting in ordinary MS, where the emesis center is thought to be directly triggered by the vestibular system. This ileus appears to be the only consistent and reliable indicator for SMS to date.
Seven astronauts reported translational self-motion during roll stimulation 1-3 h after landing following 5-7 d of orbital flight. Two reported strong translational self-motion perception when they performed pitch head motions during entry and while the orbiter was stationary on the runway. One of two astronauts from whom adequate data were collected exhibited a 132 degrees shift in the phase angle between roll stimulation and horizontal eye position 2 h after landing. Neither of two from whom adequate data were collected exhibited increased horizontal eye movement amplitude or disturbance of voluntary pitch or roll body motion immediately postflight. These results are generally consistent with an otolith tilt-translation reinterpretation model and are being applied to the development of apparatus and procedures intended to preadapt astronauts to the sensory rearrangement of weightlessness.
An inflight, clinically-oriented investigation of SMS was begun on STS-4 and revealed the following: compared to motion sickness on Earth, autonomic signs are significantly different in space motion sickness (SMS) vs. motion sickness (MS) in that sweating is not present, pallor or flushing may be present, and vomiting is episodic, sudden, and brief. Nausea may be present but is more often absent. Onset ranges from minutes to hours, plateaus, and rapidly resolves in 8-72 h with 36 h as average. Postflight reactions have been mild unless deliberately provoked in the early period of re-exposure to gravity. Postflight there is a period of resistance to all forms of motion sickness. There is some evidence for individual reduction in sensitivity on repeated flights. Etiology could not be proven objectively; however, the sensitivity to angular motion, often pronounced in pitch, and theoretical considerations make an intravestibular conflict the most likely cause. Electro-oculogram (EOG), audio-evoked potentials, measurement of fluid shifts, and other studies are inconsistent with a transient vestibular hydrops or increased intracranial pressure as a cause.
An immunoaffinity column was used for the purification of alpha-mannosidase from human placenta. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity by extraction in the presence of various protease inhibitors, immunoaffinity chromatography, Ultrogel AcA-34 gel filtration and hydroxyapatite chromatography. Two subunits were identified by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Their molecular weights were 65 kDa and 27 kDa. Heterogeneity of the molecular weight of the large subunit was not observed in our preparation. This method is relatively simple and rapid for obtaining the purified enzyme which is structurally not modified during purification procedures.
1 The effect of alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists upon neurotransmitter release evoked by cardiac glycosides from sympathetic nerve terminals has been investigated in dog saphenous vein. 2 In rings of saphenous vein preloaded with [3H]-noradrenaline, acetylstrophanthidin (ACS) caused a concentration-dependent efflux of 3H (EC50 ca. 4.4 microM) that was attenuated by phentolamine and yohimbine but not by prazosin. 3 In helical strips of saphenous vein superfused with ACS at EC50 the efflux of 3H-compounds in general, and of [3H]-noradrenaline in particular, occurred after a short delay and increased with time to a maximum reached at 75 min. Phentolamine and phenoxybenzamine, but not prazosin reduced the efflux of [3H]-noradrenaline and of total 3H-compounds throughout the time-course of the ACS-evoked effect. 4 In helical strips of saphenous vein the glycoside ouabain also caused an increase in [3H]-noradrenaline and in total 3H-efflux that was attenuated by phentolamine. 5 By contrast with the above, in bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells, which appear to have no functional alpha-adrenoceptors, ACS caused a small, but significant increase in 3H-efflux which was not prevented by phentolamine. 6 Phentolamine, at concentrations that attenuate markedly the ouabain- or ACS-evoked increase in 3H-efflux from dog saphenous vein, did not cause significant inhibition of cocaine-sensitive [3H]-noradrenaline uptake nor did it reduce the extent of the 3H-efflux evoked either by tyramine or by reduced extracellular Na+. These findings imply that phentolamine does not affect ACS-evoked neurotransmitter release by an action on the catecholamine uptake mechanism. 7. It is concluded that the cardiac glycoside-evoked increase in neurotransmitter release from noradrenergic nerve terminals ofdog saphenous vein is modulated by a mechanism that involves an alpha2- adrenoceptor.
Newcastle disease virus (NDV) administration to mice increased concentrations of plasma corticosterone, with a maximal effect at 8 h. This elevation of plasma corticosterone concentrations was not observed in hypophysectomized animals in which the completeness of the hypophysectomy was verified by functional tests. NDV administration consistently increased concentrations of free tryptophan in all brain regions examined (prefrontal cortex, hypothalamus, and brain stem). It also caused an activation of cerebral catecholamine and indoleamine metabolism as determined by measurement of the amines and their catabolites. 3-Methoxy,4-hydroxyphenylethyleneglycol (MHPG), the major catabolite of norepinephrine (NE), homovanillic acid (HVA), a major catabolite of dopamine (DA), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), the major catabolite of serotonin (5-HT), were all increased in both hypothalamus and brain stem. Ratios of catabolites to the parent amine, considered to be an index of utilization of the neurotransmitters, were increased for NE, DA, and 5-HT in the hypothalamus and for DA and 5-HT in the brain stem. This pattern of changes resembles that observed following stressors such as footshock or restraint. There were also significant increases of tryptophan, HVA, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and 5-HIAA in hypophysectomized relative to sham-operated mice. The NDV treatment also increased thymus weights and markedly decreased the proliferative responses of isolated spleen cells to phytohemagglutinin, concanavalin A, pokeweed mitogen, and Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide. These changes were not caused by increased circulating corticosterone because they were present at equal magnitude in hypophysectomized mice. Thymosin alpha 1 concentrations in the plasma were not altered by NDV or hypophysectomy. These results indicate that administration of NDV to mice can initiate neurochemical and endocrine responses like those observed during stress and can also cause immunosuppression. They are thus consistent with the hypothesis that a virus can be a stressor.
Vanadate (VO-3), an essential trace element with insulin-mimetic actions, produces systemic hyperglycemia following central administration in mice. The hyperglycemic effect is due to specific action of vanadate or its reduced form, vanadyl (VO2+); other ions of similar atomic weight (Cr, Mn) or structure (phosphate) have no effect. The effect of central vanadate to raise circulating glucose is blocked by coadministration of 3-O-methylglucose or polymyxin B, which prevent insulin- and vanadate-stimulated glucose transport. Finally, the central hyperglycemic effect is prevented by treatments which block sympathetic outflow from the CNS or diminish the levels of circulating epinephrine. These results show that vanadate is able to influence peripheral glucoregulation by increasing sympathetic outflow from the CNS. Moreover, they suggest that this effect is linked to action of VO-3 or its reduced form, VO2+, to stimulate glucose transport into neuronal cells.
Gabaculine and gamma-vinyl GABA (GVG) are specific enzyme-activated irreversible inhibitors of GABA-transaminase (GABA-T). gamma-Acetylenic GABA (GAG) irreversibly inhibits both GABA-T and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). Subcutaneous injection of any of those compounds rapidly elevated levels of GABA in the retinae of rats. After injection of 10 mg/kg gabaculine, levels of retinal GABA climbed 5-fold in 4 h, and peaked 16 h after injection at levels approximately 7 times those from water-injected control rats. They remained significantly elevated compared to control levels for at least 6 days after injection. The postgabaculine increase in levels of retinal GABA was linear with time between 0.5 and 4 h after injection. In contrast, retinal GABA levels peaked at less than 3 times control levels within 8 h of injection of 50 mg/kg GAG and returned to baseline levels within 4 days. GAG, upon coadministration with gabaculine, significantly attenuated the postgabaculine rise in levels of GABA in retinae. Neither the rate of rise, nor the maximum levels, of retinal GABA was so great after injection of GAG plus gabaculine, compared to those after injection of gabaculine alone. The degree to which postgabaculine GABA accumulation was inhibited in the retina by 50 mg/kg GAG closely corresponded with the extent to which that dose of GAG inactivated retinal GAD activity. The results of this study extend previous reports from this laboratory that systemically administered gabaculine, GVG and GAG all inactivate target enzymes more potently in retina than in other brain regions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of serotonin (5-HT) on dentate granule (DG) neurons in hippocampal slices taken from young mature (6-8 months) and old (25-29 months) rats were compared. Intracellular measurements of membrane potential, cell input resistance and slow postspike afterhyperpolarization did not differ significantly between young and old neurons. Neurons recorded in slices taken from old animals responded with less hyperpolarization to increasing doses of the drug, and their responses were significantly reduced after repeated applications of 5-HT. Serotonin-mediated reduction of the slow afterhyperpolarization in young DG neurons was less prominent or totally absent in the old cells. It is concluded that serotonergic postsynaptic actions are impaired in old age.
Previous studies have revealed that there are increases in the incorporation of [3H]amino acids into protein in the denervated neuropil of the dentate gyrus during periods of reactive synaptogenesis. The present study evaluates whether the increase in incorporation reflects an increase in protein synthetic machinery (ribosomes) in the denervated zone. We evaluated the distribution of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) in the denervated dentate gyrus 2-14 days after unilateral destruction of the entorhinal cortex using DNA probes complementary to rRNA for in situ hybridization. Animals with comparable lesions were injected with [3H]leucine 30 min prior to sacrifice and prepared for autoradiography in order to define the extent of protein synthesis within the denervated neuropil. Quantitative analyses revealed that the increases in [3H]leucine incorporation were accompanied by increases in labeling with the rRNA probe. In both cases, the increases were first apparent at 2 days postlesion, reached a peak on day 6, and then declined between 8 and 14 days postlesion. Plots of grain density across the neuropil revealed that the increases in rRNA, like the increases in amino acid incorporation, occurred selectively within the denervated portion of the neuropil. We propose that increased incorporation of protein precursor is the result of an increase in protein synthetic machinery within the denervated neuropil. These increases may reflect in part the increases that we have previously noted in polyribosomes under dendritic spines.
We have used two kinds of expression systems to test whether the cloned cDNA encoding hydroxyindole O-methyltransferase (HIOMT) of the bovine pineal gland was functional or not. First, when mRNA was synthesized in vitro by the SP6 system and injected into Xenopus oocytes, the enzymatic activity was expressed in the oocytes. Second, the cloned cDNA was recombined to a vector under the control of the simian virus 40 early promoter and transfected to Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. The enzymatic activity of the crude supernatant of transfected cells (CHO-HT2) reached to 400 pmol melatonin formed per min per mg of protein, which value was approximately 9% of that of bovine pineal supernatant. The amounts of enzyme protein estimated by immunoblotting were proportional to the enzymatic activity in both CHO and pineal gland. The content of HIOMT protein was 8- to 30-fold larger in pineal gland compared to CHO cells. On the other hand, the content of mRNA encoding the enzyme measured by dot hybridization with [32P]cDNA, was in the same range in both CHO cells and pineal glands. These data suggest that the 11-fold higher enzymatic activity in pineal gland is due to an accumulation of the enzyme protein, not to a high level of the mRNA and also indicate that the cloned cDNA can express an intact hydroxyindole O-methyltransferase enzyme in CHO cells.
The permeability coefficient-surface area products (PA) of frog sciatic nerve endoneurial capillaries to K, Na and Cl were measured with an in situ perfusion technique and found to be 40.3, 24.6 and 32.8 X 10(-5) ml . g-1 . s-1, respectively. PAs to [14C]sucrose and 42K, when measured simultaneously, and their ratio were independent of perfusate K concentration (0.1-10.0 mM). Simultaneous measurements with 36Cl and 42K indicated that the Cl/K permeability ratio was significantly smaller than the mobility ratio of these two ions in free solution. On the other hand, comparable experiments with 22Na and 42K revealed that the K/Na permeability ratio was not significantly different from its respective mobility ratio. Thus, these results provide no evidence of facilitated transport of K by endoneurial capillaries, and suggest that K, Na and Cl traverse the endoneurial capillary wall by a paracellular route which is weakly selective for cations. The minimum extracellular K concentration (Ke) capable of producing a depolarization conduction block in frog sciatic nerve was between 12.5 and 15.0 mM. When the vasculature of this nerve was perfused with a hyperkalaemic (20.0 mM) Ringer solution, a conduction block developed in 7.9 min. Comparison of this time with the theoretically predicted rate of change of endoneurial Ke (induced by a comparable change of intravascular K concentration) indicated that an increase of endoneurial Ke is transmitted directly to the paranodal spaces of nerve fibres so as to immediately influence axonal excitability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Littermate rat pups underwent either unilateral surgical occlusion of the right external naris or sham surgery on postnatal Day 1. At 4-, 8-, 12-, 20- or 30-days postpartum, olfactory bulb sections were histochemically reacted to reveal either succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) or cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity. Microdensitometry was used to determine levels of staining in glomeruli and the external plexiform layer at standardized locations within the bulb. In experimental subjects asymmetries in left/right bulb SDH staining patterns were detected as early as Day 4, suggesting that the deprivation procedure resulted in quite rapid changes in the metabolic function of olfactory bulb cells. Control animals did not exhibit left/right differences in bulb staining, but inter-glomerular and regional variations in staining were observed throughout the early developmental period. Understanding these early variations in metabolic activity may be important for a complete understanding of olfactory bulb maturation.
This study determines the earliest reproducible biochemical change in nerves undergoing Wallerian degeneration by assessing the timing, magnitude, and specificity of changes in markers of cellular function in distal stumps of transected mouse sciatic nerves. Analysis of temporal changes in synthesis of DNA, RNA, protein, and in activity of ornithine decarboxylase in transected and sham-operated nerves 0-5 days postoperatively indicated that incorporation of [3H]thymidine, a marker of premitotic activity, was the earliest and only specific marker of early Wallerian degeneration. Although the 3-4 day peak in [3H]thymidine incorporation in distal stumps at the onset of the [3H]thymidine response (1 day post-transection) revealed preferential labeling of endothelial cells lining intrafascicular capillaries.
A comparison was made of the actions of phencyclidine receptor agonists and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists in two well-defined neurochemical test systems. These included (i) [3H]acetylcholine release from striatal cholinergic interneurons in vitro, a system known to be positively modulated by corticostriatal excitatory amino acid inputs in vivo; and (ii) cerebellar cGMP levels in vivo, an indicator of cerebellar Purkinje cell activity, which is also modulated by excitatory amino acid inputs. Using these neuronal systems, we report that phencyclidine receptor agonists demonstrated a noncompetitive antagonism of NMDA receptor agonist actions.
Studies of the responsiveness of strips of tracheal smooth muscle and the changes after sensitization of ovalbumin were carried out. The hypothesis that there might be a generalized or a selective change of airway smooth muscle responsiveness to sensitization was examined in vitro. Agonists acting on muscarinic receptors, alpha 1-, alpha 2-, and beta-adrenoceptors, purine receptors, histamine and serotonin receptors, and leukotriene and prostaglandin receptors were tested, as well as mediators released from local nerves by field stimulation and procedures such as elevation of potassium or addition of Ca2+ ionophores which do not involve specific receptors. Sensitivity to serotonin increased significantly in sensitized animals. Total magnitude of the contraction and subsequent relaxation responses to field stimulation also increased significantly. Neither of these changes was large in magnitude. Although there were a few minor changes in sensitivity (pD2) or in maximum responses, the hypothesis of important changes in responses of any sort in tracheal muscle after sensitization was rejected. The question was raised whether this general absence of changed responsiveness in vitro reflected (i) the failure of sensitization to induce generalized smooth muscle hyperresponsiveness, (ii) the loss of the mechanisms of such responsiveness in vitro, or (iii) the inadequacy of in vitro techniques to assess responsiveness present in vivo.
The muscarinic receptors of muscularis mucosa have some recognition properties that suggest they resemble receptors of the M1 subtype. The nerves of these tissues also contain muscarinic receptors which inhibit tonic contractions caused by release of a substance-P-like material by field stimulation. These receptors also appear to be M1 in type as they are maximally activated by McNeil A343 as well as by carbachol (pD2, 5.5 and 7.5, respectively). They are also inhibited by pirenzepine, as well as by atropine (negative logarithms of the required dose for 50% inhibition or potentiation, 6.6-6.7 compared with 8.2-8.3). Hexahydrosiladifenidol, an antagonist selective or M2 receptors of guinea pig ileum, had a low (approximately 7.1) pA2 value for antagonism of both agonists in smooth muscle in this tissue. However, it was closer to atropine in potency with respect to potentiating tonic responses to field stimulation or to inhibiting phasic responses to field stimulation than it was to antagonizing smooth muscle contractions. Thus, atropine was about 40 times more potent than pirenzepine and 2-5 times more potent than hexahydrosilafenidol. There were some quantitative differences in the effectiveness of these three antagonists in blocking the phasic (acetylcholine-mediated) response to field stimulation. Atropine was 70-100 times more potent than pirenzepine and 8-25 times more potent than hexahydrosiladifenidol. This greater potency difference for inhibition of phasic contractions compared with potentiation of tonic contractions was discussed. This tissue appears to be one of the first smooth muscles in which both nerves and muscles contain muscarinic receptors with some recognition properties resembling those of the M1 subtype.

PB, a right handed woman aged 26, has developed anomic language disturbances following right frontal and left temporal brain damage due to a road traffic accident. Her anomia shows exceptional features: it occurs in naming tasks in test conditions but not in continuous speech; it involves comprehension deficits but very few semantic errors in expression; it improves with phonemic, but not with semantic cues. These features, it is argued, indicate the disconnection between two intact lexicons: the semantic and the phonological.
In the preceding paper [J. S. Schweitzer, M. A. Dichter, and S. J. Kaufman, 1987, Exp. Cell Res. 172, 1] we demonstrated that expression of Thy-1 antigen by rat skeletal muscle myoblasts in culture is modulated by fibroblasts. Growth of myoblasts with myofibroblasts, or in medium in which fibroblasts have been grown, causes a sharp reduction in the percentage of myoblasts that express Thy-1 antigen on their membrane. In this paper we demonstrate that there are two populations of myoblasts that can be distinguished by their capacity to respond to the Thy-1-modulating factor (TMF). The majority of Thy-1-positive or -negative myoblasts grown at clonal densities are responsive to TMF. A second myoblast clonal type is Thy-1 positive and fuses to form contractile myotubes, but is insensitive to TMF and has a more fibroblast-like morphology. These clonal phenotypes are stable upon passage in vitro and may represent distinct subsets of the myogenic lineage.
Thy-1 antigen is a well-characterized cell-surface glycoprotein known to be variably expressed in many different tissues, including lymphocytes, brain, and muscle. Its function remains unknown. In skeletal muscle, both in vivo and in vitro, the antigen has been reported on immature but not on adult tissue, and its disappearance corresponds roughly to the time of myoblast fusion. Using monoclonal H36 antibody to identify myoblasts unambiguously, we demonstrate here that Thy-1 is expressed only on a small (less than 1%) fraction of rat skeletal muscle myoblasts in heterogeneous primary cultures, but the number of myoblasts that express Thy-1 rises to a steady level of about 70% when fibroblasts are removed from secondary cultures. Restitution of fibroblasts or growth of purified myoblasts in medium conditioned by fibroblasts greatly suppresses this increase in myoblast Thy-1 expression. Thus an interaction between fibroblasts and myoblasts, mediated by a soluble nondialyzable molecule, modulates expression of Thy-1 on the myoblast outer membrane.
This study compared 102 depressed pain patients and 41 anxious pain patients. Depressed pain patients were significantly more often older in age. Pain patients with anxiety disorder were more often younger and unemployed. There was no significant difference in the family psychiatric morbidity. Such a subdivision of chronic pain patients based on psychopathology could be useful for management purposes and for future research.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) administered intracerebroventricularly (ICV) to rats and mice has been shown to elicit a variety of behaviors resembling those that occur in stress. In a novel multicompartment chamber, ICV CRF altered the behaviors in a manner closely resembling that observed following a period of restraint. In particular, 75 ng CRF ICV or 30-40 min restraint markedly reduced the time mice spent in contact with novel stimuli. ICV injections of a peptide antagonist of CRF, alpha-helical CRF9-41 (ahCRF), reversed the effects of restraint on this measure. This effect of ahCRF was dose dependent, with a minimal effective dose of 10 micrograms. Other behavioral measures appeared normal, and ahCRF did not significantly alter the stimulus-contact time in unrestrained mice. These results provide strong evidence to support the hypothesis that endogenous CRF may be a factor affecting stress-induced changes in exploratory behavior in mice.
A linear histogram method was employed to analyze brain images of glucose uptake obtained by positron emission tomography in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type and in control subjects. A line was drawn by computer which traversed the image of a brain slice taken at 70 mm above and parallel to the inferior orbitomeatal line, and rCMRglc was plotted as a function of distance along this line in 3 brain areas: frontal, sensorimotor and parietal. Peak rCMRglc values were significantly decreased in moderately-to-severely demented patients relative to healthy age-matched controls, but not in mildly demented patients. Furthermore, both the mildly and the more severely demented patients differed from controls in having reduced ratios of parietal association to sensorimotor peak rCMRglc. The variances of right-left metabolic asymmetries did not differ significantly between Alzheimer patients and controls. Severity of dementia, as evaluated by scores on the Mini-Mental State Examination, correlated with ratios of peak rCMRglc in frontal and parietal cortex to that in sensorimotor cortex. These results indicate that measures of focal peak rCMRglc do not discriminate between mildly demented patients and controls, whereas focal ratios of rCMRglc, where the denominator corresponds to rCMRglc from a relatively spared region, provide useful measures of metabolic dysfunction in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease.
Retrograde transport of the fluorescent tracer True Blue was used in combination with immunohistochemical staining of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (a marker protein for noradrenergic neurons) to determine the origin of noradrenergic projections to three cranial nerve nuclei: 1) the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, 2) the motor nucleus of the facial nerve, and 3) the spinal trigeminal nucleus pars interpolaris. Noradrenergic cells in the rat brainstem were divided into subgroups and their numbers were determined in serial sections stained with an antiserum to rat dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. Following tracer injections into the three brainstem nuclei, retrogradely labeled noradrenergic neurons were counted and the percentage of True Blue-labeled noradrenergic cells in each subgroup was calculated. Injections of tracer into the three cranial nerve nuclei resulted in distinctly different labeling patterns of noradrenergic cells. Of the total number of norepinephrine neurons projecting to the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, 68% were observed within the A7 cell group; 75% of those innervating the motor nucleus of the facial nerve were found in the A5 cell group, and 65% of those projecting to the spinal trigeminal nucleus pars interpolaris were present in the locus ceruleus and subceruleus. These findings indicate that norepinephrine cells in the rat brainstem do not constitute a homogeneous population of cells but that several discrete systems can be identified that differ not only in topography but also in the terminal distribution of their axons. This combined retrograde transport-immunohistochemical study reveals a much higher degree of topographic order in the projections of norepinephrine neurons than has previously been recognized. The observation of differential projections of noradrenergic subgroups argues against the notion of a global influence of these cells over functionally diverse areas of the brainstem.

During both development and regeneration, the survival of neurones and the growth of axons are controlled by inherent neuronal properties, conditions in the axonal environment, and the establishment of appropriately timed and specific functional contacts. To study the effects of extrinsic influences on the survival, growth and connectivity of axotomized neurones in the mature mammalian CNS, we replaced the optic nerve in adult rats with segments of autologous peripheral nerve (PN) and used morphometric techniques, neuroanatomical tracer substances and immunological cell markers to examine retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), their axons in the PN grafts and their terminals in the superior colliculi (SC) of these animals. We observed that: (1) the survival of axotomized RGCs was enhanced by the PN grafts; (2) in the PN-grafted eyes, approximately 20% of the surviving RGCs regrew their axons into the grafts and (3) some of the RGC axons that regenerated along the PN grafts bridging the eye and the tectum re-entered the SC, arborized and made synaptic contacts with tectal neurones. It is not known if the terminal connections established between RGCs and cells in the SC are appropriate, functional or capable of influencing the long-term survival of their cells of origin.
Most serious injuries of spinal nerves or roots in man and other higher vertebrates lead to permanent loss of control of skeletal muscles. In some cases this may be due to a failure of motor axons to regenerate, although even when functional neuromuscular connections are re-established, coordinated use of body and limb muscles may be absent. In both mammals and lower vertebrates, damaged motor axons usually regrow and reform functional connections with muscles, although these connections are often inappropriate. The selectivity of reinnervation is improved by maintaining alignment of the severed ends of the nerve. Thus, factors operating near the lesion site may direct regenerating motor axons into fascicles in the distal nerve stump that lead to inappropriate muscles. The identity of some of these factors is suggested by recent studies of developing systems which have shown that motor axons are directed in their growth. (a) The filopodia of their growth cones sample a limited region of the periphery. If motor growth cones extend too far from their normal pathways they establish connections with inappropriate muscles. (b) Motor growth cones normally extend into regions of embryos rich in the extracellular matrix molecule laminin, and avoid regions containing fibronectin. Moreover, motor growth cones extend on laminin but not on fibronectin substrates in vitro. In peripheral nerves, these two molecules are differentially distributed; laminin is expressed by Schwann cells in the endoneurium whereas fibronectin is expressed by fibroblasts primarily in the perineurium. These studies suggest that regenerating motor growth cones may be directed to appropriate muscles if their original fascicles within the distal nerve stump are within filopodial reach but may not be able to escape the fibronectin-rich perineurial sheath once directed into an inappropriate fascicle.
Markers of monoamine metabolism in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma were determined in nine young, healthy adults with trisomy 21 Down's syndrome (DS), 21-34-years-old, and in three DS subjects over 45 years, two of whom were demented, as well as in two groups of age-matched controls. Test scores of general intelligence, visuospatial ability, visual discrimination and verbal intelligence were reduced significantly in the old as compared to the young DS subjects. Dementia in DS was evident from a history of mental deterioration, disorientation and hallucinations. In the young DS adults, as compared to the controls, CSF 5-HIAA and norepinephrine were significantly elevated but plasma levels were unchanged. HVA, MHPG and biopterin did not differ between the DS groups and age-matched controls, or with relation to age in the DS or control subjects. These results suggest an increased turnover of monoamines in young adults with DS but that alterations in monoamine metabolism are unrelated to the cognitive decline with age in DS.
In vitro potencies of a series of muscarinic antagonists were compared with their effects on operant behavior. Ki values for inhibition of [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding in N4TG1 neuroblastoma cells correlated positively with ED50 values for the inhibition of carbachol-induced alpha-amylase release from pancreatic acini cells and with KB values for inhibition of acetylcholine-induced contractions of guinea pig ileum. The rank order of potency for inhibition of [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding was quinuclidinyl benzilate = quinuclidinyl xanthene-9-carboxylate greater than (methyl atropine = atropine) greater than benactyzine greater than azaprophen greater than (adiphenine = aprophen) greater than pirenzepine greater than ethyl aprophen. The M1 antagonist, pirenzepine, was a weak inhibitor in the guinea pig ileum and alpha-amylase assays relative to its ability to inhibit [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding; azaprophen exhibited the opposite relationship. Lever-press responses of rats were maintained by food delivery under a schedule requiring 10 responses for each food presentation. The high response rates engendered by this schedule were decreased in a dose-dependent manner by all compounds. The order of potency for this behavioral effect (ED50) was atropine = azaprophen greater than aprophen greater than (methyl atropine = benactyzine) greater than pirenzepine greater than adiphenine. Behavioral depressant actions of the antimuscarinics correlated positively with their potencies in inhibiting alpha-amylase secretion. Pirenzepine was unique in being relatively more potent in its behavioral effects than in its actions in vitro. In contrast to the other antimuscarinic agents studied, the benzilates, benactyzine, aprophen and adiphenine, but not azaprophen, increased behavioral response rates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In hippocampal slices, somatostatin 14 and its stable analog L363 [cyclo(Phe-Pro-Phe-D-Trp-Lys-Thr)] fail to modify muscarinic signal transduction mediated by stimulation of phosphoinositide breakdown, whereas somatostatin 14 mimics oxotremorine in inhibiting adenylate cyclase activity of hippocampal membranes. The simultaneous addition of somatostatin 14 and oxotremorine elicits a nonadditive convergent inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity. Both L363 and oxotremorine nonadditively stimulate a high-affinity guanosine 5'-triphosphatase activity of hippocampal membranes. This stimulation could be operative in mediating the convergent inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity elicited by the binding of specific ligands to somatostatin and muscarinic recognition sites present in hippocampal membranes. Because L363 competitively displaces muscarinic agonists fand antagonists from their specific recognition sites, one might infer that the two recognition sites interact functionally; that is, somatostatin reduces the efficacy of oxotremorine and/or vice versa.
This study examines the effects of repeated systemic administration (20 mg/kg s.c., twice daily for 4 days) of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) on levels of brain monoamines, their metabolites and on the density of monoamine uptake sites in various regions of rat brain. Marked reductions (30-60%) in the concentration of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were observed in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum, hypothalamus and midbrain at 2 weeks after a 4-day treatment regimen of MDMA or MDA; less consistent reductions in serotonin (5-HT) content were observed in these brain regions. In addition, both MDMA and MDA caused comparable and substantial reductions (50-75%) in the density of [3H]paroxetine-labeled 5-HT uptake sites in all brain regions examined. In contrast, neither MDMA nor MDA caused any widespread or long-term changes in the content of the catecholaminergic markers (i.e., norepinephrine, dopamine, 3,4 dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid) or in the number of [3H]mazindol-labeled norepinephrine or dopamine uptake sites in the brain regions examined. These data demonstrate that MDMA and MDA cause long-lasting neurotoxic effects with respect to both the functional and structural integrity of serotonergic neurons in brain. Furthermore, our measurement of reductions in the density of 5-HT uptake sites provides a means for quantification of the neurodegenerative effects of MDMA and MDA on presynaptic 5-HT terminals.
1. Characteristics of Aplysia nerves in response to extension were examined in comparison with nerves of the cat, frog and lobster. 2. Only the Aplysia nerve was easily elongated up to about 5 times its resting or relaxing length without impairing propagation of the action potential along the axon in the nerve. 3. The conduction velocity along the elongated nerve increased linearly in proportion to the nerve length in the range from the relaxing length to about 1.2-1.5 times extension (the first phase). However, upon further extension it stayed constant regardless of the nerve length (the second phase). 4. In the relaxed nerve bundle the course of the axons was zigzagging and the axon membrane had numerous foldings or wrinklings. 5. The true length of the zigzagging axon was measured by analysing the length of intra-axonal diffusion following intracellular injection of radioactive acetylcholine ([3H]ACh) whose diffusion kinetics in the axoplasm have been studied in detail (Koike &amp; Nagata, 1979). The length of the axon coincided with the nerve length at which the first phase shifted to the second phase. 6. Cat and frog nerves shrank after dissecting out from the body. When extended, they showed the first phase from the shortened length to their original length in the body. These nerves lacked the second phase. The lobster nerve did not shrink and lacked both phases. 7. Thus the zigzagging course of the axon is suggested to be responsible for the first phase during which the axon length did not change but took a straight course upon nerve extension. 8. On the other hand, the second phase appears to be caused by actual extension of the axon itself and could be explained by reduction of the wrinklings of the membrane.
1. Radioactive amino acid, either [3H]leucine or [3H]proline, was injected into neurone R2 in the abdominal ganglion of Aplysia kurodai to investigate the intra-axonal transport of protein in a single axon. 2. Some of the injected amino acid which was not utilized for protein synthesis diffused intra-axonally with a diffusion constant of 6.0 X 10(-6) cm2/s (25 degrees C), which is the value expected from the known diffusion constants of acetylcholine and gamma-aminobutyric acid in the axoplasm (Koike &amp; Nagata, 1979). The true length of the zigzagging axon in the nerve bundle was measured by the diffusion distances. 3. The radioactive proteins newly synthesized in the cell body from either of the injected amino acid were transported axonally in a single axon of R2. 4. Elongation of the axon resulted in a suppression of the fast axonal transport of the proteins and the amount of protein transported. This contrasts with the observation that action potential propagation along the elongated axon never failed. 5. A possible site for the suppression of the axonal transport would be axonal microtubules whose structure is not likely to be resistant to the distortion caused by the elongation.
The addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) to cultures of the rat PCG2 pheochromocytoma cell line increased the level of RNA coding for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). A region of DNA containing 5'-flanking sequences of the TH gene was fused to a heterologous gene and transfected into a rat anterior pituitary cell line, GH4. The TH gene sequences from +27 to -272 contained information sufficient for the induction of TH by EGF. Two regions within this TH DNA were extensively homologous to the EGF regulatory element of the rat prolactin gene.
Joining peptide is the major alpha-amidated product of pro-ACTH/endorphin (PAE) in AtT-20 corticotropic tumor cells. To study intracellular joining peptide synthesis, affinity purified antibodies directed against gamma-MSH, joining peptide, and ACTH were used to immunoprecipitate extracts from biosynthetically labeled AtT-20 cells. Immunoprecipitates were analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and by tryptic peptide mapping on HPLC. In steady labeling experiments, radioactivity in amidated joining peptide (JP) increased roughly linearly with time, in the manner of a final product, whereas radioactivity associated with PAE (1-94)NH2 reached a constant value after 2-4 h, indicating that PAE(1-94)NH2 is an intermediate in the biosynthesis of JP. Radioactivity appeared in ACTH(1-39) well before JP, consistent with a cleavage order in which ACTH is cleaved from PAE(1-95) before JP sequences are cleaved from PAE(1-74). This conclusion was supported by tryptic peptide analyses of immunoprecipitates, which indicated that less than 5% of JP-related material is cleaved from PAE(1-74) before being cleaved from ACTH-related sequences. After a pulse label, radioactivity in PAE(1-94)NH2 reached a peak value after 1 h of chase and declined with a half-life of less than 1 h. Amidated JP increased to a constant level after 2 h of chase. Enough radiolabeled PAE(1-94)NH2 was detected to account for about half of the radioactivity found in amidated JP, indicating that about half of JP-related material is first cleaved from PAE(1-95) before being amidated. This result was corroborated using HPLC purification to determine both amidated and glycine-extended forms of JP.
The history and antecedents of the Japanese Neurochemical Society (JSN) are described. Particulars of the founding in 1958, and of the formal establishment in 1962, are given, together with an outline and description of the JSN's recent activities, including its contributions to the 4th International Meeting of the International Society for Neurochemistry (ISN) in Tokyo in 1973. Suggestions are made for the development of a perspective, and for the promotion, of the ultimate, fundamental purposes of neuroscience, and for the proper internalization of the JSN.
Somatostatin-immunoreactive perikarya in the periventricular anterior hypothalamus were demonstrated to be surrounded by gamma aminobutyric acid GABA-immunoreactive nerve terminals, by combining pre-embedding immunocytochemistry for somatostatin and gold labelling post-embedding immunocytochemistry for GABA. Ultrastructural studies revealed that in each 100-nm section, cells immunoreactive for somatostatin (n = 62) were contacted by a mean of 7.6 +/- 0.4 terminal profiles of which 3.0 +/- 0.3 (40%) were GABA-immunoreactive. Most GABA-immunoreactive terminals contained clear rounded vesicles and, where synaptic specializations were well demonstrated, appeared to be symmetric. The finding provides evidence that there is a significant GABA input to somatostatin neurons, an observation strengthening the hypothesis that GABA may inhibit somatostatin neurons, thereby causing increased secretion of growth hormone.
Acute exposure to footshock stress increased the pituitary level of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) in vivo and sharply increased plasma levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone, beta-endorphin and beta-lipotrophic hormone, as well as prolactin. Seven days after bilateral lesions of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the pituitary cyclic AMP response to stress was totally eliminated and the increases in plasma levels of these pituitary hormones were blunted. We conclude that while the pituitary hormonal responses to stress might be mediated by several neurohumoral factors, the stress-induced increases in pituitary levels of cyclic AMP in vivo are mediated largely via corticotropin-releasing factor, released from neurons which project from the paraventricular nucleus to the median eminence.

Two laryngeal motoneurons intracellularly stained with horseradish peroxidase were studied ultrastructurally. The precise position of the ultrastructural observations made along the dendrites was obtained from the computer-reconstruction of the motoneurons in three dimensions. The shape and the size of the synaptic boutons, the percentage of membrane covered by bouton appositions and active zones, the number of boutons per 100 microns2 (packing density) were analysed on the soma and on the labelled dendrites at different distances from the soma up to 1000 microns. The results revealed no important regional differences in the mean length of synaptic apposition. The packing density was in the range of 9.3-14.9 boutons per 100 microns2 and was not correlated with the distance from the soma. The percentage apposition covering was higher on the soma and the proximal part of the dendrites than on the remaining part of the dendritic arborization. Close appositions between labelled dendrite and unlabelled somata and/or dendrites together with dendro-dendritic synapses suggested the possibility that the dendrites may be involved in local cell-to-cell communication. Microdendrites emerging from the soma or the proximal dendrites were contacted by synaptic boutons which may be more efficient as revealed by computation.
The geometrical differences between individual dendrites of a given motoneuron were investigated in the cat. We chose two brain-stem motoneurons involved in different motor activities. One abducens and one laryngeal motoneuron were selected from two series of experiments which had combined intracellular recording and horseradish peroxidase staining. Three-dimensional reconstructions were made using a computer-aided microscope to obtain high-resolution measurements from serial histological sections. Each dendrite was characterized by computer dissection. Comparisons between dendrites were made on the basis of the following parameters: spatial projections, length, diameters, tapering, branching pattern, daughter--branch ratio and branching power. The present findings show that each dendrite projects to specific terminal fields for both motoneurons and are different in the complexity of their geometry and branching structure. The consequences of this complexity for the cable properties of the motoneurons were analysed. The dendrites of the two motoneurons were partitioned into a series of contiguous regions deemed short enough to be considered an isopotential cylinder and the steady-state properties were calculated for each segment. The properties of each segment were then combined for each dendrite for the following parameters: electronic distance, somatopetal and somatofugal voltage attenuation, input resistance and charge transfer effectiveness ratio. The present results show significant differences in the electrical behaviour of individual dendrites. Branch-to-branch computation reveals low attenuation pathways between branches suggesting the possibility of local influences within the distal branches of the dendritic arborization. It is proposed that the individual dendrites of the motoneuron function as distinct channels and/or integrators for afferent inputs.
Halothane-anaesthetized cats implanted with push-pull cannulae were used in this study. Amphetamine was applied in the pars reticulata or pars compacta of the substantia nigra in order to determine the role of dopamine released from distal or proximal dendrites of dopaminergic cells in the control of GABAergic transmission in the nucleus ventralis medialis of the thalamus. When applied for 30 min in either the pars reticulata or the pars compacta, amphetamine (10(-6) M) enhanced to a similar extent the local release of [3H]dopamine synthesized from [3H]tyrosine, these effects being seen mainly during the drug application. The amphetamine-evoked release of dopamine in the pars reticulata produced a long lasting reduction in the release of [3H]GABA synthesized from [3H]glutamine in the nucleus ventralis medialis as well as in the paralamellar zone of the nucleus ventralis lateralis. Opposite effects were observed when amphetamine (10(-6) M) was applied in the pars compacta. In complementary experiments, single unit recordings were made in the intermediate part of the pars reticulata, some of the cells being identified by antidromic activation from the nucleus ventralis medialis. Whether applied in the pars reticulata or pars compacta, amphetamine (10(-6) M, 10 min) evoked a reversible decrease in the firing rate of most recorded cells whether or not they were identified as projecting to the nucleus ventralis medialis. Therefore, the decreased release of [3H]GABA in the nucleus ventralis medialis seen following application of amphetamine in the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra could result from an inhibition of nigrothalamic GABAergic neurons. Since the nucleus ventralis medialis is also innervated by GABAergic neurons originating in the entopeduncular nucleus, single unit recordings were made from cells in this nucleus during the application of amphetamine (10(-6) M, 10 min) into the pars compacta of the substantia nigra, some of which were identified antidromically as projecting to the nucleus ventralis medialis. Most cells identified or not were found to be activated during this treatment. These results suggested that the increased release of [3H]GABA seen in the nucleus ventralis medialis following application of amphetamine in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra might be linked to the enhanced firing rate of entopeduncular-thalamic GABAergic neurons.
Polyclonal antibodies were made in rabbits against glycine conjugated to bovine serum albumin with glutaraldehyde and were used for immunocytochemical studies in the cochlear nucleus and superior olivary nucleus of the guinea-pig. Antibodies selective for glycine were prepared by affinity chromatography. By dot-blot analysis this preparation showed a strong recognition of glycine conjugates and relatively little recognition of conjugates of most other amino acids tested. However, there was a significant reaction with conjugates of alanine and beta-alanine, and this cross-reaction could not be removed by affinity chromatography without eliminating the preparation's recognition of glycine. The affinity-purified preparation showed only a weak recognition of conjugates of gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) which was detectable at high concentrations of primary antibody. Immunocytochemical studies showed several intensely staining cell bodies in the cochlear nucleus and superior olivary complex. Most immunoreactive cell bodies in the cochlear nucleus were in the dorsal cochlear nucleus, being present in both the superficial and deep layers. Scattered immunoreactive cells were present in the ventral cochlear nucleus. Intense staining of cell bodies was seen in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body, and these cells appear to correspond to the principal cells of that nucleus. Punctate labelling, suggestive of immunoreactive presynaptic terminals, was also apparent, particularly in the ventral cochlear nucleus and lateral superior olive. In the ventral cochlear nucleus, immunoreactive puncta were found around unlabeled cell bodies, at times nearly covering the perimeter of the cell. A population of glycine-immunoreactive cell bodies in the superficial dorsal cochlear nucleus also labeled with anti-GABA antibodies as determined through double-labeling studies. However, glycine-positive cells in the deep dorsal cochlear nucleus were not labeled with anti-GABA antibodies, and some populations of GABA-positive cells in the superficial layers were not labeled with anti-glycine antibodies. In the hippocampus intense staining of cell bodies and puncta was seen with anti-GABA antibodies while essentially no staining was seen with anti-glycine antibodies. These results suggest that anti-glycine antibodies can be useful for immunocytochemical identification of glycinergic neurons. From this study several populations of putative glycinergic neurons are identified in the auditory nuclei of the brain stem using these antibodies. Some populations of GABA-containing neurons also contain high levels of glycine or a related molecule.
Hippocampal tissue derived from 12-, 20-, 25- and 34-mm rat fetuses was placed in a cavity formed by unilateral aspiration of the fimbria-fornix and the overlying neocortical tissue in adult rats. From 4 to 6 months after transplantation the rats were equipped with chronic recording and stimulating electrodes. Single cell activity of the transplant was monitored during running in a wheel, drinking, and sleeping. Both complex-spike cells (n = 151) and single-spike cells (n = 80) were recorded from the graft. A portion of the neurons changed their firing rates and discharge patterns as a function of ongoing behavior. About half of the single-spike cells increased their firing frequency during running. Fifteen per cent of the single-spike cells fired rhythmically at about 8 Hz during running, and the paradoxical phase of sleep and the discharge pattern correlated with rhythmic slow activity (theta) recorded concurrently from the contralateral (intact) hippocampus. These patterns were most frequently obtained from grafts of 20- and 25-mm (16 to 18 embryonic days) fetuses. Graft neurons could be activated by stimulating the ipsilateral hippocampus or the ipsilateral perforant path, with latencies of 8-30 ms. The most common electrical pattern in grafts of all groups was the synchronous bursts of several neighboring cells and concurrent electroencephalogram sharp-waves. Sharp-waves occurred during all behaviors. Large amplitude, high-frequency electroencephalogram spindles (14-18 Hz and 30-50 Hz) and associated neuronal bursts were recorded in grafts of 12-, 20-, and 25-mm fetuses. Based on these findings we suggest that both subcortical afferents and host hippocampal afferents send axons to hippocampal grafts and form viable synaptic connections with a portion of the neurons in the graft. The frequently encountered population bursts are explained by assuming that excitatory collaterals in the graft are more potent in the graft than in the normal hippocampus, and/or GABAergic inhibition is less efficient in the graft.
Beta electrocorticographic rhythms (40 Hz) develop during motionless focused attention in two distinct cortical foci in cats. A cytoarchitectonic study was performed to determine the precise location of these foci. Electrode tips recording beta rhythms were found: (i) in motor areas 4 gamma and 6a beta, in a band extending from the postcruciate cortex to the walls of the presylvian sulcus, crossing the frontal pole (anterior beta focus); (ii) in the posterior parietal associative area 5a, along the divisions of the ansate sulcus, extending to the mesial aspect of the hemispheres (posterior beta focus). The two foci are separated by areas 3, 2 and 1, where beta rhythms were never recorded. The fact that both these areas, containing giant pyramidal cells, develop a specific type of activity during immobility may have a functional meaning: area 5 may be involved in the cat as it is in the monkey in the control of motor behaviour.
In the present study the dopaminergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex was studied by means of a recently developed anti-dopamine serum. This method can demonstrate endogenous dopamine in a specific way, and offers the opportunity to study the distribution of dopaminergic fibres in the cortex in detail in counterstained sections. Furthermore, dopaminergic nerve endings can be visualized at the electron microscopic level. Light microscopic observations demonstrated that the highest density of dopaminergic fibres in the frontal cortex is found in the prefrontal cortex and the infralimbic cortex. Within the prefrontal cortex, a good correlation is found between regional differences in distribution of dopaminergic fibres and the cytoarchitectonic parcellation of this part of the cortex. Outside the prefrontal cortex dopaminergic fibres were observed in adjacent frontal areas, the cortex surrounding the entire rhinal sulcus and the retrosplenial cortex. Electron microscopic observations demonstrated dopaminergic terminals through all cortical layers. The majority of dopaminergic terminals in the prefrontal cortex from synaptic contacts with dendritic processes. The synaptic profiles were usually symmetric and were characterized by the presence of many clear vesicles and an occasional dense-core vesicle.
Most nerve terminals forming typical synaptic junctions contain both synaptic vesicles and larger 'secretory granules' with electron-dense contents. Visualization of granule exocytosis from within terminals in the corpus cardiacum is facilitated by injection of tannic acid which immobilizes granule cores as they are discharged. The process of discharge is stimulated by flight-induced activation of the neurones and there is a correlated response by the innervated cells. In contrast to synapses with their vesicle clusters, granule discharge is not targeted upon the postsynaptic cells. These findings have general implications for mechanisms of discharge of neuropeptides and other transmitters from synaptic terminals.
The uptake and transport of basic and acidic horseradish peroxidase isoenzymes was compared in the neuromuscular, visual and olfactory systems of Xenopus larvae and postmetamorphic frogs. The concentration (w/v) of the two preparations was corrected to compensate for their difference in enzymatic activity (unit/w), which was seven-fold higher in basic horseradish peroxidase. Uptake and transport of horseradish peroxidase isoenzymes could be demonstrated with 7% basic horseradish peroxidase, but not with equal amounts of 49% acidic horseradish peroxidase in all systems investigated: retrograde transport from terminals of retinal ganglion cells, isthmotectal neurons and spinal motoneurons, as well as anterograde transganglionic transport along olfactory neurons. A very weak labelling of the same neuronal pathways by acidic horseradish peroxidase was obtained only after increasing the amount injected by approximately two-fold. Basic horseradish peroxidase isoenzymes were also preferentially taken up and transported retrogradely by broken axons of the optic nerve. When tested, similar results were obtained in both larvae and frogs suggesting that preferential uptake and transport of basic horseradish peroxidase is a general feature of all neurons and of all developmental stages. Electron microscopical analysis of the outer layers of the optic tectum revealed that, in the same experimental conditions producing no retrotrade labelling of optic axons, acidic horseradish peroxidase was rarely found to enter nerve terminals. It appears that interactions between horseradish peroxidase and neuronal membranes occur during uptake and transport and that molecular charge plays an important role, beyond non-specific fluid-phase endocytosis. We suggest that differences between horseradish peroxidase isoenzymes as neuronal tracers reflect a process of adsorptive endocytosis related to general characteristics of neuronal membranes (regardless of age) and not to specific receptor-mediated interactions characteristic of neuronal specificity.
The GABAergic innervation of the stretch receptor neurons of the crayfish Orconectes limosus has been investigated by means of light- and electron microscope immunocytochemistry using an antibody to GABA. Both whole-mount preparations and post-embedding semithin sections revealed a massive GABAergic innervation of both the slowly and the fast adapting receptor neurons. The stretch receptor organ is supplied by one principle GABA-immunoreactive axon, which gives off several branches that innervate the receptor neurons. Cell body, initial axon segment and dendritic region of the sensory neurons are covered by numerous GABA-immunoreactive varicose fibers. Electron microscopy revealed that the GABA-immunoreactive varicosities establish specialized synaptic contacts with the sensory neurons. The functional significance of the occurrence of GABA-immunoreactive varicosities on the different parts of the sensory neurons is discussed. The results support the physiological and pharmacological evidence that GABA is a transmitter substance of the efferent inhibitory neurons which innervate the crayfish stretch receptor neurons.
Many investigators have examined the retinotectal projection following regeneration, but the mapping technique used in these studies mainly involved recording action potentials from presynaptic terminals. Hence it was not possible to analyse the postsynaptic phenomena underlying the target finding process of the retinal fibers. In the present study, the process of making functional synapses was examined using field potentials generated by small spots of light fixed in the visual field. The results show that regenerating retinal fibers first make functional but temporary, unspecific and diffuse synapses before reaching the target area to form a sharpened retinotopic projection. It is suggested that the formation of synapses subserves an important role in the target finding process.
The regulation of intracellular pH in single cell bodies and in neurites of cultured neurons from rat superior cervical ganglion was studied by continuous monitoring of pH transients using the fluorescent indicator bis(carboxyethyl)carboxy-fluorescein. Intracellular pH was 7.03 +/- 0.05 (n = 8) in bicarbonate-free media at pH 7.4 and was not affected by depolarization with high potassium. Brief exposure to NH4Cl caused rapid cytoplasmic acidification followed by an exponential return of intracellular pH to the resting value. The apparent first order rate constant for recovery from an NH4Cl-induced acid load was 0.2 +/- 0.03 min-1 (37 degrees C) and was similar in media at pH 6.5 or 7.8. Recovery from an acid load was blocked by removal of extracellular Na+ or by amiloride but was not dependent on extracellular Cl- or phosphate or blocked by inhibitors of anion transport, in the presence or absence of bicarbonate. Addition of 5-10 mM bicarbonate at pH 7.4 resulted in a slight alkalinization of the cytoplasm and enhanced complete restoration of pHi after an NH4Cl-induced acid load. Nerve growth factor did not affect intracellular pH of either growing cells deprived of nerve growth factor up to 6 days or of newly isolated neurons left at 4 degrees C for a week before exposure to nerve growth factor. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate had no effect on the pH of cell bodies of growing cells and increased pH of cells deprived of nerve growth factor by less than 0.05 pH units. It is concluded that: pH regulation in cultured sympathetic neurons is largely achieved by Na+/H+ exchange; Bicarbonate may also participate in pH regulation, but not by its exchange with Cl-.
The central gray region (lamina X) of the lumbar spinal cord in cat was examined by electron microscopy. This region consisted of three morphological zones. Medially, the first zone was comprised of ependyma which surrounded the central canal. The ependyma in the cat spinal cord was similar to most vertebrate spinal ependyma. Secondly, a subependymal zone consisted of glial processes arranged parallel to the long axis of the spinal cord. This glial zone was widest lateral to the central canal and extended approximately 75 microns. The lateral edge of the glial zone intermingled with a neuropil zone, the third zone. The components of the neuropil zone consisted of dendrites, myelinated and unmyelinated axons, synaptic terminals, astrocytes and neurons. The dendrites and neurons generally were oriented parallel with the long axis of the spinal cord. Three synaptic terminal types were categorized according to vesicular morphology, i.e. small round vesicles, flattened vesicles and dense core vesicles. The central gray region has been implicated in nociception and has been shown to receive both primary afferent and supraspinal input. The results from this study are consistent with the central gray region being an area of multiple synaptic inputs which may form the morphological basis of nociceptive processing that ascends to brainstem nuclei.
Freshly removed cat peripheral nerves and lumbar spinal cord roots were prepared by freeze-substitution to study the form changes, cytoskeletal alterations and myelin structure in beaded nerve fibers. Fibers of unstretched nerves so prepared were close to cylindrical. When lightly stretched with tensions of 2-10 g before being rapidly frozen, beading appeared as a series of constrictions between the more normally expanded regions of the internodes with the paranodal regions spared. Beading also was seen in the fibers of sciatic and radial nerves fast-frozen in situ with the limbs placed in full extension to cause stretching. The cross-sectional area of the axon in the constrictions of beaded fibers was reduced by as much as 95%. The compaction of the microtubules and neurofilaments in the constructions was accounted for by the movement of axoplasmic fluid from the constrictions axially into the nearby regions where the axon and fiber diameters are close to normal. The electron-lucid area approximately 5 nm thick around the microtubules appeared to hinder their close approach in the constrictions although some microtubules touch. The neurofilaments are generally separated at a mean distance of 8-10 nm and approach to a mean distance of 4 nm in the constrictions. Neither the beading nor the reversal of beading, which occurs on relaxation from stretch, was blocked by periods of anoxia lasting several hours. Deletion of calcium from the incubating medium initiated some small amount of beading and additionally greatly augmented the beading on stretch. Beading also was present in some of the myelinated fibers of the dorsal columns of the spinal cord where stretch would not be present. These findings suggest that beading is due to a contractile process in the axon initiated by stretch and by other changed states of the fiber. Concomitantly with the contraction of the axon in the beading constrictions, the myelin sheath in that region was greatly reduced in circumference, to as much as 1/3 to 1/5 of normal. The decrease of the sheath diameter was not accompanied by a change in its thickness or in its lamellar fine structure. A repeat distance of the dense lines of 14 nm was measured in both the constricted and nonconstricted regions. To account for these findings lipid, and most likely other components of the myelin lamellar membranes, must move longitudinally from the constrictions in the plane of the lamellar membranes, and do this within 5-10 s.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The position of the crossed and uncrossed optic axons, and of the non-optic axons, within the optic tract was determined in the adult hooded rat. Horseradish peroxidase histochemistry and lesion-induced degeneration of axonal profiles were independently used to study the position of the three relevant populations of axons within the optic tract. The boundaries of the optic tract are distinct at all but its caudomedial border, where it abuts the supra-optic commissures running parallel to the fibres of the optic tract. Labelling the crossed population of optic axons, or inducing their degeneration, both demonstrate a clear caudomedial border of the optic tract, although a number of optic axons stray out of the optic tract and course within the supra-optic commissures immediately caudomedial to the tract. The uncrossed optic axons are, as a population, positioned relatively deep in the optic tract, towards its dorsal border. A few occur at further ventral positions, but their density is greatly reduced there. There is also a very thin region along the dorsalmost edge of the optic tract free of uncrossed optic axons. The relative position of the uncrossed to the crossed optic axons is discussed in the context of the mammalian optic tract as a chronological map: spatial position in the tract may reflect temporal order of axonal arrival during early development. A large population of non-optic axons belonging to Gudden's commissure courses within the boundaries of the optic tract at a relatively ventral position. They are most frequent caudomedially, and are absent rostrolaterally. Hence, axons of the optic tract and Gudden's commissure are substantially intermingled in the caudomedial half of the optic tract. These non-optic axons greatly outnumber the uncrossed optic axons, and will consequently distort counts of uncrossed optic axons based on intact profiles that remain after removal of the opposite eye. However, they are still a minority in comparison to the crossed optic axons in this region.
The distribution of axons according to diameter was examined in the optic nerve and optic tract of adult hooded rats. Observations were made on semithin sections, and measurements of axonal diameters were made on electron micrographs taken from various locations across thin sections through the optic nerve and tract. The distribution of axons by size differs markedly in the optic nerve and tract. Coarse (greater than 2 microns) and fine (less than or equal to 2 microns) axons are distributed throughout all regions of the optic nerve. In the optic tract, in contrast, coarse axons are especially dense dorsally, at the deep border of the tract, while they are absent ventrally, subjacent to the pial surface. No regions of the optic nerve contain densities of coarse axons as high as the deep nor as low as the superficial extremes of the optic tract. Nevertheless, even at the deep (dorsal) border of the optic tract, the coarse axons make up only a small minority (roughly 15%) of the total number of axons in that region. The axons 2 microns or smaller may be divisible into two overlapping, fine and intermediate, diameter classes, that are partially segregated within the optic tract, but not in the optic nerve: the distributions of axon diameters smaller than 2 microns are skewed to distinctly smaller diameters at the dorsal and ventral extremes of the optic tract, while in between, at mid-positions along the deep-to-superficial axis of the optic tract, the axon size distributions contain many more axons greater than 1 micron in diameter. These different axon diameter groups may arise from the morphologically distinct retinal ganglion cell types, and may underlie the components of the trimodal compound axon potential seen in the rat's primary optic pathway. Their partial segregation within the tract anticipates the partial segregation of their terminal arborizations within the laminae of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. The rearrangement of axons into a partial segregation by size within the optic tract may indicate a chronology of axonal arrival during early development, proximity to the pial surface being an index of recency of arrival. As axonal outgrowth and neurogenesis appear to be directly related within the retinal ganglion cell population in mammals, the relative birthdates of the retinal ganglion cell types giving rise to the axon diameter classes in the rat may be inferred from the present results.
This study was undertaken to examine some aspects of the anatomical substrate for reproductive senescence. Immunocytochemically identified luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons and their processes in the male rat brain preoptic area were compared in young adult (2-4 months), middle-aged (12-14 months) and old (20-23 months) animals. At the light microscopic level there were no age-dependent differences in total numbers or sizes of LHRH neurons nor in their distribution in the brain. Examination of these neurons at the electron microscopic level did reveal significant differences in certain organelles and in the degree and kind of synaptic input. Random sections of middle-aged luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons more frequently passed through the nucleolus and the incidence of nematosomes was higher than in luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons from the young and old animals. Quantitative measures of synaptic input to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone soma and dendrites as well as to unidentified neurons in the same thin section were made. These are reported as percent of membrane that showed synaptic structure. Dendrites of both luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and nonidentified neurons were more densely innervated than perikarya. The density of synaptic input to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons was significantly greater than that to nonidentified neurons in young and middle-aged animals, but was equal to that of nonidentified neurons by old age. Age-related changes were noted in synaptic organization with the most significant change being an increased input to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone perikarya. Indeed, synaptic input to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone perikaryal membrane was increased three-fold by middle age and ten-fold by old age. Density of synaptic input to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone dendritic membrane did not change with age. There were no aging changes in percentage of membrane with synaptic structure in nonidentified elements. Synapses were also classified on the basis of their synaptic vesicle content. There were proportionately more synaptic boutons containing round clear than pleomorphic vesicles in the young sample. The proportion of synapses with pleomorphic vesicles increased with age onto both luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone perikarya and their dendrites. The proportion of boutons containing some electron dense-core vesicles along with clear vesicles decreased with age onto both luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and nonidentified neurons and their processes.
Exploratory activity in the open field and noradrenaline concentration in the neocortex and brain stem were investigated in intact rats (n = 10) and in the following groups of rats with early postnatal neurotoxic (6-hydroxydopamine) lesion of the catecholaminergic system: (i) rats with embryonal locus coeruleus grafts in the frontal neocortex (n = 5); (ii) rats with the same grafts in lateral ventricles (n = 4); (iii) a control group with intracortical hippocampal tissue grafts (n = 3); (iv) sham-operated rats (n = 3). Experiments were performed by four independent groups of investigators using a double-blind method. In sham-operated rats as well as in rats with hippocampal grafts, and with locus coeruleus grafts in the ventricles, both exploratory activity and noradrenaline content of the forebrain were significantly lowered. In the rats with intracortical locus coeruleus grafts the level of exploratory activity was much higher (almost as in intact controls). This improvement of exploratory behaviour correlated highly with increased noradrenaline concentration in the forebrain. In all animals with locus coeruleus in lateral ventricles a significant increase in noradrenaline level of the brain stem was present, but no change of exploratory behaviour was observed. The grafts with the 3-mm-thick slabs of the adjacent tissue were dissected from the brain and used for histological analysis. The presence of typical locus coeruleus cells was shown in neocortex of all animals which received the grafts of corresponding tissue. The data show the possibility of stable compensation of the forebrain noradrenaline level and exploratory behaviour by embryonic noradrenergic neurons grafted into the neocortex, but not into lateral ventricles.
Orientation columns in the visual cortex of cat and monkey were originally defined as small areas where all cells from layer 2 to 6 had the same preferred stimulus orientation. Large variation in preferred orientation, occasionally observed, were interpreted as biological scatter or artefacts. In contrast to this view, recent experiments revealed frequent abrupt shifts in preferred orientations at the transition from middle to lower layers. This controversial issue is of considerable relevance for models of cortical wiring. Therefore, in this report new and previously published data are quantitatively evaluated. The comparison shows that the large orientation shifts cannot be reconciled as mainly due to deviation of penetrations from the radial cell columns. The present data suggest that, in middle and lower layers of the cat's cortex, two groups of cells with approximately orthogonal orientations coexist. Comparison of results from different authors supports our evidence for the occurrence of orientation shifts. The controversy is reduced to the difference in the proportions of penetrations with and without shifts in different laboratories. A possible explanation for this remaining difference is the lower relative frequency of shifts in heavily sedated animals. Our own data were collected from awake, behaving or lightly anesthetized animals in chronic preparations.
In the mature rat, reflex sympathetic stimulation by insulin-induced hypoglycemia resulted in profound depletion of adrenal epinephrine, and to a lesser extent, norepinephrine. In the developing rat, insulin evoked little or no secretory response from the adrenals prior to 1 week of age. By 7 days, a moderate depletion of epinephrine was seen and the magnitude of the response increased with age. In contrast, during the first 3 weeks of postnatal life, insulin failed to deplete norepinephrine from the adrenal medulla and in fact, produced an increase. This chiefly resulted from de novo biosynthesis of the amine, as the rise was blocked by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine. These results suggest that the ontogeny of the two chromaffin cell types (norepinephrine and epinephrine-containing) in the adrenals and the maturation of their secretory responses are under differential regulation. Because descending supraspinal catecholaminergic and serotonergic systems have been implicated to play key roles in regulating adrenomedullary function, the ontogeny of the sympatho-adrenomedullary axis was evaluated after neonatal central lesioning with 6-hydroxydopamine or 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. 6-Hydroxydopamine resulted in a preferential elevation of epinephrine in the developing adrenals as well as an increase in the responsiveness of the adrenals to reflex stimulation by insulin; the mature secretory pattern was obtained as early as at 4 days postnatally for epinephrine and 9 days for norepinephrine. In contrast, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine led to a preferential reduction of basal adrenal norepinephrine content.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have investigated the cellular localization of cerebellar excitatory amino acid binding sites in normal mice, in mice deficient in granule cells and, perhaps, stellate, basket and Golgi cells (granuloprival mice) and in mice lacking Purkinje cells. In the molecular layer of normal mouse cerebellum, the quisqualate-sensitive binding sites were the predominant type of excitatory amino acid receptor and there were relatively few N-methyl-D-aspartate or kainate-sensitive binding sites. The granule cell layer of normal mice contained a mixture of all 3 types, the N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive binding sites being predominant. In the molecular layer of granuloprival mice, the number of quisqualate-sensitive binding sites was increased to 214% of control (P less than 0.01), whereas N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive binding sites were decreased to 62% of control (P less than 0.001) and kainate-sensitive binding sites were unchanged. In the granule cell layer of these mice, quisqualate-sensitive binding sites were increased to 200% (P less than 0.01), N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive binding sites were decreased to 47% (P less than 0.001) and kainate-sensitive binding sites were decreased to 49% (P less than 0.01 of their respective control values. In the molecular layer of mice lacking Purkinje cells, quisqualate-sensitive binding sites were reduced to 29% (P less than 0.001) of control and N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive binding sites were unchanged. In the granule cell layer of these mice, neither quisqualate nor N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive binding sites were changed. These results suggest that (1) quisqualate-sensitive binding sites are located principally on dendrites of Purkinje cells and that they up-regulate after deafferentation; (2) N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive binding sites are located on granule cells and, perhaps, stellate, basket and Golgi cells, and (3) kainate binding sites are located on cell bodies of granule and, perhaps, Golgi cells.
The distribution of pro-somatostatin-derived-peptide-positive profiles was examined by indirect immunohistofluorescence in nine post-mortem human brains (age 58-73 years). Three specific antisera were used for this study which recognize, respectively, somatostatin-28, somatostatin-28 (1-12) and somatostatin (1-14). Pro-somatostatin-derived-peptide-positive immunoreactive profiles were observed throughout the neuraxis. Cell bodies were found within archeo-, paleo- and neocortical areas, the subcortical white matter, in the nucleus accumbens, caudate nucleus and putamen, as well as in the hypothalamus, the reticular thalamic nucleus and the reticular formation of the brainstem. Fibers and terminals were seen in the same areas as well as in various thalamic nuclei, in the brainstem and spinal cord. Pro-somatostatin-derived-peptide-positive fibre tracts include the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the diagonal band of Broca, the stria medullaris, the inter-thalamic adhesion, the posterior commissure and the spinothalamic tract. Furthermore, differences between human and animal brains were noted and some somatostatin systems reported which may be implicated in certain human neuropathological states.
Electrical stimulation of the ventral midbrain in freely moving rats led to an antinociception against both noxious heat and noxious pressure. Recurrent stimulation was associated with a progressive loss of the antinociceptive efficacy of stimulation. Rats adapted (&quot;tolerant&quot;) to stimulation revealed a significant reduction in the antinociceptive potency of a low dose of the systemically applied selective mu-opioid agonist, morphine. In distinction, the antinociceptive effect of the selective kappa-agonist, trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl]benzeneacetam ide (U50488H) was not modified. In the presence of naloxone, delivered subcutaneously via minipumps at a low dose for 7 days, the antinociceptive action of morphine was abolished, whereas that of U50488H was not attenuated: this reflects the selective blockade of mu-receptors. Rats receiving naloxone failed to develop an antinociception upon midbrain electrical stimulation. Removal of the pumps led to a supersensitivity to the antinociceptive effects of morphine but not U50488H. Similarly, midbrain stimulation-produced antinociception was enhanced. These data demonstrate that (1) midbrain stimulation-produced analgesia is selectively cross-tolerant to a mu- as compared to a kappa-agonist; (2) a very low dose of naloxone selective for the mu-receptor blocks midbrain stimulation-produced analgesia, and (3) chronic naloxone treatment leads to a selective supersensitivity to a mu-agonist as compared to a kappa-agonist and an enhancement of midbrain stimulation-produced analgesia. Collectively, the data indicate that a mu-opioid receptor mediates midbrain stimulation-produced analgesia in the rat against both noxious heat and noxious pressure.
The distribution of adenosine A1 receptors in the human brain was studied by autoradiography in post mortem brain tissues from 26 subjects without reported neurological disease. N6-[3H]Cyclohexyl-adenosine was used as the ligand. For comparison, adjacent sections of some regions were examined histochemically for 5'-nucleotidase activity. The receptor sites were heterogeneously distributed throughout the CNS. The highest receptor densities were found in the stratum oriens, pyramidale and radiatum of the hippocampus. High densities were also found in the cerebral cortex and the striatum. In the thalamus there was a heterogeneous distribution of binding sites with a high density in structures such as the medial and anterior nucleus. Intermediate receptor densities were found in the accumbens, the olfactory tubercle and most parts of the amygdala among others. The hypothalamus had low receptor densities. In the brainstem and the spinal cord very low receptor concentrations were found. However, in some structures such as the substantia nigra, the colliculus superior and the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord a low level of binding could be measured. The cerebellar cortex showed low densities of receptors. Structures showing high levels of 5'-nucleotidase activity were the hippocampus, the striatum and parts of the cerebral cortex among other regions. In general there was a poor correlation between the localization of A1 receptors and the 5'-nucleotidase activity. Some regions, however, showed a similar distribution of these two markers. In general, the distribution of adenosine A1 receptors found in the human brain is comparable to that found in previous autoradiographic studies in the rat brain. However, some regional differences were observed in, for example, the cerebral cortex, the striatum and the cerebellar cortex. These differences may prove to be functionally relevant.
The distribution of adenosine A1 receptors was studied quantitatively in the brain of the rat, mouse, guinea-pig and cat, using in vitro autoradiography with [3H]N6-cyclohexyladenosine as ligand. Preliminary binding studies in brain sections from the guinea-pig and cat gave results similar to previous data from the rat and showed that the binding site had the pharmacological profile of an A1 receptor. The overall distribution of receptors was comparable in the species studied. The receptors were concentrated in the hippocampus, the cerebral cortex, some thalamic nuclei, the basal ganglia and the cerebellar cortex. The hypothalamus and the brainstem were sparse in receptors. Differences among species in receptor distribution and/or density were seen in some regions, e.g. the cerebral cortex, the striatum, the lateral geniculate nucleus and the cerebellar cortex. The autoradiograms were compared with adjacent sections stained for 5'-nucleotidase. There was in general a poor correlation between the distribution of A1 receptors and 5'-nucleotidase. Furthermore, there were marked differences between species in the distribution of the enzyme. The species differences observed in receptor localization may be of functional relevance.
Responses of frog dorsal root ganglion neurons to GABA were studied under conditions of internal perfusion. Conductances to Na, Ca and K were pharmacologically blocked, C1 concentrations were maintained equal on both sides of the membrane and a small holding potential was used. Under these conditions GABA-induced C1 currents could be studied in isolation without shifts in EC1 occurring after GABA application. GABA currents were blocked by a variety of agents. The blockade by bicuculline and Zn was competitive, while that to penicillin was competitive at low concentrations (6 x 10(-5) M) and non-competitive at high concentrations (3 x 10(-4) M). Picrotoxin was non-competitive at all concentrations studied. The time course of the GABA-induced currents was changed in the presence of antagonists, including those that were competitive. These actions appear to be due to a change in the rates of receptor desensitization rather than shifts in EC1. Pretreatment with antagonists increased the degree of inhibition only for picrotoxin as compared to simultaneous application of GABA plus antagonist. The voltage dependence of the GABA response was altered by penicillin but not by other antagonists. GABA responses on frog dorsal root ganglion cell were also depressed by a variety of other metal ions (Cd, Ni, Cu, Co, Mn) and other drugs (strychnine, curare, 4-acetamide, 4'-isothiocyano-stilbene-2,2'-dilsulfonic acid disodium salt, 4,4'-diisothiocyano-stilbene-2,2'-dilsulfonic acid disodium salt trihydrate, bemegride and folic acid). In this preparation bicuculline and the heavy metal ions appear to block at or very near to the agonist binding site, while penicillin probably blocks the ion channel. The non-competitive action of picrotoxin appears not to be channel blockade, but to be due to a slowly equilibrating action at a site different from either the agonist binding site or the channel.
The cellular distribution of preprotachykinin A messenger RNA in the bovine nervous system was investigated by in situ hybridization and its tissue distribution by Northern and dot blotting. The latter results were compared with the levels of substance P-like immunoreactivity as determined by radio-immunoassay. The highest levels of preprotachykinin A messenger RNA were found in striatum and trigeminal ganglion, medium levels in retina and lower levels in hypothalamus, spinal cord, pituitary gland and adrenal medulla. The cellular localization of preprotachykinin A messenger RNA was obtained in striatum and trigeminal ganglion using either single-stranded DNA or complementary RNA probes labelled with 32P, 35S or 3H. Specific labelling of small trigeminal ganglion neurones and of medium-sized striatal nerve cells was observed with probes in the anti-messenger RNA sense orientation. Only background labelling was obtained with probes in the messenger RNA sense orientation. The technique was further validated by the demonstration that the same cells in the trigeminal ganglion were labelled by both in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The present findings allow an unambiguous identification of the cellular sites of synthesis of preprotachykinin A messenger RNA; in situ hybridization should also prove a useful technique for investigating the regulation of neuropeptide biosynthesis at the cellular level.
The synaptic organization of terminals originating either from the spinal cord (spinothalamic) or from the dorsal column nuclei (lemniscal) was investigated in the ventrobasal complex of the rat thalamus. Wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was used as an anterogradely transported axonal tracer, using benzidine dihydrochloride as a chromogen for the identification by electron microscopy of spinal and lemniscal projections to the ventrobasal thalamus. A double anterograde tract tracing strategy, based labeling by wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase of spinal terminals and simultaneous visualization of lemniscal terminals identified by Wallerian degeneration induced by lesion of the neurons of origin in the dorsal column nuclei, was used to compare the postsynaptic elements contacted by the two pathways and to look for a possible convergence of the two pathways onto single thalamic neurons. Spinal and lemniscal terminals are large (2-2.5 microns mean average diameter) terminals containing several mitochondria and numerous rounded vesicles. A quantitative analysis of the mean average diameters of the terminals revealed that one could not differentiate between synapses formed by the two pathways on a morphological basis. Terminals of the two pathways make asymmetrical contacts (Gray type I) with dendrites of varying diameter, dendritic protrusions, and cell somata. A quantitative analysis of the least diameter of the postsynaptic elements demonstrates projections of the two systems to different, partially overlapping regions of thalamic neurons. Lemniscal terminals originating from the dorsal column nuclei frequently contact cell somata; axosomatic spinothalamic contacts are uncommon. In addition, lemniscal projections tend to contact more proximal dendrites than do spinal projections, and this differential synaptic organization is statistically significant. From a functional point of view, this differential synaptic organization might indicate that lemniscal inputs have greater influence than spinal inputs in affecting the activity of thalamic neurons. Labeled spinothalamic terminals contact the same dendritic profile as do degenerating lemniscal terminals in about 10% of single sections. Because the present study did not include a complete reconstruction of ventrobasal complex neurons of the thalamus or even regions of dendritic arbors, the degree of convergence is likely to be significantly underestimated. These findings indicate that the anatomical basis exists for an interaction between nociceptive and non-nociceptive somesthetic systems at the level of single ventrobasal neurons of the thalamus of the rat.
Neurons strongly immunoreactive for substance P are present as subpopulations in the stratum oriens, pyramidal layer and polymorphic layer of the hippocampus of the human infant. Substance P immunoreactive terminals are numerous on other neuronal cell bodies in the polymorphic layer and over pyramidal cells of the subiculum and the CA1, 2 and 3 regions. There is a high density of substance P-immunoreactive axons in the granular layer. Enkephalin immunoreactive neurons are relatively few in number and are present in the polymorphic and pyramidal layers. The results indicate that substance P probably plays a major role in short range circuits in the human hippocampus and that intrinsic enkephalin neurons probably play a relatively minor role.
Evidence is presented that neuroreceptors move bidirectionally along axons of neurons through fast axoplasmic transport mechanisms. The retrograde transport of receptor-bound signal molecules from nerve terminals to the perikaryon represents a corridor of information between synapses and the cell body of neurons. It is speculated that this process could be involved in long-term memory.
To investigate the K permeability mechanism(s) in cultured bovine adrenal medullary cells, we measured the effects of high K, veratridine and carbachol on 86Rb efflux from the 86Rb preloaded cells. In non-stimulated cells, the basal efflux of 86Rb into Krebs-Ringer phosphate buffer containing 5.6 mM K proceeded gradually at the rate of 0.7% of cell 86Rb per min. High K caused a rapid 86Rb efflux; it was considerably reduced in Ca free medium. Mn, Co and Mg strongly inhibited high K-induced 45Ca influx and 86Rb efflux. Veratridine induced a sustained 86Rb efflux; it was inhibited by tetrodotoxin and abolished in Na free sucrose medium, but little affected in Ca free medium. Carbachol evoked a rapid and transient efflux of 86Rb; it amounted to 16.9% of cell 86Rb during 1 min. Carbachol-induced 86Rb efflux was inhibited by hexamethonium and d-tubocurarine. Nicotine caused 86Rb efflux, but muscarine had no effect. Carbachol-induced 86Rb efflux was substantially reduced in Na free sucrose medium, but little affected in Ca free medium. Mn, Co and Mg strongly reduced carbachol-induced 45Ca influx, but they did not appreciably alter carbachol-induced 22Na influx and 86Rb efflux. These results suggest that adrenal medullary cells have, at least, three distinct types of K permeability mechanisms: (1) basal K efflux, (2) Ca dependent K efflux, and (3) Na dependent K efflux. It seems that nicotine receptors mediate K efflux by increasing Na influx via nicotinic receptor-associated ionic channels rather than Ca influx via voltage dependent Ca channels.
A visceral afferent origin of substance P-like immunoreactivity in lamina V of the lower thoracic spinal cord of the rat was investigated. In transverse sections from normal animals there was a moderately dense substance P-immunoreactive innervation of lamina V. In some sections there was a dorsoventrally orientated fibre bundle from the superficial dorsal horn entering lamina V. In parasagittal sections, substance P-immunoreactivity in lamina V was found arranged in clusters, with a periodicity in the rostrocaudal axis of 200-600 microns. In some cases these were seen to be continuous with a dorsoventrally orientated fibre bundle from the superficial dorsal horn. After section of the splanchnic nerve there was a consistent reduction in the density of the substance P-like immunoreactivity in lamina V, with fewer clusters on the operated side. Adult rats treated neonatally with capsaicin showed a substantial reduction of substance P-immunoreactivity in laminae I and II and the virtual abolition of staining in lamina V. These results provide evidence of a visceral origin for some of the substance P-like immunoreactivity in lamina V of the rat thoracic spinal cord. In addition, they confirm that most of the substance P-immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn is of primary afferent origin.
We studied the grooming response to lateral ventricle injection of CRF in both rats and mice under similar conditions. One microgram of CRF ICV induced a pronounced increase (3- to 4-fold) in the frequency of self-grooming in rats, but only a much smaller (less than 20%) increase in mice. The minimum effective dose of CRF in rats was 300 ng. Although ACTH1-24 induced less grooming in mice than in rats, the difference in potency did not appear to be sufficient to explain the differences between the effectiveness of CRF in the two species. Whereas ACTH increased all types of grooming scored. CRF increased all forms of grooming except flank scratching with the hind limb. The major effect of CRF was to increase the number of episodes of grooming, whereas ACTH1-24 tended to prolong the length of individual episodes. The excessive grooming induced by ICV CRF was not affected by prior treatment with dexamethasone, suggesting that the increased grooming was not due to secondary release of ACTH from the pituitary. Nevertheless, ICV CRF might induce grooming by releasing MSH/ACTH from cerebral storage sites. CRF-induced grooming, like ACTH-induced grooming, was inhibited by naloxone pretreatment. Despite the small qualitative differences, CRF-induced grooming could be due to secondary release of ACTH.
Using the patch-clamp technique, whole-cell recordings from solitary rat retinal ganglion cells in culture have established the nicotinic nature of the acetylcholine responses in these central neurons. Currents produced by acetylcholine (5-20 mumol/l) or nicotine (5-20 mumol/l) reversed in polarity near -5 mV and were unaffected by atropine (10 mumol/l). Agonist-induced currents were blocked by low doses (2-10 mumol/l) of the classical 'ganglionic' antagonists hexamethonium and mecamylamine, as well as by d-tubocurarine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine (the latter two do not discriminate clearly between ganglionic and neuromuscular junction receptors). Treatment with the potent neuromuscular blocking agent alpha-bungarotoxin (10 mumol/l) did not affect the cholinergic responses of these cells, while toxin F (0.2 mumol/l), a neural nicotinic receptor antagonist, readily abolished acetylcholine-induced currents. Thus, the experiments performed to date show that the nicotinic responses of retinal ganglion cells in the central nervous system share the pharmacology of autonomic ganglion cells in the peripheral nervous system. The ionic current carried by the nicotinic channels was selective for cations, similar to that described for nicotinic channels in other tissues. In addition, single-channel currents elicited by acetylcholine were observed in whole-cell recordings with seals greater than 5 G omega as well as in occasional outside-out patches of membrane. These acetylcholine-activated events, which had a unitary conductance of 48 pS and a reversal potential of 0 mV, represent the ion channels that mediate the neural nicotinic responses observed in these experiments on retinal ganglion cells.

In the last three decades, research in the sleep laboratory has decisively contributed to a much deeper knowledge of sleep physiologic and pathologic states. Parallel to clinical research related to sleep disorders, multifaceted basic research has greatly contributed to a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying sleep and wakefulness. This basic research in the realm of the neurosciences integrates data derived from the application of various methodologic approaches. Currently, the prevailing concepts about sleep mechanisms generally favor the idea of a dynamic interaction among systems rather than that of a unidimensional explanation for sleep generation. Examples of these integrative concepts in current sleep research are the revised model of reciprocal interaction for the control of REM sleep and the two-process model comprising the seemingly incompatible homeostatic and circadian sleep mechanisms. In sleep disorders medicine, the prevailing approach is also integrative: findings from the sleep laboratory are considered in conjunction with those from clinical experience in understanding the nature of sleep disorders. Applying this integrative model, physicians in sleep disorders medicine are able to manage patients with sleep disorders comprehensively. Based on an understanding of sleep physiology, clinicians can make the diagnosis of most sleep disorders in the office setting.

Effects of lithium, carbamazepine, zotepine, and clonazepam were examined on the behaviour mediated by 5-HT1A receptor and at 5-HT1A binding sites in rats. Forepaw treading, one component of 5-HT behavioural syndrome following subcutaneous injections of 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), was not altered by reserpine, p-chlorophenylalanine, or alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine; in reserpine-treated rats, it was antagonized only by spiperone or by (-)-propranolol. These results indicate that 8-OH-DPAT-induced forepaw treading is produced by the direct stimulation of 5-HT1A receptor postsynaptically and also that this behaviour is not mediated by monoaminergic neurons. Lithium, carbamazepine, and zotepine inhibited forepaw treading in untreated rats; only lithium and clonazepam inhibited it in reserpine-treated rats. After 14 days treatment, only lithium enhanced it while its enhancement was abolished by reserpine. Radioligand binding studies using [3H]-8-OH-DPAT demonstrated that zotepine possessed weak affinity for 5-HT1A receptor; others lacked affinity. These results from acute experiments suggest that all drugs tested have inhibitory effects on the 5-HT1A receptor function. These effects, however, were not mediated by 5-HT1A receptor. And it is also suggested that the 5-HT1A receptor function after chronic lithium treatment might be enhanced by monoaminergic systems transsynaptically.



A comparison of cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor binding to sections of rat, mouse and guinea pig brain has been performed using 125I-Bolton Hunter CCK and the selective peripheral CCK receptor antagonist L-365,031. In both rat and mouse, 125I-Bolton Hunter CCK binding in the region of the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN) was inhibited by L-365,031 indicating that these receptors resemble CCK receptors found in peripheral tissues. In the mouse especially, dense regions of peripheral CCK receptors were detected either side of the IPN. By contrast, in the guinea pig IPN no evidence of L-365,031-sensitive binding could be found. The present reports shows that in different species, regional variations in brain CCK receptor binding occur not only in the case of classical 'brain' receptors, but also for the more discretely localised 'peripheral' type CCK receptors.
Indoleamine metabolism was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection in the cervical spinal cord of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and controls with non-neurological diseases. The concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were the highest in the ventral horn compared with other regions of the spinal cord both in ALS and controls. There was no significant change in the concentration of 5-HT in any region of the spinal cord between ALS and controls. In addition, the concentration of 5-HIAA in ALS was lower than that in controls, however, no statistical significance was observed.
The interaction of glucocorticoids, corticosterone, cortisol and cortisone, and their reduced metabolites with t-[35S]-butyl bicyclo-phosphorothionate (TBPS) binding sites was examined in vitro. At physiologically relevant concentrations glucocorticoids alter TBPS binding in a biphasic manner. At low nanomolar concentrations glucocorticoids potentiate TBPS binding (20-50% above control) and at high nanomolar and micromolar concentrations they slightly reduce it. The enhancement of TBPS binding by glucocorticoids is due to an increase in the apparent affinity and density of TBPS recognition sites and qualitatively resembles the action of bicuculline methiodide, to potentiate TBPS binding (150% above control). These findings suggest that glucocorticoids may play an important role in modulating neuronal excitability via interactions with the GABA receptor/chloride ionophore complex.

Metaphit, a derivative of phencyclidine (PCP) which irreversibly binds to a population of PCP receptor sites in rat brain, has been considered as a potentially specific PCP antagonist. In whole animal studies, however, metaphit has been shown to have either antagonist or PCP-like actions depending upon the animal species used and the experimental variable evaluated. In the present study, the ability of PCP to produce hyperactivity was assessed in rats following pretreatment with intravenous, intraventricular or intracerebral injections of metaphit. Whereas, intravenous and intraventricular metaphit pretreatment failed to alter the locomotor stimulatory effects of PCP, direct injections of metaphit into the nucleus accumbens resulted in a dose-dependent reduction of PCP-induced hyperactivity. This result also was mimicked by intra-accumbens injections of equimolar concentrations of PCP, but not by the local anesthetic procaine. Additionally, intra-accumbens metaphit prevented d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and also depleted significantly accumbens dopamine content; effects not seen after intracerebral PCP administration. These results suggest that metaphit produces a functional antagonism of PCP-induced locomotor activity through presynaptic mechanisms unrelated to specific blockade of PCP receptors.
We have studied the involvement of central nervous system (CNS) insulin receptors in mediating the central hypoglycemic effect of insulin by using insulin derivatives modified at regions of the hormone necessary for receptor reactivity and peripheral bioactivity. Acetylation or succinylation of the 3 free amino groups of insulin at positions A1, B1 and B29 resulted in a corresponding decrease in lipogenic activity in isolated rat adipocytes, with concentrations of hormone required to produce half the maximal effect (ED50) being 0.15 ng/ml, 3 ng/ml and 50 ng/ml for native insulin, acetyl3 insulin and succinyl3 insulin, respectively. Moreover, the modified insulins exhibited diminished hypoglycemic effect following central administration in mice, with the doses needed for suppression of plasma glucose to 50% of basal levels being 1 microgram, 10 micrograms and 25 micrograms for native insulin, acetyl3 insulin and succinyl3 insulin, respectively. Because binding of insulin derivatives to CNS receptors can be predicted from their peripheral bioactivity, the present finding of parallel decrements in lipogenic activity in vitro and central hypoglycemic effect in vivo, following modification of insulin at regions implicated in receptor activation, is consistent with the view that insulin exerts its central effect on plasma glucose by interacting with specific CNS receptor sites which are closely related to the peripheral insulin receptors.
The survival effect by nerve growth factor (NGF) on the cholinergic neurons of postnatal rat septal neurons in culture was examined. When the septal neurons from 10 to 12-day-old rats were cultured without NGF, the activities of choline acetyltransferase gradually decreased during the period of cultivation. The addition of NGF to the culture prevented the decline of activities. And, the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons in culture with NGF was found to be more than that without NGF, after 5 days in culture. These results suggest that NGF promotes the survival of septal cholinergic neurons from postnatal rats in culture.
Determinations of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) and N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG) levels were obtained by ion-exchange HPLC from 10 regions of the male dystrophic mouse brain as well as from those of non-dystrophic littermate controls. Similar to previous studies in the rat, NAA levels in control mice were distributed rather uniformly while NAAG levels exhibited a pronounced rostrocaudal gradient, with highest levels found in the lumbar spinal cord. Contrary to a recent report, we found no significant alterations in gross brain or spinal cord levels of NAA. In contrast, levels of NAAG were substantially and differentially reduced in several regions of the dystrophic mouse nervous system. These results demonstrate a pathological dissociation between NAA and NAAG, whose levels are known to display differential regional, ontogenetic and phylogenetic patterns. In addition, they may represent an ability of neural tissue to differentially regulate their steady-state levels, if indeed they can be shown to be biosynthetically related. The pronounced and non-uniform NAAG reductions observed in the dystrophic CNS underscores recent suggestions of a role for the neuropeptide in central systems involved in the control of motor function.
Intraperitoneal injection of ethanol (2 g/kg) substantially augmented recurrent inhibition in the dentate gyrus, as measured by population responses to paired-pulse stimulation of the perforant path. In contrast, this dose of ethanol had no significant effect on singly evoked (or conditioning) population spikes. These data indicate that the increased recurrent inhibition by ethanol was not due to a generalized depressant effect, and suggests that at these doses and time points ethanol can selectively alter synaptic transmission in the hippocampus.
The sodium dependent binding of D-[3H]aspartate to the high-affinity glutamate uptake system was used as a marker of glutamate-releasing terminals in the cerebral cortex of brains from patients with Alzheimer-type dementia (ATD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Sodium-dependent D-[3H]aspartate binding was reduced in the ATD patients but not in the PD patients. Within the PD patients no association was observed between sodium-dependent D-[3H]aspartate binding and the presence of dementia. In contrast choline acetyltransferase activity was reduced in both the ATD and the PD patients. The present results suggest that changes in the cortical cholinergic system can occur independently of the cortical glutamate system. The glutamatergic deficit in ATD may contribute to some of the clinical differences between the dementia of ATD and PD.
We examined the effects of bilateral terminal nerve (TN) transections (TNx) on the sexual behavior of male hamsters. These lesions produced a decrease in mating frequency and/or an increase in the number of intromissions required to reach ejaculation. Damage to the olfactory bulbs or rostral forebrain did not account for these effects. No amelioration of the behavioral impairments occurred over the mating sessions. Basal testosterone levels in the blood of male hamsters were not altered by TN damage. Hamsters with TNx retained their ability to detect odors, but demonstrated reduced attraction to vaginal odors as compared with unoperated animals. The reduced attraction to vaginal odors was most pronounced in sporadically mating TNx animals. These data suggest that the TN may facilitate odor-induced sexual excitation in the male hamster.

Biochemical markers for serotoninergic and catecholaminergic neurons in frontal and temporal poles were examined post mortem in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and the two combined. Binding of [3H] citalopram to serotoninergic uptake sites and levels of serotonin were decreased by 40 to 50% in brains of persons in each disease category. In contrast, significant reductions of catecholaminergic markers were not detected. In all three disease groups, the choline acetyltransferase activity was reduced by 50 to 60%. Binding sites for adenosine (A1), muscarinic cholinergic, phencyclidine, beta-adrenergic, and calcium antagonist receptors were unchanged. We conclude that substantial damage to serotoninergic neurons occurs in persons with Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.
Five semiobjective devices for testing sensory perception thresholds were concomitantly used on 36 normal subjects to determine normal threshold values, intersubject variability, and their correlation with age. The five devices include the Semmes-Weinstein monofilament (touch); three-point esthesiometer (two-point discrimination); Pfizer thermal tester (temperature); biothesiometer (vibration); and Optacon tactile tester (vibration). Each subject was tested at 12 upper extremity (UE) and ten lower extremity (LE) sites. The threshold was determined by the two-alternative forced choice method. Results showed that the mean threshold for each sensory perception modality in the UE sites was significantly lower than in the LE sites. The means of distally located sites for two-point discrimination and vibration thresholds were significantly lower than the means of the proximal sites in the UE. In the LE, touch perception threshold was significantly higher distally than proximally. Distally located nerves (median and ulnar) showed lower mean threshold values than proximally located nerves for two-point discrimination. There were also similar findings for the other sensory modalities in the UE and LE. The mean threshold of dermatomes showed significant variation across the trials for two-point discrimination and vibration sensation. Distally located dermatomes showed lower threshold values than those located proximally. The means of most sites tested for each sensory modality (except vibration tested by the Optacon) showed correlation with age. There was no difference in threshold values between men and women for any sensory modality. The mean values of standard deviation were provided for each peripheral sensory nerve and dermatome.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This report concerns the use of intramuscular injections of scopolamine, promethazine, and dramamine to treat severely motion sick individuals participating in parabolic flight experiments. The findings indicate that a majority of individuals received benefit from 50-mg injections of promethazine or 0.5mg-injections of scopolamine. By contrast, 50-mg injections of dramamine and 25-mg injections of promethazine were nonbeneficial. The use of antimotion drug injections for treating space motion sickness is discussed.
In the present experiments we examined neurohypophyseal hormone secretion in various models of sodium appetite in rats. Basal plasma levels of oxytocin were found to be low in sodium-deficient adrenalectomized rats and in intact animals treated daily with desoxycorticosterone acetate, both of which groups drank large amounts of NaCl solution, whereas basal plasma levels of arginine vasopressin were neither stimulated nor suppressed. Conversely, sodium appetite consistently was inhibited by treatments that stimulated pituitary oxytocin secretion. However, sodium appetite was not inhibited by administration of exogenous oxytocin, nor was it stimulated by administration of an oxytocin receptor antagonist. These and other results suggest that sodium appetite may be inhibited by activity in the supraoptic and/or paraventricular nuclei, the location of the neurons responsible for the synthesis of oxytocin, and can be stimulated only when activity in those neurons is reduced. Whatever the final neural pathway, our data support the hypothesis that the control of sodium appetite is governed by inhibitory as well as excitatory central mechanisms.
The P300 component of the event-related brain potential (ERP) was elicited with a simple auditory discrimination task. Subjects were required to respond in three different ways to target stimuli across conditions: (1) silently counting the targets; (2) tapping their index finger every time a target was detected; or (3) pressing a button with their thumb when a target was presented. In addition, ERPs were recorded during each response mode while the subjects' eyes were either open or closed. P300 amplitude was larger for the counting compared to the tapping or button press tasks especially during the eyes closed condition. The peak latency of the P300 was longer when obtained from the counting compared to the tapping and button-press tasks for both eye conditions. Response mode also interacted with electrode site for peak latency. The results suggest that the P300 ERP component is sensitive to the nature of the subject's response during discrimination tasks.
We report here six families with Parkinson's disease in whom the onset of symptoms tended to occur at approximately the same time irrespective of the age of the patient. The mean difference in the time of onset in different generations was 4.6 years while the mean difference in age of onset in children and parents was 25.2 years. We construe this pattern of age separation within families as suggestive of an environmental rather than genetic cause. Support for this view derives from the lack of correlation between occurrence of the disease and the degree of consanguinity. We conclude that our findings are in accord with the hypothesis which attributes the cause of some cases of Parkinson's disease to early, subclinical environmental damage followed by age-related attrition of neurons within the central nervous system.
Lesions of the upper motor neuron cause: 1. Alterations in segmental reflex activity. For example increased tendon jerks and velocity dependent stretch reflexes (&quot;spasticity&quot;), clonus, the clasp knife response, release of flexion reflexes and extensor plantar reflexes. 2. Impaired ability to activate motoneurons rapidly and selectively. Voluntary movements may also be restrained by co-contraction of antagonists muscles, by segmental reflexes (enhanced during voluntary effort) or by contractures. A combination of these factors may impair overall functional ability. Segmental reflexes, voluntary power and overall functional abilities can be assessed using clinical scoring systems. Recordings of muscle length, tension and EMG offer more objective measures of reflex and voluntary activity and of overall functions such as locomotion, and can separate weakness from co-contraction, spasticity from contracture. Methods are now available for exploring individual (transmitter specific) segmental reflex pathways and descending pathways in man. Lesions of the upper motor neuron are complicated by secondary changes in segmental neurons. Segmental reflex activity and muscle mechanics depend on the immediate past history of events. These factors must be taken into account.
This paper reviews current concepts concerning the anatomical organization and functions of the basal ganglia focusing mainly on the role of the basal ganglia in control of movement. Results of several studies which have been carried out on patients with Parkinson's disease are also reviewed and discussed as examples of altered normal physiological mechanisms.
Parkinsonism (P) with progressive dementia (D) of the Alzheimer type is recognized as a clinical variant of a form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) that has occurred in high incidence among the Chamorro people of the islands of Guam and Rota in the Marianas chain of Micronesia. The declining annual incidence, upward shifting of the age of onset, narrowing of the sex ratio, and occurrence of the disease among non-Chamorros, point to a disappearing environmental causation peculiar to the traditional culture of these islands. Evidence is presented in support of the proposal that heavy use of certain toxic plants, notably cycads, a traditional source of food and medicine for the Chamorro people, plays an important etiological role. Clinical and epidemiological approaches are offered to test for a relationship between ALS/P-D and long-latency plant toxicity.
We studied the functionally discrete calcium sources used by acetylcholine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, histamine and high K+ in the dog tracheal smooth muscle. The extracellular calcium dependence of their responses was assessed by altering the calcium and by pretreatment with the calcium antagonist, nifedipine. The intracellular calcium pool was assessed by studying the interactions between caffeine and the agonists in both skinned and unskinned preparations. The extent of overlap for the different calcium pools between the various agonists was determined by studying the dose-response relationships of these agents before and after pretreatment with another agonist, i.e., the conditioning agonist, in zero calcium conditions. The rank order of sensitivity to calcium removal and to nifedipine was histamine greater than KCl greater than 5-hydroxytryptamine greater than acetylcholine. Caffeine-induced atenuation of the agonist responses was predominantly through physiological antagonism. However, the caffeine responses in unskinned fibres were augmented by pretreatment with the agonists through both nifedipine-sensitive (as with KCl) and -insensitive (as with acetylcholine) mechanisms. The responses to acetylcholine and caffeine were inhibited by theophylline and forskolin. In the skinned muscle fibres, the pCa-tension relationship suggested high calcium sensitivity, a significant caffeine-sensitive calcium pool, and no evidence of calcium release by exogenous inositol trisphosphate. The results are consistent with multiple extracellular and intracellular calcium sources for the agonist responses. We observed considerable overlap of the calcium sources used by these agonists. Of the four agonists studied, histamine appeared to inhibit the release and sequestration of calcium utilized by the other agonists most effectively.


Utilizing three modes of information exchange, this &quot;annotated autobiography&quot; presents in perspective a picture of an eminent neuroscientist of the 20th century. The reminiscences of Guiseppe Moruzzi, Director of the Institute of Physiology of the University of Pisa for more than thirty years, were combined with contemporary tributes, a review of his major published work, and comments of friends and associates. Such a three-dimensional view of a scientific career illustrates the possibilities of &quot;the medium is the message.&quot;
Heart rate and blood pressure were recorded in conscious, freely behaving rats through a catheter in the tail artery during administration of nitroprusside or phenylephrine through a catheter in the jugular vein. The sympathetic and parasympathetic components were distinguished by treating the rats with atenolol or methyl-atropine. Reflex bradycardia induced by all doses of phenylephrine was almost totally blocked blocked following methyl-atropine treatment. Reflex tachycardia induced by small to moderate doses of nitroprusside was attenuated to an equal extent following atropine or atenolol treatment. A similar experimental schedule was followed with a separate group of rats to determine the effects of pentobarbital and urethane anesthesia on the baroreceptor reflex. Both pentobarbital and urethane equally attenuated the tachycardia response to a decrease in blood pressure. However, pentobarbital anesthesia resulted in a greater attenuation of the bradycardia response to an increase in blood pressure than did urethane anesthesia. These data support the conclusion that the parasympathetic nervous system is primarily responsible for baroreceptor reflex-induced bradycardia in conscious rats. The sympathetic and parasympathetic systems contribute equally to control baroreceptor reflex-induced tachycardia except in extreme acute hypotension when the tachycardia is predominantly due to the activation of sympathetic nerves. The findings of the second experiment indicate that pentobarbital and urethane affect sympathetic systems differently.

The distributions of (Na+ + K+)ATPase and sodium channels in skeletal muscle fibres and electrocytes were determined by immunofluorescent and immunoelectron microscopic techniques using antibodies against rat and eel (Na+ + K+)ATPase and the eel electric organ sodium channel. The extrajunctional sarcolemma of skeletal muscle was uniformly stained by polyclonal antibodies against (Na+ + K+)ATPase and the sodium channel. The T-tubule system of skeletal muscle was also labelled heavily for both (Na+ + K+)ATPase and the sodium channel. The terminal cisternae of the sarcoplasmic reticulum was stained for (Na+ + K+)ATPase but not sodium channels. At the motor endplate, (Na+ + K+)ATPase-like immunoreactivity was present along the plasmalemma of motor nerve terminals but not along the postsynaptic junctional sarcolemma. Paradoxically, a monoclonal antibody that binds to the alpha form of the catalytic subunit of (Na+ + K+)ATPase from rat hepatocytes and renal tubule cells did not label the enzyme in rat skeletal muscle. In electrocytes, (Na+ + K+)ATPase-like immunoreactivity was concentrated primarily along the plasmalemma and calveolae of the non-innervated face. In contrast, sodium channel-like immunoreactivity was concentrated along the plasmalemma of the innervated face except in the clefts of the postsynaptic membrane. Thus, we conclude that at endplates both the (Na+ + K+)ATPase of rat skeletal muscle and sodium channels of eel electrocytes are not concentrated in the juxtaneuronal postsynaptic membrane. We also interpret the failure of the monoclonal anti-alpha (Na+ + K+)ATPase antibodies to bind to the enzyme in muscle to indicate that the catalytic subunit of skeletal muscle (Na+ + K+)ATPase displays different epitopes than does the alpha subunit of kidney and liver.
A new autosomal recessive mutation, characterized by an early defect in righting reflex and stiffened gait, progression to severe spasticity, tremor and rigidity, and death before weaning, appeared spontaneously on the C57BL/6 background. It was shown to be an allele of the mutant spastic spa, and shall be known as spaAlb. Mutant levels of [3H]strychnine binding are less than 10% of control levels in the brainstem and spinal cord. Autoradiographic examination of the distribution of [3H]strychnine binding sites in the mutant confirm a greatly reduced level of binding compared to control in all areas of the spinal cord, brainstem, and midbrain.
1. We studied the blocking properties of a spider (Nephila clavata) toxin (JSTX) purified from venom on the spiny lobster neuromuscular junction. 2. When a small amount of JSTX was applied to the neuromuscular junction, the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) was partially suppressed. The amplitude of EPSPs remained at a steady level for several hours during the washing of the preparation, showing that the action of JSTX is irreversible. 3. We recorded the excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) from synaptic site using a macro-patch electrode. The amplitude of EPSC increased linearly with hyperpolarization of the membrane potential in the presence and absence of JSTX. 4. The decay phase time constant of EPSC and spontaneous EPSC was decreased by hyperpolarizing the membrane potential both in the absence and in the presence of JSTX. The relationship between the decay time constant and the membrane potential was not modified by JSTX. 5. It is suggested that JSTX irreversibly blocks EPSC by acting on the site that is apart from the ionic channel of the glutamate receptor molecule.
1. Mouse hippocampal neurons grown in dissociated cell culture were patch clamped using a whole cell voltage clamp (discontinuous switching clamp) technique. The currents generated by pressure applications of excitatory amino acids were studied over a wide range of holding potentials, and current-voltage curves were plotted. Excitatory amino acids that activated the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor demonstrated some degree of desensitization with repeated applications, whereas the currents observed in response to kainic acid (KAI) did not. Desensitization could be minimized by keeping the frequency of application sufficiently low (i.e., less than 0.1 Hz). 2. The short-acting dissociative anaesthetic, ketamine (2-50 microM), selectively blocked L-aspartic acid (L-Asp), NMDA, and L-glutamic acid (L-Glu) currents while sparing those in response to KAI. Therefore, ketamine is a relatively selective blocker of the NMDA response versus that (those) activated by KAI. 3. The block by ketamine of excitatory amino acid currents is highly voltage dependent. Concentrations of ketamine that had little effect on outward current responses at depolarized potentials were quite effective at blocking inward current responses at hyperpolarized potentials. In contrast, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) was equally effective at blocking both inward and outward currents (voltage independent). The voltage dependence of ketamine (a positively charged molecule) could be accounted for if ketamine blocked the NMDA response by binding to a site that experienced 55% of the membrane field. 4. In the presence of ketamine, peak inward currents evoked by repeated applications of NMDA, L-Asp, or L-Glu progressively declined to a steady-state level of block (use-dependent block). This decrement occurred at frequencies much lower than those that were employed to demonstrate desensitization (in the absence of ketamine). Moving the membrane potential to depolarized values did not, in itself, relieve the ketamine block. However, if the appropriate excitatory amino acid (L-Asp, NMDA, L-Glu) was applied during the period of depolarization, a relief of the block could be demonstrated. No recovery from the blockade occurred with periods of rest (no amino acid application) as long as 5 min. Furthermore, no recovery was observed even when ketamine was washed out of the bathing solution until the appropriate agonist was applied. Thus recovery from blockade, like development of blockade, was use dependent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Nursing diagnosis was introduced into the neuroscience intensive care unit (NSICU) of the Medical College of Virginia in 1984 as a framework for naming the problems nurses treat. During this process, there was concern about using nursing diagnosis terminology to describe common NSICU problems. Of particular concern was increased intracranial pressure (ICP). The staff concluded that &quot;alteration in cerebral perfusion&quot; was the nursing diagnosis from the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association (NANDA) list that best described the patient with increased ICP. A descriptive study of patients who received this nursing diagnosis in our NSICU was designed and implemented one year later. This study identified patient characteristics and independent and interdependent nursing interventions.
Many of the rewarding aspects of cocaine are thought to be due to the ability of this stimulant to block reuptake of monoamines. However, because of its ability also to cause transmitter release, it is difficult to examine the properties of cocaine as an uptake blocker using in vitro techniques such as tissue slices or synaptosomes. Thus, we have evaluated cocaine as a blocker of dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake processes by determining the in vivo effect of concurrent administrations of cocaine on the neurochemical effects of methamphetamine treatments. These findings demonstrated that cocaine like 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake blockers such as citalopram, greatly attenuated or blocked decreases in striatal and cortical tryptophan hydroxylase activities and concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid induced by multiple and single methamphetamine administrations. In contrast to other dopamine uptake blockers, such as amfonelic acid, cocaine did not attenuate the methamphetamine effects on striatal tyrosine hydroxylase activity and the concentrations of dopamine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid. The neurochemical findings were correlated with behavioral analyses.
Previous work demonstrated that newborn rat anterior pituitary corticotropes display processing patterns for pro-ACTH/endorphin that are different from the adult. The synthesis and release of beta-endorphin-related peptides was examined in dispersed cell and explant cultures of newborn anterior pituitary to investigate corticotrope development further. The temporal pattern of pro-ACTH/endorphin processing differed significantly from adult rat melanotropes and AtT-20 cells. While pro-ACTH/endorphin processing begins within 30 min of synthesis in adult melanotropes and AtT-20 cells, pulse-labeling of newborn corticotropes in culture indicated that pro-ACTH/endorphin remained uncleaved for at least 90 min after synthesis. With further incubation, there was a decrease in radioactivity associated with the precursor and an equivalent rise in the radioactivity associated with beta-endorphin and beta-lipotropin. However, unprocessed precursor still remained in the cultured newborn anterior pituitary cells after a 25-h chase. Although intact pro-ACTH/endorphin from newborn corticotropes was very long-lived, the precursor did undergo oligosaccharide maturation and became endoglycosidase H resistant within 1 h after synthesis. Similar to the adult, pro-ACTH/endorphin synthesis was doubled in cultures of newborn anterior pituitary chronically treated with 10 nM CRF resulting in a 3- to 4-fold stimulation of secretion over the basal rate. However, unlike the AtT-20 cell or adult rat corticotrope, the proteolytic processing of pro-ACTH/endorphin in the newborn corticotrope was altered by chronic secretagogue treatment; less pro-ACTH/endorphin was converted to beta-endorphin in secretagogue-treated corticotropes than in controls. Thus processing of pro-ACTH/endorphin in the corticotrope is not mature by birth and can be regulated by chronic CRF treatment.

It was shown that opioid peptides stimulate nervous tissue growth in culture in the rat, which manifests itself in augmented outgrowth of neurites from explants and in an increase in the number of glial and fibroblast-like cells in the growth zone. The effects of opioid peptides ([Leu]- and [Met]-enkephalins, beta- and gamma-endorphins and some synthetic analogues of [Leu]-enkephalin) on the growth of organotypic cultures of rat sympathetic and dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord were investigated. Neurite outgrowth, cell composition, and size of the growth zone as well as the dynamics of its formation were estimated. Changes in the survival of neurons in dorsal root ganglion cultures were determined. The experiments were performed with living cultures as well as with fixed preparations. In experiments with sympathetic ganglia, it was demonstrated that a significant growth-promoting effect is exerted by peptides taken at concentrations of 10(-8) M to 10(-14) M. Naloxone does not eliminate the effects of peptides, but stimulates the growth at 10(-5) M to 10(-7) M. Studies with spinal cord revealed that naloxone (10(-6) M) enhances the response to [Leu]-enkephalin (10(-9) M). The survival of dorsal root ganglion neurons under the influence of a [leu]-enkephalin analog (10(-9) M) exceeds control values by approximately two to four times. Thus, opioid peptides were shown to exert a strong growth-promoting effect on nervous tissue in culture. This effect is dual: in neurons the peptides stimulate the outgrowth of neurites and their survival, while in glial cells they change the rate of their migration and, probably, their proliferation. It is suggested that opioid peptides, besides their already established functions, may play a role in the development and regeneration of nervous tissue.
The pike olfactory nerve which consists of a homogeneous population of C-fibers of 0.25 micron diameter or less was used to study quantitatively both anterograde and retrograde axoplasmic transport of wheat germ agglutinin and horseradish peroxidase. It was found that even in these extremely thin axons anterograde and retrograde transport takes place. Activity distribution profiles (transport profiles) for retrograde transport were established and found to be similar to the typical profiles of anterograde transport as they consisted of a small rapidly moving peak and a saddle region followed by the bulk of the material which moved more slowly. Horseradish peroxidase activity profiles were obtained both after injection into the synaptic region and after injection into the perikaryal region. From these transport profiles a maximal velocity of 25 mm/d (19 degrees C) for the leading peak and of about 7 mm/d for the slower component could be determined. There is no significant difference between the velocities for anterograde and retrograde transport. In the case of wheat germ agglutinin, only injection into the synaptic region resulted in typical transport profiles (retrograde transport) with a peak and saddle region. The maximum velocities of retrograde transport were about the same as for horseradish peroxidase [26 mm/d and 7 mm/d (19 degrees C)]. The electron microscopic analysis of horseradish peroxidase revealed that after injection into the olfactory bulb it was taken up into the neurons where it was found mainly in multivesicular bodies (0.5 micron diameter). In longitudinal sections of the nerve similar but slightly more elongated organelles (diameter 0.25 micron, length 0.4 micron) were found in those segments in which the slowly moving bulk of the peroxidase activity was located. The number of these organelles decreased with distance from the site of injection. The horseradish peroxidase transported within the leading peak could not be assigned to specific structures although several electron microscopic-histochemical methods were applied. It was concluded that anterograde and retrograde transport occur simultaneously in these axons, and that, therefore, even the large organelles, each of which almost fills the axon, must be able to pass each other. This would necessitate that the axons are able to transiently enlarge their diameter considerably.
In a previous study we found the morphometrical data of rabbit retinal Mller (radial glial) cells to vary greatly with their localization in various parts of the retina. The long cells of the central retina have thinner vitreal processes and smaller endfeet than the short cells of the retinal periphery. This configuration should impair the spatial buffering capacity of the central Mller cells for excess K+ ions. To test this hypothesis, we developed a simple modified model for the calculation of K+ clearance by spatial buffering, diffusion through the extracellular space, and co-operation of both processes. K+ clearance processes were demonstrated to depend greatly on the retinal geometry and Mller cell morphology in different parts of the retina. The efficiency of spatial buffering exhibited an obvious optimum for Mller cells of intermediate length, and decreased very steeply in longer cells. Some conclusions are drawn with respect to retinal physiology. In particular, it is suggested that very long and slender radial glia is unable to perform sufficient K+ clearance preventing long-lasting extracellular [K+] elevations after neuronal activity. Such [K+] elevations could depolarize these glial cells so as to enforce their mitotic division. This mechanism might lead to the perinatal transformation of embryonic radial glia into adult multipolar glia when neuronal activity commences in CNS tissues thicker than the maximal effective length of radial glial cells.
The changes in the volume of cell nuclei of the rat cingular cortex were investigated in culture after incubation with some antidepressant drugs. Two-week incubation of the cingular cortex culture with both tricyclic (desipramine, imipramine, amitryptyline) and non-tricyclic (mianserin) antidepressants in concentration of 3 X 10(-6) M resulted in a decrease of the volume of the cell nuclei. Because the size of the nucleus is regarded as a criterion of the cell metabolic activity, our results may point to a diminished activity of metabolic processes of the cells.
An investigation was carried out of the time of ingrowth of primary sensory fibres in the medulla and of their penetration into the gracile nucleus, and of the effect of an early loss of these fibres upon the development of the nucleus in rats. After injection of the conjugate horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin in the hind limbs of fetuses, a bundle of labelled fibres was seen in close proximity of the gracile nucleus at embryonic day 17. However, fibres did not appear to leave the bundle until embryonic day 19, when they were seen to project ventrally and penetrate the nucleus which, on embryonic day 20 and thereafter, contained an increasing number of labelled fibres. Synaptic contacts within the gracile nucleus were found at all stages of the observation; the presynaptic processes consisted of an electron-lucent matrix which contained round vesicles. Although no mature glomeruli were observed, an occasional terminal appeared to be presynaptic to more than one process. After transection of the primary sensory afferents at embryonic day 18 and 19, no degeneration was seen within the gracile nucleus; degenerated boutons were occasionally seen after deafferentation at embryonic day 20 and became more numerous thereafter; nerve cells in various stages of degeneration could also be seen. Removal of primary afferents to the gracile nucleus at the time they reach the nucleus or soon after was followed by a severe loss of nerve cells and a reduced increment in size of the remaining ones. Moreover, the results of the present investigation show that penetration of primary sensory fibres into the gracile nucleus takes place approximately 2 days after they have been seen in the medulla and are in keeping with observations made in other pathways of the nervous system of the rat as well as in other animals. The findings that mature glomeruli, previously described in 1-day-old rats, are not present shortly before birth, suggest a fast rate of maturation of these synapses.
Nociceptive neurons in the dorsal horn of the cat spinal cord are depressed by vibration applied to the ipsilateral hind limb. The present study investigated the pharmacological properties of this depression because of the possibility that it represents the neural basis at the spinal level for the analgesic effects of vibration in humans. Experiments were done in cats anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and acutely spinalized at the first lumbar level. Extracellular recordings were made from nociceptive neurons in the lower lumbar segments. The depression of these neurons induced by vibration to the hindlimb was attenuated by administration of the P1-purinergic (adenosine) receptor antagonist, caffeine (20-60 mg/kg i.v.); the maximum attenuation was 100%. Effects of caffeine began within 2 min after the start of injection (1-3 min injection period), were greatest in the 10 min period after the end of injection and lasted for up to 2 hr. Importantly, another P1-purinergic receptor antagonist, which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, 8-sulphophenyltheophylline (8-16 mg/kg), had no effect on the depression when given intravenously (n = 5); however, when administered by iontophoresis 8-sulphophenyltheophylline blocked the depression in 2 of 6 units. Dipyridamole (1.0-2.0 mg/kg i.v.), an inhibitor of adenosine uptake, potentiated the depression in 2 of 5 cases. These results prompt us to suggest that depression induced by vibration may be mediated by adenosine via the activation of P1-purinergic receptors. On the other hand, the GABAA antagonist, bicuculline, failed to attenuate vibration-induced depression when administered either intravenously (0.2-0.4 mg/kg; n = 5) or by iontophoresis (n = 10) and the glycine antagonist, strychnine (0.2-0.6 mg/kg; n = 3) and the opiate antagonist, naloxone (0.1-0.4 mg/kg; n = 4) were similarly ineffective. These findings suggest that vibration-induced depression of these units occurs without involvement of bicuculline-sensitive GABA receptors, strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors and naloxone-sensitive opiate receptors. In view of the fact that vibration-induced depression is evoked synaptically, this study is the first to demonstrate in the central nervous system a synaptic response which is mediated by adenosine. In addition, we suggest that the analgesic effects of vibration in humans may be mediated at the spinal level by activation of P1-purinergic receptors.
By histofluorescence microscopic examinations of pial arteries from rats and rabbits, we have observed that the routes of adrenergic fibers were apparently organized along successive sites of granular autofluorescent cells present in the adventitia. Subsequent electron microscopic studies showed that these cells were often situated in close apposition (80 to 200 nm) to the adventitial nerve bundles. The granular cells and nerve varicosities were frequently enclosed within the same basement membrane, with a membrane-to-membrane distance as small as 20 nm. However, no clear membrane differentiation was seen. These granular cells were identified histochemically by staining with Sudan Black, Oil Red O, Toluidine Blue, Alcian Blue, together with ultrastructural and pharmacological methods (48/80 compound and carbachol intracarotid infusions). The cells, many of which contained large amounts of lipids, showed morphological ultrastructural and pharmacological similarities to peripheral mast cells. Nerve bundles contained two types of varicosities: some of them degenerated after superior cervical ganglionectomy and were thus of sympathetic origin, whereas the others contained small clear vesicles (probably cholinergic) and/or large dense-cored vesicles (probably peptidergic). As we have shown that cholinomimetics induce exocytosis of these granular cells, the close relationship between these cells and the nerve fibers may indicate a neurogenic control of the cerebrovascular mast cell secretion. As these cells contain potent vasoactive substances, this relationship may be of importance in the genesis of physiological or pathological cerebrovascular events which are, as yet, poorly understood.
A new double-label autoradiographic glucose analog method for the sequential measurement of altered regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in the same animal is presented. This method is based on the sequential injection of two boluses of glucose tracer labeled with two different isotopes (short-lived 18F and long-lived 3H, respectively). An operational equation is derived which allows the determination of glucose utilization for the time period before the injection of the second tracer; this equation corrects for accumulation and loss of the first tracer from the metabolic pool occurring after the injection of the second tracer. An error analysis of this operational equation is performed. The double-label deoxyglucose method is validated in the primary somatosensory (&quot;barrel&quot;) cortex of the anesthetized rat. Two different rows of whiskers were stimulated sequentially in each rat; the two periods of stimulation were each preceded by an injection of glucose tracer. After decapitation, dried brain slices were first exposed, in direct contact, to standard X-ray film and then to uncoated, &quot;tritium-sensitive&quot; film. Results show that the double-label deoxyglucose method proposed in this paper allows the quantification and complete separation of glucose utilization patterns elicited by two different stimulations sequentially applied in the same animal. The double-label deoxyglucose is of potential usefulness in sensory physiology since it makes possible the separate mapping of regional cerebral glucose utilization patterns elicited by two sequentially applied sensory stimulations in the same animal. The method allows the quantification of a step-like change in regional cerebral glucose utilization in the same animal. It could be used to study the cerebral metabolic effects induced by neuropharmacological agents or surgical interventions applied during the experiment. Using each animal as its own control eliminates intersubject variability. Thus experimental cost and effort can be saved, and the reliability of the results obtained can be increased.
The operational equation for the double-label deoxyglucose method described in the following paper requires the knowledge of the rate constants for transfer of fluorodeoxyglucose across the blood-brain barrier (K1* and K2*), and those for phosphorylation of fluorodeoxyglucose (K3*) and dephosphorylation of fluorodeoxyglucose-6-phosphate (k4*). These rate constants were determined in anesthetized rats by external coincidence counting. Radioactivity in parietal brain was measured for a 110 min experimental period after a bolus injection of 18F-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose. Apparent rate constants were obtained by fitting the resulting tissue radioactivity curves to the tissue radioactivity function of the deoxyglucose model modified to take into account the dephosphorylation of fluorodeoxyglucose-6-phosphate. The apparent fluorodeoxyglucose rate constants in rat brain are K1* = 0.195 ml g-1 min-1, k2* = 0.379 min-1, k3* = 0.088 min-1, and k4* = 0.009 min-1.
A light microscopic study of the cellular localization of GABA in the thalamus of the squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) was undertaken by means of the indirect peroxidase-antiperoxidase method using a highly purified antiserum directed against GABA-glutaraldehyde-lysyl-protein conjugate. GABA-immunoreactive cell bodies and axon terminals were visualized in all thalamic nuclei in the squirrel monkey but their relative density varied from one nucleus to the other. At the level of the anterior nuclear group, GABA-positive cells and terminals abounded in the anterodorsal nucleus but were much less numerous in the anteromedial and anteroventral nuclei. In the nuclei of the ventral group, GABA-immunoreactive cells were found to be smaller and less numerous than nonimmunoreactive neurons. In the ventral anterior nucleus, GABA-positive neuronal profiles formed typical clusters, whereas they were more uniformly distributed in the posterior nuclei of the ventral group. In the intralaminar nuclei, GABA-immunoreactive cells and terminals abounded in the dorsal portion of the paracentral and centrolateral nuclei, whereas more caudally, GABA-positive terminals pervaded the entire parafascicular nucleus. In the mediodorsal nucleus, GABA-positive cell bodies and axon terminals formed typical clusters of various sizes scattered within the lateral parvocellular portion of the nucleus, while GABA-immunoreactive neuronal profiles were less numerous and more uniformly distributed in the medial portion of this structure. In the nuclei of the posterior group, GABA-immunoreactive neuronal profiles were uniformly distributed except in the pulvinar where they abounded in the inferior and oral parts but were scarce in the medial part. In the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, the magnocellular layers received the most massive GABA-positive innervation and contained the largest number of GABA-immunoreactive cell bodies. In the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus, GABA-positive cells occurred only ventrolaterally while GABA-immunoreactive terminals pervaded the entire structure. In the medial geniculate nucleus, GABA-immunoreactive cell bodies and terminals abounded particularly within the ventromedial third of the structure. In the habenula, a few GABA-immunoreactive cell bodies and numerous GABA-positive terminals were scattered throughout the lateral habenular nucleus, whereas only a few GABA-immunoreactive terminals surrounded the closely packed unreactive cells in the medial habenular nucleus. In contrast to other thalamic nuclei all neurons in the reticular nucleus displayed GABA immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects on hippocampal extra- and intracellular amino acids of focal injection of folic acid into the amygdala in the rabbit were studied with brain dialysis. Folate seizures were accompanied by pronounced elevations of extracellular alanine and phosphoethanolamine. The increase of extracellular alanine was related to an enhanced level of this amino acid in total hippocampal tissue, whereas phosphoethanolamine was unaltered in tissue biopsies. Folate seizures did not significantly affect extracellular aspartate and extracellular glutamate was only slightly elevated (50-75% over baseline values). The tissue concentration of glutamate remained at control levels during the seizures and tissue aspartate was decreased by 28%. Extracellular glutamine decreased rapidly after folate injection with a concomitant increase of total hippocampal glutamine. Neither extra- nor intracellular taurine was affected by folate epilepsy. The experiments also encompassed measurements of the extracellular purine catabolites inosine, hypoxanthine and xanthine. Folic acid-induced epilepsy produced changes in these compounds indicative of moderately accelerated degradation of adenosine 5'-triphosphate. The findings support the view of glutamate as a mediator of epilepsy-related brain damage. It is, however, questionable if the small enhancement of extracellular glutamate is enough to provoke neuronal necrosis associated with folate epilepsy.
The localization of neurotensin-immunoreactive sites in the adult human brain was investigated by the indirect immunoperoxidase method of Sternberger [Sternberger (1979) Immunocytochemistry. Wiley, New York]. Our results demonstrate a widespread, albeit uneven occurrence of neurotensin-immunoreactive cells and processes throughout the central nervous system. Immunoreactive cells are prominent in the medial hypothalamus and in various regions of the limbic system, including the amygdaloid body, septal area, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and piriform cortex. A few cells were also found in the dorsal synencephalon, superior colliculus, periaqueductal grey and spinal trigeminal nucleus. The distribution of immunoreactive fibres corresponds well with that reported for rodents. Areas with the highest concentration of neurotensin-immunoreactive processes included all the areas where immunoreactive neurons were found and, in addition, periventricular thalamic nuclei, the sublenticular region, lateral parts of the brainstem reticular formation and the vagus-solitarius complex. Comparison mapping studies of melanin-containing neurons on sections treated with neurotensin antiserum revealed an anatomical relation between almost all the catecholaminergic cell clusters with peptide-containing fibres.
The acute neurotoxicity produced by glutamate and related excitatory amino acids is probably caused by depolarization leading to excessive anionic and cationic fluxes and osmotic lysis. Recently, a more delayed form of glutamate neurotoxicity, which is critically dependent upon calcium influx, has been described in cultured neocortex. We investigated this phenomenon in cultures of dispersed rat hippocampal neurons. When these cultures were briefly incubated with various excitatory amino acids in low extracellular chloride, there was no acute toxicity, but a gradual drop-out of neurons occurred over the next day. When calcium was removed from the extracellular medium during amino acid incubation, this late neuronal loss was not seen. Interestingly, blocking excitatory amino acid receptors in cultures after the amino acid exposure also prevented this delayed neuronal death. In addition, these treated cultures contained neurons with normal physiological properties, and had concentrations of adenosine triphosphate that were close to control values. The findings suggest an amino acid-induced calcium influx may elevate the release of endogenous excitatory transmitter, likely glutamate, and/or increase the sensitivity of these neurons to glutamate. These in vitro observations may partially explain the delayed neuronal loss seen in some pathological conditions affecting man.
The effects of ibotenic acid-induced lesions of the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata region, the dorsal pallidum or both on the acquisition and retention of a conditional visual discrimination have been studied in the rat. Lesions of the ventral pallidum and large lesions of the dorsal and ventral pallidum severely impaired both the acquisition and retention of the conditional discrimination. Dorsal pallidal lesions had similar, but less marked effects. The same lesions also impaired the retention of a passive avoidance task, but had no effect on a conditioned taste aversion. Neurobiological investigations revealed that the lesions destroyed cholinergic neurons in the magnocellular nucleus basalis and caused reductions in cortical choline acetyltransferase activity of about 30-40%. Tract-tracing experiments indicated that the lesions destroyed, in particular, cholinergic neurons projecting to the frontal dorsolateral cortex and also those projecting to more posterior cortex, but not the occipital lobes. Contingency analysis of the behavioural, neurochemical and neuroanatomical data indicated that those animals with the largest decreases in choline acetyltransferase activity, or the largest areas of neuronal loss in the ventral and dorsal globus pallidus, were most impaired in the retention of the conditional discrimination. The results do not, therefore, indicate a simple relationship between cholinergic neuronal loss and the retention of response rules essential for performance of the task (&quot;reference memory&quot;). The relevance of the results to cholinergic hypotheses of learning and memory is discussed.
Using an indirect immunofluorescence technique, a subpopulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive neurons was observed in cell cultures dissociated from the atria and interatrial septum of newborn guinea-pig heart maintained in fetal calf serum-supplemented medium. 5-Hydroxytryptamine has not been demonstrated in intracardiac neurons in situ, and since 5-hydroxytryptamine has been previously shown to be a constituent of fetal calf serum, the 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity seen in culture may have been the result of neuronal uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the growth medium. This was examined by growing the cultures in a serum-free, hormone-supplemented, defined medium. Under these conditions, 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive neurons were not present. When cultures were grown in hormone-supplemented, defined medium containing 10(-4) to 10(-6) M 5-hydroxytryptamine, some intracardiac neurons accumulated 5-hydroxytryptamine. This type of neuron also developed 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity after incubation with 5 X 10(-5) M 5-hydroxytryptophan, indicating that the subpopulation of intracardiac neurons which can take up exogenous 5-hydroxytryptamine can also synthesize it from 5-hydroxytryptophan. However, no 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive neurons were observed after incubation with L-tryptophan, the other 5-hydroxytryptamine precursor molecule. Under all of the conditions described, some small, 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunofluorescent cells, very similar to the catecholamine-containing, small intensely fluorescent cells of the heart, were observed in culture. Bright, 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive endothelial cells were seen only in cultures maintained in defined medium and loaded with 5-hydroxytryptamine. The present study shows that some intracardiac neurons are amine-handling, and also raises the possibility that 5-hydroxytryptamine is utilized as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator by these neurons in the mammalian heart. Further, there is evidence to suggest that two populations of small intensely fluorescent cells, one containing 5-hydroxytryptamine, the other a catecholamine, are present in the heart; and to indicate that atrial endothelial cells can take up 5-hydroxytryptamine.
Recordings were made from CA1 pyramidal neurons in a rat hippocampal slice preparation to compare the effectiveness of orthodromic stimuli when delivered at different distances from the cells under study. A stimulating electrode placed in stratum radiatum was less effective in driving nearby pyramidal cells (within 200 micron) than those farther away (greater than 800 micron). Thus for a given field excitatory postsynaptic potential both the intracellular excitatory postsynaptic potential and the evoked population spike were smaller when evoked from a local stimulating electrode than from one more distant. Laminar mapping experiments indicated that the spatial distribution of activated excitatory synapses over the pyramidal cell dendrites was similar for local and distant stimuli. The firing threshold, and the amplitude of hyperpolarizing inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, were also similar for the two stimuli. Responses evoked by the local stimulating electrode were more sensitive to morphine, penicillin and pentobarbital than responses elicited by the distant stimulus, suggesting that some form of GABAergic inhibition limited the efficacy of the local stimulus. The data suggest that in the CA1 region a vertically oriented synaptic inhibitory system exists that powerfully regulates the ability of an orthodromic stimulus to activate pyramidal cells. These results also illustrate the practical importance of controlling the distance between stimulating and recording electrodes, when performing quantitative pharmacological studies of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus.
The topographic distribution of specifically labeled neurotensin binding sites was examined by light microscopic radioautography in rat brain sections incubated with monoiodo [125I]Tyr3-neurotensin. Preliminary experiments indicated that under the present experimental conditions [125I]neurotensin specifically binds to a single apparent population of sites with a dissociation constant of 7.7 +/- 0.3 nM, and that fixation of the labeled sections with glutaraldehyde ensures regionally proportional retention of more than 70% of bound [125I]neurotensin molecules. High concentrations of [125I]neurotensin binding sites were detected in the olfactory bulb and tubercle, parts of the neocortex, the lateral septum, the diagonal band of Broca, the caudate putamen, the amygdala, the dentate gyrus, the anterior dorsal nucleus of the thalamus, the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus, the medial habenula, the zona incerta, the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area. In certain areas, such as in the diagonal band of Broca, the substantia innominata, the nucleus basalis and the pars compacta of the substantia nigra, discrete accumulations of silver grains were apparent over neuronal perikarya and their proximal dendrites. In most areas, however, the label appeared more or less uniformly distributed over nerve cell bodies and surrounding neuropil. In several instances, the labeling conformed with the distribution of cell bodies of origin and terminal aborizations of specific projection systems, suggesting that neurotensin receptors might be distributed both proximally and distally on the plasma membrane of certain neurons. Such putative &quot;neurotensinoceptive&quot; projection systems might involve part of the mesostriatal, mesocortical and mesolimbic dopamine systems, as well as the raphe-prosencephalic serotonin system and the habenulo-interpeduncular and basal forebrain-cortical cholinergic systems. Finally, areas of dense [125I]neurotensin labeling often corresponded to zones previously shown to exhibit intense acetylcholinesterase staining, suggesting the existence of a possible link between the expression of neurotensin binding sites and that of acetylcholinesterase in certain neuronal populations.
The neurofilament proteins in cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells are in a hypophosphorylated state, as determined by the co-migration of the 160,000 and 210,000 molecular weight subunits with in vitro dephosphorylated bovine brain subunits on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels. In addition, chromaffin cells were not stained by anti-heavy neurofilament subunit that binds only to phosphorylated epitopes. Pulse-labeling with 32Pi in the presence and absence of the protein synthesis inhibitor emetine indicated that some neurofilament protein phosphorylation occurred co-translationally and/or immediately after synthesis of the proteins. Pulse-chase experiments showed that the three neurofilament proteins rapidly attained their maximal phosphorylation levels, as multiple forms of either of the respective subunits were not seen after a one hour chase. We found that Triton X-100-soluble forms of high molecular weight neurofilament and middle molecular weight neurofilament subunits were present in chromaffin cells, and they also co-migrated with standard neurofilament proteins dephosphorylated in vitro. However, there were differences between the phosphopeptide maps of cytoskeleton-associated and soluble middle molecular weight neurofilament subunit, suggesting that the localization of phosphate moieties rather than extent of phosphorylation influences the association of the subunit with neurofilaments. Double immunofluorescence staining of cell cultures with antibody to the 70,000 molecular weight subunit and with anti-vimentin showed that chromaffin cells do not express vimentin.
The neuronal uptake and laminar distribution of cortically injected tritium-labeled gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA), aspartic acid, glutamate and glycine was examined in the prestriate cortex of squirrel monkeys. The intent of this investigation was not to examine the role of these amino acids as neurotransmitters, but to correlate the distribution of tritium-labeled neurons with their levels of cytochrome oxidase activity. A comparison of the number of these labeled neurons was made between the metabolically active &quot;puff&quot; and the less active &quot;nonpuff&quot; regions. In addition, these results were contrasted with the findings in area 17. With each tritiated amino acid tested, labeled neurons that had either high or low levels of cytochrome oxidase activity were present in all laminae. However, the density of labeled neurons varied between lamina for a given amino acid as well as between different amino acids. While many neurons that were cytochrome oxidase-reactive were also tritium-labeled, cytochrome oxidase activity was not a prerequisite for the sequestering of tritium label. In fact, many of the labeled neurons exhibited relatively low levels of cytochrome oxidase activity. Similar to area 17, few aspartate- or glutamate-labeled neurons were present in laminae II-III. The number of labeled neurons for both amino acids increased in laminae IV-VI, with the greatest increase observed in laminae V-VI. Gamma-aminobutyrate-labeled neurons were more prevalent in laminae I and upper II than in the other laminae, whereas in area 17, a greater proportion of the labeled neurons were found in laminae V-VI. With the exception of the uppermost laminae, where GABA-labeled neurons were more abundant, the number of glycine-labeled neurons was significantly greater throughout most laminae than with the other amino acids examined. The density of glycine-labeled neurons in lamina IV, however, was significantly less than the number observed in lamina III even though lamina III was farther away from the injection site which was at the boundary between laminae V-VI. Glycine-labeled neurons were, on average, larger than those labeled with any other amino acid. Similar to area 17, more GABA- and glycine-labeled neurons were observed within the puff regions than in nonpuff regions. No puff/nonpuff differences were observed in the distribution of leucine-injected controls. Labeled neurons for each amino acid included stellate-, fusiform- and pyramidal-shaped cells, each of varying sizes. However, outside the intensely labeled injection sites, no GABA-labeled pyramidal cells were observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The presynaptic changes caused by 4-aminopyridine were studied in the electric organ of Torpedo marmorata, in the resting state and during the period following transmission of a single giant discharge. Incubation with 4-aminopyridine provoked a 30-40% decrease in the density of synaptic vesicles in nerve terminals, and a similar decrease in the content of vesicular and free acetylcholine. These changes were not observed when 4-aminopyridine was applied in a low-calcium, high-magnesium solution. In the standard medium, 4-aminopyridine treated junctions were able to generate a giant electrical discharge of long duration in response to a single stimulus. During the seconds and minutes following the giant discharge, the number of synaptic vesicles was not found to be significantly altered in the whole population of nerve terminals. However, new membranous structures--looking like sacs with double membranes encircling a part of cytoplasm--were seen in approximately 25% of nerve endings; in those terminals, the number of synaptic vesicles was significantly decreased. At this stage, the junctions had not recovered their capability to generate a second giant discharge of full size and the yield of acetylcholine, adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and creatine phosphate was diminished. Thirty minutes after the single discharge, the functional recovery was achieved and the membranous sacs had disappeared; but the levels of acetylcholine, ATP and creatine phosphate were still not restored.
The existence of retinopetal neurons in the rat was verified using a morphological and neurochemical approach. Horseradish peroxidase injected into the posterior chamber of the eye labeled polygonal, ovoid, fusiform and small multipolar neurons in the lateral cell groups of the dorsal raphe nucleus. Very small electrolytic lesions of this region produced after several days of survival a significant decrease in the serotonin content of the retina. These results demonstrate the existence of a centrifugal projection to the retina from the lateral cell groups of the dorsal raphe nucleus and show its probable serotonergic nature. Besides, they also provide a new possibility to explain the presence of serotonin in the retina.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of epinephrine on neurotransmission mediated by cholinergic neurons derived from the rat retina. We used a culture system in which striated muscle cells served as postsynaptic targets for cholinergic neurons of the embryonic retina. This culture system permitted the physiological monitoring of acetylcholine released by retinal neurons. Here, we report that epinephrine facilitates evoked transmission across retina-muscle synapses. This facilitation of cholinergic transmission by epinephrine is reversible, can be mimicked by isoproterenol (a beta adrenoceptor agonist) and blocked by propranolol (a beta adrenoceptor antagonist). Neither the alpha-2 adrenoceptor blocker, yohimbine, nor the dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol, blocked this effect of epinephrine. Since epinephrine was found not to influence the membrane potential of muscle cells nor the responses of myotubes to acetylcholine, epinephrine appeared to have mediated its facilitatory effect on cholinergic transmission by affecting retinal cells. Because previous findings indicated that adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate may be involved in the modulation of transmission at retina-muscle synapses, the effect of epinephrine on adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate levels was investigated. Our biochemical studies demonstrated that epinephrine could increase adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate levels markedly in cultured retinal cells. The accumulation of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate induced by epinephrine could be blocked by propranolol, but not by yohimbine nor haloperidol. Taken together, the results indicate that the facilitatory effect of epinephrine is mediated via a beta adrenoceptor and may involve an increase in adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate levels. Our findings are in agreement with the hypothesis that epinephrine may be a modulatory neurotransmitter in the rat retina.
Single C- and A-delta fibers were isolated from dissected filaments of the saphenous nerve in pentobarbital anesthetized rats and the corresponding cutaneous receptive fields mapped with calibrated von Frey hairs. Nociceptors were characterized by their responses to noxious mechanical, thermal and chemical stimuli, including intradermal injections of leukotriene B4, prostaglandin E2, bradykinin and capsaicin. Leukotriene B4 decreased the mean mechanical threshold by a maximum of 80% within 10 min and for more than 3 h after intradermal injection of 75 ng of leukotriene B4. The degrees of sensitization of a fiber by leukotriene B4 and prostaglandin E2 were highly correlated. A potentiation effect also was observed, in that injection of prostaglandin E2 or leukotriene B4 1 h after the other eicosanoid further lowered the mechanical threshold of a sensitized fiber, whereas fibers that were not sensitized by leukotriene B4 were unaffected by prostaglandin E2. The sensitizing action of leukotriene B4 and prostaglandin E2 was directed to multiple classes of cutaneous nociceptors including 73% of C-polymodal, 60% of C-mechano-heat, 42% of C-mechano-cold nociceptors and 70% of A-delta high-threshold mechanonociceptors. The pain-evoking substances bradykinin and capsaicin activated 81% and 88%, respectively, of the sensitized C-polymodal nociceptors, 17% and 84% of the sensitized-C-mechano-heat nociceptors, 12% and 37% of the sensitized C-mechano-cold nociceptors, and 17% and none of the sensitized A-delta high-threshold mechanociceptors. The responses of C-fibers to bradykinin and capsaicin were highly correlated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous intracellular investigations in the rat hippocampus have demonstrated that N-methyl-D-aspartate, ibotenate and 2,3-pyridine dicarboxylate (quinolinate) all evoke burst firing of CA1 pyramidal neurons, whereas kainate and quisqualate, which are thought to react with different receptors, do not. The purpose of the present study has been to investigate the ability of a series of compounds either to trigger burst firing or to antagonize this pattern of excitation. We report here that N-methyl-L-aspartate, 1,2-benzene dicarboxylate (phthalate) and methylene succinate (itaconate) are also capable of evoking burst firing. The results of this investigation suggest that since both quinolinate and phthalate are rigid planar molecules and only the 2 and 3 positioning of the carboxylates of pyridine was active, a cis configuration of the carboxyls with respect to the 2,3 carbon bond appears to be necessary for excitation. While a nitrogen atom is not necessary for activity (this is absent in phthalate and itaconate) a third functional group, bearing at least a partial positive charge, and in a position alpha to one of the carboxyl groups is required. The requirements for pyridine derivatives to trigger burst firing is similar to that reported as necessary for evoking convulsions and neurotoxicity after intrahippocampal infusion and a correlation between N-methyl-D-aspartate-like burst firing and depolarization and this neuropathology is considered. An important observation has been that the addition of a benzene ring to either quinolinate or phthalate to yield 2,3-quinoline dicarboxylate and 2,3-napthalene dicarboxylate, respectively, converted these excitants into antagonists of burst firing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Some projections from the lateral hypothalamic area in the rat have been investigated, using combinations of fluorescent tracers, injected into several different parts of the central nervous system. Projections appear to arise from loosely organized assemblies of neurons, called sets and from more densely packed assemblies, called clusters. The sets and clusters vary considerably in position and in distinctness of their borderlines. Even within extensive and vaguely defined sets, however, high concentrations of labeled neurons may be present at specified sites in the lateral hypothalamus. Such concentrations are observed in the transitional area of the zona incerta and the dorsal part of the lateral hypothalamus, and in the ventrolateral part of the hypothalamus, bordering the cerebral peduncle and the subthalamic nucleus, in both cases after injections into some &quot;autonomic centers&quot; in the brainstem, such as the parabrachial nuclei and the dorsal vagal complex. Sets and clusters may overlap considerably. Within the fields of overlap the number of double labeled neurons may vary from almost zero up to more than 50%, depending on the injection sites. The results show that different parts of the lateral hypothalamus in the rat have different efferent relationships. Combination of the results of the present study with known data concerning the afferent relationships, the cytoarchitecture and behavioral functions of the lateral hypothalamic area, suggests that different parts of this entity are involved in different regulatory and behavioral functions.
Grafts of fetal striatum were implanted in the form of a cell suspension into the brains of rats with prior ibotenic acid lesions of the caudate-putamen. The grafts were placed in three different sites: the lesioned caudate-putamen, or the denervated (but otherwise undamaged) globus pallidus and substantia nigra. After 3-6 months survival the grafts were investigated by means of immunohistochemistry and receptor autoradiography in combination with routine histology and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. The grafts placed within the lesioned caudate-putamen were at least 10-fold larger larger than those placed in the substantia nigra region, with the grafts placed in the globus pallidus being of intermediate size. In all locations the acetylcholinesterase staining had an uneven, patchy distribution, which was most pronounced in the grafts located within the caudate-putamen. These patches did not bear any obvious relationship to variations in density of the neuronal perikarya within the grafted tissue. Many of the neuropeptide-immunoreactive neuron types present in the normal striatum, such as those containing substance P, [Met]enkephalin, somatostatin, cholecystokinin and neuropeptide Y were also detected in the grafted striatum along with acetylcholinesterase-positive staining. Acetylcholinesterase-positive, [Met]enkephalin-positive, substance P-positive and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive markers all showed uneven, patchy distributions in the grafts. This was also the case for the distribution of dopamine D2 and opiate receptors (as revealed by [3H]spiroperidol and [3H]diprenorphine autoradiography, respectively), whereas muscarinic receptor binding was even throughout the grafts. As is the case in the so-called striosomal patches (neurochemically defined compartments) in the immature intact striatum during the early postnatal period, patches of high acetylcholinesterase staining in the grafts showed partial correspondence with patches of high [Met]enkephalin fibre staining, and dopamine receptor density, and (although to a lesser degree) also with patches of high opiate receptor density and high substance P-immunoreactivity. This correspondence of patches also occurred between tyrosine hydroxylase fibre staining and acetylcholinesterase staining as revealed by grafts placed into the substantia nigra. These results suggest that the fetal striatal cell suspension grafts will give rise to a fairly normal range of striatal neuron and receptor types and that they develop at least some of the striosomal features characteristic for the normal striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Afferents to the nucleus accumbens septi utilizing glutamate or aspartate have been investigated in the rat by autoradiography following injection and retrograde transport of D[3H]aspartate. Parallel experiments with the intra-accumbal injection of [3H]GABA were employed to establish the transmitter-selective nature of the retrograde labelling found with D[3H]aspartate. The topography of cortical and thalamic perikarya labelled by D[3H]aspartate was extremely precise. D[3H]Aspartate labelled perikarya were found in layer V of agranular insular cortex; bilaterally within prelimbic and infralimbic subareas perikarya, but predominantly ipsilaterally. Ipsilateral labelling was observed in dorsal, ventral and posterior agranular insular cortices, and in perirhinal cortex. Injections into ventral accumbens labelled perikarya in ipsilateral entorhinal cortex, while infusion of D[3H]aspartate into anterior caudate-putamen resulted in labelling of perikarya in ipsilateral cingulate and lateral precentral cortices. Following infusion of D[3H]aspartate, ipsilateral midline thalamic nuclei contained the highest density of labelled perikarya; infusions centred on nucleus accumbens resulted in heavy retrograde labelling of the parataenial nucleus, but labelling was sparse from a lateral site and not observed after injection into anterior caudate-putamen. Less prominent labelling of perikarya was seen in other thalamic nuclei (mediodorsal, central medial, rhomboid, reuniens and centrolateral), mostly near the midline. Perikaryal labelling was also found in the ipsilateral amygdaloid complex, particularly in basolateral and lateral nuclei. Only weak labelling resulted in ventral subiculum. Numerous labelled cells were present bilaterally in anterior olfactory nucleus, although perikarya were more prominent ipsilaterally. Labelled perikarya were not consistently observed in other regions (ventral tegmental area, medial substantia nigra, raphe nuclei and locus coeruleus) known to innervate nucleus accumbens. Presumptive anterograde labelling was detected in ventral pallidum/substantia innominata, ventral tegmental area and medial substantia nigra. [3H]GABA was generally not retrogradely transported to the same regions labelled by D[3H]aspartate; an exception being the anterior olfactory nucleus, where large numbers of labelled perikarya were found. [3H]GABA failed to label perikarya in thalamus and amygdala, and a topographic distribution of label was absent in neocortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

A histochemical technique was used to stain the myenteric neurons in the intact wall of the small intestine of mice, guinea-pigs and sheep. The length and diameter of the small intestine and the total serosal surface area were also obtained. Myenteric neurons were counted on large whole-mount preparations of the muscularis externa. Counts were carried out also on the submucosal plexus, on a more limited scale. In the mouse a spatial density of 10,600 myenteric neurons per cm2 was found. The small intestine was 33 cm long and measured on average 11.5 mm in circumference, the total outer surface (serosal surface) amounting to about 38.0 cm2. The total number of myenteric neurons in the small intestine was calculated as about 403,000. In the guinea-pig the length of the small intestine was 145 cm, the average circumference 22 mm and the total outer surface area about 319 cm2. The neuronal packing density was 8600/cm2, and the total number of myenteric neurons about 2,750,000. In the sheep the small intestine was about 2100 cm long with an average circumference of 60 mm and a total surface area of about 12,600 cm2. The ganglion neuron density was about 2500/cm2, and the total number of myenteric neurons in the small intestine was calculated as about 31,500,000. Thus, in the sheep the small intestine contained about 11 times as many myenteric neurons as the guinea-pig and about 80 times as many as the mouse. The differences are in the same direction as, but not proportional to, the differences in body weight and in the length of the intestine. The neuronal spatial density was highest in the mouse and lowest in the sheep, and in the sheep the neurons were markedly larger, and gathered in ganglia that were larger and further apart from one another, than in the mouse, while they had intermediate values in the guinea-pig. A new way of expressing neuronal packing densities is presented together with the proposal of an arbitrary but reproducible unit of intestinal length (a segment whose length is equal to its diameter). In the submucosal plexus the neuronal density was about 3000/cm2 in the guinea-pig, about 8700/cm2 in the mouse and about 4500/cm2 in the sheep. In the mouse the submucosal neuron density decreased gradually along the length of the small intestine.
Four commonly used anorectics which are amphetamine analogues were tested for their action on responsiveness in an acoustic startle test when rats were given daily IP injections adequate to produce a change in body weight. Drugs were given for 22 days. None of these drugs increased startle responsiveness as does the amphetamine parent compound. Instead, fenfluramine and phenylpropanolamine decreased startle responsiveness and phentermine and diethylpropion produced no change. There was no relationship between drug action and body weight. Partial tolerance was found for the fenfluramine action on startle and complete tolerance was found for its action on body weight gain. The fenfluramine action is compatible with the extensive literature on humans and animals indicating sedative properties.
The cerebral content of the biogenic amines, dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), and serotonin (5-HT) and their catabolites 30 min after CRF or saline injections was determined using HPLC with electrochemical detection. Injection of CRF (1.0 micrograms) into the lateral ventricles (ICV) of mice produced a behavioral activation in which their motor movements appeared as bursts of activity followed by periods of immobility. CRF administration (ICV or SC) did not alter the concentrations of DA, NE, tryptophan, 5-HT, or 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in any brain region measured. ICV CRF increased the concentrations of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), the major catabolite of DA, and of 3-methoxy,4-hydroxyphenylethyleneglycol (MHPG), the major catabolite of NE, in several brain regions. DOPAC:DA ratios were consistently increased in prefrontal cortex, septum, hypothalamus, and brain stem relative to animals injected with saline. MHPG:NE ratios were also increased in the prefrontal cortex and hypothalamus, with a marginal effect (p = 0.06) in brain stem. SC CRF significantly increased DOPAC:DA in prefrontal cortex, and MHPG:NE in prefrontal cortex, hypothalamus and brain stem. Pretreatment with naloxone did not prevent any of the neurochemical responses to ICV CRF, but naloxone alone increased DOPAC:DA in medial profrontal cortex, and decreased MHPG:NE in nucleus accumbens in CRF-injected mice. These results suggest that administration of CRF either centrally or peripherally induces an activation of both dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems in several regions of mouse brain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the brains of humans and other mammals, there are two principal groups of cholinergic nuclei aside from those forming the cranial motor nuclei. One group lies in the forebrain and includes the nucleus basalis of Meynert. The second group lies in the hindbrain and includes the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus (NPP), identified by Mesulam et al. [Mesulam, M.-M., Mufson, E. J., Wainer, B. H. &amp; Levey, A. I. (1983) Neuroscience 10, 1185-1201] as cholinergic cell group Ch5. The basal forebrain cholinergic cell groups, which innervate widespread areas of the neocortex, undergo degeneration in Alzheimer disease and also in parkinsonism associated with dementia. We here report that the hindbrain NPP Ch5 cell group, thought to innervate many nuclei of the extrapyramidal motor system, the superior colliculus, and the substantia innominata, undergoes degeneration in idiopathic Parkinson disease and in the parkinsonian syndrome of progressive supranuclear palsy. These findings strongly suggest that degeneration in the brainstem in Parkinson disease is not confined to catecholamine-containing neurons, but that cholinergic neurons of the NPP are also vulnerable. The findings further raise the possibility that certain symptoms of Parkinson disease and progressive supranuclear palsy have their genesis in pathology of these cholinergic neurons.
The structure and functions of a depth-sense esthesiometer have been described. Unlike the prototype designed by Renfrew, the new instrument is so fabricated that the speed and the directions of its movements, and the pressure applied by the finger, can be constantly controlled. In addition, it provides an automatic measurement of depth-sense thresholds with greater accuracy. Thirty-three normal subjects and nine patients were examined with both instruments. With the new esthesiometer all normal hands, as expected, showed normal results, but, with the Renfrew instrument, 12 of these 66 hands (18%) showed abnormal results. Similarly, on examination of the hands of the nine patients, the new instrument showed equally improved reliability.

In this report, we describe a new colloidal-gold-labelled retrograde tracer, wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) conjugated to enzymatically inactive horseradish peroxidase (apoHRP). This protein gold complex (WGAapoHRP-Au) is a sensitive marker for retrograde tracing of the projections of CNS neurons at the light-microscopic (LM) level when a silver-enhancement procedure is used to detect the gold in the tracer. For electron-microscopic (EM) analysis, the silver-enhanced sections undergo a further gold-toning step. This protects against rapid oxidation and dissolution of the silver precipitate during the osmication procedure. A major advantage of WGAapoHRP-Au is that it can be used in a variety of multiple-labelling studies. When the retrograde transport of the new tracer is combined with that of the fluorescent dye, True Blue, neurons that have bifurcating axons can be readily demonstrated. Simultaneous immunofluorescent detection of the cytochemistry of the double-retrogradely labelled neurons is also possible. In contrast to a WGA-HRP gold complex, the new complex has no enzymatic activity. Thus HRP-based techniques (e.g., anterograde transport of WGA-HRP or peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemistry) can be performed on tissue that contains retrogradely labelled neurons marked with WGAapoHRP-Au without having to pretreat tissue so as to destroy endogenous HRP enzyme activity. At the EM level, the gold is readily distinguished from DAB immunoreaction product. This makes both LM and EM double-labelling studies possible. The great sensitivity of the new tracer, its compatibility with a variety of aldehyde fixatives, its ease of detection, and the fact that it can be simultaneously used with several fluorescent and HRP-based immunocytochemical and tracing techniques make WGAapoHRP-Au a valuable tool for LM and EM characterization of CNS cytochemistry and connectivity.


The rate and prediction of return to work was examined in 98 severely head injured patients during the first seven years after injury. The employment rate dropped from 86% before injury to 29% after. Younger patients, and those with technical/managerial jobs before injury were more likely to return to work than those over 45 years of age, or in unskilled occupations. Physical deficits were not related to return to work, but the presence of cognitive, behavioural, and personality changes was significantly related to a failure to return to work.
