The dentate gyrus (DG) is one of the few regions in the brain that continues to produce new neurons throughout adulthood. Seizures not only increase neurogenesis, but also lead to death of DG neurons. We investigated the relationship between cell death and neurogenesis following seizures in the DG of adult rats by blocking caspases, which are key components of apoptotic cell death. Multiple intracerebroventricular infusions of caspase inhibitors (pancaspase inhibitor zVADfmk, and caspase 3 and 9 inhibitor) prior to, just after, 1 day after, and 1 week following 2 h of lithium-pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus reduced the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated fluorescein-dUTP nick-end labelled (TUNEL) cells and increased the number of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) -stained proliferated cells in the subgranular zone at 1 week. The caspase inhibitor-treated group did not differ from control at 2 days or 5 weeks following the epileptic insult. Our findings suggest that caspases modulate seizure-induced neurogenesis in the DG, probably by regulating apoptosis of newly born neurons, and that this action can be suppressed transiently by caspase inhibitors. Furthermore, although previous studies have indicated that increased neuronal death can trigger neurogenesis, we show here that reduction in apoptotic death may be associated with increased neurogenesis.

During amniote evolution, an early divergence occurred about 300 million years ago between the reptilian lines leading to the appearance of birds (anapsids) and mammals (synapsids). The different functional requirements of these vertebrate groups have involved divergent evolution of their brains. Even superficial examination reveals major anatomical differences between mammalian and avian brains, such as extensive development of the optic lobes and cerebellum in birds and a highly developed cortex in mammals. It has been nearly impossible to identify avian homologs of some mammalian brain regions by standard morphological criteria. This has long frustrated efforts at clarifying hypotheses regarding the anatomical location, field size, and regulation of brain functions shared between these two classes, despite the certainty that the principles of neurobiology apply equally at the cellular level in both groups. In an effort to remove this barrier, we have sought markers of common function that despite apparent anatomical dissimilarity, can allow recognition of homologous brain structures. We illustrate here how comparative analysis of the distribution of the steroid-metabolizing enzyme estrogen synthetase (aromatase) may help to understand the differences and similarities in the limbic system and hypothalamus of birds and mammals.
The unipolar brush cell (UBC) is an excitatory glutamatergic interneuron, situated in the cerebellar granular layer, that itself receives excitatory synaptic input on its dendritic brush from a single mossy fiber terminal in the form of a giant glutamatergic synapse. The UBC axon branches within the granular layer, giving rise to large terminals that synapse with both granule cell and UBC dendrites within glomeruli and resemble in morphological and functional terms those formed by extrinsic mossy fibers. So far, the only demonstrated extrinsic afferents to the UBC are the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive mossy fibers, some of which originate from the medial and descending vestibular nuclei. To ascertain whether UBCs are innervated by primary vestibular fibers, we performed a tract-tracing light and electron microscopic study of the vestibulocerebellum in gerbils. Macular and canal vestibular end-organs were individually labeled by injection of biotinylated dextran amine. After an appropriate survival time, gerbils were then processed for light and electron microscopic analysis of central vestibular projections. In the nodulus and uvula, labeled primary vestibular fibers formed mossy terminals synapsing with both granule cells and UBCs in all of the injected gerbils. Thus, innervation of UBCs by extrinsic mossy fibers carrying static and dynamic vestibular signals represents the first synapse of networks that contribute a powerful form of distributed excitation in the granular layer.
The cerebellum is a system with various input and output functions that influence motor, sensory, cognitive, and other processes. In a previous study, we showed that cerebellar cortical stimulation increases spinal neuronal responses to visceral noxious stimulation by colorectal distension (CRD). However, the neuronal network underlying the cerebellar modulation of nociceptive phenomena is largely unknown. Purkinje cells of the cerebellar cortex receive ascending and descending inputs and exert a major inhibitory control over neurons in the underlying cerebellar nuclei that constitute the cerebellar output. Therefore, in this study, we tested the effect of CRD and other somatic stimuli on the firing rate of Purkinje cells using in vivo extracellular recording techniques. The results suggest that Purkinje cells respond to nociceptive visceral and somatic stimulation in the form of early and delayed changes in activity. Based on these and previous findings, we propose a negative feedback circuitry involving the cerebellum for the modulation of peripheral nociceptive events.
Contusive spinal cord injury (SCI) results in the formation of a chronic lesion cavity surrounded by a rim of spared fibers. Tissue bridges containing axons extend from the spared rim into the cavity dividing it into chambers. Whether descending axons can grow into these trabeculae or whether fibers within the trabeculae are spared fibers remains unclear. The purposes of the present study were (1) to describe the initial axonal response to contusion injury in an identified axonal population, (2) to determine whether and when sprouts grow in the face of the expanding contusion cavity, and (3) in the long term, to see whether any of these sprouts might contribute to the axonal bundles that have been seen within the chronic contusion lesion cavity. The design of the experiment also allowed us to further characterize the development of the lesion cavity after injury. The corticospinal tract (CST) underwent extensive dieback after contusive SCI, with retraction bulbs present from 1 day to 8 months postinjury. CST sprouting occurred between 3 weeks and 3 months, with penetration of CST axons into the lesion matrix occurring over an even longer time course. Collateralization and penetration of reticulospinal fibers were observed at 3 months and were more extensive at later time points. This suggests that these two descending systems show a delayed regenerative response and do extend axons into the lesion cavity and that the endogenous repair can continue for a very long time after SCI.
Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease with levodopa is complicated by the emergence of involuntary movements, known as levodopa-induced dyskinesia. It has been hypothesized that increased opioid transmission in striatal output pathways may be responsible for the generation of dyskinesia. In this study, we have investigated the effect of blockade of opioid peptide transmission on levodopa-induced dyskinesia in a primate model of Parkinson's disease-the MPTP-lesioned marmoset. Coadministration of nonselective and mu- or delta-subtype-selective opioid receptor antagonists with levodopa resulted in a significant decrease in dyskinesia. There was no attenuation of the anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa. These data suggest that specific mu- or delta-opioid receptor antagonists might be applicable clinically in the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
Neuronal apoptosis induced by staurosporine (STS) involves multiple cellular and molecular events, such as the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, we tested the efficacy of two synthetic superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics (EUK-134 and EUK-189) on neuronal apoptosis, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction produced by STS in primary cortical neuronal cultures. Exposure of cultures to STS for 24 h increased lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, the number of apoptotic cells, and decreased trypan blue exclusion. Pretreatment with 20 microM EUK-134 or 0.5 microM EUK-189 significantly attenuated STS-induced neurotoxicity, as did pretreatment with the caspase-1 inhibitor, Ac-YVAD-CHO, but not the caspase-3 inhibitor, Ac-DEVD-CHO. Posttreatment (1-3 h following STS exposure) with 20 microM EUK-134 or 0.5 microM EUK-189 significantly reduced STS-induced LDH release, in a time-dependent manner. Exposure of cultures to STS for 1 h produced an elevation of ROS, as determined by increased levels of 2,7-dichlorofluorescein (DCF). This rapid elevation of ROS was followed by an increase in lipid peroxidation, and both the increase in DCF fluorescence and in lipid peroxidation were significantly blocked by pretreatment with EUK-134. STS treatment for 3-6 h increased cytochrome c release from mitochondria into the cytosol, an effect also blocked by pretreatment with EUK-134. These results indicate that intracellular oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are critically involved in STS-induced neurotoxicity. However, there are additional cellular responses to STS, which are insensitive to treatment with radical scavengers that also contribute to its neurotoxicity.
The pathogenesis of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) remains unknown. Thresholds and latencies of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in response to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) are normal but intracortical inhibition has not been investigated. Eleven patients with CFS were compared with 11 control subjects. Each patient completed a questionnaire using visual analogue indices of pain, fatigue, anxiety and depression. Subjects released a button to initiate simple (SRTs) and choice reaction time (CRTs) tasks; for each task, movement times were measured between release of the initiation button and depression of a second button 15 cm away. Subjects held a 10 % maximum voluntary contraction in the thenar muscles of their dominant hand while TMS was applied to the motor cortex; the duration and extent of inhibition of surface electromyographic (EMG) activity were assessed at stimulus strengths above and below the threshold for MEPs. Patients had significantly (P &lt; 0.05) higher mean indices of fatigue than of pain, anxiety or depression. Mean (+/- S.E.M.) SRTs (but not CRTs) were longer in patients (309 +/- 45 ms) than in controls (218 +/- 9 ms). Movement times were longer in patients for both SRTs and CRTs. TMS thresholds, expressed as a percentage of the maximum stimulator output, were not significantly (P &gt; 0.05) different in both groups for both MEPs (patients, 34 +/- 3%; controls, 36 +/- 3%) and inhibition of voluntary contraction (patients, 29 +/- 2%; controls, 34 +/- 4%). The duration and extent of inhibition did not differ significantly between groups at any stimulus strength. The pattern of change in duration and extent of inhibition with increasing stimulus intensity was no different in the two groups. The duration and extent of corticospinal inhibition in patients with CFS did not differ from controls, adding further evidence to the notion that the feeling of fatigue and the slowness of movement seen in CFS is not manifest in corticospinal output pathways.
As a consequence of the growing ageing population, many neurodegenerative diseases, cancer and infections of the brain will become more prevalent. Despite major advances in neuroscience, many potential therapeutic agents are denied access to the central nervous system (CNS) because of the existence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). This barrier is formed by the endothelial cells of the brain capillaries and its primary characteristic is the impermeability of the capillary wall due to the presence of complex tight junctions and a low endocytic activity. The BBB behaves as a continuous lipid bilayer and prevents the passage of polar and lipid-insoluble substances. The BBB is, therefore, the major obstacle to drugs that are potentially useful for combating diseases affecting the CNS. Extensive efforts have been made to develop CNS drug delivery strategies in order to enhance delivery of therapeutic molecules across the BBB. The current challenge is to develop drug-delivery strategies that will allow the passage of therapeutic drugs through the BBB in a safe and effective manner. This review focuses specifically on the strategies developed to enhance drug delivery across the BBB with an emphasis on the vector-mediated strategy.
Donepezil is the most widely used acetylcholinesterase inhibitor licensed for symptomatic treatment of mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. Clinical placebo-controlled trials and open-label extension studies have consistently shown that donepezil is well tolerated and gives rise to statistically significant improvements in cognition, global function and activities of daily living for at least 12 months and to less deterioration of function possibly for more than 4 years. Furthermore, donepezil may reduce neuropsychiatric symptoms and caregiver burden. Health economic studies suggest that treatment with donepezil may reduce resource utilization. Evidence-based international management guidelines recommend that treatment with a cholinesterase inhibitor should be considered in all patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease and based on a proper diagnostic evaluation. Treatment cannot replace continuous advice to patients and caregivers.
Synaptotagmin is a synaptic vesicle protein required for efficient neurotransmitter release, yet its exact role in the synaptic vesicle cycle is unclear. Drosophila presents an ideal organism for studies aimed at determining the in vivo functions of proteins. However, synaptotagmin studies have been limited by the early (embryonic or first instar) lethality previously reported for Drosophila synaptotagmin I null (syt(null)) mutants. Here we report a new culturing technique that enhances survival of severely uncoordinated mutants thereby permitting Drosophila syt(null) mutants to survive through early adulthood. We examined synapses in syt(null) third instar larvae by electrophysiology and found that they exhibit severely decreased and asynchronous evoked neurotransmitter release, as well as an increased rate of spontaneous neurotransmitter release, as previously seen in first instar syt(null) larvae. The ability to examine severe synaptotagmin mutants as third instar larvae, a stage where electrophysiological and morphological analyses are more easily accomplished, will facilitate structure/function studies.
LARK is an essential Drosophila RNA-binding protein of the RNA recognition motif (RRM) class that functions during embryonic development and for the circadian regulation of adult eclosion. LARK protein contains three consensus RNA-binding domains: two RRM domains and a retroviral-type zinc finger (RTZF). To show that these three structural domains are required for function, we performed a site-directed mutagenesis of the protein. The analysis of various mutations, in vivo, indicates that the RRM domains and the RTZF are required for wild-type LARK functions. RRM1 and RRM2 are essential for viability, although interestingly either domain can suffice for this function. Remarkably, mutation of either RRM2 or the RTZF results in the same spectrum of phenotypes: mutants exhibit reduced viability, abnormal wing and mechanosensory bristle morphology, female sterility, and flightlessness. The severity of these phenotypes is similar in single mutants and double RRM2; RTZF mutants, indicating a lack of additivity for the mutations and suggesting that RRM2 and the RTZF act together, in vivo, to determine LARK function. Finally, we show that mutations in RRM1, RRM2, or the RTZF do not affect the circadian regulation of eclosion, and we discuss possible interpretations of these results. This genetic analysis demonstrates that each of the LARK structural domains functions in vivo and indicates a pleiotropic requirement for both the LARK RRM2 and RTZF domains.
The metabolism of glucose and lactate was investigated in cultured mouse cerebellar astrocytes, a culture preparation consisting of a homogeneous population of cells, by incubating the cells in a medium containing either [U-(13)C]glucose or [U-(13)C]lactate in combination with unlabeled lactate and glucose, respectively. After the incubation, cell extracts and media were analyzed by GC/MS (gas chromatography/mass spectrometry) for labeling patterns in aspartate, glutamate, and glutamine, as well as the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle constituents citrate and fumarate. Triple labeling of extracellular citrate exceeded that of double labeling from [U-(13)C]glucose. This was not the case when lactate was the labeled precursor. These results indicate that pyruvate carboxylation in biosynthesis of releasable citrate was less prominent from lactate compared with glucose. As observed in the case of extracellular citrate, triple labeling of intracellular aspartate was higher than double labeling when [U-(13)C]glucose was the precursor, but not with [U-(13)C]lactate as precursor. The pattern of labeling in citrate was different intra- and extracellularly and the extent of labeling extracellularly was 10 times higher using [U-(13)C]glucose compared with [U-(13)C]lactate. However, the intracellular citrate labeling from [U-(13)C]glucose only exceeded that originating from labeled lactate by a factor of two. This is in contrast to the labeling pattern obtained for glutamine, since intracellularly this was equally prominent using [U-(13)C]glucose and [U-(13)C]lactate as substrates. Moreover, extracellularly the labeling was only slightly higher when using [U-(13)C]glucose compared with [U-(13)C]lactate. Intracellular glutamate and extracellular glutamine exhibited similar incorporation patterns with regard to double compared with triple labeling and the extent of incorporation of label from [U-(13)C]lactate compared with [U-(13)C]glucose. It should be noted that the main intracellular pools of citrate and glutamine were compartmentalized; i.e., releasable citrate and glutamine exhibited a labeling pattern distinctly different from that of their intracellular pools. Moreover, carboxylation of pyruvate using glucose as the precursor was more important for biosynthesis of releasable glutamine and citrate, compared with their intracellular pools. Based on the results a model of multiple compartments is suggested. The compartments differ with regard to utilization of lactate and glucose, synthetic pathways for TCA cycle intermediates and amino acids, particularly citrate and glutamine, as well as the contents of different metabolites.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is the main component of intermediate filaments in astrocytes. To assess its function in astrocyte swelling, we compared astrocyte membrane properties and swelling in spinal cord slices of 8- to 10-day-old wild-type control (GFAP(+/+)) and GFAP-knockout (GFAP(-/-)) mice. Membrane currents and K(+) accumulation around astrocytes after a depolarizing pulse were studied using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. In vivo cell swelling was studied in the cortex during spreading depression (SD) in 3 to 6-month-old animals. Swelling-induced changes of the extracellular space (ECS) diffusion parameters, i.e., volume fraction alpha and tortuosity lambda, were studied by the real-time iontophoretic tetramethylammonium (TMA(+)) method using TMA(+)-selective microelectrodes. Morphological analysis using confocal microscopy and quantification of xy intensity profiles in a confocal plane revealed a lower density of processes in GFAP(-/-) astrocytes than in GFAP(+/+) astrocytes. K(+) accumulation evoked by membrane depolarization was lower in the vicinity of GFAP(-/-) astrocytes than GFAP(+/+) astrocytes, suggesting the presence of a larger ECS around GFAP(-/-) astrocytes. Astrocyte swelling evoked by application of 50 mM K(+) or by hypotonic solution (HS) produced a larger increase in [K(+)](e) around GFAP(+/+) astrocytes than around GFAP(-/-) astrocytes. No differences in alpha and lambda in the spinal cord or cortex of GFAP(+/+) and GFAP(-/-) mice were found; however, the application of either 50 mM K(+) or HS in spinal cord, or SD in cortex, evoked a large decrease in alpha and an increase in lambda in GFAP(+/+) mice only. Slower swelling in GFAP(-/-) astrocytes indicates that GFAP and intermediate filaments play an important role in cell swelling during pathological states.
Immunophilin FK binding protein-12 (FKBP-12), the soluble receptor for the immunosuppressant drug FK506, is involved in a number of neuronal activities including increased nerve regeneration in the peripheral nervous system and enhanced recovery in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. In addition, FKBP-12 is tightly bound to the calcium release channel ryanodine receptor and physiologically interacts with the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor. In nearly all cell types, release of intracellular Ca(2+) and subsequent second messenger signaling involves activation of these ion channels. We determined the distribution of FKBP-12 within the mammalian cochlea and dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) in order to gain insight into Ca(2+) regulation within the cochlea and to possibly identify potential cellular targets for neuroimmunophilin ligands that may prove useful in protection and recovery following ototoxic insult. FKBP-12 protein and mRNA were found to be abundant throughout rat and guinea pig cochlea and DCN.
It has been shown previously that when utrophin is highly expressed in mice which lack dystrophin, the muscle pathology is prevented. Immunohistochemical evidence strongly suggests that utrophin in these transgenic mice occupies the position normally filled by dystrophin, although it is not possible to establish this firmly at the level of the light microscope. Using the higher resolution provided by the electron microscope, we demonstrate here by immunogold labelling with both monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies that utrophin, in both its truncated and full-length forms, is indeed specifically located in the subcellular position usually occupied by dystrophin in normal muscle. Moreover, when double-labelling of utrophin and beta-dystroglycan was carried out, colocalisation of the two labels was often seen, indicating an association of the two proteins. Furthermore, when both utrophin and dystrophin were labelled in a transgenic line in which both were simultaneously expressed, the sites of both proteins were in the same zone in relation to the plasma membrane. When both proteins were present, the density of labelling of each was reduced compared with when they are expressed individually, suggesting that there is a finite number of binding sites. These results constitute further support for the view that utrophin might be therapeutically substituted for dystrophin in dystrophic muscle.
In the primary temporal cortex (Te1) of newborn rats, we detected transient expression of alpha-type estrogen receptor (ER alpha). Since they have a pyramidal-like shape, they are considered neurons. By immunohistochemistry we found that they were absolutely devoid of glial fibrillary acidic protein but some of them contained calretinin, a calcium binding protein. It is already known that neurons in layer V of the Te1 extend their projections to the contralateral side of the Te1, the ipsilateral inferior colliculus, or the ipsilateral medial geniculate nucleus. Thus, we applied a retrograde track tracer into those regions of newborn rats and examined the possible colocalization of ER alpha signals and the tracer in the same cells. So far no clear colocalization of both signals has been detected in cells in the Te1. Thus, the cells expressing ER alpha transiently are not projecting to the assumed regions, at least at the newborn age examined in the present experiment. The possibility exists that (1) they are not projection neurons but local interneurons, (2) even though they are projection neurons, they did not have any synaptic contacts with their target region(s), (3) they may die after they are attached to the target neurons. Further analyses are needed to clarify the biological roles of ER alpha expressed transiently in these neurons. On the other hand, no ER beta cells were detected in the same region of the brain under the same condition. Thus, this finding was limited to the ER alpha.
In many mammalian species, the ovarian steroid hormones estradiol (E(2)) and progesterone (P) act in the hypothalamus and preoptic area to coordinate the timing of female sexual receptivity with ovulation. We study lordosis behavior, an important component of sexual receptivity in rats, and its regulation by E(2) and P as a model system for understanding how hormonal modulation of synaptic neurotransmission influences reproductive physiology and behavior. Our findings suggest that E(2) and P extensively regulate synaptic communication involving the catecholamine norepinephrine (NE) in the hypothalamus. Estrogen priming shifts the balance of postsynaptic NE receptor signaling in the hypothalamus and preoptic area away from beta-adrenergic activation of cAMP synthesis toward alpha(1)-adrenergic signaling pathways. Attenuation of beta-adrenergic signal transduction is achieved by receptor-G-protein uncoupling, apparently due to stable receptor phosphorylation. E(2) modification of alpha(1)-adrenergic signaling includes both increased expression of the alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor subtype and a dramatic, P-induced reconfiguration of the biochemical responses initiated by agonist activation of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. Among these is the emergence of alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor coupling to cGMP synthesis. We also present evidence that estrogen promotes novel, functional interactions between insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor signaling in the hypothalamus and preoptic area. Thus, estrogen amplification of signaling mediated by alpha(1)-adrenoceptors is multifaceted, involving changes in gene expression (of the alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor), switching of receptor linkage to previously inactive intracellular pathways, and the promotion of cross talk between IGF-1 and NE receptors. We propose that this hormone-dependent remodeling of hypothalamic responses to NE maximizes reproductive success by coordinating the timing of the preovulatory release of gonadotropins with the period of behavioral receptivity in female rodents.
Known and hypothesized relationships between steroid (estradiol, testosterone, and cortisol) and peptide (oxytocin, vasopressin, and prolactin) hormones and the expression of mammalian paternal behavior are reviewed. Emphasis is placed on newly emerging animal models, including nonhuman primates and men, with elaborate paternal behavior repertoires. Currently available data are broadly consistent with a working hypothesis that the expression of parental behavior will involve homologous neuroendocrine circuits in male and females. Understanding the neuroendocrinology of paternal behavior is an emerging research opportunity in behavioral neuroscience.
Pharmacological studies in prairie voles have suggested that the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin play important roles in behaviors associated with monogamy, including affiliation, paternal care, and pair bonding. Our laboratory has investigated the cellular and neuroendocrine mechanisms by which these peptides influence affiliative behavior and social attachment in prairie voles. Monogamous prairie voles have a higher density of oxytocin receptors in the nucleus accumbens than do nonmonogamous vole species; blockade of these receptors by site-specific injection of antagonist in the female prairie vole prevents partner preference formation. Prairie voles also have a higher density of vasopressin receptors in the ventral pallidal area, which is the major output of the nucleus accumbens, than montane voles. Both the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum are key relay nuclei in the brain circuits implicated in reward, such as the mesolimbic dopamine and opioid systems. Therefore, we hypothesize that oxytocin and vasopressin may be facilitating affiliation and social attachment in monogamous species by modulating these reward pathways.
Sex differences in the brain may be the basis not only for sex differences in reproduction, gender identity (the feeling of being male or female), and sexual orientation (heterosexuality vs homosexuality), but also for the sex difference in prevalence of psychiatric and neurological diseases ( Swaab and Hofman, 1995 ). In this brief article we discuss a few examples of structural and functional sex differences in the human brain.
A personal computer (PC)-based desktop virtual reality (VR) system was developed for rehabilitating hand function in stroke patients. The system uses two input devices, a CyberGlove and a Rutgers Master II-ND (RMII) force feedback glove, allowing user interaction with a virtual environment. This consists of four rehabilitation routines, each designed to exercise one specific parameter of hand movement: range, speed, fractionation or strength. The use of performance-based target levels is designed to increase patient motivation and individualize exercise difficulty to a patient's current state. Pilot clinical trials have been performed using the above system combined with noncomputer tasks, such as pegboard insertion or tracing of two-dimensional (2-D) patterns. Three chronic stroke patients used this rehabilitation protocol daily for two weeks. Objective measurements showed that each patient showed improvement on most of the hand parameters over the course of the training. Subjective evaluation by the patients was also positive. This technical report focuses on this newly developed technology for VR rehabilitation.

This study describes two well-characterized groups of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with similar levels of cognitive functioning, but with different overall behavioral disturbance levels. We sought to determine the nature of this difference-whether AD patients with higher levels of behavioral disturbance (n = 148) differ from less disturbed AD patients (n = 235) in terms of (a) the range of symptoms exhibited, (b) the frequency of occurrence of these symptoms, or (c) both of these. We defined and operationalized 'diversity of behaviors' and 'frequency' with respect to the item-level responses on the Cohen-Mansfield agitation inventory (CMAI). We found that, in these two samples of AD patients, differences occurred in the frequency of 10 out of 21 behaviors, rather than in a variety of endorsed behaviors. These 10 behaviors, observed at different frequencies in both groups, may be useful for monitoring change in studies of drugs or behavioral interventions for behavioral disturbance in persons with AD.
We have previously demonstrated that exposure of human macrophages to morphine results in transient inhibition of cell migratory behavior and adoption of an inactive conformation followed by a return from inhibition resulting in a significant increase in migration velocity and number of activated cells. In the current report, we demonstrate that the return to activation is nitric oxide dependent and inhibited by prior exposure to the opiate antagonist, naloxone. Exposure of macrophages to morphine for 6 hours resulted in a marked inhibition of cell activity and shift of the cell confirmation from amoeboid to round. The inactivation period lasted approximately 2 hrs and was followed by a period of hyperactivity. Incubation of macrophages with naloxone, prior to addition of morphine, inhibited both inactivation and hyper activation phases whereas, naloxone administration just prior to the hyper activation phase did not affect subsequent hyper activation. Morphine acutely stimulates the transient release of nitric oxide (NO) resulting in subsequent macrophage rounding and inactivation. Prolonged observation of the cells revealed another phase of NO release 12 hours following initial morphine exposure that was characterized by prolonged NO production. These data are consistent with acute constitutive NO synthase activation and inducible NO synthase activation following prolonged morphine exposure. Release of NO and changes in cellular activation mediated by morphine was abrogated by NOS, or morphine inhibitors, added prior to morphine exposure. In contrast, NOS, or morphine inhibitors, added during the inhibitory phase had no impact on the subsequent hyper activation phase. It did, however, have an impact on the hyper activation phase when added prior to morphine. These data demonstrate that morphine is capable of induction of both cNOS and iNOS coupled NO release that regulates the macrophage activation state. This may provide insight into the functioning of morphine following periods of trauma or stress when the levels of the opiate increase and, subsequently, inflammatory function is markedly altered.
The effects of prenatal CO exposure (150 ppm from days 0 to 20 of pregnancy) on the postnatal development of hippocampal neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) and haem-oxygenase (HO-2) isoform activities in 15-, 30- and 90-d-old rats were investigated. Unlike HO-2, hippocampal nNOS activity increased from postnatal days 15-90 in controls. Prenatal CO produced a long-lasting decrease in either nNOS or HO-2. The results suggest that the altered developmental profile of hippocampal nNOS and HO-2 activities could be involved in cognitive deficits and long-term potentiation dysfunction exhibited by rats prenatally exposed to CO levels resulting in carboxyhaemoglobin (HbCO) levels equivalent to those observed in human cigarette smokers.
The Behavioural Assessment of the Dysexecutive Syndrome (BADS) is a relatively new test battery designed to measure disorders of executive functions. We studied the temporal stability of the BADS in a sample of 22 adult psychiatric patients. All patients were administered the BADS twice with an interval of 3 weeks. Test-retest correlations for the BADS tests ranged from .22 to .85. On the repeat administration, patients obtained higher scores on one test as well as on the total BADS. Our results suggest that the BADS should not be administered on two occasions a few weeks apart.



This article addresses how a consideration of peripheral auditory processing can help to understand experiments concerning binaural precedence that employ successive binaural transients. It appears that much of the patterning of the behavioral data is amenable to an explanation based on peripheral interactions that result from auditory filtering and the functioning of auditory hair cells in combination with a binaural model based on cross correlation. A noteworthy aspect of this approach is that it does not include inhibitory mechanisms like those commonly invoked to explain binaural precedence.
The recognition of 10 different 16-note melodies, constructed using either dichotic-pitch stimuli or diotic pure-tone stimuli, was measured. The dichotic pitches were created by placing a frequency-dependent transition in the interaural phase of a noise burst. Three different configurations for the transition were used in order to give Huggins pitch, binaural-edge pitch, and binaural-coherence-edge pitch. Forty-nine inexperienced listeners participated. The melodies evoked by the dichotic stimuli were consistently identified well in the first block of trials, indicating that the sensation of dichotic pitch was relatively immediate and did not require prolonged listening experience. There were only small improvements across blocks of trials. The mean scores were 97% (pure tones), 93% (Huggins pitch), 89% (binaural-edge pitch), and 77% (binaural-coherence-edge pitch). All pairwise differences were statistically significant, indicating that Huggins pitch was the most salient of the dichotic pitches and binaural-coherence-edge pitch was weakest. To account for these differences in salience, a simulation of lateral inhibition was applied to the recovered spectrum generated by the modified equalization cancellation model [J. F. Culling, A. Q. Summerfield, and D. H. Marshall, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 103, 3509-3526 (1998)]. The height of the peak in the resulting &quot;edge-enhanced&quot; recovered spectrum reflected the relative strength of the different dichotic pitches.




The authors describe and illustrate an integrated trio of software programs for carrying out surface-based analyses of cerebral cortex. The first component of this trio, SureFit (Surface Reconstruction by Filtering and Intensity Transformations), is used primarily for cortical segmentation, volume visualization, surface generation, and the mapping of functional neuroimaging data onto surfaces. The second component, Caret (Computerized Anatomical Reconstruction and Editing Tool Kit), provides a wide range of surface visualization and analysis options as well as capabilities for surface flattening, surface-based deformation, and other surface manipulations. The third component, SuMS (Surface Management System), is a database and associated user interface for surface-related data. It provides for efficient insertion, searching, and extraction of surface and volume data from the database.
The Human Brain Project consortium continues to struggle with effective sharing of tools. To facilitate reuse of its tools, the Stanford Psychiatry Neuroimaging Laboratory (SPNL) has developed BrainImageJ, a new software framework in Java. The framework consists of two components-a set of four programming interfaces and an application front end. The four interfaces define extension pathways for new data models, file loaders and savers, algorithms, and visualization tools. Any Java class that implements one of these interfaces qualifies as a BrainImageJ plug-in-a self-contained tool. After automatically detecting and incorporating new plug-ins, the application front end transparently generates graphical user interfaces that provide access to plug-in functionality. New plug-ins interoperate with existing ones immediately through the front end. BrainImageJ is used at the Stanford Psychiatry Neuroimaging Laboratory to develop image-analysis algorithms and three-dimensional visualization tools. It is the goal of our development group that, once the framework is placed in the public domain, it will serve as an interlaboratory platform for designing, distributing, and using interoperable tools.
The authors describe the development of a four-dimensional atlas and reference system that includes both macroscopic and microscopic information on structure and function of the human brain in persons between the ages of 18 and 90 years. Given the presumed large but previously unquantified degree of structural and functional variance among normal persons in the human population, the basis for this atlas and reference system is probabilistic. Through the efforts of the International Consortium for Brain Mapping (ICBM), 7,000 subjects will be included in the initial phase of database and atlas development. For each subject, detailed demographic, clinical, behavioral, and imaging information is being collected. In addition, 5,800 subjects will contribute DNA for the purpose of determining genotype- phenotype-behavioral correlations. The process of developing the strategies, algorithms, data collection methods, validation approaches, database structures, and distribution of results is described in this report. Examples of applications of the approach are described for the normal brain in both adults and children as well as in patients with schizophrenia. This project should provide new insights into the relationship between microscopic and macroscopic structure and function in the human brain and should have important implications in basic neuroscience, clinical diagnostics, and cerebral disorders.
The ability of humans to localize sounds remains relatively constant across a range of intensities well above detection threshold, and increasing the spectral content of the stimulus results in an improvement in localization ability. For broadband stimuli, intensities near detection threshold result in fewer and weaker binaural cues used in azimuth localization because the stimulus energy at the high- and low-frequency ends of the audible spectrum fall below detection threshold. Thus, the ability to localize broadband sounds in azimuth is predicted to be degraded at audible but near threshold stimulus intensities. The spectral cues for elevation localization (spectral peaks and notches generated by the head-related transfer function) span a narrower frequency range than those for azimuth. As the stimulus intensity decreases, the ability to detect the stimulus frequencies corresponding to the spectral notches will be more strongly affected than the ability to detect frequencies outside the range where these spectral cues are useful. Consequently, decreasing the stimulus intensity should degrade localization in both azimuth and elevation and create a greater deficit in elevation localization due to the narrower band of audible frequencies containing elevation cues compared to azimuth cues. The present study measured the ability of 11 normal human subjects to localize broadband noise stimuli along the midsagittal plane and horizontal meridian at stimulus intensities of 14, 22, and 30 dB above the subject's detection threshold using a go/no-go behavioral paradigm. Localization ability decreased in both azimuth and elevation with decreasing stimulus intensity, and this effect was greater on localization in elevation than on localization in azimuth. The differential effects of stimulus intensity on sound localization in azimuth and elevation found in the present study may provide a valuable tool in investigating the neural correlates of sound location perception.
The notion that three inbred strains of mice, i.e., C57BL/6J (C57), BALB/cByJ (BALB), and WB/ReJ (WB), which exhibit differential rates of age-related hearing loss (AHL), may also exhibit differential susceptibility to noise-induced hearing loss was tested by comparing the effects of sound overexposure on these strains. The aftereffects of noise overstimulation on the distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) of these three strains were compared and contrasted to those for the CBA/CaJ (CBA) strain, which does not show changes in hearing threshold sensitivity up to 15 months of age. Two cohorts of mice, one at 2.5 and the other at 6 months of age, were first exposed to a tonal overstimulation paradigm, were allowed to recover, and then were later re-exposed to an octave band noise (OBN), at 3 or 7 months of age, respectively. The two sound exposure episodes were designed to produce either a temporary (tonal exposure) or permanent (OBN exposure) reduction in the levels of the 2f1 - f2 DPOAE in the WB strain, which exhibited the fastest rate of AHL. Although the tonal paradigm resulted in a temporary decrease in DPOAE levels for all strains at both ages, the 2.5-month BALBs showed the greatest susceptibility to this overexposure, while the 2.5-month WBs exhibited the least effects on DPOAEs. At the older age of 6 months, tonal overexposure produced essentially the same reduction in DPOAE levels for all four strains. In addition, there were no differences noted between CBAs and C57s, at either of the two ages. The OBN paradigm resulted in a permanent decrease in DPOAE levels in all the strains exhibiting early AHL, i.e., the C57, BALB, and WB mice, for frequencies about one-half to an octave higher than the exposure frequency, regardless of age. In contrast, the CBA strain was not significantly affected by the OBN overexposure.
Hypoxic preconditioning induces tolerance to hypoxic-ischemic injury in neonatal rat brain and is associated with changes in gene expression. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) is a transcription factor that is strongly induced by hypoxia or the hypoxia-mimetic compound cobalt chloride (CoCl(2)). Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 modulates the expression of several target genes including the glycolytic enzymes, glucose transporter-1 (GLUT-1), and erythropoietin. Recently, HIF-1 expression was shown to increase after hypoxic and CoCl(2) preconditioning in newborn rat brain. To study the involvement of HIF-1 target genes in neonatal hypoxia-induced ischemic tolerance, the authors examined the brains of newborn rats after exposure to hypoxia (8% O(2) for 3 hours) or injection of CoCl(2) (60 mg/kg). Preconditioning with hypoxia or CoCl(2) 24 hours before hypoxia-ischemia afforded a 96% and 76% brain protection, respectively, compared with littermate control animals. Hypoxic preconditioning increased the expression of GLUT-1 mRNA and protein, and of aldolase, phosphofructokinase, and lactate dehydrogenase proteins but not mRNA. This suggests that the modulation of glucose transport and glycolysis by hypoxia may contribute to the development of hypoxia-induced tolerance. In contrast, preconditioning with CoCl(2) did not produce any change in HIF-1 target gene expression suggesting that different molecular mechanisms may be involved in the induction of tolerance by hypoxia and CoCl(2) in newborn brain.
Glutamate release, particularly in pathologic conditions, may result in cellular swelling. The authors studied the effects of glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) on extracellular pH (pH(e)), extracellular potassium concentration ([K(+)](e)), and changes in extracellular space (ECS) diffusion parameters (volume fraction alpha, tortuosity lambda) resulting from cellular swelling. In the isolated spinal cord of 4-to 12-day-old rats, the application of glutamate receptor agonists induced an increase in [K(+)](e), alkaline-acid shifts, a substantial decrease in alpha, and an increase in lambda. After washout of the glutamate receptor agonists, alpha either returned to or overshot normal values, whereas lambda remained elevated. Pretreatment with 20 mmol/L Mg(++), MK801, or CNQX blocked the changes in diffusion parameters, [K(+)](e) and pH(e) evoked by NMDA or AMPA. However, the changes in diffusion parameters also were blocked in Ca(2+)-free solution, which had no effect on the [K(+)](e) increase or acid shift. The authors conclude that increased glutamate release may produce a large, sustained and [Ca(2+)](e)-dependent decrease in alpha and increase in lambda. Repetitive stimulation and pathologic states resulting in glutamate release therefore may lead to changes in ECS volume and tortuosity, affecting volume transmission and enhancing glutamate neurotoxicity and neuronal damage.
The distributions of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-immunoreactive (IR) varicosities and 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptor (5-HT2A)-IR neuronal structures in the rat brain have previously been described individually. Using double labeling immunocytochemistry, the relationships between 5-HT2A-IR and 5-HT-IR elements in the forebrain of male rats has been studied at the light microscopic level. In neocortical regions (frontal, parietal and retrosplenial cortex), the strongest 5-HT2A-IR was found in the apical dendrites of pyramidal cells in layers III-V, while 5-HT-IR terminal-like varicosities were present in all layers but most prominently in the outer layers. In other forebrain regions, the olfactory bulb, the hippocampal formation, and the islands of Calleja and Calleja magna, localized discrepancies were present between the 5-HT2A-IR neuronal profiles and the 5-HT-IR terminal-like varicosities. Hardly any additional juxtapositions between the 5-HT2A-IR neuronal profiles and 5-HT-IR terminal-like varicosities were revealed when the intraneuronal level of 5-HT was increased by monoamine oxidase inhibitor pretreatment (nialamide, 250 mg/kg, 3 h). Thus, in most forebrain regions, there were overall few juxtapositions between 5-HT terminal-like varicosities and 5-HT2A-IR neuronal structures. This observation suggests that 5-HT2A receptor mediated 5-HT transmission in the rat forebrain is mainly a volume transmission process mediated via short distance diffusion in the extra-cellular space.
The thalamus has been implicated in the pathophysiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder. Using a multislice spectroscopic imaging sequence, we reported reductions in right and left medial thalamic N-acetylaspartate/cytosolic choline + creatine/phosphocreatine and N-acetylaspartate/cytosolic choline levels in 11 pediatric patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder, 8 to 15 years, versus 11 case-matched healthy controls. These changes may reflect a change in N-acetylaspartate, cytosolic choline, or creatine concentrations. Therefore, using a validated phantom replacement methodology, we obtained absolute measures (mmol/L) of N-acetylaspartate, a putative marker of neuronal viability, cytosolic choline, and creatine in these subjects. A significant increase in cytosolic choline was observed in right and left medial but not lateral thalami in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder versus controls. N-acetylaspartate and creatine did not differ significantly between case-control pairs in the medial or lateral thalamus. These findings provide new evidence of cytosolic choline abnormalities in the thalamus in pediatric obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Face recognition is often considered to be a modular (encapsulated) function. This annotation supports the proposal that faces are special, but suggests that their identification makes use of general-purpose cortical systems that are implicated in high-level vision and also in memory and learning more generally. These systems can be considered to function within two distinct cortical streams: a medial stream (for learning and salience of faces encountered) and a lateral stream (for distributed representations of visual properties and identities of faces). Function in the lateral stream, especially, may be critically dependent on the normal development of magnocellular vision. The relevance of face recognition anomalies in three developmental syndromes (Autism, Williams syndrome, and Turner syndrome) and the two-route model sketched above is considered.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is an accepted therapy for the treatment of refractory epilepsy and now even depression. More than 10,000 people have had the device implanted over a period of 12 years. Initial side effects in the early years such as lower facial weakness and electrode lead breaks have now been resolved. Postoperative infections occur in approximately 3% of patients but can be treated with oral antibiotics. Side effects during the use of VNS are usually related to the &quot;on&quot; phase of stimulation. Common side effects are cough, hoarseness, voice alteration, and paresthesias. These side effects tend to diminish with time. Cognitive side effects often seen with antiepileptic drug use are not reported. The side effect profile of VNS is positive, and this treatment option offers patients with refractory epilepsy prospects of good efficacy with only minor and often resolvable side effects.
The aetiology of the peritumoural brain dysfunction that is rectified by steroids is unknown. To determine potential aspects of its pathophysiological basis we performed metabolic, histochemical and neuroreceptor studies in rodents with striatal C6 glioma. This model is known to cause focal neurobehavioural and electrophysiological dysfunction. The fully quantitative [(14)C]-2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic technique of measuring local cerebral metabolism of glucose (LCMRglu) showed raised LCMRglu (22-29%) in the pallidum, substantia nigra and endopeduncular nucleus. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry and a range of ligand binding studies for dopamine type 1 and 2, and serotonergic 5-HT(2)receptors were negative in the tumour and normal in peritumoural brain. 5-HT uptake sites and strong peripheral benzodiazepine receptor expression were present in the tumour. There was extensive up-regulation of peripheral benzodiazepine receptor expression in the peritumoural brain. These studies show there is metabolic dysregulation in brain regions functionally connected to, but anatomically distant from the striatum. There is also a peritumoural region of up-regulated receptors that have many, predominantly inhibitory, functions. The relationship of these findings to peritumoural brain dysfunction is discussed.
Either 5-HT2A antagonism or fast dissociation from D2 receptors may define an atypical antipsychotic. To have little or no motor symptoms from an antipsychotic, it is clear that D2 receptor binding in the striatum must be less than that caused by conventional antipsychotics. Pure 5-HT2A antagonism by itself does not result in robust antipsychotic actions. However, 5-HT2A antagonism can reduce D2 antagonism and thereby reduce motor symptoms without reversing antipsychotic actions. If, however, this 5-HT2A antagonism is overwhelmed by too much D2 antagonism, it cannot result in such atypical antipsychotic actions. Another route to reducing D2 receptor binding appears to be to shorten binding time, also known as rapidly dissociating from the D2 receptor. Many of the agents with atypical antipsychotic clinical properties hit the D2 receptor hard enough to cause antipsychotic effects and then run before they cause extrapyramidal side effects.

Plaud (J Clin Psychol 57, 1089-1102, 1109-1111, 1119-1120) and Ilardi and Feldman (J Clin Psychol 57, 1067-1088, 1103-1107, 1113-1117, 1121-1124) argue for two very different approaches to clinical science and practice (i.e., behavior analysis and cognitive neuroscience, respectively). We comment on the assets and liabilities of both perspectives as presented and attempt to achieve some semblance of balance between the three protagonists embroiled in this current debate. The vision of clinical science we articulate is more ecumenical and evolutionary, rather than paradigmatic and revolutionary. As we see it, the problem clinical psychology faces is much larger than the authors let on; namely, how best to make clinical science meaningful and relevant to practitioners, consumers, the general public, and the behavioral health-care community. Clinical psychology's immediate internal problem is not pluralism with regard to subject matter, worldview, methodology, or school of thought, but pluralism in clinical psychologists' adherence to a scientific epistemology as the only legitimate form of clinical psychology. On this latter point, we still have a very long way to go.
Both Plaud's and Ilardi and Feldman's articles call for clinical psychology to redefine itself according to a particular paradigm or &quot;unifying framework.&quot; This commentary focuses on the nature of clinical psychology as an applied discipline, whether clinical psychology in fact has an urgent need for a unifying framework, and whether radical behaviorism or cognitive neuroscience could provide such a framework. It is concluded that, as an applied field that draws both theory and method from a number of natural and social sciences, clinical psychology is served best by continued development and appropriation of competing scientific viewpoints rather than by fealty to a single perspective or paradigm.


Plaud's (2001) radical behavioral manifesto suggests that a psychological science based exclusively upon the study of environment-behavior functional contingencies would yield a discipline unencumbered by mentalism, vaguely delineated disciplinary boundaries, or inappropriate reductionism. In reply, we note that: (a) mental events-e.g., thoughts and feelings-are increasingly accessible to objective investigation, and provide an observable proximal causal mechanism for the environmental selection of behavior; (b) the call for pristine disciplinary boundaries is anachronistic, inasmuch as progress in the natural sciences has engendered disciplinary boundaries that are increasingly porous; (c) cognitive neuroscience facilitates a comprehensive understanding of complex human behavior by mapping out the relationship between such behavior and underlying brain events, thereby engaging in an appropriate form of reductionism (constitutive reductionism) that has become a hallmark of the natural sciences; and (d) ironically, it is radical behaviorism, in its disavowal of the informational level of complexity instantiated in brain events, that engages in inappropriate eliminative reductionism (i.e., reducing neural information to &quot;nothing but&quot; its underlying bring states).
The emerging discipline of cognitive neuroscience (CN) enjoins the efforts of cognitive psychologists, neuroscientists, computer scientists, clinical neurologists, neurophilosophers, and many others working collaboratively across traditional disciplinary boundaries to elucidate the manner in which the physical operations of the brain give rise to the vast panoply of human mental and behavioral events. The present article describes the foundational tenets of the CN metatheoretical framework and contends that the CN framework is capable of providing a coherent, unifying scientific paradigm for the discipline of clinical psychology. Clinical psychology's adoption of the CN paradigm would facilitate (a) its consilient linkage with the natural sciences, (b) resolution of long-standing internecine theoretical schisms, and (c) enhanced understanding and treatment of numerous forms of psychopathology. Nevertheless, psychology's historically influential radical behavioral (RB) perspective is not easily reconciled with the CN paradigm. However, unlike CN, RB (a) is not fully consilient with the natural sciences, (b) fails to articulate the proximal causal mechanisms that mediate environment-behavior relations, and (c) engages in &quot;greedy reductionism&quot; in its disavowal of informational levels of complexity in the patterning of neural activity. The article concludes with a discussion of the possibility of theoretical rapprochement between CN and RB.
Consequences of synaptic plasticity in the lamprey spinal CPG are analyzed by means of simulations. This is motivated by the effects substance P (a tachykinin) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamin; 5-HT) have on synaptic transmission in the locomotor network. Activity-dependent synaptic depression and potentiation have recently been shown experimentally using paired intracellular recordings. Although normally activity-dependent plasticity presumably does not contribute to the patterning of network activity, this changes in the presence of the neuromodulators substance P and 5-HT, which evoke significant plasticity. Substance P can induce a faster and larger depression of inhibitory connections but potentiation of excitatory inputs, whereas 5-HT induces facilitation of both inhibitory and excitatory inputs. Changes in the amplitude of the first postsynaptic potential are also seen. These changes could thus be a potential mechanism underlying the modulatory role these substances have on the rhythmic network activity. The aim of the present study has been to implement the activity dependent synaptic depression and facilitation induced by substance P and 5-HT into two alternative models of the lamprey spinal locomotor network, one relying on reciprocal inhibition for bursting and one in which each hemicord is capable of oscillations. The consequences of the plasticity of inhibitory and excitatory connections are then explored on the network level. In the intact spinal cord, tachykinins and 5-HT, which can be endogenously released, increase and decrease the frequency of the alternating left-right burst pattern, respectively. The frequency decreasing effect of 5-HT has previously been explained based on its conductance decreasing effect on K(Ca) underlying the postspike afterhyperpolarization (AHP). The present simulations show that short-term synaptic plasticity may have strong effects on frequency regulation in the lamprey spinal CPG. In the network model relying on reciprocal inhibition, the observed effects substance P and 5-HT have on network behavior (i.e., a frequency increase and decrease respectively) can to a substantial part be explained by their effects on the total extent and time dynamics of synaptic depression and facilitation. The cellular effects of these substances will in the 5-HT case further contribute to its network effect.
An analytical model is proposed that can predict the shape of the poststimulus time histogram (PSTH) response to a current pulse of a neuron subjected to uncorrelated background input. The model is based on an explicit description of noise in the form of an escape rate and corresponding hazard function. Two forms of the model are presented. The full model is nonlinear and can be integrated numerically, while the linearized version can be solved analytically. In the linearized version, the PSTH response to a current input is proportional to a filtered version of the input pulse. The bandwidth of the filter is determined by the amount of noise. In the limit of high noise, the response is similar to the time course of the potential induced by the input pulse, while for low noise it is proportional to its derivative. For low noise, a second peak occurs after one mean interval. The full nonlinear model predicts an asymmetry between excitatory and inhibitory current inputs. We compare our results with simulations of the integrate-and-fire model with stochastic background input. We predict that changes in PSTH shape due to noise should be observable in many types of neurons in both subthreshold and suprathreshold regimes.
Delay-related sustained activity in the prefrontal cortex of primates, a neurological analogue of working memory, has been proposed to arise from synaptic interactions in local cortical circuits. The implication is that memories are coded by spatially localized foci of sustained activity. We investigate the mechanisms by which sustained foci are initiated, maintained, and extinguished by excitation in networks of Hodgkin-Huxley neurons coupled with biophysical spatially structured synaptic connections. For networks with a balance between excitation and inhibition, a localized transient stimulus robustly initiates a localized focus of activity. The activity is then maintained by recurrent excitatory AMPA-like synapses. We find that to maintain the focus, the firing must be asynchronous. Consequently, inducing transient synchrony through an excitatory stimulus extinguishes the sustained activity. Such a monosynaptic excitatory turn-off mechanism is compatible with the working memory being wiped clean by an efferent copy of the motor command. The activity that codes working memories may be structured so that the motor command is both the read-out and a direct clearing signal. We show examples of data that is compatible with our theory.
Plasma activity of the enzyme semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) is high in diabetes. Production of angiotoxic substances (an aldehyde, hydrogen peroxide, and ammonia) in vessel walls is catalysed by SSAO, suggesting a role for SSAO in the development of complications of diabetes. The objective of the present study was to follow up plasma SSAO activity (measured radiometrically), HbA(1c) (using ion exchange chromatography), and retinopathy (by fundus photography) after 2.8 years, in 34 patients with Type 2 diabetes. We also measured urinary levels of an SSAO substrate, methylamine, by fluorometric high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). As at baseline, plasma SSAO activity was now higher in subjects with retinopathy (mean 19.5) than in subjects without retinopathy (mean 16.0), 95% confidence interval (CI) for difference 0.6-6.3 nmol benzylamine ml(-1) plasma h(-1). SSAO activity had not changed significantly since baseline, mean difference -1.65 and 95% CI for difference -3.76 to 0.46 nmol benzylamine ml(-1) plasma h(-1). Mean HbA(1c) level remained higher for patients with retinopathy (now 7.9%) compared to those without retinopathy (6.1%), 95% CI for difference 0.6-3.0%. Comparing baseline and the present study, retinopathy was nonproliferative; level had worsened for five and improved for two patients. Urinary methylamine/creatinine ratio was lower in the group of patients with retinopathy (mean 0.99) than in those without retinopathy (mean 1.78), 95% CI for difference 0.1-1.5 microg mg(-1). The results of the present study are compatible with a role for SSAO in the development of diabetic retinopathy.
Nutritional factors, especially phytoestrogens, have been extensively studied for their potential beneficial effects against hormone-dependent and age-related diseases. The present study describes the short-term effects of dietary phytoestrogens on regulatory behaviors (food/water intake, locomotor activity and body weight), prostate weight, prostate 5alpha-reductase enzyme activity, reproductive hormone levels, and testicular steroidogenic acute regulatory peptide (StAR) levels in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals were fed either a phytoestrogen-rich diet containing approximately 600 microg/g isoflavones (as determined by HPLC) or a phytoestrogen-free diet. After 5 weeks of consuming these diets, plasma phytoestrogen levels were 35 times higher in animals fed the phytoestrogen-rich vs phytoestrogen-free diets. Body and prostate weights were significantly decreased in animals fed the phytoestrogen-rich diet vs the phytoestrogen-free fed animals; however, no significant change in prostate 5alpha-reductase enzyme activity was observed between the treatment groups. Locomotor activity levels were higher in the phytoestrogen-rich vs the phytoestrogen-free animals during the course of the treatment interval. Plasma testosterone and androstenedione levels were significantly lower in the animals fed the phytoestrogen-rich diet compared with animals fed the phytoestrogen-free diet. However, there were no significant differences in plasma LH or estradiol levels between the diet groups. Testicular StAR levels were not significantly different between the phytoestrogen-rich vs the phytoestrogen-free fed animals. These results indicated that consumption of dietary phytoestrogens resulting in very high plasma isoflavone levels over a relatively short period can significantly alter body and prostate weight and plasma androgen hormone levels without affecting gonadotropin or testicular StAR levels. The findings of this study identify the biological actions of phytoestrogens on male reproductive endocrinology and provide insights into the protective effects these estrogen mimics exert in male reproductive disorders such as benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer.
Signal transduction systems known to utilize G-proteins in higher eukaryotes undoubtedly evolved prior to the development of metazoa. Pharmacological evidence indicates that the ciliates Paramecium, Stentor, and Tetrahymena all utilize signaling systems similar to those found in mammals. However, there has been relatively little direct evidence for the existence of G-proteins in ciliates. Since highly conserved heterotrimeric G-proteins form the basis of receptor-coupled signal transduction systems in a wide variety of metazoa, it is of interest to know if these important signaling molecules were early to evolve and are present and functionally important in a wide variety of unicellular organisms. We have previously shown that mechanotransduction in Stentor is modulated by opiates in a manner that may involve pertussis toxin-sensitive G-proteins. Here we utilize drugs known to interact with G-proteins to further test for the involvement of these important signaling molecules in Stentor mechanotransduction. We present behavioral and electrophysiological data demonstrating that putative G-proteins in Stentor decrease mechanical sensitivity by modulating the mechanotransduction process. In addition, we report the partial cloning of 4 G-protein alpha-subunits from Stentor. We confirm that these clones are of Stentor origin and are transcribed. Furthermore, we employ antisense oligodeoxynucleotide-mediated knockout to demonstrate that these ciliate G-proteins exert a modulatory influence on Stentor behavior, and that a G1/G0-like clone mediates the inhibitory action of beta-endorphin on mechanotransduction.
Rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulata) were subjected to a place finding task in a rectangular room perfectly homogeneous and without distinctive featural information. Results of Experiment 1 show that monkeys rely on the large-scale geometry of the room to retrieve a food reward. Experiments 2 and 3 indicate that subjects use also nongeometric information (colored wall) to reorient. Data of Experiments 4 and 5 suggest that monkeys do not use small angular cues but that they are sensitive to the size of the cues (Experiments 6, 7, and 8). Our findings strengthen the idea that a mechanism based on the geometry of the environment is at work in several mammalian species. In addition, the present data offer new perspectives on spatial cognition in animals that are phylogenetically close to humans. Specifically, the joint use of both geometric and landmark-based cues by rhesus monkeys tends to demonstrate that spatial processing became more flexible with evolution.
Participants searched for discrepant fear-relevant pictures (snakes or spiders) in grid-pattern arrays of fear-irrelevant pictures belonging to the same category (flowers or mushrooms) and vice versa. Fear-relevant pictures were found more quickly than fear-irrelevant ones. Fear-relevant, but not fear-irrelevant, search was unaffected by the location of the target in the display and by the number of distractors, which suggests parallel search for fear-relevant targets and serial search for fear-irrelevant targets. Participants specifically fearful of snakes but not spiders (or vice versa) showed facilitated search for the feared objects but did not differ from controls in search for nonfeared fear-relevant or fear-irrelevant, targets. Thus, evolutionary relevant threatening stimuli were effective in capturing attention, and this effect was further facilitated if the stimulus was emotionally provocative.
Castel di Guido near Rome is one of the few open air Middle Pleistocene European sites that has yielded hominid skeletal remains associated with fossil fauna and Acheulean implements. The fossil hominid bones include two femoral shafts, respectively designated Castel di Guido-1 (CdG-1) and CdG-2, an occipital fragment (CdG-3), a right maxilla lacking teeth (CdG-4), a portion of right parietal (CdG-5), a right temporal (CdG-6), and a fragment of left parietal vault (CdG-7). CdG-1 through CdG-4 were collected in 1979-1982 on the surface, together with fossil fauna, where ploughing incised fossiliferous tuffaceous sands. Excavations conducted in the same area from 1980 to 1990 led to the discovery of CdG-5, CdG-6 and CdG-7 within the tuffaceous sands, which were shown to overlay a bone-bearing paleosurface, with abundant evidence of hominid activities. The Castel di Guido hominid assemblage poses intriguing taphonomic questions. The analysis of the physical evidence offered by the bone surfaces, reported in the present study, indicates that the hominid skeletal remains were heavily fragmented before fossilization and exposed to carnivores and rodents, as well as to trampling and/or friction in abrasive sediment. Although definitive conclusions cannot be reached on the basis of the available evidence, it is possible that clusters of incisions localized on specific regions of the Castel di Guido fossil hominid bones might reflect deliberate human manipulations.
Chemokines are small chemotactic cytokines that modulate leukocyte recruitment and activation during inflammation. Here, we describe the role of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) during cuprizone intoxication, a model where demyelination of the CNS features a large accumulation of microglia/macrophage without T cell involvement or blood-brain barrier disruption. RNase protection assays showed that mRNA for numerous chemokines were up-regulated during cuprizone treatment in wild-type, C57BL/6 mice. RANTES, inflammatory protein-10, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 showed greatest expression with initiation of insult at 1-2 wk of treatment, whereas MIP-1alpha and beta increased later at 4-5 wk, coincident with peak demyelination and cellular accumulation. The function of MIP-1alpha during demyelination was tested in vivo by exposing MIP-1alpha knockout mice (MIP-1alpha(-/-)) to cuprizone and comparing pathology to wild-type mice. Demyelination at 3.5 wk of treatment was significantly decreased in MIP-1alpha(-/-) mice ( approximately 36% reduction), a result confirmed by morphology at the electron microscopic level. The delay in demyelination was correlated to apparent decreases in microglia/macrophage and astrocyte accumulation and in TNF-alpha protein levels. It was possible that larger effects of the MIP-1alpha deficiency were being masked by other redundant chemokines. Indeed, RNase protection assays revealed increased expression of several chemokine transcripts in both untreated and cuprizone-treated MIP-1alpha(-/-) mice. Nonetheless, despite this possible compensation, our studies show the importance of MIP-1alpha in demyelination in the CNS and highlight its effect, particularly on cellular recruitment and cytokine regulation.
Although a number of increased CSF proteins have been correlated with brain damage and outcome after traumatic brain injury (TBI), a major limitation of currently tested biomarkers is a lack of specificity for defining neuropathological cascades. Identification of surrogate biomarkers that are elevated in CSF in response to brain injury and that offer insight into one or more pathological neurochemical events will provide critical information for appropriate administration of therapeutic compounds for treatment of TBI patients. Non-erythroid alpha II-spectrin is a cytoskeletal protein that is a substrate of both calpain and caspase-3 cysteine proteases. As we have previously demonstrated, cleavage of alpha II-spectrin by calpain and caspase-3 results in accumulation of protease-specific spectrin breakdown products (SBDPs) that can be used to monitor the magnitude and temporal duration of protease activation. However, accumulation of alpha II-spectrin and alpha II-SBDPs in CSF after TBI has never been examined. Following a moderate level (2.0 mm) of controlled cortical impact TBI in rodents, native alpha II-spectrin protein was decreased in brain tissue and increased in CSF from 24 h to 72 h after injury. In addition, calpain-specific SBDPs were observed to increase in both brain and CSF after injury. Increases in the calpain-specific 145 kDa SBDP in CSF were 244%, 530% and 665% of sham-injured control animals at 24 h, 48 h and 72 h after TBI, respectively. The caspase-3-specific SBDP was observed to increase in CSF in some animals but to a lesser degree. Importantly, levels of these proteins were undetectable in CSF of uninjured control rats. These results indicate that detection of alpha II-spectrin and alpha II-SBDPs is a powerful discriminator of outcome and protease activation after TBI. In accord with our previous studies, results also indicate that calpain may be a more important effector of cell death after moderate TBI than caspase-3.

Compound mutations and homozygous loss of function of the parkin gene causes juvenile and early onset, autosomal recessive parkinsonism. Pathologically, the disease is associated with loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and locus ceruleus, usually without Lewy body pathology. Hemizygous families have been described that may harbor mutations outside of the open reading frame. The parkin gene promoter has yet to be characterized, and therein, mutations in hemizygous families may plausibly be identified. To identify the promoter of the parkin gene, the transcription start site was defined by a combination of primer extension and 5' RACE. Five kilobases of DNA 5' to the parkin start codon were directly sequenced from a BAC containing parkin exon 1 and evaluated for promoter motifs. The parkin promoter lacks TATA or CAAT boxes and appears to share homology to the alpha-synuclein promoter. Deletion constructs demonstrated core promoter activity and tissue specific enhancing regions in HEK-293T and SH-SY5Y cells.
Neurotrophin binding to the extracellular surface of the Trk family of tyrosine kinase receptors leads to the activation of multiple signalling cascades, culminating in neuroregenerative effects, including neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth. Since neurotrophins themselves are not ideal drug candidates due to their poor pharmacokinetic behaviour and bioavailability, small molecule neurotrophin mimetics may be beneficial in treating a number of neurodegenerative disorders. The present study demonstrates that L-783,281, a non-peptidyl fungal metabolite, is capable of stimulating TrkA, B and C phosphorylation to various extents in CHO cells stably expressing human Trk receptors. L-783,281 also stimulated Trk phosphorylation in a number of rat and human primary neuronal cultures, whereas the highly similar compound, L-767,827, was without effect. Mechanistic studies utilizing transiently transfected PDGF/TrkA and TrkA/PDGF chimeras, demonstrated that L-783,281 is likely to interact with the intracellular domain of the TrkA receptor. Further investigations suggested that L-783,281 was nevertheless able to instigate receptor dimerization by binding in a non-covalent manner. Although the cytotoxicity of the compound was shown to preclude its effects in neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth assays, it is a prototype for a small molecule neurotrophin mimetic that activates Trk by interacting at a site different from the neurotrophin-binding site.
Recent studies suggest that oestrogen and progestin receptors may be activated by the neurotransmitter dopamine, as well as by their respective ligands. Because intracerebroventricular infusion of D(1), but not D(2), dopaminergic receptor agonists increases oestrous behaviour in oestradiol-primed rats, we wanted to determine if treatment with oestradiol alters the activity of D(1) receptor-associated processes in steroid receptor-containing areas in female rat brain. One D(1) receptor-associated phosphoprotein that may be influenced by oestradiol is a dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 32,000 (DARPP-32). Because DARPP-32 is phosphorylated in response to dopamine acting via a cAMP-dependent protein kinase, it provides a useful marker to examine where in the brain a particular stimulus might be altering the activity of D(1) receptor-containing neurones. To determine if oestradiol alters the phosphorylation of DARPP-32, we stained immunocytochemically brain sections of female rats treated with behaviourally relevant doses of oestradiol or oil vehicle with an antibody that detects only the threonine 34-phosphorylated form of DARPP-32. Behaviourally effective doses of oestradiol increase the phosphorylation of DARPP-32 within the medial preoptic nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, 48 h after treatment. These data suggest that oestradiol increases the activity of D(1) dopamine receptor-associated processes in oestrogen receptor-containing areas of female rat forebrain.
Double-label immunohistochemistry was employed to establish whether immunoreactivity for the beta subtype of the oestrogen receptor (ER beta-IR) is present in gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH)-containing cells. In the immortalized GnRH cell line, GT1-7, almost all nuclei were immunoreactive for ER beta. In the preoptic area of ovariectomized rats, more than one-half of the GnRH neurones (52.0-63.5%) contained ER beta-IR within the nucleus; a smaller proportion of these neurones (5-10%) displayed a particularly intense nuclear signal for ER beta. The presence of ER beta-IR in the nuclei of GT1-7 cells and GnRH neurones is consistent with recent reports of ER beta mRNA in these cells. Oestrogen treatment reduced the percentage of GnRH neurones with detectable ER beta-IR. The range of signal intensity for ER beta and the incidence of the ER beta signal in GnRH neurones were comparable following double-label immunohistochemistry involving either bright field or fluorescent techniques. These findings raise the possibility that ER beta receptors mediate direct effects of oestrogen on GnRH neurones.
Direct and indirect signs and symptoms of Parkinson's disease are a major cause of disability in the elderly. Intrinsic symptoms comprise not only the well-known clinical hallmarks of this disease with motor behavioral abnormalities, such as bradykinesia, hypokinesia, rigidity and tremor, but also autonomic failure with orthostatic hypotension, urinal incontinence and impotence as well as non-motor behavioral abnormalities: mental dysfunction characterized by mood disorders, cognitive dysfunction and, sporadically, delusions and hallucinations. These symptoms are caused by a progressive abnormal degeneration of the dopamine (DA) producing cells in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmentum area (VTA) in combination with an interindividual fluctuating degree of decay in the noradrenergic (locus coeruleus), cholinergic forebrain (nucleus basalis of Meynert) and serotoninergic (dorsal raphe nuclei) systems. Extrinsic symptoms, induced by pharmacotherapy, mainly manifest with (un)predictable motor response fluctuations and dopaminomimetic psychosis. Psychological and psychiatric symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) are important predictors of the patient's quality of life. As these symptoms are potentially treatable, identification is of major clinical importance both for the patients and their caregivers and may enable to maintain Parkinson's disease patients at home for a longer period.


Although understanding the processing of natural sounds is an important goal in auditory neuroscience, relatively little is known about the neural coding of these sounds. Recently we demonstrated that the spectral temporal receptive field (STRF), a description of the stimulus-response function of auditory neurons, could be derived from responses to arbitrary ensembles of complex sounds including vocalizations. In this study, we use this method to investigate the auditory processing of natural sounds in the birdsong system. We obtain neural responses from several regions of the songbird auditory forebrain to a large ensemble of bird songs and use these data to calculate the STRFs, which are the best linear model of the spectral-temporal features of sound to which auditory neurons respond. We find that these neurons respond to a wide variety of features in songs ranging from simple tonal components to more complex spectral-temporal structures such as frequency sweeps and multi-peaked frequency stacks. We quantify spectral and temporal characteristics of these features by extracting several parameters from the STRFs. Moreover, we assess the linearity versus nonlinearity of encoding by quantifying the quality of the predictions of the neural responses to songs obtained using the STRFs. Our results reveal successively complex functional stages of song analysis by neurons in the auditory forebrain. When we map the properties of auditory forebrain neurons, as characterized by the STRF parameters, onto conventional anatomical subdivisions of the auditory forebrain, we find that although some properties are shared across different subregions, the distribution of several parameters is suggestive of hierarchical processing.
Small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, which include nociceptors, express multiple voltage-gated sodium currents. In addition to a classical fast inactivating tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-S) sodium current, many of these cells express a TTX-resistant (TTX-R) sodium current that activates near -70 mV and is persistent at negative potentials. To investigate the possible contributions of this TTX-R persistent (TTX-RP) current to neuronal excitability, we carried out computer simulations using the Neuron program with TTX-S and -RP currents, fit by the Hodgkin-Huxley model, that closely matched the currents recorded from small DRG neurons. In contrast to fast TTX-S current, which was well fit using a m(3)h model, the persistent TTX-R current was not well fit by an m(3)h model and was better fit using an mh model. The persistent TTX-R current had a strong influence on resting potential, shifting it from -70 to -49.1 mV. Inclusion of an ultra-slow inactivation gate in the persistent current model reduced the potential shift only slightly, to -56.6 mV. The persistent TTX-R current also enhanced the response to depolarizing inputs that were subthreshold for spike electrogenesis. In addition, the presence of persistent TTX-R current predisposed the cell to anode break excitation. These results suggest that, while the persistent TTX-R current is not a major contributor to the rapid depolarizing phase of the action potential, it contributes to setting the electrogenic properties of small DRG neurons by modulating their resting potentials and response to subthreshold stimuli.
This study examined the influence of proprioceptive input from hip flexor muscles on the activity in hip flexors during the swing phase of walking in the decerebrate cat. One hindlimb was partially denervated to remove cutaneous input and afferent input from most other hindlimb muscles. Perturbations to hip movement were applied either by 1) manual resistance or assistance to swing or by 2) resistance to hip flexion using a device that blocked hip flexion but allowed leg extension. Electromyographic recordings were made from the iliopsoas (IP), sartorius, and medial gastrocnemius muscles. When the hip was manually assisted into flexion, there was a reduction in hip flexor burst activity. Conversely, when hip flexion was manually resisted or mechanically blocked during swing, the duration and amplitude of hip flexor activity was increased. We also found some specificity in the role of afferents from individual hip flexor muscles in the modulation of flexor burst activity. If the IP muscle was detached from its insertion, little change in the response to blocking flexion was observed. Specific activation of IP afferent fibers by stretching the muscle also did not greatly affect flexor activity. On the other hand, if conduction in the sartorius nerves was blocked, there was a diminished response to blocking hip flexion. The increase in duration of the flexor bursts still occurred, but this increase was consistently lower than that observed when the sartorius nerves were intact. From these results we propose that during swing, feedback from hip flexor muscle afferents, particularly those from the sartorius muscles, enhances flexor activity. In addition, if we delayed the onset of flexor activity in the contralateral hindlimb, blocking hip flexion often resulted in the prolongation of ipsilateral flexor activity for long periods of time, further revealing the reinforcing effects of flexor afferent feedback on flexor activity. This effect was not seen if conduction in the sartorius nerves was blocked. In conclusion, we have found that hip flexor activity during locomotion can be strongly modulated by modifying proprioceptive feedback from the hip flexor muscles.
The generation of neuronal diversity requires the coordinated development of differential patterns of ion channel expression along with characteristic differences in dendritic geometry, but the relations between these phenotypic features are not well known. We have used a combination of intracellular recordings, morphological analysis of dye-filled neurons, and stereological analysis of immunohistochemically labeled sections to investigate the development of characteristic electrical and morphological properties of functionally distinct populations of sympathetic neurons that project from the celiac ganglion to the splanchnic vasculature or the gastrointestinal tract of guinea pigs. At early fetal stages, neurons were significantly more depolarized at rest compared with neurons at later stages, and they generally fired only a single action potential. By mid fetal stages, rapidly and slowly adapting neurons could be distinguished with a topographic distribution matching that found in adult ganglia. Most rapidly adapting neurons (phasic neurons) at this age had a long afterhyperpolarization (LAH) characteristic of mature vasomotor neurons and were preferentially located in the lateral poles of the ganglion, where most neurons contained neuropeptide Y. Most early and mid fetal neurons showed a weak M current, which was later expressed only by rapidly-adapting and LAH neurons. Two different A currents were present in a subset of early fetal neurons and may indicate neurons destined to develop a slowly adapting phenotype (tonic neurons). The size of neuronal cell bodies increased at a similar rate throughout development regardless of their electrical or neurochemical phenotype or their topographical location. In contrast, the rate of dendritic growth of neurons in medial regions of the ganglion was significantly higher than that of neurons in lateral regions. The apparent cell capacitance was highly correlated with the surface area of the soma but not the dendritic tree of the developing neurons. These results demonstrate that the well-defined functional populations of neurons in the celiac ganglion develop their characteristic electrophysiological and morphological properties during early fetal stages of development. This is after the neuronal populations can be recognized by their neurochemical and topographical characteristics but long before the neurons have finished growing. Our data provide strong circumstantial evidence that the development of the full phenotype of different functional classes of autonomic final motor neurons is a multi-step process likely to involve a regulated sequence of trophic interactions.
Sensory input to an individual interneuron or motoneuron typically evokes activity at a single site, the initial segment, so that firing rate reflects the balance of excitation and inhibition there. In a network of cells that are electrically coupled, a sensory input produced by appropriate, localized stimulation can cause impulses to be initiated in several places. An example in the leech is the chain of S cells, which are critical for sensitization of reflex responses to mechanosensory stimulation. S cells, one per segment, form an electrically coupled chain extending the entire length of the CNS. Each S cell receives input from mechanosensory neurons in that segment. Because impulses can arise in any S cell and can reliably propagate throughout the chain, all the S cells behave like a single neuron with multiple initiation sites. In the present experiments, well-defined stimuli applied to a small area of skin evoked mechanosensory action potentials that propagated centrally to several segments, producing S cell impulses in those segments. Following pressure to the skin, impulses arose first in the S cell of the same segment as the stimulus, followed by impulses in S cells in other segments. Often four or five separate initiation sites were observed. This timing of impulse initiation played an important role in increasing the frequency of firing. Impulses arising at different sites did not usually collide but added to the total firing rate of the chain. A computational model is presented to illustrate how mechanosensory neurons distribute the effects of a single sensory stimulus into spatially and temporally separated synaptic input. The model predicts that changes in impulse propagation in mechanosensory neurons can alter S cell frequency of firing by changing the number of initiation sites.
Oxytocin and vasopressin release from magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic nucleus is under the control of glutamate-dependent excitation. The supraoptic nucleus also receives a generalized dopaminergic input from hypothalamic sources. To determine if dopamine can influence this excitatory drive onto the magnocellular neurons, we used whole-cell patch clamp to record the effect of dopamine on evoked and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in rat hypothalamic slices. Dopamine exposure (30 microM to 1 mM) induced a large and reversible reduction in the amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic current in nearly all magnocellular cells tested. D4 receptors appeared to mediate dopamine's activity, based on inhibition of the response with 50 microM clozapine, but not by SCH 23390 or sulpiride, and mimicry of dopamine's action with the D4 specific agonist, PD 168077. Analysis of paired-pulse experiments and miniature postsynaptic currents indicated that dopamine's action involved a presynaptic mechanism, since the frequency of miniature postsynaptic currents was reduced with dopamine exposure without any change in current kinetics or amplitude, while the paired-pulse ratio increased. We therefore have demonstrated for the first time a role for dopamine D4 receptors in the supraoptic nucleus in the presynaptic inhibition of glutamatergic neurotransmission onto magnocellular neurons.
Combined psychophysical and neurophysiological studies have shown that the perceived roughness of surfaces with element spacings of &gt;1 mm is based on spatial variation in the firing rates of slowly adapting type 1 (SA1) afferents (mean absolute difference in firing rates between SA1 afferents with receptive fields separated by approximately 2 mm). The question addressed here is whether this mechanism accounts for the perceived roughness of surfaces with element spacings of &lt;1 mm. Twenty triangular and trapezoidal gratings plus a smooth surface were used as stimulus patterns [spatial periods, 0.1-2.0 mm; groove widths (GWs), 0.1-2.0 mm; and ridge widths (RWs), 0-1.0 mm]. In the human psychophysical studies, we found that the following equation described the mean roughness magnitude estimates of the subjects accurately (0.99 correlation): 0.2 + 1.6GW - 0.5RW - 0.25GW(2). In the neurophysiological studies, these surfaces were scanned across the receptive fields of SA1, rapidly adapting, and Pacinian (PC) afferents, innervating the glabrous skin of anesthetized macaque monkeys. SA1 spatial variation was highly correlated (0.97) with human roughness judgments. There was no consistent relationship between PC responses and roughness judgments; PC afferents responded strongly and almost equally to all of the patterns. Spatial variation in SA1 firing rates is the only neural code that accounts for the perceived roughness of surfaces with finely and coarsely spaced elements. When surface elements are widely spaced, the spatial variation in firing rates is determined primarily by the surface pattern; when the elements are finely spaced, the variation in firing rates between SA1 afferents is determined by stochastic variation in spike rates.
Thalamocortical neurons innervating the barrel cortex in neonatal rodents transiently store serotonin (5-HT) in synaptic vesicles by expressing the plasma membrane serotonin transporter (5-HTT) and the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2). 5-HTT knock-out (ko) mice reveal a nearly complete absence of 5-HT in the cerebral cortex by immunohistochemistry, and of barrels, both at P7 and adulthood. Quantitative electron microscopy reveals that 5-HTT ko affects neither the density of synapses nor the length of synaptic contacts in layer IV. VMAT2 ko mice, completely lacking activity-dependent vesicular release of monoamines including 5-HT, also show a complete lack of 5-HT in the cortex but display largely normal barrel fields, despite sometimes markedly reduced postnatal growth. Transient 5-HTT expression is thus required for barrel pattern formation, whereas activity-dependent vesicular 5-HT release is not.
The concept of a threshold of dopamine (DA) depletion for onset of Parkinson's disease symptoms, although widely accepted, has, to date, not been determined experimentally in nonhuman primates in which a more rigorous definition of the mechanisms responsible for the threshold effect might be obtained. The present study was thus designed to determine (1) the relationship between Parkinsonian symptom appearance and level of degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway and (2) the concomitant presynaptic and postsynaptic striatal response to the denervation, in monkeys treated chronically with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine according to a regimen that produces a progressive Parkinsonian state. The kinetics of the nigrostriatal degeneration described allow the determination of the critical thresholds associated to symptom appearance, these were a loss of 43.2% of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons at the nigral level and losses of 80.3 and 81.6% DA transporter binding and DA content, respectively, at the striatal level. Our data argue against the concept that an increase in DA metabolism could act as an efficient adaptive mechanism early in the disease progress. Surprisingly, the D(2)-like DA receptor binding showed a biphasic regulation in relation to the level of striatal dopaminergic denervation, i.e., an initial decrease in the presymptomatic period was followed by an upregulation of postsynaptic receptors commencing when striatal dopaminergic homeostasis is broken. Further in vivo follow-up of the kinetics of striatal denervation in this, and similar, experimental models is now needed with a view to developing early diagnosis tools and symptomatic therapies that might enhance endogenous compensatory mechanisms.
The mammalian basal ganglia-thalamocortical pathway is important for motor control, motor learning, and cognitive functions. It contains parallel, closed loops, at least some of which are organized topographically and in a modular manner. Songbirds have a circuit specialized for vocal learning, the anterior forebrain pathway (AFP), forming a basal ganglia loop with only three stations: the pallial (&quot;cortex-like&quot;) lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (lMAN), the basal ganglia structure area X, and the medial portion of the dorsolateral thalamic nucleus (DLM). Several properties of this pathway resemble those of its mammalian counterpart, but it is unknown whether all projections in the loop are topographically organized, and if so, whether topography is maintained through the entire loop. After small single- or dual-tracer injections into area X and/or the lMAN of adult zebra finches, we found that the area X to DLM projection is topographically organized, and we confirmed the topography for all other AFP projections. Quantitative analysis suggests maintained topography throughout the loop. To test this directly, we injected different tracers into corresponding areas in lMAN and area X. We found somata retrogradely labeled from lMAN and terminals anterogradely labeled from area X occupying the same region of DLM. Many labeled somata were tightly surrounded by tracer-labeled terminals, indicating the microscopically closed nature of the AFP loop. Thus, like mammals, birds have at least one closed, topographic loop traversing the basal ganglia, thalamus, and pallium. Each such loop could serve as a computational unit for motor or cognitive functions.
In the present study, we examined the role of agrin in axonal and dendritic elongation in central neurons. Dissociated hippocampal neurons were grown in the presence of either recombinant agrin or antisense oligonucleotides designed to block agrin expression. Our results indicate that agrin differentially regulates axonal and dendritic growth. Recombinant agrin decreased the rate of elongation of main axons but induced the formation of axonal branches. On the other hand, agrin induced both dendritic elongation and dendritic branching. Conversely, cultured hippocampal neurons depleted of agrin extended longer, nonbranched axons and shorter dendrites when compared with controls. These changes in the rates of neurite elongation and branching were paralleled by changes in the composition of the cytoskeleton. In the presence of agrin, there was an upregulation of the expression of microtubule-associated proteins MAP1B, MAP2, and tau. In contrast, a downregulation of the expression of these MAPs was detected in agrin-depleted cells. Taken collectively, these results suggest an important role for agrin as a trigger of the transcription of neuro-specific genes involved in neurite elongation and branching in central neurons.
A developmental reduction in the radial transmission of synaptic activity has been proposed to underlie the end of the critical period for experience-dependent modification in layers II/III of the visual cortex. Using paired-pulse stimulation, we investigated in visual cortical slices how the propagation of synaptic activity to the superficial layers changes during development and how this process is affected by sensory experience. The results can be summarized as follows. (1) Layers II/III responses to repetitive stimulation of the white matter become increasingly depressed between the third and sixth week of postnatal development, a time course that parallels the end of the critical period. (2) Paired-pulse depression is reduced after dark rearing and also by blocking inhibitory synaptic transmission. (3) Paired-pulse depression and its regulation by age and sensory experience is more pronounced when stimulation is applied to the white matter than when applied to layer IV. Together, these results are consistent with the idea that the maturation of intracortical inhibition reduces the capability of the cortex to relay incoming high-frequency patterns of activity to the supragranular layers.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) modulates synaptic strength in hippocampal neurons, in addition to promoting survival and differentiation. To identify genes involved in trophic regulation of synaptic plasticity, we have used a multidisciplinary approach of differential display and family-specific slot blots in combination with whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of dissociated hippocampal neurons. Three hour exposure to BDNF elicited a 2.6-fold increase in synaptic charge and a concomitant induction of 11 genes as revealed by differential display, including the small GTP-binding vesicular trafficking protein Rab3A and the enzyme guanylate cyclase (GC). Slot blot analysis on a population of neurons confirmed an average of 3.1-fold induction of these clones. In contrast, individual pyramidal-like neurons that were first characterized electrophysiologically in the presence of BDNF and subjected to transcriptional analysis displayed more robust increases (4.8-fold), emphasizing the neuronal heterogeneity. Transcriptional changes of Rab3A and GC were accompanied by translational regulation, shown by Western blot analysis. Furthermore, a number of GC-associated and Rab3A effector molecules were induced by BDNF at either the gene or protein levels. The functional role of Rab3A in BDNF-induced synaptic plasticity was assessed using cells derived from Rab3A knock-out mice. These neurons failed to show an increase in synaptic charge in response to BDNF at 10 min; however a late response to BDNF was detected at 20 min. This late response was similar in time course to that induced by postsynaptic activation of glutamate receptors. Our results demonstrate a requirement for Rab3A and may reveal a temporal distinction between presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms of BDNF-induced synaptic plasticity associated with learning and memory.
The contribution of early cell lineage to regional fate in the mammalian forebrain remains poorly understood. Previous lineage-tracing studies using retroviral methods were only begun at mid-neurogenesis and have suffered from region-specific retroviral silencing. We have been able to study cell lineage in the telencephalon from the onset of neurogenesis by using ultrasound backscatter microscopy to label the forebrain neuroepithelium and a modified retroviral lineage library to overcome regional silencing. Our studies suggest that by embryonic day 9.5, forebrain clones are primarily restricted to territories within anatomically demarcated regional boundaries, such as the cortex, striatum and hypothalamus. In addition, we observed a subset of clones that appeared to be composed entirely of glia. These observations suggest that both regional and cell-type restrictions exist within progenitor populations before the first forebrain cells become postmitotic.
Neural progenitor cells persist throughout the adult forebrain subependyma, and neurons generated from them respond to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) with enhanced maturation and survival. To induce neurogenesis from endogenous progenitors, we overexpressed BDNF in the adult ventricular zone by transducing the forebrain ependyma to constitutively express BDNF. We constructed a bicistronic adenovirus bearing BDNF under cytomegalovirus (CMV) control, and humanized green fluorescent protein (hGFP) under internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) control. This AdCMV:BDNF:IRES:hGFP (AdBDNF) was injected into the lateral ventricles of adult rats, who were treated for 18 d thereafter with the mitotic marker bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). Three weeks after injection, BDNF averaged 1 microg/gm in the CSF of AdBDNF-injected animals but was undetectable in control CSF. In situ hybridization demonstrated BDNF and GFP mRNA expression restricted to the ventricular wall. In AdBDNF-injected rats, the olfactory bulb exhibited a &gt;2.4-fold increase in the number of BrdU(+)-betaIII-tubulin(+) neurons, confirmed by confocal imaging, relative to AdNull (AdCMV:hGFP) controls. Importantly, AdBDNF-associated neuronal recruitment to the neostriatum was also noted, with the treatment-induced addition of BrdU(+)-NeuN(+)-betaIII-tubulin(+) neurons to the caudate putamen. Many of these cells also expressed glutamic acid decarboxylase, cabindin-D28, and DARPP-32 (dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa), markers of medium spiny neurons of the neostriatum. These newly generated neurons survived at least 5-8 weeks after viral induction. Thus, a single injection of adenoviral BDNF substantially augmented the recruitment of new neurons into both neurogenic and non-neurogenic sites in the adult rat brain. The intraventricular delivery of, and ependymal infection by, viral vectors encoding neurotrophic agents may be a feasible strategy for inducing neurogenesis from resident progenitor cells in the adult brain.
The Shaw-like potassium (K(+)) channels Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 are widely coexpressed in distinct neuronal populations in the CNS, possibly explaining the relatively &quot;mild&quot; phenotypes of the Kv3.1 and the Kv3.3 single mutant. Kv3.1-deficient mice show increased cortical gamma- and decreased delta-oscillations (Joho et al., 1997, 1999); otherwise, the Kv3.1-mutant phenotype is relatively subtle (Ho et al., 1997; Snchez et al., 2000). Kv3.3-deficient mice display no overt phenotype (Chan, 1997). To investigate whether Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 K(+) channels are functionally redundant, we generated the Kv3.1/Kv3.3 double mutant. Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient mice were born at the expected Mendelian frequencies indicating that neither Kv3.1 nor Kv3.3 K(+) channels are essential for embryonic development. Although there are no obvious changes in gross brain anatomy, adult Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient mice display severe ataxia, tremulous movements, myoclonus, and hypersensitivity to ethanol. Mice appear unbalanced when moving, whereas at rest they exhibit whole-body jerks every few seconds. In spite of the severe motor impairment, Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient mice are hyperactive, show increased exploratory activity, and display no obvious learning or memory deficit. Myoclonus, tremor, and ethanol hypersensitivity are only seen in the double-homozygous Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient mice, whereas increased locomotor and exploratory activity are also present in double-heterozygous mice. The graded penetrance of mutant traits appears to depend on the number of null alleles, suggesting that some of the distinct phenotypic traits visible in the absence of Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 K(+) channels are unrelated and may be caused by localized dysfunction in different brain regions.
Human cortical malformations often result in severe forms of epilepsy. Although the morphological properties of cells within these malformations are well characterized, very little is known about the function of these cells. In rats, prenatal methylazoxymethanol (MAM) exposure produces distinct nodules of disorganized pyramidal-like neurons (e.g., nodular heterotopia) and loss of lamination in cortical and hippocampal structures. Hippocampal nodular heterotopias are prone to hyperexcitability and may contribute to the increased seizure susceptibility observed in these animals. Here we demonstrate that heterotopic pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus fail to express a potassium channel subunit corresponding to the fast, transient A-type current. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analysis revealed markedly reduced expression of Kv4.2 (A-type) channel subunits in heterotopic cell regions of the hippocampus of MAM-exposed rats. Patch-clamp recordings from visualized heterotopic neurons indicated a lack of fast, transient (I(A))-type potassium current and hyperexcitable firing. A-type currents were observed on normotopic pyramidal neurons in MAM-exposed rats and on interneurons, CA1 pyramidal neurons, and cortical layer V-VI pyramidal neurons in saline-treated control rats. Changes in A-current were not associated with an alteration in the function or expression of delayed, rectifier (Kv2.1) potassium channels on heterotopic cells. We conclude that heterotopic neurons lack functional A-type Kv4.2 potassium channels and that this abnormality could contribute to the increased excitability and decreased seizure thresholds associated with brain malformations in MAM-exposed rats.
Using a yeast two-hybrid method, we searched for amyloid precursor protein (APP)-interacting molecules by screening mouse and human brain libraries. In addition to known interacting proteins containing a phosphotyrosine-interaction-domain (PID)-Fe65, Fe65L, Fe65L2, X11, and mDab1, we identified, as a novel APP-interacting molecule, a PID-containing isoform of mouse JNK-interacting protein-1 (JIP-1b) and its human homolog IB1, the established scaffold proteins for JNK. The APP amino acids Tyr(682), Asn(684), and Tyr(687) in the G(681)YENPTY(687) region were all essential for APP/JIP-1b interaction, but neither Tyr(653) nor Thr(668) was necessary. APP-interacting ability was specific for this additional isoform containing PID and was shared by both human and mouse homologs. JIP-1b expressed by mammalian cells was efficiently precipitated by the cytoplasmic domain of APP in the extreme Gly(681)-Asn(695) domain-dependent manner. Reciprocally, both full-length wild-type and familial Alzheimer's disease mutant APPs were precipitated by PID-containing JIP constructs. Antibodies raised against the N and C termini of JIP-1b coprecipitated JIP-1b and wild-type or mutant APP in non-neuronal and neuronal cells. Moreover, human JNK1beta1 formed a complex with APP in a JIP-1b-dependent manner. Confocal microscopic examination demonstrated that APP and JIP-1b share similar subcellular localization in transfected cells. These data indicate that JIP-1b/IB1 scaffolds APP with JNK, providing a novel insight into the role of the JNK scaffold protein as an interface of APP with intracellular functional molecules.
Many neurons transduce synaptic inputs into action potentials (APs) according to rules that reflect their intrinsic membrane properties. Voltage-gated potassium channels, being numerous and diverse constituents of neuronal membrane, are important participants in neuronal excitability and thus in synaptic integration. Here we address the role of dendrotoxin-sensitive &quot;D-type&quot; potassium channels in the excitability of large pyramidal neurons in layer 5 of the rat neocortex. Low concentrations of 4-aminopyridine or alpha-dendrotoxin (alpha-DTX) dramatically increased excitability: the firing threshold for action potentials was hyperpolarized by 4-8 mV, and the firing frequency during a 1-sec-long 500 pA somatic current step was doubled. In nucleated outside-out patches pulled from the soma, alpha-DTX reversibly blocked a slowly inactivating potassium current that comprised approximately 6% of the total. This current first turned on at voltages just hyperpolarized to the threshold for spiking and activated steeply with depolarization. By assaying alpha-DTX-sensitive current in outside-out patches pulled from the axon and primary apical dendrite, it was found that this current was concentrated near the soma. We conclude that alpha-DTX-sensitive channels are present on large layer 5 pyramidal neurons at relatively low density, but their strategic location close to the site of action potential initiation in the axon may ensure that they have a disproportionate effect on neuronal excitability. Modulation of this class of channel would generate a powerful upregulation or downregulation of neuronal output after the integration of synaptic inputs.
Previous studies have focused considerable attention on the effects of estrogen on excitatory synaptic input to hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. Estrogen increases the density of dendritic spines and synapses on CA1 pyramidal cells and increases the sensitivity of these cells to excitatory synaptic input. Little is known, however, about the effects of estrogen on inhibitory synaptic input to CA1 pyramidal cells. We have used immunohistochemistry for glutamic acid decarboxylase and whole-cell voltage-clamp recording of IPSCs and EPSCs at multiple time points after estrogen treatment to (1) investigate estrogen regulation of synaptic inhibition in CA1 and (2) evaluate how estrogen affects the interaction between inhibitory and excitatory input to CA1 pyramidal cells. We find that estrogen transiently suppresses GABA(A)-mediated inhibition of CA1 pyramidal cells at a time point before changes in excitatory input to these cells occur. This finding is consistent with the suggestion that transient disinhibition of CA1 pyramidal cells is involved in estrogen-induced dendritic spine formation. We have also found that at a later time after estrogen, inhibition of CA1 pyramidal cells recovers in parallel with enhancement of NMDA-mediated excitatory input. The concurrent enhancement of GABA(A) and NMDA-mediated input to CA1 pyramidal cells restores a balance of excitatory and inhibitory input to these cells and increases the potential dynamic range of CA1 pyramidal cell responses to synaptic input.
Presynaptic ATP P2X receptors have been proposed to play a role in modulating glutamate release from the first sensory synapse in the spinal cord. Using spinal cord slice preparations and patch-clamp recordings from dorsal horn neurons in lamina V of the rat spinal cord, we showed that the activation of P2X receptors by alpha,beta-methylene-ATP (alphabetam-ATP) resulted in a large increase in the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs (sEPSCs) and miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs). The increases in mEPSC frequency by alphabetam-ATP were not blocked by the Ca(2+) channel blocker, 30 microm La(3+), but were abolished in a bath solution when Ca(2+) was omitted. The increases in mEPSC frequency by alphabetam-ATP were blocked completely by the P2 receptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS) at 10 microm. Furthermore, the EPSCs evoked by dorsal root stimulation were potentiated by alphabetam-ATP as well as by the ecto-ATPase inhibitor ARL67156 and were depressed in the presence of P2 receptor antagonists PPADS (10 microm) and suramin (5 microm). The effects of these compounds on the evoked EPSCs were associated with the changes in glutamate release probability of primary afferent central terminals. Our results indicate that alphabetam-ATP-sensitive P2X receptors play a significant role in modulating excitatory sensory synaptic transmission in the spinal cord, and the potential role of endogenous ATP is suggested.
Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase plays important roles in the establishment of long-term potentiation both in vitro and in living animals. MAP kinase is activated in response to a broad range of stimuli, including calcium influx through NMDA receptor and L-type calcium channel, cAMP, and neurotrophins. To investigate the role of Ras in the activation of MAP kinase and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in hippocampal neurons, we inhibited Ras function by overexpressing a Ras GTPase-activating protein, Gap1(m), or dominant negative Ras by means of adenovirus vectors. Gap1(m) expression almost completely suppressed MAP kinase activation in response to NMDA, calcium ionophore, membrane depolarization, forskolin, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Dominant negative Ras also showed similar effects. On the other hand, Rap1GAP did not significantly inhibit the forskolin-induced activation of MAP kinase. In contrast to MAP kinase activation, the inactivation of Ras activity did not inhibit significantly NMDA-induced CREB phosphorylation, whereas BDNF-induced CREB phosphorylation was inhibited almost completely. These results demonstrate that Ras transduces signals elicited by a broad range of stimuli to MAP kinase in hippocampal neurons and further suggest that CREB phosphorylation depends on multiple pathways.
Recent advances in defining neurotrophin signaling mediators have provided insights into the signal transduction mechanisms that underlie axon growth. Evidence is accumulating that major Trk effectors regulate the morphological development of embryonic peripheral neurons. Less is known about signaling related to the robust axon extension that follows peripheral axotomy of adult neurons. Regenerative axon growth can be mimicked in vitro by a &quot;conditioning&quot; lesion performed 2 weeks before culture (Smith and Skene, 1997). Previous work has implicated both neurotrophins and cytokines in this response. Because signal transduction mediators of both of these families of growth factors are well characterized, we have compared the role of neurotrophin and cytokine signaling in developmental versus regenerative sensory axon growth. Chemical inhibitors were administrated to embryonic and axotomized sensory neurons in vitro to block the activation of Erk kinase (MEK)-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3-K), and janus kinase (JAK) signaling. As expected, both MEK and PI3-K inhibition blocked axon growth from both naive and NGF-stimulated embryonic day 13 sensory neurons, whereas inhibition of JAK phosphorylation had no effect. In contrast, neither MEK nor PI3-K inhibitors blocked elongation of adult sensory neurons after a conditioning lesion. However, the addition of a JAK2 inhibitor prevented the regenerative axon response. Consistent with these pharmacological results, the percentage of neurons showing intense nuclear signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 phosphorylation after a conditioning lesion was markedly increased compared with controls. These observations demonstrate that the signaling mediators that underlie regenerative axon growth are distinct from those used during development and suggest that cytokine signaling may be critical to peripheral nervous system regeneration.
Organotypic slices are used frequently in studies of central nervous system development and function because they provide excellent experimental access with significant preservation of cellular context and relationships. Within a slice, however, a variety of factors may cause individual classes of neurons to respond differently to the culture environment. Differences in deafferentation, cellular maturation, trophic dependence and ongoing naturally occurring cell death may produce changes in the neuronal population that are transparent to the experimenter but that could affect experimental results significantly. In this study, we examined the distribution and prevalence of cell death among neurons in each cortical layer in organotypic slices. In addition, we assessed the ability of several neurotrophic factors to ameliorate neuronal death in each cortical layer. Within the first 24 hr in culture, there was striking laminar variation in the extent of neuronal death in culture, which could not be accounted for by the pattern of programmed cell death in vivo. In addition, neurons in the six layers of the neocortex differed in the degree to which they could be rescued by neurotrophic factors. These data suggest that differential neuronal death and rescue are important considerations in studies utilizing organotypic slices and may represent particularly confounding variables in studies of effects of trophic factors in such preparations.
We investigated the role of kainate (KA) receptor activation and desensitization in inducing the increase in the intracellular free Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) in individual cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The rat hippocampal neurons in the cultures were shown to express kainate receptor subunits, KA2 and GluR6/7, either by immunocytochemistry or by immunoblot analysis. The effect of LY303070, an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor antagonist, on the alterations in the [Ca(2+)](i) caused by kainate showed cell-to-cell variability. The [Ca(2+)](i) increase caused by kainate was mostly mediated by the activation of AMPA receptors because LY303070 inhibited the response to kainate in a high percentage of neurons. The response to kainate was potentiated by concanavalin A (Con A), which inhibits kainate receptor desensitization, in 82.1% of the neurons, and this potentiation was not reversed by LY303070 in about 38% of the neurons. Also, upon stimulation of the cells with 4-methylglutamate (MGA), a selective kainate receptor agonist, in the presence of Con A, it was possible to observe [Ca(2+)](i) changes induced by kainate receptor activation, because LY303070 did not inhibit the response in all neurons analyzed. In toxicity studies, cultured rat hippocampal neurons were exposed to the drugs for 30 min, and the cell viability was evaluated at 24 hr using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The selective activation of kainate receptors with MGA, in the presence of Con A, induced a toxic effect, which was not prevented by LY303070, revealing a contribution of a small subpopulation of neurons expressing kainate receptors that independently mediate cytotoxicity. Taken together, these results indicate that cultured hippocampal neurons express not only AMPA receptors, but also kainate receptors, which can modulate the [Ca(2+)](i) and toxicity.
The authors describe the case of a 60-year-old patient with basilar artery aneurysm who in time developed normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). Clinical examinations and laboratory tests did not reveal other data from which the pathology could be attributed to causes other than the vascular malformation already considered. The mechanical obstruction exerted by the aneurysm lodged on the floor of the third ventricle represents, according to the authors, the physiopathogenetic mechanism by which a temporal delay is developed between the endoventricular pulsation and that of the cerebral veins so as to produce a precise pulsatile gradient in a centrifugal direction to allow the formation of an active hydrocephalus proportional to the entity of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pulse.
The feasibility and safety of a procedure involving fetal spinal cord tissue transplantation in patients with syringomyelia was assessed using a neurophysiological protocol designed to quantitate peripheral nerve function, spinal cord reflex excitability, and spinal cord conduction pathways essential for somatosensory evoked potentials. We report here data obtained before and for 18 months following the transplantation procedure performed on the first two patients in this study. The neurophysiological assessment protocols included measures of cortical and spinal cord evoked potentials, H-reflex excitability, and peripheral nerve conduction. Prior to the procedure, both patients had significant deficits on some of the neurophysiological measures, for example, lower extremity cortical evoked potentials. However, robust measures of intact pathways, such as upper extremity cortical evoked potentials, were also observed preoperatively in both patients. Thus, it was anticipated that conduction in these intact pathways could be at risk either from complications from the transplantation procedure and/or from continued expansion of the syrinx. Following the transplantation procedure, no negative changes were observed in any of the neurophysiological measures in either patient. In addition, patient 1 showed a decrease in the rate potentiation of tibial H-reflexes on the right side and an increase in the response probability of left tibial H-reflexes. The results of this postoperative longitudinal assessment provide a first-level demonstration of the safety of the intraspinal neural tissue transplantation procedure. However, the consideration of safety is currently limited to the grafting procedure itself, since the long-term fates of the donor tissue in these two patients remain to be shown more definitively.
Transplantation of fetal spinal cord (FSC) tissue has demonstrated significant potential in animal models for achieving partial anatomical and functional restoration following spinal cord injury (SCI). To determine whether this strategy can eventually be translated to humans with SCI, a pilot safety and feasibility study was initiated in patients with progressive posttraumatic syringomyelia (PPTS). A total of eight patients with PPTS have been enrolled to date, and this report presents findings for the first two patients through 18 months postoperative. The study design included detailed assessments of each subject at multiple pre- and postoperative time points. Outcome data were then compared with each subject's own baseline. The surgical protocol included detethering, cyst drainage, and implantation of 6-9-week postconception human FSC tissue. Immunosuppression with cyclosporine was initiated a few days prior to surgery and continued for 6 months postoperatively. Key outcome measures included: serial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) exams, standardized measures of neurological impairment and functional disability, detailed pain assessment, and extensive neurophysiological testing. Through 18 months, the first two patients have been stable neurologically and the MRIs have shown evidence of solid tissue at the graft sites, without evidence of donor tissue overgrowth. Although it is still too soon to draw any firm conclusions, the findings from the initial two patients in this study suggest that intraspinal grafting of human FSC tissue is both feasible and safe.
Histological detection of axillary lymph node metastases is still the most valuable prognostic parameter for breast cancer, but about 30% of node-negative patients relapse within five years, suggesting that current methods are inadequate for identifying metastatic disease. More sensitive, PCR-based methods for the detection of metastatic cells are now available, enabling the amplification of cancer cell-specific mRNA messages by the RT-PCR assay. An ideal tumour marker, consistently expressed in tumour samples and not at all in normal lymph nodes, remains to be identified. The present study first investigated the expression of seven mRNA markers, CEA, CK19, c-Met, mammaglobin, MUC-1, beta1--&gt;GalNAc-T and p97, selected on the basis of their previously reported specificity for breast cancer cells. Eighteen lymph nodes were examined from patients without tumours. Only mammaglobin mRNA and CEA mRNA were not expressed in normal nodes. All of the other markers showed a band of expression in 17%-55% of cases, indicating that they are not breast cancer-specific. CEA mRNA and mammaglobin mRNA expression could be detected in 15/20 (75%) and 19/20 (95%) primary breast carcinomas, respectively. The expression of mammaglobin mRNA and CEA mRNA was then compared in axillary lymph nodes from 248 consecutive breast cancer patients, 89 with histologically documented lymph node metastasis and 159 without histological evidence of metastatic disease. Ninety-seven per cent of the patients with histologically involved nodes showed expression of mammaglobin mRNA, whereas CEA mRNA was expressed in 79% of these cases. In the group of patients with histologically negative lymph nodes, 46 (29%) and 32 (20%) were found to be positive for mammaglobin and CEA expression, respectively, indicating the presence of metastases not detected by routine histological examination of one lymph node section. These results show that both mammaglobin RT-PCR and CEA RT-PCR are useful tools for the detection of breast cancer metastases in axillary lymph nodes. The detection sensitivity of the mammaglobin RT-PCR is far superior to that of the CEA RT-PCR, allowing the diagnosis of occult metastases in nearly one-third of cases.
We identified a 3-year-old child with septo-optic dysplasia with arrhythmic activity patterns. To assess whether melatonin could improve rest-activity patterns, 0.1 mg was administered orally at 19:00 hours. After therapy onset, normal rest-activity patterns appeared. These observations show that melatonin can restore normal rhythmicity in the absence of a normally functioning circadian clock.
We have recently developed a model of sciatic inflammatory neuritis (SIN) to assess how immune activation near peripheral nerves influences somatosensory processing. Administration of zymosan (yeast cell walls) around a single sciatic nerve produces dose-dependent low-threshold mechanical allodynia without thermal hyperalgesia. Low (4 microg) doses produce both territorial and extraterritorial allodynia restricted to the injected hindleg. In contrast, higher (40 microg) doses produce territorial and extraterritorial allodynias of both hindlegs, an effect not accounted for by systemic spread of the zymosan. The aim of these experiments was to determine whether these behavioral allodynias were correlated with immunological and/or anatomical changes in or around the sciatic nerve. These experiments reveal that zymosan-induced bilateral allodynia was associated with the following: (a) increased release of both interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha from peri-sciatic immune cells; (b) increased release of reactive oxygen species from perisciatic immune cells; (c) no change in circulating levels of proinflammatory cytokine; (d) no apparent zymosan-induced influx of immune cells into the sciatic nerve from the endoneurial blood vessels; (e) mild edema of the sciatic, which was predominantly restricted to superficial regions closest to the peri-sciatic immune cells; and (f) no anatomic evidence of changes in either the ipsilateral saphenous nerve or contralateral sciatic nerve that could account for the appearance of extraterritorial or contralateral (&quot;mirror&quot;) allodynia, respectively. No reliable differences were found when the low-dose zymosan was compared with vehicle controls. Taken together, these data suggest that substances released by peri-sciatic immune cells may induce changes in the sciatic nerve, leading to the appearance of bilateral allodynia.
CP-122721 and CP-141938 are potent and selective neurokinin-1 (NK(1)) receptor antagonists with very different brain disposition and potency in models of centrally mediated activity. These investigations sought to determine whether differences in potency were related to differences in P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transport at the blood-brain barrier. Both compounds stimulated ATPase activity of human recombinant MDR1 with similar kinetic parameters. Cell-associated drug concentrations of CP-141938 were 9.4-fold lower in KBV1 cells expressing P-gp compared with KB3.1 control cells. In Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells expressing human MDR1, asymmetric transport of CP-141938 was 5-fold higher than in wild-type MDCK cells, whereas no asymmetry was observed with CP-122721. In agreement with these differences in cellular transport, the differences in brain/plasma ratio between mdr1a/b(-/-) and FVB mice 1 h following a 3 mg/kg s.c. dose were 3- and 50-fold for CP-122721 and CP-141938, respectively. The effect of inhibiting P-gp efflux on the effects of these agents was evaluated using GR73632-induced foot tapping in gerbils as a model to measure centrally mediated NK(1) antagonism. When gerbils were pretreated with the P-gp inhibitor MS-073 (50 mg/kg s.c.), there was no effect on the activity of CP-122721 (0.05 mg/kg), whereas the percent reversal for CP-141938 (10 mg/kg) increased from 60 to 100%. In gerbils, the brain/plasma ratio for CP-122721 was unaffected by MS-073 pretreatment, whereas the brain/plasma ratio for CP-141938 brain concentrations increased 13-fold. This suggested that P-gp efflux influences the brain disposition and pharmacologic activity of CP-141938, but not CP-122721. Complete response curves for CP-141938 were then determined with respect to dose, and drug concentration in the plasma and brain in the presence and absence of MS-073 pretreatment. The dose and plasma concentration-response curves of CP-141938 were shifted to the left in the presence of MS-073, yet brain concentrations associated with the response were unchanged. This suggested that once in the brain the interaction of CP-141938 with the NK(1) receptor was not affected by P-gp transport. In conclusion, these studies show that brain disposition and centrally mediated in vivo activity of NK(1) antagonists can be profoundly affected by P-gp transport and that such transport should be considered during the design of new agents.
Pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) is a central nervous system convulsant that is thought, based on binding studies, to act at the picrotoxin (PTX) site of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor. In the present study, we have investigated the mechanism and site of action of PTZ in recombinant GABA(A) receptors. In rat alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2 receptors, PTZ inhibited GABA-activated Cl(-) current in a concentration-dependent, voltage-independent manner, with an IC(50) of 0.62 +/- 0.13 mM. The mechanism of inhibition appeared competitive with respect to GABA in both rat and human alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2 receptors. Varying subunit configuration (change or lack of alpha subunit isoform or lack of gamma 2 subunit) had modest effects on PTZ-induced inhibition, as evidenced by comparable IC(50) values (0.6-2.2 mM) in all receptor configurations tested. This contrasts with PTX and other PTX-site ligands, which have greater affinity in receptors lacking an alpha subunit. Using a one-site model for PTZ interaction with alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2 receptors, the association rate (k(+1)) was found to be 1.14 x 10(3) M(-1) s(-1) and the dissociation rate (k(-1)) was 0.476 s(-1), producing a functional k(d) of 0.418 mM. PTZ could only gain access to its binding site extracellularly. Single-channel recordings demonstrated that PTZ decreased open probability by increasing the duration of closed states but had no effect on single-channel conductance or open state duration. alpha-Isopropyl-alpha-methyl-gamma-butyrolactone, a compound known to antagonize effects of PTX, also diminished the effects of PTZ. Taken together, our results indicate that pentylenetetrazole and picrotoxin interact with overlapping but distinct domains of the GABA(A) receptor.
The role of the blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barriers in the distribution of anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) drugs is integral to the design of effective treatment regimens for HIV infection within the brain. Abacavir (formerly 1592U89) is a nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor, which has activity against HIV. The ability of this drug to reach the brain at therapeutic concentrations has been explored by means of an established bilateral in situ brain perfusion model in combination with high-performance liquid chromatography analysis in the anesthetized guinea pig. The influence of other drugs on the entry of abacavir into the brain was also investigated and is of special significance with the use of three of more anti-HIV drugs as the recommended treatment for HIV infection. The results of this study indicate that intact [(14)C]abacavir can cross the blood-brain and blood-CSF barriers and enter the brain and cisternal CSF. Further studies, at a perfusion time of 10 min, revealed that the uptake (R(cerebrum)) of this (14)C-labeled drug (10.1 +/- 0.6%) was not affected by the presence of 0.86 to 200 microM unlabeled abacavir (6.8 microM; 11.0 +/- 1.4%), the nucleoside transport inhibitor [10 microM 6-(4-nitrobenzyl)thio-9-beta-D-ribofuranosylpurine; 9.7 +/- 3.3%], or a substrate for the nucleobase transporter (100 microM adenine; 12.7 +/- 3.0%). This would suggest that the entry of abacavir into the brain would not be affected by the presence of other anti-HIV drugs. The results of this animal study indicate that abacavir would be a useful addition to a treatment regimen against HIV-infection within the brain.
1. The isoform-specific functional role of cytoplasmic structures of two voltage-gated sodium channel isoforms, the human cardiac channel (hH1) and the adult human skeletal muscle channel (hSkM1) was investigated through functional comparison of chimeras. 2. The voltage of half-activation (V(a)) for hH1 was shifted by &gt; 20 mV in the hyperpolarised direction following internal papain treatment ('papain sensitive'), while V(a) for hSkM1 was unaffected ('papain insensitive'). 3. The hH1 region(s) responsible for this papain sensitivity was localised by testing a series of hH1/hSkM1 chimeras in which combinations of the large hH1 cytoplasmic loops joining the four transmembrane domains replaced analogous hSkM1 loops. Various chimeras were used to determine the smallest subset of loops that converted fully the papain-insensitive hSkM1 into a papain-sensitive channel. Then three converse chimeras were tested in which hSkM1 loops replaced hH1 loops to determine the smallest subset of loops necessary and sufficient to convert the papain-sensitive hH1 into a papain-insensitive channel. 4. Functional studies of this inclusive set of chimeras indicate that the first two cytoplasmic loops of the cardiac sodium channel that join domain I to II (loop A), and domain II to III (loop B), are both necessary, and together are sufficient to produce a papain-induced hyperpolarising shift in the voltage at which channels activate. When both loops are present (wild-type hH1 and the chimera hSkM1AB), V(a) for the channel shifts in the hyperpolarised direction by &gt; 20 mV with papain treatment. When the analogous hSkM1 loops are present (wild-type hSkM1 and the chimera hH1AB), V(a) for the channel is not sensitive to treatment with papain. For channels that contain only one of the two hH1 loops, the effect of papain on V(a) is intermediary. 5. Experiments performed in the absence of papain showed that the activation voltages of the double loop chimeras, hSkM1AB and hH1AB, were shifted significantly from V(a) for hSkM1 and V(a) for hH1, respectively, indicating that these loops directly alter channel activation voltage. The resulting shifts in V(a) were in opposing directions, suggesting that cytoplasmic control of activation voltage is isoform specific. V(a) for hSkM1AB was about 20 mV more depolarised than V(a) for hSkM1, and V(a) for hH1AB was about 9 mV more negative than V(a) for hH1. 6. These data are the first to indicate isoform-specific cytoplasmic regions of the voltage-gated sodium channel that directly and differently alter the voltage of channel activation.
Locally ambiguous NP, NP2 V clauses in Dutch are preferably assigned a subject-object rather than an object-subject interpretation, presumably on the basis of structurally based principles such as the Active-Filler Strategy. The present study investigates whether this preference can be affected by a nonconfigurational factor, namely the nature of NP2. The type of an NP (indefinite NPs, full definite NPs, pronouns) conveys information about the discourse status of the NP referent, which, in turn, is associated with a specific syntactic position. More specifically, pronouns are used to refer to given, salient entities in the discourse (topics); and NPs with such referents are generally encoded in subject position. A self-paced reading experiment shows that NP1 NP2 V relative clauses are preferably interpreted as subject-object when NP2 is a full definite NP (e.g., de vrouwen &quot;the women&quot;), but not when NP2 is the second person pronoun jullie (&quot;you&quot;-PL). This suggests that the structural bias for a subject-first order is not as strong as has been previously assumed, but is influenced by discourse information encoded in the NPs. Implications for parsing models are discussed.
Previous work has indicated recreational use of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or ecstasy) is associated with elevated scores on self-report measures of depression. We sought to examine the long-term effects of consumption on depression in a group of individuals who had consumed large quantities of the drug in the past, but were now leading relatively drug free lives. Respondents to this study (n = 29) had consumed an average of 1.5 ecstasy tablets in the last month, 8.4 in the last 6 months and 23.3 in the last 12 months. The estimated total consumed was 527 tablets, indicating that these respondents were indeed former chronic users of the drug. None of the respondents had consumed ecstasy in the last 14 days. Levels of depression (Beck's Depression Inventory) were significantly (p &lt; 0.01) elevated compared to a matched non-drug using control group. Within the group of former chronic users, these levels of depression were not significantly affected by current use of alcohol, cannabis or amphetamine, but were positively correlated with an external locus of control (p &lt; 0.05), infrequent but severe- (p &lt; 0.05) and frequent but mild- (p &lt; 0.005) self-report measures of life stress. Multiple regression indicated that levels of frequent but mild life stress (p &lt; 0.005) and the quantity of ecstasy tablets respondents consumed over a 12-h period (p &lt; 0.05) were the only variables that were significant predictors of self-reported levels of depression. The results of this study indicate that former chronic ecstasy users report higher levels of depression than their matched controls.
Whereas most people require more than 6 h of sleep to feel well rested, there appears to be a group of people who can function well on between 3 and 6 h of sleep. The aims of the present study were to compare 12 naturally short (3-6 h) sleepers (9 males 3 females, mean age 39.6 years, SD age 10.1 years) recruited by a media publicity campaign with age, gender and chronotype matched medium length (7-8.5 h) sleepers on various measures. Measurement instruments included diaries and questionnaires to assess sleep duration and timing, as well as questionnaire assessments of sleep pathology, morningness-eveningness, extroversion, neuroticism, pathological daytime sleepiness, subclinical hypomania, optimism, depressive symptoms, exercise, and work habits. Few measures showed reliable differences between naturally short sleepers and controls except the obvious ones related to sleep duration. There was, however, some evidence for subclinical hypomanic symptoms in naturally short sleepers.
Plasticity in dendritic spines may underlie learning and memory. Spinophilin, a protein enriched in dendritic spines, has the properties of a scaffolding protein and is believed to regulate actin cytoskeletal dynamics affecting dendritic spine morphology. It also binds protein phosphatase-1 (PP-1), an enzyme that regulates dendritic spine physiology. In this study, we tested the role of spinophilin in conditioned taste aversion learning (CTA) using transgenic spinophilin knockout mice. CTA is a form of associative learning in which an animal rejects a food that has been paired previously with a toxic effect (e.g., a sucrose solution paired with a malaise-inducing injection of lithium chloride). Acquisition and extinction of CTA was tested in spinophilin knockout and wild-type mice using taste solutions (sucrose or sodium chloride) or flavors (Kool-Aid) paired with moderate or high doses of LiCl (0.15 M, 20 or 40 mL/kg). When sucrose or NaCl solutions were paired with a moderate dose of LiCl, spinophilin knockout mice were unable to learn a CTA. At the higher dose, knockout mice acquired a CTA but extinguished more rapidly than wild-type mice. A more salient flavor stimulus (taste plus odor) revealed similar CTA learning at both doses of LiCl in both knockouts and wild types. Sensory processing in the knockouts appeared normal because knockout mice and wild-type mice expressed identical unconditioned taste preferences in two-bottle tests, and identical lying-on-belly responses to acute LiCl. We conclude that spinophilin is a candidate molecule required for normal CTA learning.
This report examines a range of models and procedures applicable to polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) research and considers their relative merits. Considerations pertaining to cost, efficiency, and scientific rigor are of particular interest. Parallel activities in other areas of behavioral neuroscience, such as behavioral pharmacology and toxicology, that have profitably exploited various behavior designs for the study of human and animal cognition are noted. Special attention is given to the utility of operant conditioning models and schedules of reinforcement, which are currently underrepresented in PUFA research. Investigations of analogs of complex human behavior as well as implications for generalizing laboratory results to clinical phenomena are addressed.
The vast number of reports dealing with estrogen and its associated molecular signaling cascades deal with genomic processes. However, recently data is emerging that demonstrates that estrogen may also work via estrogen cell surface receptors. In this regard, we describe such receptors on human monocytes, granulocytes and vascular endothelial cells. It would appear that these receptors are coupled to constitutive nitric oxide synthase derived nitric oxide release via the stimulation of intracellular calcium transients. It is this cascade that has the ability to down regulate both immune and vascular cellular processes, i. e, adherence. Based on this, for example we surmise that in menopause an earlier initiation of estrogen therapy may be more beneficial so as to prevent a decrease in its cellular signaling and maintenance functions, at least with respect to NO-related events.
Intrathecal infusions are used in a number of rodent studies to deliver substances to the injured spinal cord. Whereas this method has been successful in certain paradigms, two potential limitations of this model have not been extensively reported: (1) scar formation at the catheter tip, which can lead to infusion failure, and (2) damage to the spinal cord caused by the catheter itself. Thus, the purpose of the present study was threefold: (1) to determine intrathecal infusion efficiency over 14 days following spinal cord injury; (2) to examine possible secondary damage caused by intrathecal tubing; and (3) to explore whether alternative protocols that avoid such damage are effective. Adult Fischer 344 rats were subjected to spinal cord lesions at T7, followed by placement of an intrathecal catheter attached to an Alzet minipump. Seven or 14 days following injury and catheter placement, tube patency was evaluated by diffusion of Evans Blue dye from the minipump. Results indicate that infusion was efficient 7 days following injury but was markedly reduced after 14 days. Further, histology and immunocytochemistry 14 days after injury demonstrated compression damage to the cord where the tubing rested. Alternative protocols, including intrathecal infusions through metal cannulae, or &quot;drip&quot; infusions directly over the lesion, did not improve delivery. These data suggest that results from rodent studies using infusion from catheters placed adjacent to lesion sites may be attributable to acute or subacute effects of the delivered substance. Future rodent studies using intrathecal infusions should include rigorous evaluation of infusion efficiency and possible secondary tissue damage.
Recent studies have suggested that factors in the target tissue influence the degree of plasticity and regeneration following aging and/or specific insults. We have investigated whether young or aged targets differ in their noradrenergic innervation from fetal locus coeruleus (LC) neurons, and also if a specific growth factor, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) can affect this innervation pattern. Tissue pieces of fetal brainstem and young (3 months) or old (18 months) iris tissue were transplanted simultaneously into the anterior chamber of the eye of adult hosts. We found that aged iris transplants became innervated to a significantly lesser degree by the cografted LC neurons than young iris transplants. Fetal hippocampal tissue was then grafted to adult hosts, and a fetal brainstem graft containing LC neurons was placed adjacent to the first graft, either at 3 or 21 months post-grafting. Thus, old/young chimeras of the noradrenergic coeruleo-hippocampal pathway were created. Aged hippocampal grafts received a much less dense innervation from co-grafted LC neurons than young hippocampal grafts. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive-immunoreactive innervation was only found in the outskirts of aged grafts, while the young hippocampal grafts contained an even innervation pattern. The innervation density of hippocampal grafts was significantly enhanced by GDNF treatment. These findings demonstrate that target-derived factors may regulate neuronal plasticity, and that the age of the target is more important for innervation properties than the age of the neuron innervating a particular target.
Clinical and experimental grafting in Parkinson's disease has shown the need for enhanced survival of dopamine neurons to obtain improved functional recovery. In addition, it has been suggested that a limited number of surviving dopamine neurons project to the dopamine-denervated host striatum. The aim of this study was to investigate if subpopulations of ventral mesencephalic dopamine neurons project to their normal targets, i.e., dorsal vs. ventral striatum. Following implantation of human ventral mesencepahlic tissue into the lateral ventricle of dopamine-depleted rats, human-derived dopamine reinnervation was achieved both in dorsal and ventral striatum. Treatment with the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) resulted in a degeneration of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive nerve fibers in dorsal striatum but not in ventral areas in some animals, while MPTP was without effect in other animals. TH-immunoreactive neurons were small and appeared shrunken in animals carrying grafts affected by the MPTP treatment. In conclusion, grafted dopamine neurons projected nerve fibers into areas that they normally innervate. Thus, when searching for factors that may enhance survival of grafted dopamine neurons it is important to study which subpopulation(s) of ventral mesencephalic dopamine neurons is affected, such that a proper reinnervation may be achieved.
The authors present their experience in the microsurgical treatment of trigeminal neuralgia (TGN). Over the last five years 48 patients were explored and 34 (71 %) underwent microvascular decompression (MVD) for significant arterial or venous conflicts. The remaining 14 patients (29 %) underwent partial sensory rhizotomy (PSR) because of negative intraoperative findings (simple contact or no conflict). Excellent or good immediate outcomes were achieved in 87.5 and 12.5 % of patients, respectively. Of the three severe recurrences observed during the follow-up period (24.7 months; range: 7 - 65 months), two underwent percutaneous microcompression and one posterior fossa reexploration, which revealed teflon-induced recompression. None of the PSR cases experienced incapacitating face numbness. MVD, an extremely effective procedure in the immediate post-operative period, is burdened in the long term by 20 % recurrences, the majority occurring within two years from surgery. We believe that careful intraoperative evaluation of the conflict entity could be the key to achieve a significant reduction of recurrences: overestimation of simple vascular contact of doubtful etiologic relevance, may lead to ineffective decompression and unsatisfactory results. In our opinion PSR should be preferred to percutaneous treatments in cases of negative exploration (contact or no conflict). In accordance with others we observed that section of half or less of the inferolateral &quot;portio major&quot; allows long-lasting pain relief and good preservation of sensory function.
Receptor mediated stimulation of the G protein-alpha subunit leads to exchange of GDP for GTP, activating the protein. Spontaneous GDP release from Galpha can also lead to the active state, if GTP in solution binds the nucleotide binding pocket. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the molecular determinants for maintaining the spontaneous GDP release rates between two Galpha subunits. Galpha(t) has a low rate of nucleotide release, compared to Galpha(i1). Galpha(t/i1) chimeras were used to explore the molecular basis for this behavior. The C-terminal alpha4-helix, the N-terminal 56 residues and the Switch I/II regions of Galpha(t) were shown to affect the low spontaneous GDP release rate in Galpha(t). A specific molecular contact between Asp26 and Asn191 was found in Galpha(t) that is not present in Galpha(i1). In two chimeras disrupting this interaction produced an increased spontaneous GDP release; restoring the contact present in Galpha(t) into these chimeras decreased the GDP release rate by half as compared to the original chimeras. Similarly, introduction of this contact in wild-type Galpha(i1) decreased the GDP release rate of Galpha(i1) by half. Differences in GDP release rates may reflect physiological roles these proteins play in living systems.
Several reports have suggested the presence of anticipation in bipolar affective disorder (BPAD). In addition, independent studies using the RED (repeat expansion detection) have shown association between BPAD and longer CAG/CTG repeats. Therefore loci with large CAG/CTG repeats are plausible candidates in the inheritance of BPAD. The present study assesses the length of the repeats in four loci: the ERDA-1 locus which is known to account for most of the long CAG repeats detected by RED, the SEF2-1b locus which is placed in a region where positive linkage results have been reported and the loci MAB21L and KCNN3 as functional candidate genes. A Brazilian case-control sample with 115 unrelated BPAD patients and 196 healthy control subjects and 14 multiply affected bipolar families was investigated. With the case-control design the distribution of alleles between the two groups did not approach statistical significance. The extended transmission disequilibrium test (ETDT) performed in our families did not show evidence for linkage disequilibrium. Parametric and non-parametric linkage analysis also did not provide support for linkage between any of the four loci and BPAD. Our data do not support the hypothesis that variation at the polymorphic CAG/CTG repeat loci ERDA-1, SEF2-1b, MAB21L or KCNN3 influence susceptibility to BPAD in our sample.
Major changes in psychiatric phenotypes due to genetic factors are seldom the result of single gene polymorphisms, but more often the result of several genetic mechanisms. In this millennium article we discuss the notion that the expression of numerous candidate genes could be regulated by the same transcription factors, and that polymorphisms in transcription factor genes might explain some phenotypes. We describe recent results of studies on the biological marker thrombocyte monoamine oxidase (trbc MAO) and the transcription factor AP-2beta. Low levels of trbc MAO is associated with temperamental characteristics such as sensation seeking and impulsiveness, and the enzyme is genetically regulated by specific transcriptional mechanisms. Transcription factor AP-2beta is important for the development of midbrain structures and AP-2beta has several binding sites in the regulatory regions of genes encoding key proteins in the monoamine transmitter systems. We have recently shown AP-2beta to be linked to personality, binge-eating disorder, treatment with antidepressant drugs, and also to trbc MAO. Regardless of whether transcriptions factors, such as AP-2beta, regulate the expression of eg, the number of monoamine neurons or a variety of candidate genes within the monoamine systems, or both, we would like to emphasize the role of transcription factors, besides polymorphisms in monoaminergic candidate genes, when explaining inter-individual differences in temperament and psychiatric vulnerability.
High-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) improves the motor signs of Parkinson's disease (PD). The three main components (motor, associative, and limbic) of the cortical-basal ganglia-cortical circuits pass through the STN. It is not known whether STN stimulation can influence the limbic loop. We present two PD patients in whom acute stimulation of an electrode located in the STN using high stimulation parameters (50% higher than therapeutic) induced funny associations, leading to infectious laughter and hilarity, whereas the therapeutic parameters induced a hypomanic behavior and marked improvement of akinesia. Our report suggests that the STN, with its sensorimotor, cognitive, and limbic parts is not only involved in motor, but also in psychomotor regulation.
Previous studies suggest that the rate of indentation of a tactile probe determines which skin mechanoreceptors are activated. To further investigate this possibility, indentations of 300 microm at velocities of 100 (T100) and 400 microm/ms (T400) were applied to the tip (FT) and the proximal phalanx of digit III (PP) and the thenar eminence (Pm) of ten healthy volunteers, and compared with responses after electrical stimulation at the FT. Compound sensory action potentials (CSAPs) were recorded from the median nerve through needle electrodes at the wrist and elbow. The maximal sensory conduction velocities (SNCVs) between wrist and elbow were similar with electrical and T400 stimulation, but on average were 15% lower with T100 stimulation (P &lt; 0.001). With both indentation velocities, SNCVs were similar regardless of stimulation sites. Amplitudes of tactile CSAPs with FT stimulation were 1--2 microV at T400 and 0.3--0.4 microV at T100. The CSAP areas evoked by T100 stimulation showed a reduction from fingertip to proximal finger to palm (P &lt; 0.05-0.005), whereas those obtained with T400 stimulation showed a reduction only at the palm (P &lt; 0.05). The results support previous studies indicating that fast indentation at 400 microm/ms activated deeply placed Pacinian corpuscles as well as superficially situated Meissner corpuscles, whereas slower indentation at 100 microm/ms activated primarily Meissner corpuscles.
Neural stem and precursor cells reside in the ventricular lining of the fetal forebrain, and may provide a cellular substrate for brain repair. To selectively identify and extract these cells, we infected dissociated fetal human brain cells with adenoviruses bearing the gene for green fluorescence protein (GFP), placed under the control of enhancer/promoters for two genes (nestin and musashi1) that are expressed in uncommitted neuroepithelial cells. The cells were then sorted by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) on the basis of E/nestin- or P/musashi1-driven GFP expression. Both P/musashi1:hGFP- and E/nestin:EGFP-sorted cells were multipotent: limiting dilution with clonal expansion as neurospheres, in tandem with retroviral lineage analysis and xenograft to E17 and P0-2 rat forebrain, revealed that each phenotype was able to both self-renew and co-generate neurons and glia. Thus, fluorescent genes placed under the control of early neural promoters allow neural stem cells to be specifically targeted, isolated, and substantially enriched from the fetal human brain.
We assessed how the visual shape preferences of neurons in the inferior temporal cortex of awake, behaving monkeys generalized across three different stimulus transformations. Stimulus-preferences of particular cells among different polygon displays were correlated across reversed contrast polarity or mirror reversal, but not across figure-ground reversal. This corresponds with psychological findings on human shape judgments. Our results imply that neurons in inferior temporal cortex respond to components of visual shape derived only after figure-ground assignment of contours, not to the contours themselves.
It has been proposed that the human visual system can use temporal synchrony to bind image regions into unified objects, as proposed in some neural models. Here we present experimental results from a new dynamic stimulus suggesting that previous evidence for this hypothesis can be explained with the well-established mechanisms of early visual processing, thus obviating the need to posit new synchrony-sensitive grouping mechanisms (see also ref. 5 for a critique of the binding by neural synchrony hypothesis).

The use of virtual environment (VE) technology to assess spatial navigation in humans has become increasingly common and provides an opportunity to quantify age-related deficits in human spatial navigation and promote a comparative approach to the neuroscience of cognitive aging. The purpose of the present study was to assess age differences in navigational behavior in a VE and to examine the relationship between this navigational measure and other more traditional measures of cognitive aging. Following pre-training, participants were confronted with a VE spatial learning task and completed a battery of cognitive tests. The VE consisted of a richly textured series of interconnected hallways, some leading to dead ends and others leading to a designated goal location in the environment. Compared to younger participants, older volunteers took longer to solve each trial, traversed a longer distance, and made significantly more spatial memory errors. After 5 learning trials, 86% of young and 24% of elderly volunteers were able to locate the goal without error. Performance on the VE navigation task was positively correlated with measures of mental rotation and verbal and visual memory.
Vaccinations with Abeta1-42 have been shown to reduce amyloid burden in transgenic models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have further tested the efficacy of Abeta1-42 immunization in the Tg2576 mouse model of AD by immunizing one group of mice with minimal Abeta deposition, one group of mice with modest Abeta deposition, and one group with significant Abeta deposition. The effects of immunization on Abeta deposition were examined using biochemical and immunohistochemical methods. In Tg2576 mice immunized prior to significant amyloid deposition, Abeta1-42 immunization was highly effective. Biochemically extracted Abeta40 and Abeta42 levels were significantly reduced and immunohistochemical plaque load was also reduced. Immunization of mice with modest amounts of pre-existing Abeta deposits selectively reduced Abeta42 without altering Abeta40, although plaque load was reduced. In contrast, in Tg2576 mice with significant pre-existing Abeta loads, Abeta1-42 immunization only minimally decreased Abeta42 levels, whereas no alteration in Abeta40 levels or in plaque load was observed. These results indicate that in Tg2576 mice, Abeta1-42 immunization is more effective at preventing additional Abeta accumulation and does not result in significant clearance of pre-existing Abeta deposits.
Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is a rare but very serious disorder caused by herpes simplex type 1 virus (HSV-1). Treatment with acyclovir decreases mortality but many patients still suffer cognitive impairment subsequently. A vaccine against HSV1 would therefore be of great value. HSV-1 has been implicated also in Alzheimer's disease (AD): we established that HSV1 resides in the brain of about two thirds of AD patients and aged normal people, and that in carriers of the type 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene, it is a strong risk factor for AD. Thus a vaccine against HSV-1 might prevent development of AD in some cases. To find whether a vaccine of mixed HSV-1 glycoproteins (ISCOMs), which protects mice from latent HSV-1 infection of sensory ganglia, prevents HSV1 latency in the CNS, ISCOM-vaccinated or unvaccinated animals were infected with HSV-1. Using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) we detected HSV-1 in brain from 16 of 39 unvaccinated mice (41%), but only 3 of 41 vaccinated mice (7%) (P &lt; 0.001). Thus, ISCOMs protect the CNS also, suggesting their possible future usage in humans.
We investigated the effects of one-trial fear conditioning on phospholipase C-beta1a catalytic activity and protein level in hippocampal formation and medial frontal cortex of untreated control rats and rats prenatally exposed to ethanol. One hour following fear conditioning of untreated control rats, phospholipase C-beta1a protein level was increased in the hippocampal cytosolic fraction and decreased in the hippocampal membrane and cortical cytosolic and cortical membrane fractions. Twenty-four hours after fear conditioning, phospholipase C-beta1a protein level was reduced in the hippocampal cytosolic fraction and elevated in the cortical nuclear fraction; in addition, 24 h after conditioning, phospholipase C-beta1a activity in the cortical cytosolic fraction was increased. Rats that were exposed prenatally to ethanol displayed attenuated contextual fear conditioning, whereas conditioning to the acoustic-conditioned stimulus was not different from controls. In behavioral control (unconditioned) rats, fetal ethanol exposure was associated with reduced phospholipase C-beta1a enzyme activity in the hippocampal nuclear, cortical cytosolic, and cortical membrane fractions and increased phospholipase C-beta1a protein level in the hippocampal membrane and cortical cytosolic fractions. In certain cases, prenatal ethanol exposure modified the relationship between fear conditioning and changes in phospholipase C-beta1a protein level and/or activity. The majority of these effects occurred 1 h, rather than 24 h, after fear conditioning. Multivariate analysis of variance revealed interactions between fear conditioning, subcellular fraction, and prenatal ethanol exposure for measures of phospholipase C-beta1a protein level in hippocampal formation and phospholipase C-beta1a enzyme activity in medial frontal cortex. In the majority of cases, fear conditioning-induced changes in hippocampal phospholipase C-beta1a protein level were augmented in rats prenatally exposed to ethanol. In contrast, fear conditioning-induced changes in cortical phospholipase C-beta1a activity were, often, in opposite directions in prenatal ethanol-exposed compared to diet control rats. We speculate that alterations in subcellular phospholipase C-beta1a catalytic activity and protein level contribute to contextual fear conditioning and that learning deficits observed in rats exposed prenatally to ethanol result, in part, from dysfunctions in phospholipase C-beta1a signal transduction.
Holger Hydn demonstrated almost 40 years ago that learning changes the base composition of nuclear RNA, i.e. induces an alteration in gene expression. An equally revolutionary observation at that time was that a base change occurred in both neurons and glia. From these findings, Holger Hydn concluded that establishment of memory is correlated with protein synthesis, and he demonstrated de novo synthesis of several high-molecular protein species after learning. Moreover, the protein, S-100, which is mainly found in glial cells, was increased during learning, and antibodies towards this protein inhibited memory consolidation. S-100 belongs to a family of Ca(2+)-binding proteins, and Holger Hydn at an early point realized the huge importance of Ca(2+) in brain function. He established that glial cells show more marked and earlier changes in RNA composition in Parkinson's disease than neurons. Holger Hydn also had the vision and courage to suggest that &quot;mental diseases could as well be thought to depend upon a disturbance of processes in glia cells as in the nerve cells&quot;, and he showed that antidepressant drugs cause profound changes in glial RNA. The importance of Holger Hydn's findings and visions can only now be fully appreciated. His visionary concepts of the involvement of glia in neurological and mental illness, of learning being associated with changes in gene expression, and of the functional importance of Ca(2+)-binding proteins and Ca(2+) are presently being confirmed and expanded by others. This review briefly summarizes highlights of Holger Hydn's work in these areas, followed by a discussion of recent research, confirming his findings and expanding his visions. This includes strong evidence that glial dysfunction is involved in the development of Parkinson's disease, that drugs effective in mood disorders alter gene expression and exert profound effects on astrocytes, and that neuronal-astrocytic interactions in glutamate signaling, NO synthesis, Ca(2+) signaling, beta-adrenergic activity, second messenger production, protein kinase activities, and transcription factor phosphorylation control the highly programmed events that carry the memory trace through the initial, signal-mediated short-term and intermediate memory stages to protein synthesis-dependent long-term memory.
We examined the vesicular accumulation of the excitatory amino-acid (EAA) neurotransmitters, L-glutamate and L-aspartate, together with the non-metabolisable EAA analogue D-aspartate. Synaptosomes derived from whole brain were incubated in various concentrations of [3H]-amino acids under conditions to facilitate vesicular turnover. Synaptosomes were then lysed in hypotonic medium and vesicles immunoprecipitated with monoclonal anti-synaptophysin antibodies coupled to sepharose beads. Using this method, saturable vesicular accumulation was observed for [3H]-L-glutamate, [3H]-L-aspartate, and [3H]-D-aspartate but not for the excitatory amino acid receptor ligands [3H]-AMPA or [3H]-kainate. Vesicular accumulation (t(1/2)=7.45 min) was markedly slower than synaptosomal accumulation (t(1/2)=1.03 min) and was substantially reduced at 4 degrees C. Maximal accumulation of [3H]-L-glutamate, [3H]-L-aspartate, and [3H]-D-aspartate was estimated to be 98, 68, and 112 pmol/mg of synaptosomal protein, respectively, and uptake affinities 1.6, 3.4, and 2.1 mM, respectively. Maximal accumulation of [3H]-L-glutamate was non-competitively inhibited by both 100 microM unlabeled L-aspartate and 100 microM D-aspartate, suggesting that all are accumulated into a common vesicular pool by different transporters.
Recent evidence demonstrates that two subdivisions of the nucleus accumbens, the dorsolateral core and the ventromedial shell can be distinguished by morphological, immunohistochemical and chemoarchitectural differences. In the present study, we measured basal levels of amino acids in microdialysates from both the shell and core subterritories of the nucleus accumbens in freely moving rats using HPLC with fluorescence detection. The effect of the dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptor agonist quinelorane (30 microg/kg s.c.) was then investigated in both subregions. With the exception of glutamate, histidine, and serine, which showed similar levels in both subterritories, alanine, arginine, aspartate, gamma-aminobutyric acid, glutamine, and tyrosine were significantly higher in the shell compared with the core. In contrast, taurine levels were significantly lower in the shell than in the core. A particularly striking difference across subregions of the nucleus accumbens was observed for basal GABA levels with a shell/core ratio of 18.5. Among all the amino acids investigated in the present study, quinelorane selectively decreased dialysate GABA levels in the core subregion of the nucleus accumbens. The results of the present study point to specific profiles of both shell and core in terms of: (1) basal chemical neuroanatomical markers for amino acids; and (2) GABAergic response to the DA D(3)/D(2) agonist quinelorane.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) has a fundamental intracellular role as the universal source of energy for all living cells. The demonstration of its release into the extracellular space and the identification and localisation of specific receptors on target cells have been essential in establishing, after considerable resistance, its extracellular physiological roles. It is now generally accepted that ATP is a genuine neurotransmitter both in the central and peripheral nervous systems. As such, there are numerous arguments which prove that the release of ATP by nerve terminals is by exocytosis. In some non-neuronal cells, however, recent evidence suggests that ATP release could also be carrier-mediated and would involve ATP-binding cassette proteins (ABC), an ubiquitous family of transport ATPases.
Oscillations within and across neuronal systems are believed to serve various complex functions, such as perception, cognition, movement initiation, plasticity and memory. GABAergic interneurons and their inhibitory synapses play a major role in these oscillatory patterns. Networks of inhibitory interneurons impose a coordinated oscillatory &quot;context&quot; for the &quot;content&quot; carried by networks of principal cells. This hypothesis implies that GABAergic neuronal &quot;supernetworks&quot; may cooperatively entrain large populations of pyramidal cells throughout the forebrain. Experiments on hippocampal interneurons are reviewed and possible solutions for some of these complex functions are illustrated.

We report on the initial imaging findings with a new technique for the simultaneous and continuous acquisition of functional MRI data and EEG recording. Thirty-seven stereotyped interictal epileptiform discharges (spikes) were identified on EEG recorded continuously during the fMRI acquisition on a patient with epilepsy. Localization of the BOLD activation associated with the EEG events was consistent with previous findings and EEG source modeling. The time course of activation was comparable with the physiological hemodynamic response function (HRF). The new methodology could lead to novel and important applications in many areas of neuroscience.
We investigated whether observation of actions reproduced in three-dimensional virtual reality would engage perceptual and visuomotor brain processes different from those induced by the observation of real hand actions. Participants were asked to passively observe grasping actions of geometrical objects made by a real hand or by hand reconstructions of different quality in 3D virtual reality as well as on a 2D TV screen. We found that only real actions in natural environment activated a visuospatial network including the right posterior parietal cortex. Observation of virtual-reality hand actions engaged prevalent visual perceptual processes within lateral and mesial occipital regions. Thus, only perception of actions in reality maps onto existing action representations, whereas virtual-reality conditions do not access the full motor knowledge available to the central nervous system.
The majority of working memory research has been carried out within the visual and auditory modalities, leaving it unclear how other modalities would map onto currently proposed working memory models. In this study we examined the previously uninvestigated area of olfactory working memory. Our aim was to investigate if olfactory working memory would engage prefrontal regions known to be involved in working memory for other sensory modalities. Using positron emission tomography we measured cerebral blood flow changes in 12 volunteers during an olfactory working memory task and a comparison visual working memory task. Our findings indicate that both olfactory and face working memory engaged dorsolateral and ventrolateral frontal cortex when the task requirements were matched; a conjunction analysis indicated overlap in the distribution of activity in the two tasks. Similarities and differences in activity were noted in parietal lobe regions, with both tasks engaging inferior areas of 40/7, but only visual working memory showing increased activity within left superior parietal cortex. The findings support the idea that working memory processes engage frontal cortical areas independent of the modality of input, but do not rule out the possibility of modality-specific neural populations within dorsolateral or ventrolateral cortex.
Vasculitis causing peripheral neuropathy may be the first sign of HIV infection. We report four such cases in whom the onset of peripheral neuropathy led to the detection of HIV infection. Two patients presented with features of mononeuritis multiplex, while the other two had a lumbosacral polyradiculopathy. A prior history of blood transfusion was forthcoming in one of the patients. Sural nerve biopsies in all the four cases and the muscle biopsy in two, histologically showed evidence of vasculitis. Immunohistochemically, the viral antigen was not demonstrable in any of the biopsies, but on electron microscope, virus-like particles were identifiable in the Schwann cell cytoplasm and the perivascular macrophages in one case. To the best of our knowledge, this is the only report that has documented the virus in the Schwann cells as well as the perivascular macrophages lending credence to the fact that these viruses are neurotropic as well as lymphotropic. Immunoglobulin deposits were not demonstrable in any of the cases, suggesting that direct viral invasion may have a role in the pathogenesis of peripheral nerve vasculitis.
Thrombolytic therapy for acute ischaemic stroke has recently become available in India but its success depends on initiating the treatment in the narrow therapeutic time window. There is commonly a delay of several hours before patients with acute stroke seek medical attention. A prospective study was conducted to assess the factors influencing this delay in admission of acute stroke cases. 110 cases (71 males, 39 females) of acute stroke that arrived within 72 hours at our hospital casualty were recruited. A standardized structured questionnaire was given to patients or their attendants. The median time to casualty arrival was 7.66 hours with 25% cases arriving within 3 hours and 49 % cases within 6 hours. Distance from hospital, contact with a local doctor and low threat perception of symptoms of stroke were independent factors associated with delay in arrival. Living in city, presence of family history and older age were associated with early arrival. There was no correlation with patients' or attendants' sex, educational status, history of previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack, subtype or severity of stroke, time of stroke and availability of transport. Adequate measures need to be taken to improve the public awareness of stroke and the role of local doctors.
Infective intracranial aneurysms are relatively uncommon. They develop due to septic embolisation of the vasa vasorum or lumen of the artery, with resultant focal arteritis and necrosis, leading to aneurysm formation. They are an important cause for intracranial haemorrhage. Six cases of infective aneurysms are described. A focus of infection could be detected in all the patients. Surgery was done in three cases, out of which two patients made significant recovery, while one patient died in the immediate postoperative period. Out of the three cases, treated conservatively with antibiotic therapy, there was total resolution on follow up angiogram in two, while one patient was lost to follow up.
A retrospective analysis of clinicopathological data of 10 patients with clinically unsuspected cerebral metastatic choriocarcinoma was carried out. All patients were young adult females. History of preceding pregnancy/abortion was forthcoming in 5 cases but none had a prior history of abnormal gestation. Features of raised intracranial tension followed by hemiparesis were the commonest presenting symptoms. A clinicoradiologic diagnosis of intracerebral haemorrhagic mass, either primary or secondary to tumour bleed, cortico-venous thrombosis or arteriovenous malformation, was entertained in 8 out of 10 cases. In other two cases, ring enhancing lesions prompted the diagnosis of granulomatous masses. Eight patients were operated upon, of whom two died after short hospital stay, and were autopsied. All had haemorrhagic masses noted at surgery/autopsy. Accurate diagnosis of metastatic choriocarcinoma was established only by histologic examination of these haemorrhages. This report emphasizes the importance of considering metastatic choriocarcinoma as an important differential diagnosis of haemorrhagic intracerebral lesions in women of child bearing age group. Measurement of serum/CSF level of HCG in suspected cases helps to implement early therapy. The diagnostic value of histopathologic examination of surgically resected blood clots in determining aetiology of intracerebral haemorrhagic masses is highlighted.
A 56-year-old man had undergone extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass surgery for occlusion of the right internal carotid artery. Six years later, he complained of transient episodes of numbness in the left arm, occurring periodically over the previous 3 months. Neuroimaging showed the right external carotid artery was severely narrowed and cerebral blood flow (CBF) was diffusely low. Endarterectomy of the right external carotid artery was performed. Postoperative CBF was markedly improved, suggesting that EC-IC bypass became effective again by endarterectomy of a parent artery.
Mutations in the calpain 3 gene have been proven to be responsible for limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) type 2A. To determine the incidence and genotypes of the calpain 3 (p94) gene mutations in Japanese LGMD patients, we sequenced the gene in 80 patients with clinical characteristics of autosomal recessive or sporadic LGMD. We identified 13 distinct pathogenic mutations in 21 patients (26%), including seven missense mutations, four splice-site mutations and two insertions in which six were novel mutations. Among the 21 patients, 15 (71%) had three types of the common missense (G233V, R461C, D707G) and one insertion (1795-1796insA) mutation. The patients had slowly progressive muscle weakness with age of onset of the disease varying from 6 to 52 years, averaging 20.9. The most striking pathologic findings were the presence of lobulated fibers in 14 patients, especially in the advanced stages. Differing from Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy, opaque (hypercontracted) fibers were very rarely seen. These findings may be helpful in establishing diagnostic screening strategies in Japanese LGMD patients.
Nitric oxide is a ubiquitous cell-signaling molecule involved in regulation of numerous homeostatic mechanisms and in mediation of tissue injury. Nitric oxide influences contraction, blood flow, and metabolism, as well as myogenesis. Nitric oxide exerts its influence by activation of guanylate cyclase and nitrosylation of proteins, which include glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, the ryanodine receptor and actomyosin ATPase. Skeletal muscle expresses all three isoforms of the nitric oxide synthase, including a muscle-specific splice variant; expression of the isoforms is fiber-type specific and influenced by age and disease. Nitric oxide produced with certain systemic conditions and local inflammation is likely toxic to skeletal muscle, either directly or in reactions with oxygen-derived radicals. Although nitric oxide impacts on many functions in muscle, its effects are subtle, and much work remains to be done to determine its importance in the pathogenesis of muscle diseases.
Cyclin D1 regulates G1-S progression. In many carcinomas it is overexpressed and it might even correlate with prognosis. However, the amplification of CCND1 contributes to the loss of cell cycle control only in a small fraction of malignant gliomas. Cyclin D1 can be immunohistochemically demonstrated by DCS-6 mAb. In astrocytic gliomas the fraction of tumor cells with positive nuclei is almost null in well differentiated tumors and increases with the increase of proliferation rate that occurs in anaplasia. The correct evaluation of this fraction is hindered by the positive staining of normal oligodendrocytes and microglia cells. The cyclin D1-positive staining of normal oligodendrocytes and microglia cells has been studied in a series of 20 oligodendrogliomas, five diffuse astrocytomas and five oligoastrocytomas and in 10 samples of normal cortex and white matter, using cyclin D1 DCS-6 mAb, Feulgen reaction and CR3.43 mAb for microglia cells. As well as microglial nuclei, the nuclei of normal oligodendrocytes of the cortex and white matter, including peri-neuronal satellites and pericapillary cells, were immunostained by DCS-6 mAb. In infiltrative areas of oligodendrogliomas, normal, cyclin D1-positive oligodendrocytes and cyclin D1-negative tumor cells coexisted. In anaplastic oligodendrogliomas, cycling tumor oligodendrocytes may regain the capacity to express cyclin D1, which is thus positive in some tumor cells. The occurrence of positive oligodendrocytes in the peripheral parts of tumors can be useful in distinguishing astrocytomas from oligoastrocytomas.
The median preoptic (MnPO) nucleus, a key CNS site for hydromineral and cardiovascular homeostasis, receives a dense norepinephrine innervation from brainstem autonomic centers. Since norepinephrine is known to influence neuronal excitability by modulating calcium channel function, we applied whole cell patch clamp techniques to study calcium currents in 116 dissociated MnPO neurons, including 30 cells identified by a retrograde label as projecting to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. Norepinephrine (3-50 microM) suppressed high-voltage-activated calcium currents (HVA I(Ca)) in 80% of cells, selectively blockable by yohimbine and mimicked by UK14,304 and clonidine. The norepinephrine effect was relieved by strong prior depolarization, indicating a voltage-dependent component. Intracellular GTP-gamma-S blocked the effect. Blockade by extracellular NEM suggested involvement of pertussis-toxin sensitive G-proteins. Based on pharmacological properties, these HVA I(Ca)s had the following composition: 40-45% N-type (blockable by omega-conotoxin GVIA); 20-25% L-type (blockable by nimodipine); 15-20% P/Q-type (blockable by omega-agatoxin IVA). Since approximately 75% of the norepinephrine effect was blockable with omega-conotoxin GVIA, we conclude that postsynaptic alpha(2) adrenoceptors preferentially suppress N-type calcium channels, revealing a novel mechanism whereby norepinephrine can modulate excitability in MnPO neurons.
Delta(9)-Tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC), the psychoactive ingredient of cannabis sativa, reduces both extracellular hippocampal acetylcholine concentration and correct alternation tasks in the T-maze. The principal aim of this study was to determine whether a chronic Delta(9)-THC treatment would induce tolerance both to the reduction of extracellular hippocampal acetylcholine concentration and memory deficit produced by the drug. Our results show that a chronic Delta(9)-THC treatment (5mg/kg, i.p., twice daily for two weeks) did not produce tolerance to the inhibitory effects induced by the drug. Moreover, no strict temporal correlation between the two Delta(9)-THC effects was observed: the inhibition in extracellular acetylcholine concentration appeared only 80 min after treatment, while the reduction of correct alternation tasks in the T-maze began after 20 min. The cognitive and cholinergic effects induced by a chronic Delta(9)-THC treatment were completely blocked by the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR 141716A, indicating an involvement of CB(1) cannabinoid receptors in the persistent negative effects induced by the drug. These findings confirm the proposition that CB(1) cannabinoid receptors mediate the negative effects induced by Delta(9)-THC both on hippocampal extracellular acetylcholine concentration and correct alternation tasks in the T-maze, and they indicate that these effects may be differentiated. However, the major outcome of this work is the demonstration that no tolerance to the two inhibitory effects develops after a chronic Delta(9)-THC treatment.
An involvement of the D3 dopamine receptor in the modulation of extracellular dopamine concentrations is suggested by pharmacological studies. However, recent studies using D3 receptor knock out mice indicated that several functions previously attributed to the D3 receptor are mediated by other receptor types. In the present study, we used the no-net flux microdialysis technique to characterize: (i) basal dopamine dynamics in the ventral striatum of D3 knock out and wild type mice and (ii) the effects of the putative D3-receptor selective agonist (+)-PD 128907. Neither the extracellular dopamine concentration nor the in vivo extraction fraction, an indirect measure of basal dopamine uptake, differed between D3 knock out and wild type mice. Moreover, no differences in potassium (60 mM) or cocaine (5 or 20 mg/kg i.p.) evoked dopamine concentrations were detected between the two genotypes. However, intra-striatal or systemic administration of doses of (+)-PD 128907 that failed to modify dopamine concentrations in knock out mice significantly decreased dialysate dopamine concentrations in the wild type. Comparison of the concentration-response curve for (+)-PD 128907 revealed IC(25) values of 61 and 1327 nM in wild type and knock out mice, respectively, after intra-striatal infusions. Similar differences were obtained after systemic administration of the D3 preferring agonist (IC(25) 0.05 and 0.44 mg/kg i.p. in wild type and knock out mice, respectively). We conclude that the activation of the D3 receptor decreases extracellular dopamine levels and that, at sufficiently low doses, the effects of (+)-PD 128907 on extracellular dopamine are selectively mediated by the D3 receptor.
The pharmacology of [(125)I]-apamin binding sites was examined in rat cortical and hippocampal tissue and compared with membranes prepared from human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells transfected with SK channel subtypes hSK1, rSK2 and rSK3. The K(D) of [(125)I]-apamin in rat cortex and hippocampus was similar to the apamin-sensitive subtypes, rSK2 and rSK3 (K(D) (pM): 6.4, 7.08, 6.56 and 8.94, respectively). In addition, [(125)I]-apamin had a K(D)=270.4pM for the putatively 'apamin-insensitive' hSK1. Apamin had about a three-fold higher affinity than [(125)I]-apamin in brain tissue and in the cells expressing the different SK channel subtypes. Pancuronium, bicuculline and d-tubocurarine displayed micromolar affinity for all five-membrane preparations, whereas dequalinium and gallamine appear to show some subtype selectivity. Tetraethylammonium (TEA) and 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) had millimolar affinity and linopirdine had no effect. In conclusion, the pharmacology of [(125)I]-apamin binding in the cortex and hippocampus was similar to that in the apamin-sensitive clones, rSK2 and rSK3. In addition, we demonstrated low affinity [(125)I]-apamin binding for hSK1 and identified compounds that show subtype selectivity. These data cast further doubt on the identification of SK1 as encoding for the K(+) channel responsible for the apamin-insensitive sAHP.
The prolactin response to dl-fenfluramine (an indirect central serotonin agonist) challenge has been used to assess serotonergic function and appears to be blunted in depressed patients. We used this method to determine whether the serotonergic deficit in depressed patients is corrected by treatment with paroxetine. Prior to treatment with paroxetine sixteen depressed patients received a placebo challenge followed by a dl-fenfluramine challenge the next day. The same two challenges were repeated after treatment. Prolactin baseline levels were measured before pill administration, and then hourly for 5 hours. Fenfluramine/norfenfluramine levels were assayed at each time point after drug administration. Treatment with paroxetine significantly increased the baseline prolactin level independently of treatment response but positively correlated with paroxetine dose. We found that pre-treatment prolactin response to dl-fenfluramine challenge did not predict clinical response to paroxetine, nor did the prolactin response change significantly after treatment. There was no significant difference in the post-treatment prolactin response between treatment responders and treatment non-responders. We found evidence of increased prolactin levels that may reflect effects of paroxetine in enhancing serotonin levels. Acute release of serotonin as measured by the prolactin response to fenfluramine is not altered by paroxetine treatment.
Alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonists (lofexidine, clonidine) are used to alleviate short-term opioid withdrawal in humans. In rats, acute injections of these agents attenuate stress-induced reinstatement of heroin and cocaine seeking at time points that are beyond the acute drug withdrawal phase. Here, we studied whether exposure to lofexidine would attenuate reinstatement of a heroin-cocaine mixture (speedball) seeking induced by exposure to stress or to drug-associated cues. Rats were trained to lever press for speedball for 10 days, and the drug-reinforced behavior was then extinguished for 11 days in the presence (Experiment 1) or the absence (Experiment 2) of the drug cues. Subsequently, rats were tested for reinstatement of drug seeking after exposure to intermittent footshock stress (5-15 min; Experiment 1) or the drug cues (Experiment 2). Starting on day 7 of training, rats received daily injections of saline or lofexidine (0.1 or 0.2 mg/kg). Repeated lofexidine treatment significantly attenuated footshock-induced reinstatement, but did not alter drug cues-induced reinstatement of speedball seeking. In addition, lofexidine did not have a consistent effect on speedball self-administration and extinction behavior. Results extend previous reports with acute drug injections, indicating that lofexidine maintains its effect on stress-induced reinstatement after repeated treatment. The present data also suggest that the neurochemical events underlying stress- and drug cues-induced relapse are not identical.

Dehydroepiandrosterone, its sulfate (DHEAS) and pregnenolone sulfate, representative neurosteroids as well as (+)-pentazocine concentration-dependently stimulated the [35S]GTPgammaS binding in synaptic membranes of mouse prefrontal cortex. These stimulations were blocked by NE-100, a sigma-receptor antagonist, and by progesterone, another type of neurosteroid. The DHEAS-induced stimulation was blocked by the pertussis toxin (PTX)-treatment, and completely recovered by reconstitution of PTX-treated membranes with recombinant G(i1), but not with G(oA). DHEAS also stimulated the [35S]GTPgammaS binding in the coronal sections of mouse brain in NE-100- or progesterone-reversible manner. These findings suggest that some neurosteroids may act on metabotropic sigma receptors, and this study may be the first to show the coupling of neurosteroid binding site and G(i).

Accumulated evidence suggests that extracellular ATP functions occur in neurons and glial cells in the nervous systems. Besides well-documented roles as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator, ATP has also been demonstrated to have effects on glial cells. Reports have shown that ATP stimulates microglia to release various biologically active substances, such as interleukin-1 beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and plasminogen. Microglial cell death was also demonstrated after stimulation with high-dose ATP. Although these responses were known to occur, via P2X7, we have recently found that ATP and ADP induced the formation of membrane ruffles and chemotaxis through Gi/o-coupled P2Y receptors. Taken together, it is suggested that two distinct P2X and P2Y receptor subtypes are involved in the diverse function of microglia in both physiological and pathological states.






Age-related changes of the optic nerve fibres were studied in 3-month-old (young), 12-month-old (adult) and 24-month-old (aged) male Sprague-Dawley rats. The optic nerve was harvested with particular care from the intracranial portion. Cross sections from the optic nerve of animals of different age groups were stained with toluidine blue and examined under a light microscope at low and high magnification. Other sections were stained for the demonstration of glial cells using the method described by Holzer. A third group of sections were stained by the immunohistochemical method to detect glial fibrillary acidic protein, which is a marker for localising and characterising astrocytes. All these morphological results were subjected to the quantitative analysis of images and to statistical analysis of the values to identify significant morphometric data. Biochemical dosages of proteins were also performed on homogenised fragments of the optic nerve. Our results demonstrate that the following age-related changes can be observed: (1) an increase in meningeal membranes, (2) an increased number of astrocytes, (3) an increase in areal density of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivities, (4) an increased thickness of the entire optic nerve and an increased area of the nerve, (5) a decreased number of nerve fibres and (6) a decrease in the nerve fibre/meningeal membrane ratio from 3:1 to 1:1. Moreover, the amount of protein does not change with age. The rat optic nerve, therefore, appears sensitive to aging processes.

We have undertaken a series of experiments using galanin null mutant mice to better define the role of endogenous galanin in spinal excitability following inflammation and in response to centrally sensitizing stimuli. We have employed a behavioural paradigm, the formalin test, as a model of tonic nociception in both galanin knock-out (gal-/-) and wild-type (gal+/+) mice. In this model, we find that gal-/- mice are markedly hypo-responsive, especially in the second phase response. Additionally, we have examined the thermal hyperalgesia which develops following peripheral injection of carrageenan into the plantar surface of one hindpaw. In this inflammatory paradigm, thermal hyperalgesia is markedly attenuated in gal-/- mice. These behavioural findings suggest that endogenous galanin contributes to nociceptive processing. We have tested this hypothesis further by employing an electrophysiological measure of spinal excitability, the flexor withdrawal reflex in gal-/- and gal+/+ mice. We found no differences in acute reflex responses to single stimuli at C-fibre strength or in the time course and magnitude of wind-up induced by a short conditioning train between non-inflamed gal+/+ and gal-/- mice. However, the long-lasting post-conditioning enhancement of reflex excitability was only seen in gal+/+ mice. Moreover, following carrageenan inflammation, there was a marked increase in spinal nociceptive reflex excitability in the inflamed gal+/+ mice, but this enhanced excitability was absent in gal-/- animals. These findings illustrate that endogenous galanin is necessary for the full expression of central sensitization, and as such, plays a critical role in the development of hyperalgesia following peripheral tissue injury.

Positron emission tomography (PET) scan is considered to be the most useful tool with which to assess the integrity of nigrostriatal function in the living brain. Recently, different genetic defects have been associated with a variety of familial parkinsonian syndromes, the clinical phenotypes of which have varying degrees of similarities to idiopathic parkinsonism (IP), (sporadic Parkinson's disease). This review summarizes: (1) the PET scan findings (fluorodopa uptake and raclopride binding) in both familial parkinsonian syndromes and IP; and (2) the similarities and differences of the clinical and PET features between familial parkinsonian syndromes and IP. This analysis demonstrates that more similarities than differences exist in PET scan findings in the different familial parkinsonian syndromes with the exception of pallido-ponto-nigral degeneration (PPND), that is perhaps best considered as multisystem degeneration. As a result of this analysis, we believe that while different genetic defects may underlie different mechanisms of nigrostriatal degeneration, the final pattern of nigrostriatal dysfunction is essentially similar to that of IP. 'Parkinson's disease', therefore, may not represent a single disease entity, but rather the final manifestation of different pathogenetic mechanisms-mediated by genetic or environmental factors, or an interaction of genetic and environmental factors.
The differentiation between Parkinson's disease (PD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and multiple system atrophy (MSA) is important for prognostic and therapeutic purposes. In order to evaluate the diagnostic capability of two tests reflecting these items, patients fulfilling strict clinical criteria for PD (n=35), MSA (n=36) and PSP (n=14), were consecutively included. An analysis of neurofilament protein (NFL), a marker of axonal degeneration in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and a levodopa test, recorded with optoelectronic technique were performed. Using discriminant analyses, the test's abilities to predict the clinical PD or non-PD (MSA and PSP) diagnoses were compared. Whereas the CSF-NFL and levodopa tests predicted 79 and 85% correct diagnoses respectively, the combined test predicted 90% correct diagnoses. We conclude that the CSF-NFL and levodopa tests provide detailed information of clinical variables on which the clinical diagnostic criteria are based. As they are pathologically unrelated, the diagnostic precision increases compared to clinical diagnoses when they are combined.
Antiepileptic drugs are widely administered to individuals with autistic spectrum disorders. There are several reasons for the use of antiepileptic drugs in autistic spectrum disorders, including the high incidence of epilepsy in these individuals, the anecdotal reports suggesting an improvement of communication and behavior in autistic subjects with epileptic discharges, and the increased awareness that some disruptive behaviors may be manifestations of an associated affective disorder. In this study, data on the current use of antiepileptic drugs in the treatment of autism, and on the association of affective disorders with epilepsy and autism, are reviewed. The evidence supporting the hypothesis that there may be a subgroup of autistic children with epilepsy and affective disorders that preferentially respond to antiepileptic drugs is still very preliminary, and further investigations with double-blind controlled studies are needed. Although the role of antiepileptic drugs at the present time is not established, there is evidence that autism, epilepsy, and affective disorders commonly co-occur, and that they may share a common neurochemical substrate, which is the common target of the psychotropic mechanism of action of different antiepileptic drugs.
Acute functional tolerance (AFT) manifests as rapid adaptation during a single ethanol exposure, leading to a decrease in the behavioral response to ethanol. In order to investigate the genetic and environmental components of the development of AFT, mice were selectively bred in replicate from HS/Ibg mice. High (HAFT) and low (LAFT) acute functional tolerance selected lines were bred to differ in the rate of development and magnitude of AFT to ethanol's intoxicating effects using a static dowel-balancing task. In the present set of experiments, HAFT and LAFT mice were tested for development of AFT on a fixed-speed rotarod using a protocol similar to that for which they were selected. HAFT mice developed greater AFT to ethanol than did LAFT mice. In a separate experiment, other mice from these lines were tested for initial sensitivity and the development of chronic tolerance to ethanol-induced hypothermia, and ethanol-induced incoordination in the grid test. Previous research has detected possible common genetic control of these phenotypes. No differences between lines were found in initial sensitivity to ethanol or in the development or magnitude of chronic tolerance in either test. These experiments show that genetic factors influencing the development of acute tolerance to ethanol-induced intoxication are at least partially distinct from those influencing initial sensitivity and the development of chronic tolerance to ethanol-induced hypothermia and incoordination. Furthermore, these experiments show that AFT measured by the stationary dowel generalizes to AFT measured by the fixed-speed rotarod.
The present study compared male and female mice for frequency of naloxone-precipitated jumping and naloxone ED(50) values, two common indices of physical dependence, following acute and chronic morphine administration. Both sexes displayed a positive dose-response relationship between acute morphine and naloxone doses and jumping frequency. There was a significant main effect of sex, with mean jumping frequencies greater in males. The naloxone ED(50) estimate was also fourfold lower in males, indicating greater withdrawal sensitivity than females. Jumping frequencies were similar in male and female saline-treated control mice, discounting initial sex differences as a significant factor in the unequal magnitude and sensitivity in acute morphine dependence between sexes. In contrast, males and females displayed similar mean withdrawal jumping frequencies and naloxone ED(50) values after 3 days of morphine injections. Sex difference in withdrawal jumping was also not observed when morphine treatment was increased to 7 days via daily injection or continuous subcutaneous infusion. The present study demonstrates the development of greater physical dependence in male relative to female mice following acute but not chronic morphine administration.
Anxiolytic benzodiazepines, at low doses, reportedly impair the radial arm maze with nonspatial visual/tactile but not spatial cues. We replicated the former result controlling for changes in drug state and cue effectiveness. Rats learned an eight-arm radial maze with reward in only four arms. The reward varied in spatial position from trial to trial but was always cued by a piece of sandpaper at the entry to the arm. Chlordiazepoxide (5 mg/kg, ip) impaired acquisition. Rats that switched from saline during acquisition to chlordiazepoxide showed an impairment of performance that only lasted for 1 day. Removal of the cues reduced the performance of controls and switched rats to the level of the rats that received chlordiazepoxide during acquisition but did not affect the latter. These data suggest that chlordiazepoxide does indeed impair nonspatial reference memory in the radial arm maze while leaving working memory, and, possibly, spatial reference memory, intact but that the previous report of this effect was the result of a change in drug state rather than of the drug itself.
8-Hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT, 2 mg/kg) is used to induce perseverative behavior in rats in a T-maze as a model for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Using the open-field test, radiant heat test, and the test with von Frey filaments, we examined whether alterations in sensorimotor functioning could contribute to the perseverative tendencies in this model by measuring differences in left versus right hind paw reactions after 8-OH-DPAT administration (2 mg/kg, sc). Also, the effect of repeated 8-OH-DPAT administration on sensorimotor functioning was tested every third day. 8-OH-DPAT administration induced a significantly decreased sensorimotor performance in the open-field test, an increased threshold for noxious thermal stimulation (increased withdrawal latency, WL, and decreased elevation time, ET) in the radiant heat test, and a decreased nociceptive threshold for mechanical stimulation in the test with von Frey filaments. All changes in sensorimotor functioning were similar for left and right hind paws suggesting that, these changes as measured with the tests in the present study, are not likely to contribute to the perseverative behavior of rats in a T-maze. Further, repeated administration of 8-OH-DPAT had no effect in the radiant heat test and the test with the Frey filaments, but produced a tolerance effect in the open-field test.

Measurement of melanin and blood concentration in human skin is needed in the medical and the cosmetic fields because human skin colour is mainly determined by the colours of melanin and blood. It is difficult to measure these concentrations in human skin because skin has a multi-layered structure and scatters light strongly throughout the visible spectrum. The Monte Carlo simulation currently used for the analysis of skin colour requires long calculation times and knowledge of the specific optical properties of each skin layer. A regression analysis based on the modified Beer-Lambert law is presented as a method of measuring melanin and blood concentration in human skin in a shorter period of time and with fewer calculations. The accuracy of this method is assessed using Monte Carlo simulations.
Knowledge of the mechanism of human skin colour and measurement of melanin and blood concentration in human skin are needed in the medical and cosmetic fields. The absorbance spectrum from reflectance at the visible wavelength of human skin increases under several conditions such as a sunburn or scalding. The change of the absorbance spectrum from reflectance including the scattering effect does not correspond to the molar absorption spectrum of melanin and blood. The modified Beer-Lambert law is applied to the change in the absorbance spectrum from reflectance of human skin as the change in melanin and blood is assumed to be small. The concentration of melanin and blood was estimated from the absorbance spectrum reflectance of human skin using multiple regression analysis. Estimated concentrations were compared with the measured one in a phantom experiment and this method was applied to in vivo skin.
Tobacco smoking reduces appetite and body weight (BW). Cessation of smoking leads to hyperphagia and weight gain. Daily food intake (FI) is a function of meal number (MN) and meal size (MZ), i.e., FI=MNxMZ. Under normal conditions, the female Fischer rat has a periodic reciprocal fluctuation between MZ and MN corresponding to phase of estrous cycle. Wide fluctuations between MZ and MN compensate each other to keep FI constant. Nicotine (5 mg/kg BW/day) was infused via osmotic minipump for 7 days. Controls received saline. FI, MZ, and MN were measured by an Automated Computerized Rat Eater Meter. Nicotine significantly decreased BW and FI via a decrease in MZ without compensatory increase of MN. Nicotine cessation led to hyperphagia, normalizing BW loss via an increase in MZ, which exceeded a compensatory decrease in MN. Nicotine significantly prolonged the estrous cycle by an extension of proestrous phase. Nicotine significantly lengthened the intermeal interval (IMI), delaying the start of the next meal and simultaneously decreasing subsequent MZ. Stopping nicotine led to normalization of IMI and MZ. Data show that nicotine alters the usual reciprocal regulation between MZ and MN and leads to a prolongation of the estrous cycle.
We examined memory improvement with respect to the effects of gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) in male C57BL/6J mice under conditions of experimentally induced amnesia. GRP was administered following training in a one-trial passive avoidance test. In Experiment 1, the drug scopolamine (1 or 2 mg/kg, ip) was used to induce amnesia prior to training, and GRP (32 nmol/kg, ip) or saline (control) was administered immediately after training. Results indicate that GRP at this dose improved memory only when the dosage of scopolamine was relatively low (1 mg/kg). In Experiment 2, CO2-induced amnesia was employed. Mice were placed in a chamber filled with CO2 or air (control) immediately after acquisition training. Subsequently, they were administered either saline or GRP (32 nmol/kg, ip). Significantly longer light-dark latency was observed in all mice that received GRP (both experimental and control groups). In total, our results indicate that the effect of GRP at this dose on the improvement of impaired memory is dependent on the degree of impairment. Furthermore, because CO2-induced hypoxia is known to decrease acetylcholine release in the brain, our results also suggest that GRP and its receptor may interact with the cholinergic system in the central nervous system.
Chlorhexidine, a bis-cationic biguanide antiseptic, greatly reduces the perceived intensity of the salty prototype sodium chloride and may prove to be an important probe of mechanisms that underlie the human salty taste quality. Chlorhexidine, which tastes bitter, also reduces quinine hydrochloride taste intensity, but neither sweet sucrose nor sour citric acid is affected. Perceptual intensity rating and quality identification were measured for human subjects before and for 30 min following treatment with 1.34 mM chlorhexidine gluconate. In one experiment, test stimuli were the taste-quality prototypes; in a second experiment, stimuli were series of sodium, halide and sulfate salts. Experiment 1 showed a single 3-min chlorhexidine treatment resulted in reductions in taste intensity that persisted for at least 30 min. Experiment 2 showed a single 2-min chlorhexidine treatment reduced perceptual intensities of halide and sulfate salts except those with divalent cations. Chlorhexidine impaired identification of the salty quality and produced a bitter quality in nonbitter salts and impaired identification of the bitter quality of quinine, but not bitter salts. The specific effect of chlorhexidine on the bitterness of quinine suggests it may bind to the same receptor as quinine. The ability of chlorhexidine to specifically disrupt saltiness of a wide range of salts is consistent with proposed peripheral transduction mechanisms for the salty quality that involve transepithelial ion transport.
The effects of serotonin (5-HT) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) on penile reflexes were investigated in intact and spinally transected male rats. Doses of intrathecal 5-HT (0.0, 1.13, 2.26, 11.3, 22.6, and 113.0 nmol), in a range previously shown to inhibit pudendal reflexes in anesthetized spinal preparations, prolonged the latency to the first penile erection in awake intact rats. However, these doses also provoked hyperreactivity and vocalization. Doses of intrathecal TRH (100 and 500 pmol) that effectively inhibited penile erection in intact animals were less effective in spinalized animals. Finally, a combination of subthreshold doses of TRH (100 pmol) and 5-HT (4.0 nmol) at a ratio known to affect other TRH/5-HT-mediated circuits significantly extended erection latency in animals with spinal transections. These data suggest that 5-HT and TRH are both involved in the inhibitory circuits regulating penile erection, either through corelease onto the same population of cells or through independent release onto different populations of neurons.
Gender differences of feeding pattern in normal male and female rats are well recognized. Differences in gender-related feeding patterns have also been established following a variety of experimental manipulations, such as hypothalamic lesions, nicotine infusion, and total parenteral nutrition administration. Anorexia is a common feature during tumor growth. The present study examined whether the feeding indices constituting the feeding patterns differed with the development of cancer anorexia in male and female rats. Sixteen male and 15 female Fischer-344 rats had their food intake (FI) and feeding indices, meal number (MN) and meal size (MZ), continuously measured by a computerized rat eater meter. Viable methylcholanthrene (MCA) sarcoma cells (10(6)) were inoculated subcutaneously in 10 male (M-TB) and 8 female (F-TB) Fischer rats, while the rest were controls and received an equal volume of vehicle. Tumor-bearing (TB) rats became anorectic by Day 18, when the weight of the tumor was approximately 8% of the total body weight (BW). A notable decrease in BW was observed in both M-TB and F-TB. A decrease in FI resulted from different feeding indices between male and female rats. In male rats, lower FI was due to a decrease in both MN and MZ. In female rats, lower FI was solely due to a decrease in MN. The data show that gender differences in feeding patterns, which are an external manifestation of biochemical changes in the brain, occur following development of cancer-related anorexia suggesting that besides other factors, cancer anorexia is also influenced by sex-related hormones.
Locomotor activity measures are often used in behavioral neuroscience. There is, however, a large variability in the protocols assessing locomotor activity which may, more or less, strongly be influenced by exploration and reactivity to novelty in unfamiliar situations. Using Long-Evans male rats, we investigated how far changes, such as placing rats in a cage physically identical to the home cage supplied with fresh sawdust but kept in a familiar room, or placing the familiar home cage with the rat inside in another (unfamiliar) room, may influence the level of locomotor activity. We showed that both changes resulted in significantly increased locomotion in the first 2 h after placing the rats in the respective test situation, but there is no significant additive effect. These changes performed right before the start of the test do not alter diurnal or nocturnal locomotor activity once the first 2 h have elapsed. The results illustrate that rats kept in an environment with stable proximal features (cage, sawdust) can react by increased activity in response to more distal novelty (experimental room), and conversely, that rats in a familiar environment react to proximal changes in the home cage.



We wanted to test whether living environment, occupation and social position are risk factors for asthma and chronic bronchitis/emphysema (CBE). The prevalence of bronchial asthma, CBE, respiratory symptoms and smoking habits in a random sample of 12,071 adults aged 20-59 years was assessed in a postal survey with a slightly modified questionnaire previously used in central and northern Sweden (The OLIN studies). Occupation was coded according to a socio-economic classification system. Six different living environment areas were defined; city-countryside, seaside-not seaside and living close to heavy traffic-not living close to heavy traffic. Multiple logistic regression analysis (forward conditional) was applied to estimate the association between the proposed set of risk factors and self-reported obstructive lung diseases and lower respiratory symptoms controlling for age, gender and smoking. After two reminders, the response rate was 70.1% (n=8469); 33.8% of the responders were smokers. In all, 469 subjects (5.5%) stated that they had asthma and 4.6% reported CBE. Besides smoking, which was a risk for both asthma and CBE, there were different risk patterns for self-reported asthma and CBE. In the economically active population there was a tendency that CBE was more common among 'unskilled and semi-skilled workers'. This fact was further emphasized when the population was merged into the two groups 'low social position' and 'middle/high social position', with 'low social position' as a risk for CBE (OR=1.35, 95% CI=1.06-1.72). No social risk factors were identified for asthma. Living close to heavy traffic was a risk factor for asthma (OR=1.29, 95% CI=1.02-1.62) but not for CBE. Apart from this no living environmental risk factors for obstructive pulmonary diseases were identified. Asthma symptoms and long-standing cough were more common among those subjects living close to heavy traffic compared to those not living close to heavy traffic. To conclude, low social position was a risk factor for CBE and living close to heavy traffic was a risk factor for asthma.
The natural history of multiple sclerosis (MS) exacerbations is characterized by a poor outcome in about 70 p. cent of cases. By contrast, the outcome of a first episode of acute optic neuritis (ON) is usually good. However the disability associated with MS bouts and ON requires the use of a specific treatment. Nine randomized controlled clinical trials against placebo performed exclusively for MS exacerbations or acute ON were identified. Corticosteroids or ACTH produced a significant improvement in disability or vision at 30 days and shortened the duration of exacerbations. Longer follow-up clinical trials performed in MS exacerbation were not able to clearly demonstrate a significant effect. In acute ON clinical trials the long term visual outcome was not significantly different after steroid treatment than after placebo but this outcome is usually good. There is some evidence that high doses of intravenous methylprednisolone delay the occurrence of the next relapse, and have a dose-dependent effect on the rate of new lesion formation. There is no convincing evidence of the effectiveness of oral steroids in MS exacerbations but this treatment is associated with an increase relapse rate in ON. Side effects with intravenous methylprednisolone are less severe than with oral mega doses or ACTH.
Cortical organisation is based on the principles of functional specialisation and functional integration. Those two concepts exist at multiple spatial scales. For example at a macroscopic level, functionally segregated areas V1 and V5 are integrated within the dorsal visual stream. At a microscopic level, it is possible to infer the functional integration of (segregated) ocular dominance columns within area V1. At the macroscopic level functional specialisation and integration can be tested with functional neuroimaging, using fMRI/PET or EEG/MEG. A framework that allows making inferences on functional integration between brain regions using fMRI will be presented. The common feature of all techniques within that framework is that they can incorporate second order terms and therefore explicitly allow for contextual modulations. Two examples demonstrate how attention and paired associates learning can modulate effective connectivity within the visual system. Furthermore these models can incorporate non-linear modulatory (feedback) connections that can account for the changes in effective connectivity observed.
The neural basis of spatial orientation and the memory of routes have been explored by brain imaging (PET SCAN and fMRI) in human. Several cognitive strategies and several types of reference frames can be used by the brain to establish relations between our body and the environment. Four categories of brain areas have been considered: the areas involved in egocentric and allocentric coding on one hand and on the other hand the areas involved in the &quot;route&quot; like and the &quot;survey or map&quot; like strategies used during tasks in which subjects had to mentally remember a path by mental navigation or mental scanning of a map. The results have confirmed that parietal and frontal structures involved in &quot;spatial neglect&quot; are also found to be involved in the egocentric orientation tasks of subjective midline detection. More generally we have been able to identify parieto-frontal areas involved in visuo-spatial memory. In addition we have identified the areas involved in the cortical processing of vestibular information and lastly we have shown that in addition to the parieto-frontal areas a parieto temporal lobe network is involved in allocentric tasks and also during mental navigation by route or survey strategies. These results contribute to the identification of the neural basis of topographic memory but they also suggest that we have to define a particular type of spatial memory which is involved in the memory of routes and movements which we suggest to call &quot;topo-kinetic&quot; or &quot;topo-kinesthetic&quot; memory.

The test charts included in the Polatest, designed by H.-J. Haase and manufactured by Zeiss, are used in Germany, Switzerland and Scandinavia for prism correction of 'associated phoria.' From clinical experience with the Polatest Haase developed a motor and sensory theory of the different stages of decompensation of 'associated phoria ' and a strategy for its prismatic correction - the MKH (Measuring and Correcting Methodology after H.-J. Haase). The theory challenges many accepted ideas about the plasticity of the visual system and the use of prisms in the treatment of sensory abnormalities. This article, the first full description in English, describes and critically discusses the MKH.







Mesocorticolimbic projections originating from dopaminergic and GABAergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) play a critical role in opiate addiction. Activation of mu-opioid receptors (MOR), which are located mainly within inhibitory neurons in the VTA, results in enhanced dopaminergic transmission in target regions, including the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). We combined retrograde tract-tracing and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to determine if neurons in the VTA that project to the mPFC contain MOR or receive input from MOR-containing terminals. Rats received unilateral injections of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the mPFC. Tissue sections throughout the VTA were then processed for electron microscopic examination of FG and MOR. Immunoperoxidase labeling for FG was present in VTA cell bodies that contained immunogold-silver particles for MOR that often were contacted by profiles exclusively immunoreactive for MOR, including somata and axon terminals. The majority of dually labeled profiles were dendrites that received convergent input from unlabeled axon terminals forming either symmetric or asymmetric type synapses. Within retrogradely labeled cell bodies and proximal dendrites, MOR immunoreactivity was mainly sequestered within the cytoplasm. In contrast, distal retrogradely labeled dendrites contained MOR gold particles located along the plasma membranes. These data suggest that opiates active at MOR in the VTA modulate cortical activity through 1) presynaptic actions on MOR in terminals contacting mesocortical cell bodies, and 2) direct activation of MOR in distal dendrites of projection neurons.
Sea hares within the genus Aplysia are important neurobiological model organisms; as more studies based on different Aplysia species are appearing in the literature, a phylogenetic framework has become essential. We present a phylogenetic hypothesis for this genus, based on portions of two mitochondrial genes (12S and 16S). In addition, we reconstruct the evolution of several behavioral characters of interest to neurobiologists to illustrate the potential benefits of a phylogeny for the genus Aplysia. These benefits include determination of ancestral traits, direction and timing of evolution of characters, prediction of the distribution of traits, and identification of cases of independent acquisition of traits within lineages. This last benefit may prove especially useful in understanding the linkage between behaviors and their underlying neurological bases.
Steroid biosynthesis begins with the transfer of cholesterol from intracellular stores into mitochondria. Through in vitro and in vivo studies using various steroidogenic cell models and with the help of pharmacological, biochemical, morphological and molecular approaches we demonstrated that the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) is an 18 kDa mitochondrial protein that interacts with other proteins in the outer mitochondrial membrane to form a multimeric complex. PBR is required for the binding, uptake and release, upon ligand activation, of the substrate cholesterol. Thus, cholesterol becomes available to the inner mitochondrial membrane P450scc where steroid biosynthesis begins. The presence of mitochondrial PBR is also critical in maintaining outer mitochondrial membrane stability and in preventing apoptosis. Considering these functions of PBR and the fact that PBR is a ubiquitous protein, it is suggested that this drug receptor may serve as a target to control various mitochondrial and cell functions and to protect against experimentally or pathologically induced mitochondrial and cell toxicity.
Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is a vesicular transport event involved in the internalization and recycling of receptors participating in signal transduction events and nutrient import as well as in the reformation of synaptic vesicles. Recent studies in vitro and in living cells have provided a number of new insights into the initial steps of clathrin-coated vesicle formation and the membrane factors involved in this process. The unexpected complexity of these interactions at the cytosol-membrane interface suggests that clathrin-coated vesicle assembly is a highly cooperative process occurring under tight regulatory control. In this review, we focus on the role of membrane proteins and lipids in the nucleation of clathrin-coated pits and provide a hypothetical model for the early steps in clathrin-mediated endocytosis.
The systemic administration of anti-inflammatory molecules to patients affected by immune-mediated inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system (CNS), such as multiple sclerosis, has limited therapeutic efficacy owing to the presence of the blood-brain barrier. The delivery of drugs to the CNS using a nonreplicative viral vector engineered with genes encoding anti-inflammatory cytokines might represent an alternative therapeutic strategy. Here, we propose accessing the CNS through the ependymal-leptomeningeal route. This approach is based on the injection of nonreplicative vectors into the cerebrospinal fluid space. These vectors are able to infect the ependymal and leptomeningeal cells consistently and without side effects, and in turn, produce the 'therapeutic' product of the transgene in the CNS for extended periods of time. This strategy could represent an alternative treatment for inflammatory neurological disorders when systemic immunosuppressive therapies fail to control the evolution of disease satisfactorily.
Analysis of the Kv3 subfamily of K(+) channel subunits has lead to the discovery of a new class of neuronal voltage-gated K(+) channels characterized by positively shifted voltage dependencies and very fast deactivation rates. These properties are adaptations that allow these channels to produce currents that can specifically enable fast repolarization of action potentials without compromising spike initiation or height. The short spike duration and the rapid deactivation of the Kv3 currents after spike repolarization maximize the quick recovery of resting conditions after an action potential. Several neurons in the mammalian CNS have incorporated into their repertoire of voltage-dependent conductances a relatively large number of Kv3 channels to enable repetitive firing at high frequencies - an ability that crucially depends on the special properties of Kv3 channels and their impact on excitability.
A recent study has shown that mice containing a loss-of-function mutation in the gene encoding galanin exhibit decreased peripheral nerve regeneration after a lesion. This major advance indicates, for the first time, that the large increases in galanin expression that occur in axotomized peripheral neurons have functional consequences for regeneration. Hopefully, similar functional consequences will soon be found for other peptides induced in these neurons after axotomy, such as vasoactive intestinal peptide and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide.
An increasing number of studies based on recombinant cells and on mouse models that express an altered repertoire of some of the key components of the intracellular Ca(2+) release stores are becoming available as a result of molecular genetics techniques. Information from these studies, together with results from studies of human diseases caused by mutations in genes that encode proteins of the intracellular Ca(2+) stores, are providing a significant advancement in understanding the interactive nature of the molecular machinery that underlies intracellular Ca(2+) signalling and how the different components of the Ca(2+) stores contribute to the regulation of cellular functions.
A 'protein regulation hypothesis' might explain the delay in reaching a maximal clinical effect, exhibited by some antipsychotic and addicting drugs. It also suggests that crucial 'effector' proteins that mediate the actions of these drugs might have half-lives of days to weeks. In this article, the rate of onset of some antipsychotic and addicting drugs will be examined and a model will be used to test if a change in the concentration of a given protein(s) could cause the drug-induced effects. This hypothesis uses a model where protein concentrations are determined by a zero-order synthesis rate and a first-order degradation rate. The model in its simplest form produces an exponential increase (or decrease) in protein concentrations over time, but reasonable extensions of the model can account for more complex mechanisms that allow for delayed time-courses and contributions of multiple proteins to the clinical effect.
Mature visual cortex shows a single, binocularly matched orientation map. This matching develops without visual experience. It persists despite early monocular deprivation that largely eliminates one eye's map, followed by reverse suture (deprivation of the previously open eye and opening of the previously deprived eye), even though the two eyes lack common visual experience in this case. These results have been interpreted to suggest that the structure of orientation maps either is innately predetermined or, if it arises through self-organization, is determined by external cues such as boundary conditions or a &quot;scaffolding&quot; of horizontal connections. We show, to the contrary, that these results are the expected outcomes if orientation maps develop through activity-instructed, correlation-based development of the geniculocortical connections without additional cues. A weak, binocularly correlated orientation map is known to exist before deprivation onset; we previously showed how this can arise through activity-instructed development. Now we show that this initial correlation between the two eyes' maps can persist or increase despite deprivation sufficient to cause massive loss of the deprived eye's geniculocortical synaptic strength, followed by reverse suture. Given sufficient early correlated map development, each map's fate is &quot;dynamically committed&quot;: the two eyes' maps will converge upon a common outcome, even if developing independently. This dynamic fate commitment is retained even after severe deprivation.
Photoreceptors in the ferret's retina have been shown to project transiently to the inner plexiform layer (IPL) prior to their differentiation of an outer segment. On postnatal day 15 (P-15), when this projection achieves maximal density, the photoreceptors projecting into the IPL extend primarily to one of two depths, coincident with the processes of cholinergic amacrine cells. The present study has used an excitotoxic approach employing subcutaneous injections of L-glutamate to ablate these cholinergic amacrine cells on P-7, in order to see whether their elimination alters this targeting of photoreceptor terminals within the IPL. The near-complete elimination of cholinergic amacrine cells at P-15 was confirmed, although the population of retinal ganglion cells was also affected, being depleted by roughly 50%. The rod opsin-immunopositive terminals in such treated ferrets no longer showed a stratified distribution, being found throughout the depth of the IPL, as well as extending into the ganglion cell layer. This effect should not be due to the partial loss of retinal ganglion cells, however, since optic nerve transection at P-2, which eliminates the ganglion cells entirely while leaving the cholinergic amacrine cell population intact, was shown not to affect the stratification pattern of the photoreceptors within the IPL. These results strongly suggest that the targeting of the photoreceptor terminals to discrete strata within the IPL is dependent upon the cholinergic amacrine cell processes.
Changes in ocular axial dimensions and refraction were followed longitudinally, using ultrasonography and retinoscopy, during the first year of life (mean ages 4-53 weeks) of a group of 20 full-term infants (10 male, 10 female). Using a mixed-model regression analysis, axial length changes as a function of time were found to be best described by a quadratic expression (AL=17.190+0.128x-0.0013x(2), where AL is the axial length in mm and x is the age in weeks), while anterior chamber depth changed linearly (ACD=2.619+0.018x, where ACD is the anterior chamber depth in mm): lens thickness was essentially constant. Spherical equivalent refraction through most of the first year showed a steady reduction in hypermetropia (SER=2.982-0.032x, where SER is the spherical equivalent refraction in dioptres): astigmatism also tended to diminish. Mean hyperopic refractive errors through the year were negatively correlated with corresponding axial lengths (SER=12.583-0.541AL), but some individual subjects showed marked departures from this pattern. These results are discussed in relation to concepts of emmetropization.
For the accurate perception of multiple, potentially overlapping, surfaces or objects, the visual system must distinguish different local motion vectors and selectively integrate similar motion vectors over space to segment the retinal image properly. We recently showed that large differences in speed are required to yield a percept of motion transparency. In the present study, to investigate the spatial scale of motion segmentation from speed cues alone, we measured the speed-segmentation threshold (the minimum speed difference required for 75% performance accuracy) for 'corrugated' random-dot patterns, i.e. patterns in which dots with two different speeds were alternately placed in adjacent bars of variable width. In a first experiment, we found that, at large bar widths, a smaller speed difference was required to segment and perceive the corrugated pattern of moving dots, while at small bar-widths, a larger speed difference was required to segment the two speeds and perceive two transparent surfaces of moving dots. Both the perceptual and segmentation performance transitions occurred at a bar width of around 0.4 degrees. In a second experiment, speed-segmentation thresholds were found to increase sharply when dots with different speeds were paired within a local pooling area. The critical pairing distance was about 0.2 degrees in the fovea and increased linearly with stimulus eccentricity. However, across the range of eccentricities tested (up to 15 degrees ), the critical pairing distance did not change much and remained close to the receptive field size of neurons within the primate primary visual cortex. In a third experiment, increasing dot density changed the relationship between speed-segmentation thresholds and bar width. Thresholds decreased for large bar widths, but increased for small bar widths. All of these results are well fit by a simple stochastic model, which estimates the probabilities of having identical or different motion vectors within a local pooling area whose size is the same as that of primate V1 neurons. Altogether, these results demonstrate that speed-based segmentation can function well, even at small spatial scales (i.e. high-spatial frequencies of spatial corrugation) and thereby emphasizes the critical role of a local pooling process early in the cortical motion-processing pathway.
In a curve-tracing task, subjects have to judge whether items are located on a single, continuous curve. Spatially separate segments of such a curve are related to each other through grouping criteria, like collinearity and connectedness. These grouping cues need to be exploited during curve tracing, but it is still an open issue how grouping of contour segments is achieved by the visual system. Many contemporary theories of visual perception assume that grouping operations are carried out pre-attentively, with unlimited capacity. The present study examines this assumption by investigating the involvement of attention in curve tracing. The results show that attention is directed to contour segments that need to be grouped together. The distribution of attention is guided by grouping criteria, such as connectedness. Apparently, attention is required to group spatially separate contour segments into a coherent representation of a curve.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is an important intracellular signaling molecule whose activity is essential for a number of aspects of neuronal function including synaptic plasticity. We investigated the regulation of PKC activity by reactive nitrogen species in order to examine whether such species regulate PKC in neurons. Neither autonomous nor cofactor-dependent PKC activity was altered when either hippocampal homogenates or rat brain purified PKC were incubated briefly with three different nitric oxide donor compounds. However, brief incubation of either hippocampal homogenates or purified PKC with peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) inhibited cofactor-dependent PKC activity in a manner that correlated with the nitration of tyrosine residues on PKC, suggesting that this modification was responsible for the inhibition of PKC. Consistent with this idea, reducing agents had no effect on the inhibition of PKC activity caused by ONOO(-). Because there are numerous PKC isoforms that differ in the composition of the regulatory domain, we studied the effect of ONOO(-) on various PKC isoforms. ONOO(-) inhibited the cofactor-dependent activity of the alpha, betaII, epsilon, and zeta isoforms, indicating that inhibition of enzymatic activity by ONOO(-) was not PKC isoform-specific. We also were able to isolate nitrated PKCalpha and PKCbetaII from ONOO(-)-treated hippocampal homogenates via immunoprecipitation. Collectively, our findings support the hypothesis that ONOO(-) inhibits PKC activity via tyrosine nitration in neurons.
The effects of the selective cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide-hydrochloride (SR141716A) on extracellular concentrations of norepinephrine and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) were assessed by in vivo microdialysis in the anterior hypothalamus of freely moving rats. SR14716A (0.3, 1, 3 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently increased norepinephrine efflux to about 300% of baseline, without affecting 5-HT levels. This increase in norepinephrine outflow could play an important role in the pharmacological and potentially therapeutic actions of SR141716A.
The neurofibromatosis type 2 gene (NF2) is involved in the pathogenesis of benign tumors of the human nervous system. The NF2 protein, called schwannomin or merlin, is inactivated in virtually all schwannomas and meningiomas. The molecular mechanisms by which schwannomin functions as a tumor suppressor is unknown but believed to involve plasma membrane-cytoskeletal interactions. Two major alternatively spliced isoforms of schwannomin differing in their C termini have been reported. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have identified syntenin as a binding partner for schwannomin isoform-1 (sch-1). Syntenin is an adapter protein that couples transmembrane proteoglycans to cytoskeletal components and is involved in intracellular vesicle transport. The C terminus 25 amino acids of sch-1 and the two PDZ domains of syntenin mediate their binding, and mutations introduced within the VAFFEEL region of sch-1 defined a sequence crucial for syntenin recognition. We have showed that the two proteins interacted in vitro and in vivo and localized underneath the plasma membrane. Fibroblast cells expressing heterologous antisense syntenin display alterations in the subcellular distribution of sch-1. Together, these results provide the first functional clue to the existence of schwannomin isoforms and could unravel novel pathways for the transport and subcellular localization of schwannomin in vivo.
Mutations in presenilin (PS) genes cause early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease by increasing production of the amyloidogenic form of amyloid beta peptides ending at residue 42 (Abeta42). PS is an evolutionarily conserved multipass transmembrane protein, and all known PS proteins contain a proline-alanine-leucine-proline (PALP) motif starting at proline (P) 414 (amino acid numbering based on human PS2) at the C terminus. Furthermore, missense mutations that replace the first proline of PALP with leucine (P414L) lead to a loss-of-function of PS in Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans. To elucidate the roles of the PALP motif in PS structure and function, we analyzed neuro2a as well as PS1/2 null fibroblast cell lines transfected with human PS harboring mutations at the PALP motif. P414L mutation in PS2 (and its equivalent in PS1) abrogated stabilization, high molecular weight complex formation, and entry to Golgi/trans-Golgi network of PS proteins, resulting in failure of Abeta42 overproduction on familial Alzheimer's disease mutant basis as well as of site-3 cleavage of Notch. These data suggest that the first proline of the PALP motif plays a crucial role in the stabilization and formation of the high molecular weight complex of PS, the latter being the active form with intramembrane proteolytic activities.
During the use of tetrapeptide and other proprietary caspase inhibitors in the study of neurodegeneration, we had concluded that mechanisms other than the inhibition of caspases contributed to the protective effects of certain caspase inhibitors. Here we report our studies to identify a target for and hence a mechanism by which the tetrapeptide inhibitor tyrosine-valine-alanine-aspartate-chloromethyl ketone (Ac-YVAD-cmk) is able to rescue neuronal cell cultures from cell death. Ac-YVAD-cmk rescued neuronal cells from cell death in response to oxidative stress and oxygen/glucose deprivation. Affinity labeling with biotinylated YVAD-cmk demonstrated distinct binding proteins for the inhibitor in cells from the central nervous system versus Jurkat cells. Binding to the novel target protein was displaced by class-specific protease inhibitors and suggested that the target is a cysteine protease. Affinity purification and sequencing identified the target as cathepsin-B. Cathepsin-B inhibitors competed with biotinylated YVAD-cmk for the target protein. The availability of the target for binding was reduced in cells that had been rescued by unlabeled inhibitor. Cathepsin-B inhibitors rescue hippocampal slices from cell death induced by oxygen/glucose deprivation. These data provide evidence to support a role for cathepsin-B in neuronal cell death, particularly that following ischemia.
Dopamine beta-monooxygenase (DBM) and peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) are essential for the biosynthesis of catecholamines and amidated peptides, respectively. The enzymes share a conserved catalytic core. We studied the role of the DBM signal sequence by appending it to soluble PHM (PHMs) and expressing the DBMsignal/PHMs chimera in AtT-20 and Chinese hamster ovary cells. PHMs produced as part of DBMsignal/PHMs was active. In vitro translated and cellular DBMsignal/PHMs had similar masses, indicating that the DBM signal was not removed. DBMsignal/PHMs was membrane-associated and had the properties of an intrinsic membrane protein. After in vitro translation in the presence of microsomal membranes, trypsin treatment removed 2 kDa from DBMsignal/PHMs while PHMs was entirely protected. In addition, a Cys residue in DBMsignal/PHMs was accessible to Cys-directed biotinylation. Thus the chimera adopts the topology of a type II membrane protein. Pulse-chase experiments indicate that DBMsignal/PHMs turns over rapidly after exiting the trans-Golgi network. Although PHMs is efficiently localized to secretory granules, DBMsignal/PHMs is largely localized to the endoplasmic reticulum in AtT-20 cells. On the basis of stimulated secretion, the small amount of PHMs generated is stored in secretory granules. In contrast, the expression of DBMsignal/PHMs in PC12 cells yields protein that is localized to secretory granules.
We have recently reported that transfer of the domain IIS6 region from rapidly inactivating R-type (alpha(1E)) calcium channels to slowly inactivating L-type (alpha(1C)) calcium channel confers rapid inactivation (Stotz, S. C., Hamid, J., Spaetgens, R. L., Jarvis, S. E., and Zamponi, G. W. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 24575-24582). Here we have identified individual amino acid residues in the IIS6 regions that are responsible for these effects. In this region, alpha(1C) and alpha(1E) channels differ in seven residues, and exchanging five of those residues individually or in combination did not significantly affect inactivation kinetics. By contrast, replacement of residues Phe-823 or Ile-829 of alpha(1C) with the corresponding alpha(1E) residues significantly accelerated inactivation rates and, when substituted concomitantly, approached the rapid inactivation kinetics of R-type channels. A systematic substitution of these residues with a series of other amino acids revealed that decreasing side chain size at position 823 accelerates inactivation, whereas a dependence of the inactivation kinetics on the degree of hydrophobicity could be observed at position 829. Although these point mutations facilitated rapid entry into the inactivated state of the channel, they had little to no effect on the rate of recovery from inactivation. This suggests that the development of and recovery from inactivation are governed by separate structural determinants. Finally, the effects of mutations that accelerated alpha(1C) inactivation could still be antagonized following coexpression of the rat beta(2a) subunit or by domain I-II linker substitutions that produce ultra slow inactivation of wild type channels, indicating that the inactivation kinetics seen with the mutants remain subject to regulation by the domain I-II linker. Overall, our results provide novel insights into a complex process underlying calcium channel inactivation.
Neurophysiologists have been investigating the responses of neurons in the visual system for the past half-century using monkeys and cats that are anesthetized and paralyzed, with the non-blinking eyelids open for prolonged periods of time. Impermeable plastic contact lenses have been used to prevent dehydration of the corneal epithelium, which would otherwise occur in minutes. Unfortunately, such lenses rapidly introduce a variety of abnormal states that lead to clouding of the cornea, degradation of the retinal image, and premature termination of the experiment. To extend the viability of such preparations, a new protocol for maintenance of corneal health has been developed. The protocol uses rigid gas permeable contact lenses designed to maximize gas transmission, rigorous sterile methods, and a variety of methods for sustaining and monitoring the overall physiology of the animal. The effectiveness of the protocol was evaluated clinically by ophthalmoscopy before, during, and after the experiments, which lasted 8-10 days. Histopathology and quantitative histology were performed on the corneas following the experiment. Our observations showed that this protocol permits continuous contact lens wear without adversely affecting the corneas. Thus, it is possible to collect data 24 h each day, for the entire duration of the experiment.
Neurophysiological and neuropsychological studies in monkeys sometimes require an automated food-pellet dispenser. Commercially available dispensers typically sequester the pellet until delivery and, once delivered, the pellet's availability cannot be controlled. The custom-designed dispenser described here overcomes those two limitations. The device is composed of two separate units: a feeder and an electronic controller. The feeder manipulates food pellets with actuators driven by air pressure and delivers them into a serving bowl. The controller's settings determine whether the monkey can retrieve a pellet from the bowl. If the experiment requires that the pellet be visible and within reach, but unavailable for retrieval, the controller enables a trap-door mechanism at the bottom of the bowl. Any motion near the serving bowl, such as that caused by the approach of a monkey's hand, will then trigger the opening of the trap door, which causes the pellet to fall into an enclosed pellet collector. This rapid pellet-removal mechanism can also be triggered by other computer-controlled contingencies. Two of these dispensers have been in operation in an applied laboratory setting for over 2 years.
Recently, Drai et al. (J Neurosci Methods 96 (2000) 119) have introduced an algorithm that segments rodent locomotor behavior into natural units of 'staying in place' (lingering) behavior versus going between places (progression segments). This categorization, based on the maximum speed attained within the segment, was shown to be intrinsic to the data, using the statistical method of Gaussian Mixture Model. These results were obtained in normal rats and mice using very large (650 or 320 cm) circular arenas and a video tracking system. In the present study, we reproduce these results with amphetamine, phencyclidine and saline injected rats, using data measured by a standard photobeam tracking system in square 45 cm cages. An intrinsic distinction between two or three 'gears' could be shown in all animals. The spatial distribution of these gears indicates that, as in the large arena behavior, they correspond to the difference between 'staying in place' behavior and 'going between places'. The robustness of this segmentation over arena size, different measurement system and dose of two psychostimulant drugs indicates that this is an intrinsic, natural segmentation of rodent locomotor behavior. Analysis of photobeam data that is based on this segmentation has thus a potential use in psychopharmacology research.
Established methods for monitoring regeneration of the corticospinal tract involve anterograde labelling of the cortical motor neuron. While wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase conjugate has been used to anterogradely label these neurons, we demonstrate that this technique may not completely label the whole axon and fine terminal processes when this tracer is administered in dried form. An alternative method is described for anterograde labelling of cortical motor neurons using biotinylated dextran. This tracer may be applied by either microinjection of 10% biotinylated dextran or implanting small globules of the dried tracer into the motor cortex. While more laborious, microinjection results in better anterograde labelling than implantation of dried biotinylated dextran. A procedure is also described for preparing serial coronal sections through the entire spinal cord and thaw-mounted on a minimum number of slides. The labelled nerve processes in these tissue sections can be visualised in the spinal cord under a fluorescent microscope following incubation with cy3-streptavidin complex. Permanent labelling of the biotinylated nerve processes is achieved by incubation of tissue sections with streptavidin-horseradish peroxidase conjugate followed by stringent washes and staining with tetramethylbenzidine. Use of tetramethylbenzidine allows resolution of a greater number of finer labelled processes than diaminobenzindine and allows clear visualisation of individual regenerating corticospinal tract processes. Using these procedures, we demonstrate that the corticospinal tract is completely lesioned by a standardised contusion spinal cord injury produced by the New York University weight-drop device.

The anatomical pathways for processing of odorous stimuli include the olfactory nerve projection to the olfactory bulb, the trigeminal nerve projection to somatosensory and insular cortex, and the projection from the accessory olfactory bulb to the hypothalamus. In the majority of tetrapods, the sex-specific effects of pheromones on reproductive behavior is mediated via the hypothalamic projection. However, the existence of this projection in humans has been regarded as improbable because humans lack a discernable accessory olfactory bulb. Here, we show that women smelling an androgen-like compound activate the hypothalamus, with the center of gravity in the preoptic and ventromedial nuclei. Men, in contrast, activate the hypothalamus (center of gravity in paraventricular and dorsomedial nuclei) when smelling an estrogen-like substance. This sex-dissociated hypothalamic activation suggests a potential physiological substrate for a sex-differentiated behavioral response in humans.
Using PET, Savic et al., in this issue of Neuron, found a sexually dimorphic neural response to two putative human pheromones. The specific regions activated combined with the pronounced sex difference depict a pheromonal-type brain response in humans. Here, we preview this finding and suggest that human pheromones exist.
The formation of precise synaptic connections in the developing central nervous system involves activity-dependent control of synaptic strength. Correlated activity between the afferent input and postsynaptic neuron strengthens connections through long-term potentiation (LTP), while uncorrelated synaptic inputs are selectively diminished. In this issue of Neuron, Tao et al. report that LTP in young animals has less synaptic specificity than in older animals, indicating that the properties of LTP change during development.
The Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Data Center (fMRIDC) (http://www.fmridc.org) was established in the Autumn of 1999 with the objective of creating a mechanism by which members of the neuroscientific community may more easily share functional neuroimaging data. Examples in other sciences offer proof of the usefulness and benefit that sharing data provides through encouraging growth and development in those fields. By building a publicly accessible repository of raw data from peer-reviewed studies, the Data Center hopes to create a similarly successful environment for the neurosciences. In this article, we discuss the continuum of data-sharing efforts and provide an overview of the scientific and practical difficulties inherent in managing various fMRI data-sharing approaches. Next, we detail the organization, design and foundation of the fMRIDC, ranging from its current capabilities to the issues involved in the submitting and requesting of data. We discuss how a publicly accessible database enables other fields to develop relevant tools that can aid in the growth of understanding of cognitive processes. Information retrieval and meta-analytic techniques can be used to search, sort and categorize study information with a view towards subjecting study data to secondary 'meta-' and 'mega-analyses'. In addition, we detail the technical and policy challenges that have had to be addressed in the formation of the Data Center. Among others, these include: human subject confidentiality issues; ensuring investigator's rights; heterogeneous data description and organization; development of search tools; and data transfer issues. We conclude with comments concerning the future of the fMRIDC effort, its role in promoting the sharing of neuroscientific data, and how this may alter the manner in which studies are published.
Motivated by the vast amount of information that is rapidly accumulating about the human brain in digital form, we embarked upon a program in 1992 to develop a four-dimensional probabilistic atlas and reference system for the human brain. Through an International Consortium for Brain Mapping (ICBM) a dataset is being collected that includes 7000 subjects between the ages of eighteen and ninety years and including 342 mono- and dizygotic twins. Data on each subject includes detailed demographic, clinical, behavioural and imaging information. DNA has been collected for genotyping from 5800 subjects. A component of the programme uses post-mortem tissue to determine the probabilistic distribution of microscopic cyto- and chemoarchitectural regions in the human brain. This, combined with macroscopic information about structure and function derived from subjects in vivo, provides the first large scale opportunity to gain meaningful insights into the concordance or discordance in micro- and macroscopic structure and function. The philosophy, strategy, algorithm development, data acquisition techniques and validation methods are described in this report along with database structures. Examples of results are described for the normal adult human brain as well as examples in patients with Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis. The ability to quantify the variance of the human brain as a function of age in a large population of subjects for whom data is also available about their genetic composition and behaviour will allow for the first assessment of cerebral genotype-phenotype-behavioural correlations in humans to take place in a population this large. This approach and its application should provide new insights and opportunities for investigators interested in basic neuroscience, clinical diagnostics and the evaluation of neuropsychiatric disorders in patients.
Surface reconstructions of the cerebral cortex are increasingly widely used in the analysis and visualization of cortical structure, function and connectivity. From a neuroinformatics perspective, dealing with surface-related data poses a number of challenges. These include the multiplicity of configurations in which surfaces are routinely viewed (e.g. inflated maps, spheres and flat maps), plus the diversity of experimental data that can be represented on any given surface. To address these challenges, we have developed a surface management system (SuMS) that allows automated storage and retrieval of complex surface-related datasets. SuMS provides a systematic framework for the classification, storage and retrieval of many types of surface-related data and associated volume data. Within this classification framework, it serves as a version-control system capable of handling large numbers of surface and volume datasets. With built-in database management system support, SuMS provides rapid search and retrieval capabilities across all the datasets, while also incorporating multiple security levels to regulate access. SuMS is implemented in Java and can be accessed via a Web interface (WebSuMS) or using downloaded client software. Thus, SuMS is well positioned to act as a multiplatform, multi-user 'surface request broker' for the neuroscience community.
Many problems in analytical biology, such as the classification of organisms, the modelling of macromolecules, or the structural analysis of metabolic or neural networks, involve complex relational data. Here, we describe a software environment, the portable UNIX programming system (PUPS), which has been developed to allow efficient computational representation and analysis of such data. The system can also be used as a general development tool for database and classification applications. As the complexity of analytical biology problems may lead to computation times of several days or weeks even on powerful computer hardware, the PUPS environment gives support for persistent computations by providing mechanisms for dynamic interaction and homeostatic protection of processes. Biological objects and their interrelations are also represented in a homeostatic way in PUPS. Object relationships are maintained and updated by the objects themselves, thus providing a flexible, scalable and current data representation. Based on the PUPS environment, we have developed an optimization package, CANTOR, which can be applied to a wide range of relational data and which has been employed in different analyses of neuroanatomical connectivity. The CANTOR package makes use of the PUPS system features by modifying candidate arrangements of objects within the system's database. This restructuring is carried out via optimization algorithms that are based on user-defined cost functions, thus providing flexible and powerful tools for the structural analysis of the database content. The use of stochastic optimization also enables the CANTOR system to deal effectively with incomplete and inconsistent data. Prototypical forms of PUPS and CANTOR have been coded and used successfully in the analysis of anatomical and functional mammalian brain connectivity, involving complex and inconsistent experimental data. In addition, PUPS has been used for solving multivariate engineering optimization problems and to implement the digital identification system (DAISY), a system for the automated classification of biological objects. PUPS is implemented in ANSI-C under the POSIX.1 standard and is to a great extent architecture- and operating-system independent. The software is supported by systems libraries that allow multi-threading (the concurrent processing of several database operations), as well as the distribution of the dynamic data objects and library operations over clusters of computers. These attributes make the system easily scalable, and in principle allow the representation and analysis of arbitrarily large sets of relational data. PUPS and CANTOR are freely distributed (http://www.pups.org.uk) as open-source software under the GNU license agreement.
Neuromorphic hardware is the term used to describe full custom-designed integrated circuits, or silicon 'chips', that are the product of neuromorphic engineering--a methodology for the synthesis of biologically inspired elements and systems, such as individual neurons, retinae, cochleas, oculomotor systems and central pattern generators. We focus on the implementation of neurons and networks of neurons, designed to illuminate structure-function relationships. Neuromorphic hardware can be constructed with either digital or analogue circuitry or with mixed-signal circuitry--a hybrid of the two. Currently, most examples of this type of hardware are constructed using analogue circuits, in complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor technology. The correspondence between these circuits and neurons, or networks of neurons, can exist at a number of levels. At the lowest level, this correspondence is between membrane ion channels and field-effect transistors. At higher levels, the correspondence is between whole conductances and firing behaviour, and filters and amplifiers, devices found in conventional integrated circuit design. Similarly, neuromorphic engineers can choose to design Hodgkin-Huxley model neurons, or reduced models, such as integrate-and-fire neurons. In addition to the choice of level, there is also choice within the design technique itself; for example, resistive and capacitive properties of the neuronal membrane can be constructed with extrinsic devices, or using the intrinsic properties of the materials from which the transistors themselves are composed. So, silicon neurons can be built, with dendritic, somatic and axonal structures, and endowed with ionic, synaptic and morphological properties. Examples of the structure-function relationships already explored using neuromorphic hardware include correlation detection and direction selectivity. Establishing a database for this hardware is valuable for two reasons: first, independently of neuroscientific motivations, the field of neuromorphic engineering would benefit greatly from a resource in which circuit designs could be stored in a form appropriate for reuse and re-fabrication. Analogue designers would benefit particularly from such a database, as there are no equivalents to the algorithmic design methods available to designers of digital circuits. Second, and more importantly for the purpose of this theme issue, is the possibility of a database of silicon neuron designs replicating specific neuronal types and morphologies. In the future, it may be possible to use an automated process to translate morphometric data directly into circuit design compatible formats. The question that needs to be addressed is: what could a neuromorphic hardware database contribute to the wider neuroscientific community that a conventional database could not? One answer is that neuromorphic hardware is expected to provide analogue sensory-motor systems for interfacing the computational power of symbolic, digital systems with the external, analogue environment. It is also expected to contribute to ongoing work in neural-silicon interfaces and prosthetics. Finally, there is a possibility that the use of evolving circuits, using reconfigurable hardware and genetic algorithms, will create an explosion in the number of designs available to the neuroscience community. All this creates the need for a database to be established, and it would be advantageous to set about this while the field is relatively young. This paper outlines a framework for the construction of a neuromorphic hardware database, for use in the biological exploration of structure-function relationships.
We have implemented a pair of database projects, one serving cortical electrophysiology and the other invertebrate neurones and recordings. The design for each combines aspects of two proven schemes for information interchange. The journal article metaphor determined the type, scope, organization and quantity of data to comprise each submission. Sequence databases encouraged intuitive tools for data viewing, capture, and direct submission by authors. Neurophysiology required transcending these models with new datatypes. Time-series, histogram and bivariate datatypes, including illustration-like wrappers, were selected by their utility to the community of investigators. As interpretation of neurophysiological recordings depends on context supplied by metadata attributes, searches are via visual interfaces to sets of controlled-vocabulary metadata trees. Neurones, for example, can be specified by metadata describing functional and anatomical characteristics. Permanence is advanced by data model and data formats largely independent of contemporary technology or implementation, including Java and the XML standard. All user tools, including dynamic data viewers that serve as a virtual oscilloscope, are Java-based, free, multiplatform, and distributed by our application servers to any contemporary networked computer. Copyright is retained by submitters; viewer displays are dynamic and do not violate copyright of related journal figures. Panels of neurophysiologists view and test schemas and tools, enhancing community support.
Biological nervous systems and the mechanisms underlying their operation exhibit astonishing complexity. Computational models of these systems have been correspondingly complex. As these models become ever more sophisticated, they become increasingly difficult to define, comprehend, manage and communicate. Consequently, for scientific understanding of biological nervous systems to progress, it is crucial for modellers to have software tools that support discussion, development and exchange of computational models. We describe methodologies that focus on these tasks, improving the ability of neuroscientists to engage in the modelling process. We report our findings on the requirements for these tools and discuss the use of declarative forms of model description--equivalent to object-oriented classes and database schema--which we call templates. We introduce NeuroML, a mark-up language for the neurosciences which is defined syntactically using templates, and its specific component intended as a common format for communication between modelling-related tools. Finally, we propose a template hierarchy for this modelling component of NeuroML, sufficient for describing models ranging in structural levels from neuron cell membranes to neural networks. These templates support both a framework for user-level interaction with models, and a high-performance framework for efficient simulation of the models.
This paper describes the underlying strategy and system's design of a knowledge management system for the neuroscientific literature called 'NeuroScholar'. The problem that the system is designed to address is to delineate fully the neural circuitry involved in a specific behaviour. The use of this system provides experimental neuroscientists with a new method of building computational models ('knowledge models') of the contents of the published literature. These models may provide input for analysis (conceptual or computational), or be used as constraint sets for conventional neural modelling work. The underlying problems inherent in this approach, the general framework for the proposed solution, the practical issues concerning usage of the system and a detailed, technical account of the system are described. The author uses a widely used software specification language (the Universal Modelling Language) to describe the design of the system and present examples from published work concerned with classical eyeblink conditioning in the rabbit.
The need to integrate massively increasing amounts of data on the mammalian brain has driven several ambitious neuroscientific database projects that were started during the last decade. Databasing the brain's anatomical connectivity as delivered by tracing studies is of particular importance as these data characterize fundamental structural constraints of the complex and poorly understood functional interactions between the components of real neural systems. Previous connectivity databases have been crucial for analysing anatomical brain circuitry in various species and have opened exciting new ways to interpret functional data, both from electrophysiological and from functional imaging studies. The eventual impact and success of connectivity databases, however, will require the resolution of several methodological problems that currently limit their use. These problems comprise four main points: (i) objective representation of coordinate-free, parcellation-based data, (ii) assessment of the reliability and precision of individual data, especially in the presence of contradictory reports, (iii) data mining and integration of large sets of partially redundant and contradictory data, and (iv) automatic and reproducible transformation of data between incongruent brain maps. Here, we present the specific implementation of the 'collation of connectivity data on the macaque brain' (CoCoMac) database (http://www.cocomac.org). The design of this database addresses the methodological challenges listed above, and focuses on experimental and computational neuroscientists' needs to flexibly analyse and process the large amount of published experimental data from tracing studies. In this article, we explain step-by-step the conceptual rationale and methodology of CoCoMac and demonstrate its practical use by an analysis of connectivity in the prefrontal cortex.
We describe a graphical anatomical database program, called XANAT (so named because it was developed under the X window system in UNIX), that allows the results of numerous studies on neuroanatomical connections to be stored, compared and analysed in a standardized format. Data are entered into the database by drawing injection and label sites from a particular tracer study directly onto canonical representations of the neuroanatomical structures of interest, along with providing descriptive text information. Searches may then be performed on the data by querying the database graphically, for example by specifying a region of interest within the brain for which connectivity information is desired, or via text information, such as keywords describing a particular brain region, or an author name or reference. Analyses may also be performed by accumulating data across multiple studies and displaying a colour-coded map that graphically represents the total evidence for connectivity between regions. Thus, data may be studied and compared free of areal boundaries (which often vary from one laboratory to the next), and instead with respect to standard landmarks, such as the position relative to well-known neuro-anatomical substrates or stereotaxic coordinates. If desired, areal boundaries may also be defined by the user to facilitate the interpretation of results. We demonstrate the application of the database to the analysis of pulvinar-cortical connections in the macaque monkey, for which the results of over 120 neuro-anatomical experiments were entered into the database. We show how these techniques can be used to elucidate connectivity trends and patterns that may otherwise go unnoticed.
It is generally assumed that the variability of neuronal morphology has an important effect on both the connectivity and the activity of the nervous system, but this effect has not been thoroughly investigated. Neuroanatomical archives represent a crucial tool to explore structure-function relationships in the brain. We are developing computational tools to describe, generate, store and render large sets of three-dimensional neuronal structures in a format that is compact, quantitative, accurate and readily accessible to the neuroscientist. Single-cell neuroanatomy can be characterized quantitatively at several levels. In computer-aided neuronal tracing files, a dendritic tree is described as a series of cylinders, each represented by diameter, spatial coordinates and the connectivity to other cylinders in the tree. This 'Cartesian' description constitutes a completely accurate mapping of dendritic morphology but it bears little intuitive information for the neuroscientist. In contrast, a classical neuroanatomical analysis characterizes neuronal dendrites on the basis of the statistical distributions of morphological parameters, e.g. maximum branching order or bifurcation asymmetry. This description is intuitively more accessible, but it only yields information on the collective anatomy of a group of dendrites, i.e. it is not complete enough to provide a precise 'blueprint' of the original data. We are adopting a third, intermediate level of description, which consists of the algorithmic generation of neuronal structures within a certain morphological class based on a set of 'fundamental', measured parameters. This description is as intuitive as a classical neuroanatomical analysis (parameters have an intuitive interpretation), and as complete as a Cartesian file (the algorithms generate and display complete neurons). The advantages of the algorithmic description of neuronal structure are immense. If an algorithm can measure the values of a handful of parameters from an experimental database and generate virtual neurons whose anatomy is statistically indistinguishable from that of their real counterparts, a great deal of data compression and amplification can be achieved. Data compression results from the quantitative and complete description of thousands of neurons with a handful of statistical distributions of parameters. Data amplification is possible because, from a set of experimental neurons, many more virtual analogues can be generated. This approach could allow one, in principle, to create and store a neuroanatomical database containing data for an entire human brain in a personal computer. We are using two programs, L-NEURON and ARBORVITAE, to investigate systematically the potential of several different algorithms for the generation of virtual neurons. Using these programs, we have generated anatomically plausible virtual neurons for several morphological classes, including guinea pig cerebellar Purkinje cells and cat spinal cord motor neurons. These virtual neurons are stored in an online electronic archive of dendritic morphology. This process highlights the potential and the limitations of the 'computational neuroanatomy' strategy for neuroscience databases.
Multiple comparisons of receptor sequences, or receptor subunit sequences, has proved to be an invaluable tool in modern pharmacological investigations. Although of outstanding importance, general sequence databases suffer from several imperfections due to their size and their non-specificity. Room therefore exists for expert-maintained databases of restricted focus, where knowledge of the research field helps to filter the huge amount of data generated. Accordingly, neuroscientists have designed databases covering several types of proteins, in particular receptors for neurotransmitters. Ligand-gated ion channels are oligomeric transmembrane proteins involved in the fast response to neurotransmitters. All these receptors are formed by the assembly of homologous subunits, and an unexpected wealth of genes coding for these subunits has been revealed during the last two decades. The Ligand Gated Ion Channel database (LGICdb) has been developed to handle this growing body of information. The database aims to provide only one entry for each gene, containing annotated nucleic acid and protein sequences.
Faster than ever, neuroscience is generating vast amounts of data that await cross-referencing, comparison, integration and interpretation in the endeavour to unravel the mechanisms of the brain. The complex, diverse and distributed nature of these data requires the development of advanced neuroinformatics methodologies for databases and associated tools that are now beginning to emerge. This paper presents an overview of current issues in the representation, integration and analysis of neuroscience data from molecular to brain systems levels, including issues of implementation, standardization, management, quality control, copyright, confidentiality and acceptance. Particular emphasis is given to integrative neuroinformatics approaches for exploring structure-function relationships in the brain.
Involvement of the lingual muscle is considered one of the exclusion criteria of facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD). In a series of 151 Japanese patients with 4q35-FSHD, seven patients (4.6%) had tongue atrophy with abnormal MRI findings and typical myogenic patterns of electromyography. All seven patients belong to a group of early-onset FSHD with large gene deletions on chromosome 4q35. Our result suggests that the patients with 4q35-FSHD could have myopathic tongue atrophy.
The authors evaluated whether glatiramer acetate (GA) modifies the severity of tissue damage in 1,722 new lesions from 239 patients with MS enrolled in a placebo-controlled trial monitored with monthly cerebral MRI. The percentage of new lesions that evolved into &quot;black holes&quot; was lower in GA-treated than in placebo patients on scans at 7 (18.9 and 26.3%; p = 0.04) and 8 (15.6 and 31.4%; p = 0.002) months after lesion appearance. GA has a favorable effect on tissue disruption in MS lesions once they are formed.


The human kallikrein gene family consists of 15 serine proteases. We examined the expression of the kallikrein genes in human cerebral cortex and hippocampus by RT-PCR and compared their expression between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and control tissue. KLK1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13 and 14 are expressed in both cerebral cortex and hippocampus. KLK9 is expressed in cortex but not hippocampus, whereas KLK2, 3, 12 and 15 are not expressed in either tissue. We demonstrate an 11.5-fold increase in KLK8 mRNA levels in AD hippocampus compared to controls. The KLK8 gene product, neuropsin, processes extracellular matrix and is important for neuronal plasticity. Therefore, the increase in KLK8 could have detrimental effects on hippocampal function in AD.
To assess the significance of damaged nuclear DNA in autopsy brain tissue in Lewy body disease (LBD), we examined the patterns of expression of two DNA repair enzymes (PARP and DNA-PKCS), TUNEL and caspase-3 activation, in sections of midbrain and frontal cortex from nine patients with LBD who had not received L-DOPA, and from five neurologically normal controls. In LBD but not controls, many neurons and glia in the midbrain had translocated DNA-PKCS and PARP from the cytoplasm into the nucleus, particularly in the substantia nigra. LBD midbrains contained sparse TUNEL-positive neurons. Caspase-3 activity was largely restricted to microglia but was detected in an occasional nigral neuron. Nuclear DNA damage occurs in vivo in LBD but only rarely indicates neuronal apoptosis.
A hybrid circuit of a semiconductor chip and synaptically connected neurons was implemented and characterized. Individual nerve cells from the snail Lymnaea stagnalis were immobilized on a silicon chip by microscopic picket fences of polyimide. The cells formed a network with electrical synapses after outgrowth in brain conditioned medium. Pairs of neurons were electronically interfaced for noninvasive stimulation and recording. Voltage pulses were applied to a capacitive stimulator on the chip to excite the attached neuron. Signals were transmitted in the neuronal net and elicited an action potential in a second neuron. The postsynaptic excitation modulated the current of a transistor on the chip. The implementation of the silicon-neuron-neuron-silicon circuit constitutes a proof-of-principle experiment for the development of neuroelectronic systems to be used in studies on neuronal signal processing, neurocomputation, and neuroprosthetics.
Claudins, the major transmembrane proteins of tight junctions, are members of the tetraspanin superfamily of proteins that mediate cellular adhesion and migration. Their functional importance is demonstrated by mutations in claudin genes that eliminate tight junctions in myelin and the testis, abolish Mg(2+) resorption in the kidney, and cause autosomal recessive deafness. Here we report that two paralogs among 15 claudin genes in the zebrafish, Danio rerio, are expressed in the otic and lateral-line placodes at their earliest stages of development. Related claudins in amphibians and mammals are expressed in a similar manner in vertebrate primordia such as sensory placodes, branchial arches, and limb buds. We also show that the claudin gene family may have expanded along the chordate stem lineage from urochordates to gnathostomes, in parallel with the elaboration of vertebrate characters. We propose that tight junctions not only form barriers in mature epithelia, but also participate in vertebrate morphogenesis.
Age-related degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs) contributes to cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome. With aging, the partial trisomy 16 (Ts65Dn) mouse model of Down's syndrome exhibited reductions in BFCN size and number and regressive changes in the hippocampal terminal fields of these neurons with respect to diploid controls. The changes were associated with significantly impaired retrograde transport of nerve growth factor (NGF) from the hippocampus to the basal forebrain. Intracerebroventricular NGF infusion reversed well established abnormalities in BFCN size and number and restored the deficit in cholinergic innervation. The findings are evidence that even BFCNs chronically deprived of endogenous NGF respond to an intervention that compensates for defective retrograde transport. We suggest that age-related cholinergic neurodegeneration may be a treatable disorder of failed retrograde NGF signaling.
The endocrine response to stress is an important homoeostatic mechanism, and the secretion of glucocorticoids from the adrenal cortex is a central feature of this response. During early postnatal development, the neonatal rat displays a reduced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) response to stress. This early period has been termed the 'stress hyporesponsive period' (SHRP). Maternal separation (Sep) of neonates from their mothers during early postnatal development alters the HPA response to stress. In this study, we report the effects of Sep during the SHRP. Female rats were time mated and randomly divided into control or Sep groups before birth. The Sep litters were removed from the mothers during the dark cycle for 6 h per day from postnatal day (PND) 2 to 10. On PND 28, the pups from both groups were weighed, the anogenital distance (AGD) was measured and the animals weaned. At 40 days of age, male and female animals from both groups were tested for open-field activity. As the animals matured, vaginal opening and estrous cycles were measured in females, and males were tested for male sexual behavior at adulthood. Basal, stress, and stress recovery serum corticosterone levels were measured from control and Sep male and female animals. Open-field activity was not significantly different between control or Sep male or female animals. Sep did not affect either vaginal opening or estrous cycles in female animals. Corticosterone secretion in response to stress was similar in control and Sep males and females; however, the recovery levels were significantly higher in Sep females than in Sep males or female control values. In male sexual behavior tests, Sep males had significantly longer mount latencies (time to the first mount), longer intromission latencies (time to the first intromission) and a significant reduction in the percent of animals ejaculating versus control values (controls 84 and Sep 50%). Therefore, Sep males as adults displayed altered reproductive behavior, whereas their stress recovery levels of corticosterone returned to near basal levels in a similar fashion to that observed for control non-handled males. In contrast, females displayed normal reproductive physiology, while their recovery levels of corticosterone remained high, unlike that observed with control females. Thus, significant gender differences in response to Sep (during the dark phase of the circadian cycle) were observed in the paradigm used in the present study.
This experiment examined the effect of a 3-week rest after electrical kindling on kindling-induced potentiation and the morphology of frontal (Fr1) neocortical layer III pyramidal cell dendrites in both male and female rats. Repeated elicitation of afterdischarge resulted in an increase in the severity of the behavioural seizures and afterdischarge duration. The late component of the transcallosal evoked responses was significantly larger 1 and 21 days following the last kindling session in both male and female rats. Analysis of the Golgi-Cox impregnated pyramidal cell dendrites indicated no significant difference in the amount of apical and basilar dendritic, branching, length, and spine density in both male and female rats, relative to their respective control groups, 21 days following the last kindling session. There was, however, one exception, the male group showed a significant increase in apical spine density. The persistent expression of kindling-induced potentiation appears to be dissociated from the renormalized pyramidal cell dendritic morphology.
In this investigation, changes of mechanical- (MEP) and laser-evoked potentials (LEP) in rat primary somatosensory cortex during the course of pentobarbital (PB) anesthesia were examined. Temporal analysis of changes in the magnitude and latency of MEP and LEP, EEG activity, gross motor behaviors, and the tail flick response following laser stimulation before, during, and after PB administration (50 mg/kg, i.p.) was performed and correlated in chronically implanted rats. During the wakeful condition, there were two major cortical components each following mechanical stimulation (MEP1 and MEP2, n=17) and laser stimulation (LEP1 and LEP2, n=10), respectively. After PB administration, the positive peak in MEP1 was enhanced, and all other components disappeared. These components returned with different time courses. Two hours after PB administration, when the rat had spontaneous movements and flexor reflexes, LEP2 showed reversed polarity. MEP2 returned gradually 3 h after PB administration when the rat regained its ability to execute coordinated movements. After 4 h, LEP1 began to reappear and LEP2 returned to its negative polarity. We found that PB facilitated Abeta fiber-related cortical evoked potential (MEP1), while differentially inhibited Adelta and C fiber-related components (MEP2, LEP1 and LEP2). Characterization of these anesthesia-induced changes in cortical output may be useful in studying the neural basis of tactile and pain sensations.
Neural precursors often generate distinct cell types in a specific order, but the intrinsic or extrinsic cues regulating the timing of cell fate specification are poorly understood. Here we show that Drosophila neural precursors (neuroblasts) sequentially express the transcription factors Hunchback --&gt; Krppel --&gt; Pdm --&gt; Castor, with differentiated progeny maintaining the transcription factor profile present at their birth. Hunchback is necessary and sufficient for first-born cell fates, whereas Krppel is necessary and sufficient for second-born cell fates; this is observed in multiple lineages and is independent of the cell type involved. We propose that Hunchback and Krppel control early-born temporal identity in neuroblast cell lineages.
Exposure of rats to a single session of foot shocks sensitizes behavioral responses to novel stimuli. There is evidence that metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors play a role in sensitization processes. In the present study, we investigated the role of mGlu(2/3) receptors in the long-term (14 days) increase in defensive withdrawal behavior after a single session of foot shocks. Exposure to foot shocks increased defensive withdrawal behavior. The mGlu(2/3) receptor agonist LY354740 ((1S,2S,5R,6S)-(+)-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylic acid, 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) normalized the increased latency and the decreased time in the light of the preshocked rats. We conclude that activation of mGlu(2/3) receptors attenuates the foot shock-induced expression of behavioral sensitization.
There is evidence that 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity is mediated through both inhibition of mitochondrial complex I and free radical generation. 7-Nitroindazole protects against MPTP toxicity in vitro and in vivo, and this appears to be related to its inhibition of nitric oxide (NO(*-)) synthase. We now show that the NO(*-) generator, glutathione-N-oxide, enhances the inhibitory action of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) on complex I activity in brain submitochondrial particles. We propose that the NO(*-)-induced reversible inhibition of complex IV (cytochrome oxidase) potentiates the MPP(+)-induced irreversible free radical-mediated inhibition of complex I. Thus, NO(*-) may 'prime' the respiratory chain to the effects of MPP(+). These data provide evidence for an interaction between NO(*-) and MPP(+) at the level of the respiratory chain.
The phospholipid-binding specificities of C(2) domains, widely distributed Ca(2+)-binding modules, differ greatly despite similar three-dimensional structures. To understand the molecular basis for this specificity, we have examined the synaptotagmin 1 C(2)A domain, which interacts in a primarily electrostatic, Ca(2+)-dependent reaction with negatively charged phospholipids, and the cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) C(2) domain, which interacts by a primarily hydrophobic Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism with neutral phospholipids. We show that grafting the short Ca(2+)-binding loops from the tip of the cPLA(2) C(2) domain onto the top of the synaptotagmin 1 C(2)A domain confers onto the synaptotagmin 1 C(2)A domain the phospholipid binding specificity of the cPLA(2) C(2) domain, indicating that the functional specificity of C(2) domains is determined by their short top loops.
The mood-stabilizing agents lithium and valproic acid (VPA) increase DNA binding activity and transactivation activity of AP-1 transcription factors, as well as the expression of genes regulated by AP-1, in cultured cells and brain regions involved in mood regulation. In the present study, we found that VPA activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), a kinase known to regulate AP-1 function and utilized by neurotrophins to mediate their diverse effects, including neuronal differentiation, neuronal survival, long term neuroplasticity, and potentially learning and memory. VPA-induced activation of ERK was blocked by the mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase inhibitor PD098059 and dominant-negative Ras and Raf mutants but not by dominant-negative stress-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 6 mutants. VPA also increased the expression of genes regulated by the ERK pathway, including growth cone-associated protein 43 and Bcl-2, promoted neurite growth and cell survival, and enhanced norepinephrine uptake and release. These data demonstrate that VPA is an ERK pathway activator and produces neurotrophic effects.
The present study examined specific effects of sodium cyanide (CN) on the membrane potential (MP), spontaneous discharge (SD) and voltage-gated ion current of the identified bulbospinal rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) neuron in the rat pup brainstem slice. 125 microM CN rapidly depolarized MP in the RVLM neuron by 11.6 mV as well as enhanced the SD rate by 300%. In contrast, the same dose of CN immediately hyperpolarized unlabeled, non-RVLM neurons by 4.8 mV. 50 microM CN did not significantly affect voltage-gated Ca(++) or A-type K(+) currents. The same concentration of CN, however, rapidly and reversibly suppressed voltage-gated Na(+) currents and sustained outward K(+) currents in the RVLM neuron by 22.5% and 23%, respectively. Tetraethylammonium could mimic the effect of CN on MP, SD and sustained K(+) current in the RVLM neuron. It is concluded that: (1) like that from the adult rat, the rat pup bulbospinal RVLM neuron can be selectively and rapidly excited by CN; (2) the hypoxia-sensitive, sustained outward K(+) channel may play an important role in the acute hypoxia-induced excitation of the RVLM neurons.



Calbindin-D(28K) (CALB), a calcium-binding protein, is thought to buffer intracellular calcium levels in neurons playing several important roles during central nervous system development such as, protecting against apoptosis (programmed cell death), neurodegenerative diseases and influencing sexually dimorphic brain structures. While preliminary research indicates that calbindin levels are modulated by steroids, there has not yet been a comprehensive study to determine the role androgens, androgen metabolites and corticosterone have on CALB expression in males and throughout the estrous cycle in rats. The present study had two main components utilizing Western analysis: (1) examination of the influence of steroid hormones (testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, corticosterone, and estradiol) and aromatase and 5alpha-reductase blockers on rat brain CALB expression in frontal cortex, MBH-POA, and cerebellum of male rats in experiment 1; (2) characterization of CALB abundance in frontal cortex, MBH-POA, and cerebellum throughout the hormonally induced estrous cycle of rats in experiment 2. There were no significant alterations in CALB levels by any of the treatments in experiment 1 or experiment 2 when frontal cortical tissue was examined. In male MBH-POA samples, estradiol treatment significantly increased CALB levels compared to oil-injection and aromatase or 5alpha-reductase blockers. Additionally, DHT treatment significantly increased CALB levels vs. 5alpha-reductase blocker values. In female samples, MBH-POA CALB levels increased from diestrus through proestrus and estrus to metestrus, where metestrus values were significantly higher compared to diestrus levels. In the cerebellum, the only significant alteration in CALB levels, in males, was observed in corticosterone-treated animals where a significant decrease was seen compared to oil injection. In females, cerebellum CALB levels increased from diestrus through proestus, with a slight decrease at estrus. Thereafter, CALB levels increased during metestrus where cerebellar CALB values were significantly higher than diestrus levels. These findings suggest that steroid hormones play an important regulatory role in CALB expression in the brain (except for the frontal cortex) where it potentially influences the development/function and neuroprotective changes of neuroanatomical structures.
Cell migration is a fundamental biological process involving membrane polarization and cytoskeletal dynamics, both of which are regulated by Rho family GTPases. Among these molecules, Rac is crucial for generating the actin-rich lamellipodial protrusion, a principal part of the driving force for movement. The CDM family proteins, Caenorhabditis elegans CED-5, human DOCK180 and Drosophila melanogaster Myoblast City (MBC), are implicated to mediate membrane extension by functioning upstream of Rac. Although genetic analysis has shown that CED-5 and Myoblast City are crucial for migration of particular types of cells, physiological relevance of the CDM family proteins in mammals remains unknown. Here we show that DOCK2, a haematopoietic cell-specific CDM family protein, is indispensable for lymphocyte chemotaxis. DOCK2-deficient mice (DOCK2-/-) exhibited migration defects of T and B lymphocytes, but not of monocytes, in response to chemokines, resulting in several abnormalities including T lymphocytopenia, atrophy of lymphoid follicles and loss of marginal-zone B cells. In DOCK2-/- lymphocytes, chemokine-induced Rac activation and actin polymerization were almost totally abolished. Thus, in lymphocyte migration DOCK2 functions as a central regulator that mediates cytoskeletal reorganization through Rac activation.
Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) disease is a cholesterol lipidosis caused by mutations in NPC1 and NPC2 gene loci. Most human cases are caused by defects in NPC1, as are the spontaneously occurring NPC diseases in mice and cats. NPC1 protein possesses a sterol-sensing domain and has been localized to vesicles that are believed to facilitate the recycling of unesterified cholesterol from late endosomes/lysosomes to the ER and Golgi. In addition to accumulating cholesterol, NPC1-deficient cells also accumulate gangliosides and other glycosphingolipids (GSLs), and neuropathological abnormalities in NPC disease closely resemble those seen in primary gangliosidoses. These findings led us to hypothesize that NPC1 may also function in GSL homeostasis. To evaluate this possibility, we treated murine and feline NPC models with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), an inhibitor of glucosylceramide synthase, a pivotal enzyme in the early GSL synthetic pathway. Treated animals showed delayed onset of neurological dysfunction, increased average life span (in mice), and reduced ganglioside accumulation and accompanying neuropathological changes. These results are consistent with our hypothesis and with GSLs being centrally involved in the pathogenesis of NPC disease, and they suggest that drugs inhibiting GSL synthesis could have a similar ameliorating effect on the human disorder.

Receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs) are implicated as regulators of axon growth and guidance. Genetic deletions in the fly have shown that type III RPTPs are important in axon pathfinding, but nothing is known about their function on a cellular level. Previous experiments in our lab have identified a type III RPTP, CRYP-2/cPTPRO, specifically expressed during the period of axon outgrowth in the chick brain; cPTPRO is expressed in the axons and growth cones of retinal and tectal projection neurons. We constructed a fusion protein containing the extracellular domain of cPTPRO fused to the Fc portion of mouse immunoglobulin G-1, and used it to perform in vitro functional assays. We found that the extracellular domain of cPTPRO is an antiadhesive, neurite inhibitory molecule for retinal neurons. In addition, cPTPRO had potent growth cone collapsing activity in vitro, and locally applied gradients of cPTPRO repelled growing retinal axons. This chemorepulsive effect could be regulated by the level of cGMP in the growth cone. Immunohistochemical examination of the retina indicated that cPTPRO has at least one heterophilic binding partner in the retina. Taken together, our results indicate that cPTPRO may act as a guidance cue for retinal ganglion cells during vertebrate development.
The fluorescent dyes sulforhodamine 101 (SR 101) and FM1-43 were used as activity-dependent dyes (ADDs) to label presynaptic terminals in the retinas of a broad range of animals, including amphibians, mammals, fish, and turtles. The pattern of dye uptake was studied in live retinal preparations by using brightfield, fluorescence, and confocal microscopy. When bath-applied to the retina-eyecup, these dyes were avidly sequestered by the presynaptic terminals of virtually all rods, cones, and bipolar and amacrine cells; ganglion cell dendrites and horizontal cells lacked significant dye accumulation. Other structures stained with these dyes included pigment epithelial cells, cone outer segments, and Mller cell end-feet. Studies of dye uptake in dark- and light-adapted preparations showed significant differences in the dye accumulation pattern in the inner plexiform layer (IPL), suggesting a dynamic, light-modulated control of endocytotic activity. Presynaptic terminals in the IPL could be segregated on the basis of volume: bipolar varicosities in the IPL were typically larger than those of amacrine cells. The combination of retrograde labeling of ganglion cells and presynaptic terminal labeling with ADDs served as the experimental preparation for three-dimensional reconstruction of both structures, based on dual detector, confocal microscopy. Our results demonstrate a new approach for studying synaptic interactions in retinal function. These findings provide new insights into the likely number and position of functional connections from amacrine and bipolar cell terminals onto ganglion cell dendrites.

Iba1 is a 17-kDa EF hand protein that is specifically expressed in macrophages/microglia and is upregulated during the activation of these cells. When exposed to macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), microglia cell line MG5 immediately produces intense membrane ruffles in which Iba1 accumulates together with filamentous actin. In this study, we investigated the physical interaction between Iba1 and actin by centrifugation assay and electron microscopic examination and showed that Iba1 possesses actin-binding and -cross-linking activities. Inhibitory mutant Iba1 that suppresses M-CSF-induced membrane ruffling had lost the actin-cross-linking activity, and it inhibited the cross-linking activity of intact Iba1. These results indicate that Iba1 is a macrophage/microglia-specific actin-cross-linking protein essential for M-CSF-induced membrane ruffling.
Circumstantial evidence suggests that binding sites for the plant lectin Bandeiraea simplicifolia I-isolectin B(4) are expressed by nociceptive primary sensory neurones. In order to test this hypothesis directly, we have used a combination of intracellular staining of functionally characterised primary sensory neurones and lectin binding. Consistent with the hypothesis, none of the low threshold primary sensory neurones we sampled expressed lectin binding sites, whilst a subpopulation of the nociceptive neurones did.
In vivo microdialysis was used to assess the central serotonergic effects and extracellular brain levels of the 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonists eletriptan, zolmitriptan and sumatriptan in rats after intravenous and intracerebral administration, while their binding affinities and functional potencies were determined at 5-HT(1B), 5-HT(1D) and 5-HT(1A) receptors. In vitro studies showed that all three triptans are high affinity, full agonists at 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors, but that sumatriptan is functionally less potent as a 5-HT(1B/1D) agonist than zolmitriptan and eletriptan. Local intracortical perfusion with the compounds via the dialysis probe decreased cortical 5-HT (5-hydroxytryptamine, serotonin) release with ED(50) values of approximately 0.1 microM for eletriptan and zolmitriptan and 0.5 microM for sumatriptan. At 3.2 mg/kg i.v., both eletriptan and zolmitriptan decreased 5-HT levels by about 35%, while sumatriptan had no effect, despite the fact that maximal sumatriptan concentrations in cortical dialysates were higher (8.8 nM at 20 min) than those of zolmitriptan (5.9 nM at 20 min) and eletriptan (2.6 nM at 40 min). The observation that eletriptan and zolmitriptan produce almost identical central serotonergic effects, after intracerebral as well as after systemic administration, is in agreement with their comparable functional 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist potencies and their free levels in cortical dialysates after 3.2 mg/kg i.v. On the other hand, the lack of central serotonergic effects of 3.2 mg/kg i.v. sumatriptan is likely due to its weaker functional 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist potency than eletriptan and zolmitriptan, rather than lower brain levels, consistent with sumatriptan's fivefold lower potency after intracerebral administration.
The present study describes the effect of Saquinavir on proliferation, interferon-gamma production and telomerase activity of non-stimulated, or activated non-adherent mononuclear cells (NAMNC), obtained from peripheral blood of healthy donors. Fresh NAMNC, non-stimulated or activated in vitro with PHA or with a mixture of monoclonal antibodies against CD3 and against CD28 membrane antigens (in order to obtain prevalent T cell responses), were exposed to Saquinavir before or at the time of mitogenic stimulation. Control and treated cells were tested for DNA synthesis (3H-thymidine incorporation), interferon-gamma production and telomerase activity (TRAP assay). The results indicate that Saquinavir is able to increase proliferation and interferon-gamma release in PHA-stimulated NAMNC, and telomerase activity either in non-stimulated and in PHA or antibody-activated cells. These results suggest that the activity against HIV infection afforded by Saquinavir, could be corroborated by its effects on the host. These include its adjuvant activity on mitogen-induced responses of lymphocytes, and its possible antagonistic effects against lymphoid cell senescence, through telomerase activation.
Functional asymmetry of the parietal lobes during piano performance was assessed utilizing independent component-cross correlation-sequential epoch analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging time series. Eight right handed musically trained subjects played the piano with their right hand, left hand, or both hands as cued by visually presented musical scores. The areas activated included the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and the primary sensorimotor areas (SM1). While unilateral SM1 activation was correlated to motion of the corresponding contralateral hand, PPC activation was correlated to piano performance irrespective of hand modality. Furthermore, PPC activation exhibited significant asymmetry, with left hemisphere dominance. The results indicate that the left parietal lobe plays a significant role in the cortical processes of piano performance.


Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during a recognition memory test for previously studied visual objects. Some studied objects were paired with the same context (landscape scenes) as at study, some were superimposed on a different studied context, and some were paired with new contexts. Unstudied objects were paired with either a studied or a new context. Three ERP memory effects were observed: an early effect elicited by all stimuli containing at least one studied component; a second effect elicited only by stimuli in which both object and context had been studied; and a third effect elicited by stimuli containing a studied object. Thus, test stimuli engaged three distinct kinds of memory-related neural activity which differed in their specificity for task-relevant features.
Diphosphoinositol-pentakisphosphate (InsP7) and bis-diphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate (InsP8) possess pyrophosphate bonds. InsP7 is formed from inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP6) by recently identified InsP6 kinases designated InsP6K1 and InsP6K2. We now report the identification, cloning, and characterization of a novel protein, GRAB (guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Rab3A), which interacts with both InsP6K1 and Rab3A, a Ras-like GTPase that regulates synaptic vesicle exocytosis. GRAB is a physiologic GEF (guanine nucleotide exchange factor) for Rab3A. Consistent with a role of Rab3A in synaptic vesicle exocytosis, GRAB regulates depolarization-induced release of dopamine from PC12 cells and nicotinic agonist-induced hGH release from bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. The association of InsP6K1 with GRAB fits with a role for InsP7 in vesicle exocytosis.
During late stages of neural development, synaptic circuitry is edited by neural activity. At neuromuscular synapses, the transition from multiple to single innervation is modulated by the relative pattern of activity among inputs competing for innervation of the same muscle fiber. While experimental perturbations of activity result in marked changes in the timing of neuromuscular synaptic competition, little is known about the patterns of activity present during normal development. Here, we report the temporal patterning of motor unit activity in the soleus muscle of awake, behaving neonatal mice, and that patterning is modulated by gap-junctional coupling. Our work suggests that neuromuscular synaptic competition is modulated by surprisingly low levels of activity and may be triggered by the disappearance of temporally correlated activity among inputs competing for innervation of the same muscle fiber.
Nicotine, the main addictive component of tobacco, activates and desensitizes nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). In that way, nicotine alters normal nicotinic cholinergic functions. Among the myriad of psychopharmacological effects that underlie the addiction process, nicotine influences nAChR participation in synaptic plasticity. This influence has particular importance in the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, which serves during the reinforcement of rewarding behaviors.
In this issue of Neuron, two laboratories (Deans et al. and Hormuzdi et al.) find that cortical gamma oscillation in vitro is impaired in the Cx36 knockout mouse. What are the implications?
The RE1 binding silencer protein REST represses neuronal-specific gene expression in nonneuronal cell types. In this issue of Neuron, Ballas et al. show that REST inhibits gene expression via the recruitment of multiple histone deacetylase complexes.
Mitochondria play a central role in energy metabolism, Ca(2+) signalling, aging and cell death. To control cytosolic or mitochondrial Ca(2+) concentration, mitochondria possess several Ca(2+)-transport systems across the inner membrane. However, the pathway for Ca(2+) crossing the outer membrane has not been directly addressed. We report that purified voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) reconstituted into lipid bilayers or liposomes is highly permeable to Ca(2+). VDAC contains Ca(2+)-binding sites that bind Ruthenium Red (RuR), La(3+) and that RuR completely closed VDACs in single or multichannel experiments. Energized, freshly prepared mitochondria accumulate Ca(2+) (500-700 nmol/mg of protein), and subsequently released it. The release of Ca(2+) is accompanied by cyclosporin A-inhibited swelling, suggesting activation of permeability transition pore (PTP). RuR and ruthenium amine binuclear complex, when added to mitochondria after Ca(2+) accumulation has reached a maximal level and before PTP is activated, prevented the release of Ca(2+) and the accompanied mitochondrial swelling. RuR also prevented PTP opening promoted by atractyloside, an adenine nucleotide translocase inhibitor. These results suggest that VDAC, located in the mitochondrial outer membrane, controls Ca(2+) transport into and from the mitochondria, and that the inhibition of Ca(2+) uptake by RuR and La(3+) may result from their interaction with VDAC Ca(2+)-binding sites. Inhibition of PTP opening or assembly by RuR and ruthenium amine binuclear complex suggest the involvement of VDAC in PTP activity and/or regulation. The permeability of VDAC to Ca(2+) and its binding of Ca(2+), suggest that VDAC has a role in regulation of the mitochondrial Ca(2+) homoeostasis.
The involvement of nuclear Factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) transcription factor in PC12 cell death triggered by the dopaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was investigated. Results show that oxidative stress generated by 6-OHDA activates NF-kappa B. When the NF-kappa B activation was inhibited by parthenolide, PC12 cell death induced by 6-OHDA was significantly increased, thus suggesting an involvement of this transcription factor in a protective mechanism against 6-OHDA toxicity. To further assess this hypothesis, we studied the involvement of NF-kappa B in the protective effect of two anti-apoptotic genes, bcl-2 and bfl-1. Although Bcl-2 and Bfl-1 expression normally protects PC12 cells from 6-OHDA, parthenolide strongly decreased the beneficial effects afforded by transgene expression. These results suggest: (1) that the transcription factor NF-kappa B is likely associated with the protection of catecholaminergic PC12 cells and (2) that the protective effects afforded by bcl-2 and bfl-1 expression may be dependent on NF-kappa activation.

A reduced ability to regenerate peripheral axons may be partly responsible for diabetic neuropathy. The source of the impairment has not been narrowed down to axonal or Schwann cell failure. We used nerve grafts from control or diabetic donor rats transplanted into control or diabetic hosts to pursue this differential diagnosis. An isograft between the left sciatic nerves of inbred Lewis rats was performed 8 weeks after STZ treatment and on age-matched controls. The nerve exchanges were control-control, control-diabetic, diabetic-control and diabetic-diabetic. At postsurgical day 14, nerves were excised and analysed for levels of axonal markers, total and phosphorylated neurofilament, and Schwann cell receptors, ErbB2 and p75(NTR), using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. The aim was to measure ingress of axonal markers into the graft and judge the appropriateness of Schwann cell phenotype changes. Transfer of nerve from diabetic to control rats resulted in a doubling in neurofilament, both phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated (both P&lt;0.05). ErbB2 was decreased in grafts from diabetic rats (53% of control, P&lt;0.05) and p75(NTR) levels were increased in both types of graft in diabetic rats (to 300-400% of controls, P&lt;0.05). Schwann cells in diabetic nerve grafts showed receptor levels more similar to controls when placed into a normal environment and the converse also appeared to hold. TUNEL staining revealed increased apoptosis in diabetic nerve distal to the graft. The data show that alterations in Schwann cell phenotype in diabetes are reversed by transfer to control rats and develop in normal nerve after transfer to a diabetic host.
Guanylate cyclase-1 (GC1) plays a critical role in visual phototransduction and its absence severely compromises the ability of the photoreceptor cells to transduce light for vision. In this study we sought to determine if the absence of GC1 has any effect on light entrainment of the circadian oscillators located in these cells. We compared the rhythmic changes in transcript levels of iodopsin, a photoreceptor-specific gene whose expression is regulated by circadian oscillators, in retinas of normal chickens and GUCY1*B (*B) chickens that carry a null mutation in GC1. Our results show that iodopsin rhythms are present in *B retinas and that they can be entrained to light; however, the rise and fall of iodopsin transcript levels in *B retina under cyclic light conditions is significantly more rapid than that observed in normal retina, and under constant dark conditions, the phase of the iodopsin rhythm in *B retina is advanced by 6 h relative to that observed in normal retina. In addition, the rate of entrainment of the iodopsin rhythm in *B retina to a reversal of the light cycle is significantly slower than normal. The results of our study show that a functioning visual phototransduction cascade is not essential for light entrainment of the oscillators that drive the iodopsin rhythm in photoreceptor cells. We propose that the abnormal synthesis of cGMP in *B photoreceptors underlies the irregular iodopsin rhythms observed in post-hatch *B retina.
Glutamate is the main neurotransmitter in the olfactory bulb. Therefore, glutamate transporters, which regulate the concentration of extracellular glutamate, might play pivotal roles in odor processing. In this study, we examined expressions of three glutamate transporters (GLAST, GLT1 and EAAC1) in the olfactory bulb using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. EAAC1 mRNA was expressed in neurons, such as periglomerular cells, tufted cells, mitral cells and granule cells as shown before in other brain areas. In contrast, GLAST and GLT1 were found in glial cells throughout the olfactory bulb, with intenser expressions in the glomerular layer, external plexiform layer and internal plexiform layer where glutamatergic synapses are concentrated. In addition, using double staining immunohistochemistry we clearly showed that GLAST and GLT1 were expressed in astrocytes. Furthermore, we found that GLAST was also intensely expressed in the subependymal layer where precursor cells exist. These results suggest each glutamate transporter plays its unique role not only in glutamatergic neurotransmission but also in cell differentiation and migration in the olfactory bulb.
Patterning of the Xenopus gastrula marginal zone in the axis running equatorially from the Spemann organizer-the so--called &quot;dorsal/ventral axis&quot;--has been extensively studied. It is now evident that patterning in the animal/vegetal axis also needs to be taken into consideration. We have shown that an animal/vegetal pattern is apparent in the marginal zone by midgastrulation in the polarized expression domains of Xenopus brachyury (Xbra) and Xenopus nodal-related factor 2 (Xnr2). In this report, we have followed cells expressing Xbra in the presumptive trunk and tail at the gastrula stage, and find that they fate to presumptive somite, but not to ventrolateral mesoderm of the tailbud embryo. From this, we speculate that the boundary between the Xbra- and Xnr2-expressing cells at gastrula corresponds to a future tissue boundary. In further experiments, we show that the level of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation is polarized along the animal/vegetal axis, with the Xnr2-expressing cells in the vegetal marginal zone having no detectable activated MAPK. We show that inhibition of MAPK activation in Xenopus animal caps results in the conversion of Xnr2 from a dorsal mesoderm inducer to a ventral mesoderm inducer, supporting a role for Xnr2 in induction of ventral mesoderm.

We report haplotype analysis of the alpha-synuclein gene in Parkinson's disease (PD), extending earlier reports of an association with a polymorphism within the gene promoter. This analysis showed significant differences in haplotypes between PD cases and controls. Our analyses demonstrate that genetic variability in the alpha-synuclein gene is a risk factor for the development of PD. These genetic findings are analogous to the tau haplotype over-represented in progressive supranuclear palsy and further extend the similarity in the etiologies and pathogeneses of the synucleinopathies and tauopathies.
Dysferlin is a surface membrane protein in skeletal muscle whose deficiency causes distal and proximal, recessively inherited, forms of muscular dystrophy designated Miyoshi myopathy (MM) and limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B), respectively. The function of dysferlin is not defined. Caveolin-3 is another skeletal muscle membrane protein which is important in the formation of caveolae and whose mutations cause dominantly inherited limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1C (LGMD1C). We report that dysferlin co-immunoprecipitates with caveolin-3 from biopsied normal human skeletal muscles. We also describe abnormal localization of dysferlin in muscles from patients with LGMD1C including novel missense mutation (T64P) in the human caveolin-3 gene (CAV3). The immunoprecipitation data are consistent with the parallel observation that dysferlin immunostaining is not normal in LGMD1C muscles. Amino acid sequence analysis of the dysferlin protein reveals seven sites that correspond to caveolin-3 scaffold-binding motifs, and one site that is a potential target to bind the WW domain of the caveolin-3 protein. This is the first description of a possible dysferlin interacting protein; it suggests the hypothesis that one function of dysferlin may be to interact with caveolin-3 to subserve signaling functions of caveolae.
Photocatalytic degradation of water pollutants using nanometersized semiconductor colloids is an emerging area of environmental remediation. The synthesis of semiconductor nanocrystals (NCs), however, can be costly and result in low product yields. For large-scale photocatalytic application in environmental remediation, cost-effective production of the semiconductor NCs would be ideal. Demonstrated in this report is the efficient photocatalytic degradation of p-nitrophenol (pNP) and Acid Orange 7 (AO7) using ZnS nanocrystals ( approximately 3 to 5 nm diameter) produced in gram quantities with &gt;50% product yield. The pNP half-life in ZnS nanocrystal photocatalyzed reactions was about 1.95 to 2.45 min, whereas in comparable TiO(2) reactions, the pNP half-lives were in the range of 12 to 15 min. Absorption spectra of the photocatalysis reactions suggested the decolorization of pNP without any noticeable formation of phenolic intermediates, implying a mechanism that involves a pNP ring opening via a radical mediated attack. Likewise, the degradation of AO7 was suggested to occur via an oxidative pathway involving hydroxyl radicals formed at the photocatalyst/liquid interface. Optimum conditions for AO7 degradation such as pH, photocatalyst-to-AO7 ratio, and photocatalyst surface passivation were similar to those for pNP. By demonstrating efficient mineralization of these model pollutants using mass-produced ZnS nanocrystals, we hope to lay the foundations necessary for development of large-scale, field-applicable systems. Copyright 2001 Academic Press.
Vitamin A and its derivatives, the retinoids, have been implicated recently in the synaptic plasticity of the hippocampus and might therefore play a role in associated cognitive functions. Acting via transcription factors, retinoids can regulate gene expression via their nuclear receptors [retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and retinoid X receptors]. In a series of experiments, the present study investigated the possible role of age-related downregulation of retinoid-mediated transcription events in the cognitive decline seen in aged mice. We observed that the brain (and hippocampal) levels of retinoid receptors and the expression of specific associated target genes were restored to presenescent (adult) levels in aged mice after acute administration (150 microg/kg, s.c.) of retinoic acid (RA). These effects of RA, however, could be abolished by the coadministration of an RAR antagonist. RA was also demonstrated to alleviate the age-related deficit in the CA1 long-term potentiation efficacy of aged mice in vivo. Moreover, RA was found to alleviate completely the performance deficit of aged mice to the control level in a two-stage spatial discrimination paradigm designed to assess relational memory. This promnesic effect of RA was again susceptible to abolition by RAR antagonist treatment. The parallel molecular, cellular, and behavioral correlates associated with the decrease of retinoid receptor expression and its normalization demonstrated here suggest that the fine regulation of retinoid-mediated gene expression is fundamentally important to optimal brain functioning and higher cognition. Specifically, a naturally occurring dysregulation of retinoid-mediated molecular events might be a potential etiological factor for cognitive deterioration during senescence.
A worker honeybee performs tasks within the hive for approximately the first 3 weeks of adult life. After this time, it becomes a forager, flying repeatedly to collect food outside of the hive for the remainder of its 5-6 week life. Previous studies have shown that foragers have an increased volume of neuropil associated with the mushroom bodies, a brain region involved in learning, memory, and sensory integration. We report here that growth of the mushroom body neuropil in adult bees occurs throughout adult life and continues after bees begin to forage. Studies using Golgi impregnation asked whether the growth of the collar region of the mushroom body neuropil was a result of growth of the dendritic processes of the mushroom body intrinsic neurons, the Kenyon cells. Branching and length of dendrites in the collar region of the calyces were strongly correlated with worker age, but when age-matched bees were directly compared, those with foraging experience had longer, more branched dendrites than bees that had foraged less or not at all. The density of Kenyon cell dendritic spines remained constant regardless of age or behavioral state. Older and more experienced foragers therefore have a greater total number of dendritic spines in the mushroom body neuropil. Our findings indicate that, under natural conditions, the cytoarchitectural complexity of neurons in the mushroom bodies of adult honeybees increases as a function of increasing age, but that foraging experience promotes additional dendritic branching and growth.
Previous electrophysiological studies suggested that the initiation of behavioral sensitization to cocaine and amphetamine involves a transient increase in AMPA receptor responsiveness in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). To test this, we used in vivo microdialysis to examine the effects of intra-VTA administration of AMPA (10 microm) and NMDA (100 microm) on dopamine (DA) and glutamate efflux in the VTA and the nucleus accumbens (NAC), an important target of VTA DA neurons. We compared rats treated for 5 d with saline or 5 mg/kg amphetamine and withdrawn for 3 or 10-14 d. After 3 d of withdrawal, intra-VTA AMPA increased both NAC and VTA DA levels to a greater extent in the amphetamine group, whereas NMDA produced similar effects in the saline and amphetamine groups. This enhanced responsiveness to AMPA was no longer evident in rats tested 10-14 d after the last injection. In addition, intra-VTA AMPA but not NMDA increased both VTA and NAC glutamate levels in rats tested 3 d after the last injection of amphetamine but not in saline controls. After 10-14 d, the responsiveness of glutamate levels to AMPA was no longer evident in the NAC but persisted in the VTA. Additional studies indicated that the glutamate effect in the NAC may involve increased responsiveness of DA receptors within the NAC. These findings establish an in vivo animal model with which to explore the consequences of repeated drug administration for AMPA receptor plasticity in the VTA. They also indicate that repeated amphetamine leads to potentiated interactions between DA and glutamate transmission.
Dendritic spines are postsynaptic sites of excitatory input in the mammalian nervous system. Despite much information about their structure, their functional significance remains unknown. It has been reported that females in proestrus, when estrogen levels are elevated, have a greater density of apical dendritic spines on pyramidal neurons in area CA1 of the hippocampus than females in other stages of estrous (Woolley et al., 1990). Here we replicate these findings and in addition, show that females in proestrus have a greater density of spines in area CA1 of the hippocampus than males. Moreover, this sex difference in spine density is affected in opposite directions by stressful experience. In response to one acute stressful event of intermittent tailshocks, spine density was enhanced in the male hippocampus but reduced in the female hippocampus. The decrease in the female was observed for those that were stressed during diestrus 2 and perfused 24 hr later during proestrus. The opposing effects of stress were not evident immediately after the stressor but rather occurred within 24 hr and were evident on apical and to a lesser extent on basal dendrites of pyramidal cells in area CA1. Neither sex nor stress affected spine density on pyramidal neurons in somatosensory cortex. Sex differences in hippocampal spine density correlated with sex hormones, estradiol and testosterone, whereas stress effects on spine density were not directly associated with differences in the stress hormones, glucocorticoids. In summary, males and females have different levels of dendritic spine density in the hippocampus under unstressed conditions, and their neuronal anatomy can respond in opposite directions to the same stressful event.
Although the peripheral nerve has the potential to regenerate after injury, degenerative processes may be essential to promote axonal growth into the denervated nerve. One hypothesis is that the nerve contains growth inhibitors that must be neutralized after injury for optimal regeneration. In the present study, we tested whether degradation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, a known inhibitor of axon growth, enhances the growth-promoting properties of grafts prepared from normal donor nerves. Excised segments of rat sciatic nerve were made acellular by freeze-killing before treatment with chondroitinase ABC. Chondroitinase-dependent neoepitope immunolabeling showed that chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan was thoroughly degraded throughout the treated nerve segments. In addition, neuronal cryoculture assays revealed that the neurite-promoting activity of acellular nerves was significantly increased by chondroitinase treatment. Control and chondroitinase-treated acellular nerves were then used as interpositional grafts in a rat nerve injury model. Axonal regeneration into the grafts was assessed 4 and 8 d after implantation by growth-associated protein-43 immunolabeling. At both time points, the number of axons regenerating into acellular grafts treated with chondroitinase was severalfold greater than in control grafts. Growth into the chondroitinase-treated grafts was pronounced after only 4 d, suggesting that the delay of axonal growth normally associated with acellular grafts was attenuated as well. These findings indicate that chondroitinase treatment significantly enhanced the growth-promoting properties of freeze-killed donor nerve grafts. Combined with the low immunogenicity of acellular grafts, the ability to improve axonal penetration into interpositional grafts by preoperative treatment with chondroitinase may be a significant advancement for clinical nerve allografting.
During late gestational and early postnatal development, proliferating cells in the subventricular zones of the lateral ventricles (SVZ) migrate into the gray and white matter of the forebrain and differentiate into astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Because the cellular composition and structure of the neonatal SVZ is poorly understood, we performed a differential display PCR screen to identify genes preferentially expressed therein. One highly expressed gene encoded aldolase C. We used a specific monoclonal antibody, aldolase C/zebrin II (ALDC/ZII), in combination with markers of glial lineage and proliferation, to characterize the cells that express this gene. In the neonatal SVZ, ALDC/ZII-positive cells, which are generally polygonal and display several processes, have a nonuniform spatial distribution. They do not express vimentin, GFAP, or NG2. A subset of ALDC/ZII-positive cells incorporates bromodeoxyuridine, but progenitors identified by beta-galactosidase expression after infection with recombinant BAG virus do not show ALDC/ZII immunoreactivity. Outside of the SVZ, beta-galactosidase-positive/ALDC/ZII-positive cells have an astrocytic phenotype, suggesting that immunoreactivity was acquired after exit from the SVZ. These studies demonstrate that the neonatal SVZ is composed of different populations of cells that can be characterized by their antigenic phenotype, their proliferative capacity, and their spatial distributions. Nonrandom distributions of different cell types within the SVZ may permit the formation of microenvironments that stimulate the production of cells with specific potentials at appropriate points in development. Analysis of ALDC/ZII expression by astrocyte lineage cells in the neonatal cerebral cortex and white matter may reveal insights into the phenotype and behavior of undifferentiated astrocyte progenitors.
Previous work suggested qualitatively different effects of neurotrophin 3 (NT-3) in cochlear innervation patterning in different null mutants. We now show that all NT-3 null mutants have a similar phenotype and lose all neurons in the basal turn of the cochlea. To understand these longitudinal deficits in neurotrophin mutants, we have compared the development of the deficit in the NT-3 mutant to the spatial-temporal expression patterns of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and NT-3, using lacZ reporters in each gene and with expression of the specific neurotrophin receptors, trkB and trkC. In the NT-3 mutant, almost normal numbers of spiral ganglion neurons form, but fiber outgrowth to the basal turn is eliminated by embryonic day (E) 13.5. Most neurons are lost between E13.5 and E15.5. During the period preceding apoptosis, NT-3 is expressed in supporting cells, whereas BDNF is expressed mainly in hair cells, which become postmitotic in an apical to basal temporal gradient. During the period of neuronal loss, BDNF is absent from the basal cochlea, accounting for the complete loss of basal turn neurons in the NT-3 mutant. The spatial gradients of neuronal loss in these two mutants appear attributable to spatial-temporal gradients of neurotrophin expression. Our immunocytochemical data show equal expression of their receptors, TrkB and TrkC, in spiral sensory neurons and thus do not relate to the basal turn loss. Mice in which NT-3 was replaced by BDNF show a qualitative normal pattern of innervation at E13.5. This suggests that the pattern of expression of neurotrophins rather than their receptors is essential for the spatial loss of spiral sensory neurons in NT-3 null mutants.
Regulation of neuronal NMDA receptors (NMDARs) by group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) is known to play a critical role in synaptic transmission. The molecular mechanisms underlying mGluR1-mediated potentiation of NMDARs are as yet unclear. The present study shows that in Xenopus oocytes expressing recombinant receptors, activation of mGluR1 potentiates NMDA channel activity by recruitment of new channels to the plasma membrane via regulated exocytosis. Activation of mGluR1alpha induced (1) an increase in channel number times channel open probability, with no change in mean open time, unitary conductance, or reversal potential; (2) an increase in charge transfer in the presence of NMDA and the open channel blocker MK-801, indicating an increased number of functional NMDARs in the cell membrane; and (3) increased NR1 surface expression, as indicated by cell surface Western blots and immunofluorescence. Botulinum neurotoxin A or expression of a dominant negative mutant of synaptosomal associated protein of 25 kDa molelcular mass (SNAP-25) greatly reduced mGluR1alpha-mediated potentiation, indicating that receptor trafficking occurs via a SNAP-25-mediated form of soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor-dependent exocytosis. Because group I mGluRs are localized to the perisynaptic region in juxtaposition to synaptic NMDARs at glutamatergic synapses in the hippocampus, mGluR-mediated insertion of NMDARs may play a role in synaptic transmission and plasticity, including long-term potentiation.
Many recent studies have shown that excitatory synapses can contain NMDA receptor responses in the absence of functional AMPA receptors and are therefore postsynaptically silent at resting membrane potentials. The activation of silent synapses via the rapid acquisition of AMPA receptor responses may be important in synaptic plasticity and neuronal development. Our recent immunocytochemical studies that used cultured hippocampal neurons have provided evidence for &quot;morphological silent synapses&quot; that physically contain NMDA receptors but no AMPA receptors. Here we show that the activation of NMDA receptors by spontaneous synaptic activity results in the rapid recruitment of AMPA receptors into these morphological silent synapses within minutes. In parallel, we find a significant increase in the frequency of AMPA receptor-mediated miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs). NMDA receptor activation also results in a mobilization of calcium/calmodulin (CaM) kinase II to synapses and an increase in the phosphorylation of surface AMPA receptors on the major CaM kinase II phosphorylation site. These results demonstrate that AMPA receptors can be modified and recruited rapidly to silent synapses via the activation of NMDA receptors by spontaneous synaptic activity.
Cerebral oxidative damage is a feature of aging and is increased in a number of neurodegenerative diseases. We pursued the gene-environment interaction of lack of apolipoprotein E (apoE) and modulation of dietary alpha-tocopherol on cerebral oxidative damage in aged male and female mice by quantifying the major isomers of cerebral isoprostanes, derived from arachidonic acid (AA) oxidation, and neuroprostanes, derived from docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) oxidation. Mice fed alpha-tocopherol-deficient, normal, or -supplemented diet had undetectable, 4486 +/- 215, or 6406 +/- 254 ng of alpha-tocopherol per gram of brain tissue (p &lt; 0.0001), respectively. Two factors, male gender and lack of apoE, combined to increase cerebral AA oxidation by 28%, whereas three factors, male gender, lack of apoE, and deficiency in alpha-tocopherol, combined to increase cerebral DHA oxidation by 81%. alpha-Tocopherol supplementation decreased cerebral isoprostanes but not neuroprostanes and enhanced DHA, but not AA, endoperoxide reduction in vivo and in vitro. These results demonstrated that the interaction of gender, inherited susceptibilities, and dietary alpha-tocopherol contributed differently to oxidative damage to cerebral AA and DHA in aged mice.
Spinal locomotor networks in the lamprey are modulated by tachykinin neuropeptides. A single 10 min application of the tachykinin substance P evokes a short-term ( approximately 1 hr) presynaptic facilitation of glutamate release and the postsynaptic potentiation of NMDA responses. The latter effect induces a long-term (&gt;24 hr) protein synthesis-dependent increase in the frequency of network activity. Tachykinins are contained in a ventromedial spinal plexus into which the medial dendrites of network neurons project. Neurons in this plexus also contain colocalized dopamine and 5-HT. Here, dynamic plasticity evoked by modulator interactions has been examined by investigating the effects of 5-HT and dopamine on specific cellular, synaptic, and network effects of substance P. Preapplied 5-HT blocked the substance P-mediated increase in the network burst frequency and the potentiation of NMDA-evoked cellular responses that underlies its induction. 5-HT also blocked the presynaptic facilitation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission by substance P. The presynaptic, but not postsynaptic, effect of 5-HT was reduced by the protein phosphatase 2B inhibitor cypermethrin. Dopamine did not directly modulate the effects of substance P. However, it reduced the presynaptic interactive effect of 5-HT and thus gated the presynaptic potentiation of glutamatergic inputs by substance P. However, the substance P-mediated potentiation of NMDA responses was not gated by dopamine, and thus the long-term network modulation was not induced. Neuromodulator effects and their interactions can thus be modulated. By selecting components from the modulatory repertoire of substance P, these interactions evoke dynamic changes in short- and long-term synaptic and network plasticity.
In the mammalian hippocampal formation, dendrotoxin-sensitive voltage-gated K(+) (Kv) channels modulate action potential propagation and neurotransmitter release. To explore the neuroanatomical basis for this modulation, we used in situ hybridization, coimmunoprecipitation, and immunohistochemistry to determine the subcellular localization of the Kv channel subunits Kv1.1, Kv1.2, Kv1.4, and Kvbeta2 within the adult rat hippocampus. Although mRNAs encoding all four of these Kv channel subunits are expressed in the cells of origin of each major hippocampal afferent and intrinsic pathway, immunohistochemical staining suggests that the encoded subunits are associated with the axons and terminal fields of these cells. Using an excitotoxin lesion strategy, we explored the subcellular localization of these subunits in detail. We found that ibotenic acid lesions of the entorhinal cortex eliminated Kv1.1 and Kv1.4 immunoreactivity and dramatically reduced Kv1.2 and Kvbeta2 immunoreactivity in the middle third of the dentate molecular layer, indicating that these subunits are located on axons and terminals of entorhinal afferents. Similarly, ibotenic acid lesions of the dentate gyrus eliminated Kv1.1 and Kv1.4 immunoreactivity in the stratum lucidum of CA3, indicating that these subunits are located on mossy fiber axons. Kainic acid lesions of CA3 dramatically reduced Kv1.1 immunoreactivity in the stratum radiatum of CA1-CA3, indicating that Kv1.1 immunoreactivity in these subfields is associated with the axons and terminals of the Schaffer collaterals. Together with the results of coimmunoprecipitation analyses, these data suggest that action potential propagation and glutamate release at excitatory hippocampal synapses are directly modulated by Kv1 channel complexes predominantly localized on axons and nerve terminals.
Although rat brain Nav1.3 voltage-gated sodium channels have been expressed and studied in Xenopus oocytes, these channels have not been studied after their expression in mammalian cells. We characterized the properties of the rat brain Nav1.3 sodium channels expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. Nav1.3 channels generated fast-activating and fast-inactivating currents. Recovery from inactivation was relatively rapid at negative potentials (&lt;-80 mV) but was slow at more positive potentials. Development of closed-state inactivation was slow, and, as predicted on this basis, Nav1.3 channels generated large ramp currents in response to slow depolarizations. Coexpression of beta3 subunits had small but significant effects on the kinetic and voltage-dependent properties of Nav1.3 currents in HEK 293 cells, but coexpression of beta1 and beta2 subunits had little or no effect on Nav1.3 properties. Nav1.3 channels, mutated to be tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R), were expressed in SNS-null dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons via biolistics and were compared with the same construct expressed in HEK 293 cells. The voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation was approximately 7 mV more depolarized in SNS-null DRG neurons, demonstrating the importance of background cell type in determining physiological properties. Moreover, consistent with the idea that cellular factors can modulate the properties of Nav1.3, the repriming kinetics were twofold faster in the neurons than in the HEK 293 cells. The rapid repriming of Nav1.3 suggests that it contributes to the acceleration of repriming of TTX-sensitive (TTX-S) sodium currents that are seen after peripheral axotomy of DRG neurons. The relatively rapid recovery from inactivation and the slow closed-state inactivation kinetics of Nav1.3 channels suggest that neurons expressing Nav1.3 may exhibit a reduced threshold and/or a relatively high frequency of firing.
L-type calcium channels regulate a diverse array of cellular functions within excitable cells. Of the four molecularly defined subclasses of L-type Ca channels, two are expressed ubiquitously in the mammalian nervous system (Ca(V)1.2alpha(1) and Ca(V)1.3alpha(1)). Despite diversity at the molecular level, neuronal L-type channels are generally assumed to be functionally and pharmacologically similar, i.e., high-voltage activated and highly sensitive to dihydropyridines. We now show that Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) L-type channels activate at membrane potentials approximately 25 mV more hyperpolarized, compared with Ca(V)1.2alpha(1). This unusually negative activation threshold for Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) channels is independent of the specific auxiliary subunits coexpressed, of alternative splicing in domains I-II, IVS3-IVS4, and the C terminus, and of the expression system. The use of high concentrations of extracellular divalent cations has possibly obscured the unique voltage-dependent properties of Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) in certain previous studies. We also demonstrate that Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) channels are pharmacologically distinct from Ca(V)1.2alpha(1). The IC(50) for nimodipine block of Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) L-type calcium channel currents is 2.7 +/- 0.3 microm, a value 20-fold higher than the concentration required to block Ca(V)1.2alpha(1). The relatively low sensitivity of the Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) subunit to inhibition by dihydropyridine is unaffected by alternative splicing in the IVS3-IVS4 linker. Our results suggest that functional and pharmacological criteria used commonly to distinguish among different Ca currents greatly underestimate the biological importance of L-type channels in cells expressing Ca(v)1.3alpha(1).
To investigate the role of the Egr family of transcription regulatory factors in neuronal apoptosis, we examined the effect of a dominant negative Egr inhibitor construct in a well characterized in vitro paradigm, cerebellar granule cell death induced by withdrawal of depolarizing concentrations of extracellular potassium. We found that this apoptotic stimulus increases the activity of a reporter gene driven by the Egr response element and that a dominant negative inhibitor of Egr-mediated transcription blocks granule cell apoptosis. In contrast, apoptosis of immature granule cells induced by cytosine arabinoside is not inhibited by the Egr inhibitor construct. Because activation of c-Jun is an essential step in granule cell death induced by potassium deprivation, but not cytosine arabinoside, we asked whether the Egr inhibitor acts by influencing c-Jun activation or its ability to induce apoptosis. We found that the Egr inhibitor does not block the ability of a constitutively active c-Jun construct to induce apoptosis in these cells but does suppress activation of c-Jun-mediated transcription induced by lowering extracellular potassium concentration. Furthermore, the Egr inhibitor blocks the ability of MEKK1 [mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase kinase 1], an upstream kinase capable of stimulating the JNK (c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase)-c-Jun pathway, to induce apoptosis and activate c-Jun. Together, these studies indicate that the Egr family of transcription factors plays a critical role in neuronal apoptosis and identify c-Jun activation as an important downstream target of the Egr family in this process.
The bioactivity of neuropeptides can be regulated by a variety of post-translational modifications, including proteolytic processing. Here, gene-targeted mice producing defective prohormone convertase 2 (PC2) were used to examine the post-translational processing of two neuroendocrine prohormones, pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and pro-orphanin FQ (pOFQ)/nociceptin (N), in the brain. Reversed-phase HPLC and gel-exclusion chromatography were combined with specific radioimmunoassays to analyze the processing patterns of these two prohormones in the hypothalamus and the amygdala. In the case of POMC, the lack of PC2 activity completely prevented carboxy-shortening of beta-endorphins and greatly diminished conversion of beta-lipotropin to gamma-lipotropin and beta-endorphin. Although conversion of beta-lipotropin to beta-endorphin decreased, the lack of PC2 activity caused an increase in beta-lipotropin and beta-endorphin levels in the mutant animals, but no increases in POMC or biosynthetic intermediates were seen. The extent of OFQ/N production was significantly lower in PC2-deficient mice and there was an accumulation of relatively large amounts of pOFQ/N and biosynthetic intermediates. These results demonstrate that PC2 is directly involved in the biogenesis of two brain neuropeptides in vivo and suggest that the specific prohormone and cellular context influences neuropeptide processing by PCs.
Synapse formation is a crucial step in the development of neuronal circuits and requires precise coordination of presynaptic and postsynaptic activities. However, molecular mechanisms that control the formation of functionally mature synaptic contacts, in particular between central neurons, remain poorly understood. To identify genes that are involved in the formation of central synapses, we made use of molluscan neurons that in culture form synaptic contacts between their somata (soma-soma synapses) in the absence of neurite outgrowth. Using single-cell mRNA differential display, we have identified a molluscan homolog of the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) tumor suppressor gene encoding the transcription factor menin as a gene that is upregulated during synapse formation. In vitro antisense knock-down of MEN1 mRNA blocks the formation of mature synapses between different types of identified central neurons. Moreover, immunocytochemistry and cell-specific knock-down of MEN1 mRNA show that postsynaptic but not presynaptic expression is required for synapses to form. Together, our data demonstrate that menin is a synaptogenic factor that is critically involved in a general postsynaptic mechanism of synapse formation between central neurons.
In the present study, we describe micro-surgical methods for simultaneous implantation of a microdialysis probe and an intraventricular injection cannula via their respective guide cannulas into the mouse brain. Basal and stimulated release of acetylcholine (ACh), serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) was determined in the ventral hippocampus of freely moving mice. NA and 5-HT were determined in one run by a newly developed HPLC method based on precolumn derivatization with benzylamine and fluorescence detection. The mice with a loss-of-function mutation of the galanin gene (KO) and the mice that over-expressed galanin (OE) were studied. No significant differences in basal, potassium-stimulated or scopolamine-induced extracellular ACh levels were observed in 4-month-old wild-type (WT) and KO mice. In the aged, 10-month-old animals, the basal extracellular ACh levels were significantly reduced in both WT and KO groups. Galanin (1 nmol i.c.v.) caused a significant reduction of basal extracellular NA by about 40% in both WT and galanin OE mice, however, in the latter group the effect was delayed by almost 2 h. A 10-min forced swimming stress caused a higher increase in release of NA and 5-HT in the OE group than in the corresponding WT mice. Finally, venlafaxin (10 mg/kg i.p.) increased extracellular NA to 400% of the control values in the CBA mice, but only to 250% in the C57BL mice. It is concluded that galanin may play an important role in the cholinergic mechanisms underlying cognitive disorders. Furthermore, modulation by galanin and by behavioral activation, of NA and 5-HT neurotransmission in galanin over-expressing mice indicates its possible role in the aetiology of mood disorders.
Recently, voltammetry with carbon fibre electrodes (CFE) has been implemented for real time measurement of nitrogen monoxide (NO) indicating that it is oxidised at the potential value of nitrites, approximately +700 mV. In contrast, here we show that modified CFE can monitor NO at oxidation potentials different than that of nitrites, i.e. +550 mV. Indeed, at +550 mV a significant increase of amperometric current levels was obtained when NO but not nitrites, were added to a phosphate buffer saline solution (PBS). Differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) supports these findings as two oxidation peaks were obtained when examining air preserved NO; peak 1 at +550 mV and peak 2 at +700 mV, respectively. In contrast, only peak 2 was monitored when nitrites or a solution of NO oxidised in air was added to PBS. Biological support to these in vitro data comes from the observation that the relaxation of an adrenaline-contracted aortic ring produced via addition of NO is concomitant with peak 1 at +550 mV. The relaxation is almost completed before the appearance of peak 2 at +700 mV. Furthermore, in vivo experiments performed in the striatum of rats show that the amperometric signal monitored at +550 mV is responsive to glutamatergic stimulation or inhibition of NO synthase.
In clinical neuroscience as well as in many other clinical disciplines, the completion of the human genome project offers a new possibility to identify and localize the products of the genes, the proteins. Nuclear proteins are synthesized in the cytoplasm and imported into the nucleus by multiple pathways. The mechanisms by which nuclear accumulation of different molecular species occur are unclear but it is apparent that changes in the cellular and molecular events associated with the accumulation of nuclear proteins sometimes precedes transformation of cells into diseased states. The significance of the accumulation and the operation of nuclear proteins remain to be elucidated in detail. Such knowledge will play a key role in the understanding of the regulation of transcription and its disturbances in several of our most devastating diseases. In this paper we present a strategy to identify nuclear associated proteins in small samples by using two-dimensional electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. We have used human blood lymphocytes as a model, but the method should be rather general for any kind of tissue. Twenty two proteins were randomly chosen, and of these 18 proteins were identified by database searching of mass spectrometric data, obtained from in-gel tryptic digests of the spots. Thirteen proteins recently described with nuclear localization and function were identified, and five proteins; calgranulin B, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3P2), a TATA-binding protein (ATBP), tubulin beta chain and moesin were also identified as being nuclear associated. The presented data clearly shows of the great role of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and modern mass spectrometry in the excavation of the protein patterns on the subcellular level, and the ability to use small samples well suited for clinical screening.
The use of in vitro expanded human CNS precursors has the potential to overcome some of the ethical, logistic and technical problems of fetal tissue transplantation in Parkinson disease. Cultured rat mesencephalic precursors proliferate in response to bFGF and upon mitogen withdrawal, differentiate into functional dopamine neurons that alleviate motor symptoms in Parkinsonian rats (Studer et al. [1998] Nat. Neurosci. 1:290-295). The successful clinical application of CNS precursor technology in Parkinson disease will depend on the efficient in vitro generation of human dopaminergic neurons. We demonstrate that human dopamine neurons can be generated from both midbrain and cortical precursors. Transplantation of midbrain precursor-derived dopamine neurons into Parkinsonian rats resulted in grafts rich in tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons 6 weeks after transplantation. No surviving tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons could be detected when dopamine neurons derived from cortical precursors were grafted. Our data demonstrate in vitro derivation of human dopamine neurons from expanded CNS precursors and encourage further studies that systematically address in vivo function and clinical potential.
1. The primary aim of the present study was to explore whether in healthy subjects the muscle contractions required for unrestrained voluntary wrist dorsiflexions are adjusted in strength to thixotropy-dependent variations in the short-range stiffness encountered in measurements of passive torque resistance to imposed wrist dorsiflexions. 2. After a period of rest, only the first movement in a series of passive wrist dorsiflexions of moderate amplitude exhibited clear signs of short-range stiffness in the torque response. During analogous types of voluntary movements, the extensor EMG during the first movement after rest showed a steep initial rise of activity, which apparently served to compensate for the short-range stiffness. 3. The passive torque resistance to minute repetitive wrist dorsiflexions (within the range of short-range stiffness) was markedly reduced after various types of mechanical agitation. During analogous low-amplitude voluntary wrist dorsiflexions the extensor EMG signals were weaker after than before agitation. 4. Mechanical agitation also led to enhancement of passive dorsiflexion movements induced by weak constant torque pulses. In an analogous way, the movement-generating capacity of weak voluntary extensor activations (as determined by EMG recordings) was greatly enhanced by mechanical agitation. 5. The signals from a force transducer probe pressed against the wrist flexor tendons--during passive wrist dorsiflexions--revealed short-range stiffness responses which highly resembled those observed in the torque measurements, suggesting that the latter to a large extent emanated from the stretched, relaxed flexor muscles. During repetitive stereotyped voluntary wrist dorsiflexions, a close correspondence was observed between the degree of short-range stiffness as sensed by the wrist flexor tension transducer and the strength of the initial extensor activation required for movement generation. 6. The results provide evidence that the central nervous system in its control of voluntary movements takes account of and compensates for the history-dependent degree of inherent short-range stiffness of the muscles antagonistic to the prime movers.
1. To study the territories of thin nerve fibres innervating hair follicles, we extracted single hairs from forearm skin. Scanning laser Doppler methodology was used to measure the evoked local increase of skin perfusion, the underlying assumption being that axon reflex vasodilatation would be evoked within the territory of extraction-activated thin nerve fibres. Ninety-two single hairs were extracted in 14 healthy males. 2. In 93 % of the cases perfusion increased transiently near the site of the extracted hair. No responses occurred when arm blood flow was occluded. In support of an underlying axon reflex mechanism the intensity of hair extraction-evoked pain correlated with the peak area of the response. In addition, after pre-extraction local anaesthesia, response components were seen in only 50 % of the cases and when they occurred they were very small. 3. The response had two components which could occur independently of each other. An early short-lasting component consisted of one or several separate areas with a peak total extension of 176 +/- 176 mm(2) (mean +/- S.D.), a peak maximal intensity (in percentage of pre-extraction perfusion) of 484 +/- 272 %, and a duration of 6-8 min. A later long-lasting component consisted of a single area of 51 +/- 107 mm(2), an intensity of 342 +/- 301 % and a duration of up to approximately 60 min. Perfusion could be influenced from a single hair in an asymmetrical skin area with diameters at right angles of 23 +/- 9 and 16 +/- 9 mm, respectively. 4. We suggest that the responses were evoked by two sets of thin nerve fibres, one at a superficial level with fairly large innervation territories, and the other located more deeply close to the hair follicle and with smaller innervation territories.

Eleven patients with untreated inclusion body myositis (IBM) were prospectively studied during a 6-month period that included muscle strength, lean body mass, and muscle mass measurements. There was an overall quantifiable mean decline in percent of predicted normal muscle strength of 4% from baseline in a 6-month period, but one third of patients showed no change or slight improvements in strength. Short-term treatment trials in IBM will require large numbers of patients to detect slowing, arrest, or even slight improvement in muscle strength.
A common complaint among pain patients is that they lose their appetite. These accounts are anecdotal, however, and the neural mechanism underlying pain-induced loss of appetite remains unknown. In this study, we documented the occurrence of appetite loss in patients under migraine attack and investigated the neuronal substrate of pain-induced anorexia in our animal model of intracranial pain. We found that loss of appetite during the migraine attack in humans coincided strongly with the onset and duration of the head pain in 32/39 cases, and that brief noxious stimulation of the dura in conscious rats produced a transient suppression of food intake. Mapping of neuronal activation in the rat showed that noxious dural stimulation induced a 3- to 4-fold increase in the number of Fos-positive neurons in medullary dorsal horn areas that process nociceptive signals (laminae I, V) and in parabrachial and hypothalamic neurons positioned to suppress feeding behavior. In the parabrachial area, activated neurons were localized in the superior-lateral subnucleus, and 40% of them expressed the mRNA encoding the anorectic neuropeptide cholecystokinin. In the hypothalamus, activated Fos-positive neurons were found in the dorsomedial area of the ventromedial nucleus, and 76% of them expressed the mRNA for cholecystokinin type-B receptor. Based on these findings, we suggest that at least one of several groups of hypothalamic neurons that normally inhibit appetite in response to metabolic cues is positioned to mediate the suppression of food intake by pain signals.

A principle that regulates detailed architecture in the brain is that active terminals have a competitive advantage over less active terminals in establishing synaptic connections. This principle is known to apply to fibers within a single neuronal population competing for a common target domain. Here we uncover an additional rule that applies when two neuronal populations compete for two contiguous territories. The cerebellar Purkinje cell dendrites have two different synaptic domains with spines innervated by two separate excitatory inputs, parallel fibers (PFs) and climbing fibers (CFs). Glutamate delta-2 receptors are normally present only on the PF spines where they are important for their innervation. After block of activity by tetrodotoxin, numerous new spines form in the CF domain and become innervated mainly by PFs; all spines, including those still innervated by the CFs, bear delta-2 receptors. Thus, in the absence of activity, PFs gain a competitive advantage over CFs. The entire dendritic arbor becomes a uniform territory with the molecular cues associated with the PFs. To access their proper territory and maintain synaptic contacts, CFs must be active and locally repress the cues of the competitor afferents.
Galanin is a 29-aa neuropeptide with a complex role in pain processing. Several galanin receptor subtypes are present in dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord with a differential distribution. Here, we describe a generation of a specific galanin R2 (GalR2) agonist, AR-M1896, and its application in studies of a rat neuropathic pain model (Bennett). The results show that in normal rats mechanical and cold allodynia of the hindpaw are induced after intrathecal infusion of low-dose galanin (25 ng per 0.5 microl/h). The same effect is seen with equimolar doses of AR-M1896 or AR-M961, an agonist both at GalR1 and GalR2 receptors. In allodynic Bennett model rats, the mechanical threshold increased dose-dependently after intrathecal injection of a high dose of AR-M961, whereas no effect was observed in the control or AR-M1896 group. No effect of either of the two compounds was observed in nonallodynic Bennett model rats. These data indicate that a low dose of galanin has a nociceptive role at the spinal cord level mediated by GalR2 receptors, whereas the antiallodynic effect of high-dose galanin on neuropathic pain is mediated by the GalR1 receptors. Thus, a selective GalR1 agonist may be used to treat neuropathic pain.
The purpose of the present study was to clarify how skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) influences the core temperature during local heating of the unilateral sole of the foot for 60 min. We recorded SSNA microneurographically from the tibial or peroneal nerve simultaneously with skin blood flow, sweat rate at heated and non-heated sites, with tympanic temperature (Tty) as the core temperature. Sole heating began to suppress vasoconstrictive SSNA (vasoconstrictor) after 3.4 +/- 1.1 min, decrease Tty after 7.4 +/- 2.0 min, activate vasoconstrictor after 33.4 +/- 2.2 min, and increase Tty after 45.5 +/- 2.7 min. Regarding the interaction between vasoconstrictor and Tty during sole heating, we found the following: (1) the capability to suppress vasoconstrictors (decrease rate) showed positive correlations with the time delay from vasoconstrictor suppression to the Tty decrease (r = 0.752, p &lt; 0.05), and with the Tty decrease rate (r = 0.795, p &lt; 0.05), (2) the Tty decrease rate was inversely related to the capability to activate vasoconstrictors (increase rate) (r= -0.836, p &lt; 0.05), and (3) the capability to activate vasoconstrictors was inversely related to the time delay from vasoconstrictor activation to the Tty increase (r = -0.856, p &lt; 0.05) and showed a positive correlation with the Tty increase rate (r = 0.819, p &lt; 0.05). These significant correlations indicate that the capability to control vasoconstrictors to the skin is one of the determinant factors maintaining core temperature in human thermoregulatory function. In conclusion, human thermoregulatory function is largely dependent on the suppression and activation capability of vasoconstrictors.
The calcium flow inhibitor, nimodipine, has been shown to promote motor neuron survival in the facial nucleus after intracranial facial nerve transection. However, it has not been known whether the neuroprotective effects primarily involve survival of nerve cell bodies or outgrowth and/or myelination of nerve fibers. Here, we studied the effects of nimodipine in a different injury model in which the facial nerve was unilaterally crushed intracranially. This lesion caused complete anterograde degeneration and partial retrograde degeneration that were studied with a combination of several stereological methods. Nimodipine did not attenuate the modest lesion-induced neuronal loss (13%) but accelerated the time course of functional recovery and axonal regrowth, inducing increased numbers and sizes of myelinated axons in the facial nerve. It is interesting to note that nimodipine also enlarged the axons and the myelin sheaths in the nonlesioned facial nerve, which points to the possibility of using this substance for new clinical applications to promote axonal growth and remyelination.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) plays a central role in several behaviors in marine molluscs and other species. In an effort to better understand the regulation of 5-HT synthesis, we used high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection and immunohistochemistry to measure and map the distribution of the immediate precursor of 5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), in two model opisthobranch molluscs, the nudibranch Tritonia diomedea and the anaspid Aplysia californica. HPLC measurements showed that 5-HTP is present at approximately the same level as the 5-HT metabolite, 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) but is more than 100 times lower in concentration than either 5-HT or dopamine in the same tissue. Specific 5-HTP immunoreactivity was colocalized with serotonin in both species. The overall intensity of 5-HTP immunoreactivity in individual ganglia agreed with HPLC measurements for those ganglia. The intensity of 5-HTP immunolabeling varied between cell types and was correlated with the intensity of 5-HT immunolabeling. In particular, differences in staining intensity were consistently seen among the three dorsal swim interneurons of the Tritonia swim central pattern generator circuit. Some nonserotonergic neurons also displayed low levels of 5-HTP immunolabeling that were above background levels. Together, these results support the notion that production of 5-HTP is a rate-limiting step in serotonin synthesis and suggest that there may be additional regulation that allows 5-HTP to accumulate to varying levels.

Two quantitative microdialysis methods were used to determine the extracellular concentration of glycine in the dorsal spinal cord of halothane-anaesthetised rats. Extracellular glycine determined by zero net flux was 2.6+/-0.3 microM and by the zero flow method was 3.3+/-0.3 microM. For comparison the glycine content of cerebrospinal fluid was determined to be 6.4+/-1.1 microM. There was no correlation between the extracellular and the cerebrospinal fluid concentrations.
The role of spinal 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors in the regulation of spinal nociceptive transmission was studied. The 5-HT(2A/2C) agonist (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) and the antagonist ketanserin tartrate were administered intrathecally immediately before the formalin test. Activation of spinal 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors increased the pain-like behavioural response in both the early and late phases. The findings support the hypothesis that spinal 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors augment the spinal afferent nociceptive impulses induced by peripheral inflammation.
A key feature of the regulated secretory pathway in neuroendocrine cells is lumenal pH, which decreases between trans-Golgi network and mature secretory granules. Because peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) is one of the few membrane-spanning proteins concentrated in secretory granules and is a known effector of regulated secretion, we examined its sensitivity to pH. Based on antibody binding experiments, the noncatalytic linker regions between the two enzymatic domains of PAM show pH-dependent conformational changes; these changes occur in the presence or absence of a transmembrane domain. Integral membrane PAM-1 solubilized from rat anterior pituitary or from transfected AtT-20 cells aggregates reversibly at pH 5.5 while retaining enzyme activity. Over 35% of the PAM-1 in anterior pituitary extracts aggregates at pH 5.5, whereas only about 5% aggregates at pH 7.5. PAM-1 recovered from secretory granules and endosomes is highly responsive to low pH-induced aggregation, whereas PAM-1 recovered from a light, intracellular recycling compartment is not. Mutagenesis studies indicate that a transmembrane domain is necessary but not sufficient for low pH-induced aggregation and reveal a short lumenal, juxtamembrane segment that also contributes to pH-dependent aggregation. Taken together, these results demonstrate that several properties of membrane PAM serve as indicators of granule pH in neuroendocrine cells.
Evidence for heterodimerization has recently been provided for dopamine D(1) and adenosine A(1) receptors as well as for dopamine D(2) and somatostatin SSTR(5) receptors. In this paper, we have studied the possibility that D(2) and D(3) receptors interact functionally by forming receptor heterodimers. Initially, we split the two receptors at the level of the third cytoplasmic loop into two fragments. The first, containing transmembrane domains (TM) I to V and the N-terminal part of the third cytoplasmic loop, was named D(2trunk) or D(3trunk), and the second, containing the C-terminal part of the third cytoplasmic loop, TMVI and TMVII, and the C-terminal tail, was named D(2tail) or D(3tail). Then we defined the pharmacological profiles of the homologous (D(2trunk)/D(2tail) and D(3trunk)/D(3tail)) as well as of the heterologous (D(2trunk)/D(3tail) and D(3trunk)/D(2tail)) cotransfected receptor fragments. The pharmacological profile of the cross-cotransfected fragments was different from that of the native D(2) or D(3) receptors. In most cases, the D(3trunk)/D(2tail) was the one with the highest affinity for most agonists and antagonists. Moreover, we observed that all of these receptor fragments reduced the expression of the wild type dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptors, suggesting that D(2) and D(3) receptors can form complexes with these fragments and that these complexes bind [(3)H]nemonapride less efficiently or are not correctly targeted to the membrane. In a second set of experiments, we tested the ability of the split and the wild type receptors to inhibit adenylyl cyclase (AC) types V and VI. All of the native and split receptors inhibited AC-V and AC-VI, with the exception of D(3), which was unable to inhibit AC-VI. We therefore studied the ability of D(2) and D(3) to interact functionally with one another to inhibit AC-VI. We found that with D(2) alone, R-(+)-7-hydroxydypropylaminotetralin hydrobromide inhibited AC-VI with an IC(50) of 2.05 +/- 0.15 nm, while in the presence of D(2) and D(3) it inhibited AC-VI with an IC(50) of 0.083 +/- 0.011 nm. Similar results were obtained with a chimeric cyclase made from AC-V and AC-VI. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments indicate that D(2) and D(3) receptors are capable of physical interaction.
Erythropoietin, a kidney cytokine regulating haematopoiesis (the production of blood cells), is also produced in the brain after oxidative or nitrosative stress. The transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) upregulates EPO following hypoxic stimuli. Here we show that preconditioning with EPO protects neurons in models of ischaemic and degenerative damage due to excitotoxins and consequent generation of free radicals, including nitric oxide (NO). Activation of neuronal EPO receptors (EPORs) prevents apoptosis induced by NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate) or NO by triggering cross-talk between the signalling pathways of Janus kinase-2 (Jak2) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). We show that EPOR-mediated activation of Jak2 leads to phosphorylation of the inhibitor of NF-kappaB (IkappaB), subsequent nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB, and NF-kappaB-dependent transcription of neuroprotective genes. Transfection of cerebrocortical neurons with a dominant interfering form of Jak2 or an IkappaBalpha super-repressor blocks EPO-mediated prevention of neuronal apoptosis. Thus neuronal EPORs activate a neuroprotective pathway that is distinct from previously well characterized Jak and NF-kappaB functions. Moreover, this EPO effect may underlie neuroprotection mediated by hypoxic-ischaemic preconditioning.
The dopamine D(4) receptor has been implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. An association between a putative functional promoter polymorphism (-521C/T) in the dopamine D(4) receptor gene (DRD4) and schizophrenia was recently reported. In the present study, patients with schizophrenia (n = 132) and control subjects (n = 388) were analyzed with respect to the DRD4 - 521C/T polymorphism. No significant case control differences emerged. The present results do not support a major role for DRD4 in the etiology of schizophrenia among Caucasians from Sweden.
Real-world moving objects are usually defined by correlated information in multiple sensory modalities such as vision and hearing. The aim of our study was to assess whether simultaneous auditory supra-threshold motion introduces a bias or affects the sensitivity in a visual motion detection task. We demonstrate a bias in the perceived direction of visual motion that is consistent with the direction of the auditory motion (audio-visual motion capture). This bias effect is robust and occurs even if the auditory and visual motion signals come from different locations or move at different speeds. We also show that visual motion detection thresholds are higher for consistent auditory motion than for inconsistent motion, provided the stimuli move at the same speed and are co-localised.
Transient (200--900 ms), high concentrations (200--500 nM) of dopamine, measured using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry, occurred in the nucleus accumbens core of male rats at the presentation of a receptive female. Additional dopamine signals were observed during subsequent approach behavior. Background-subtracted cyclic voltammograms of the naturally-evoked signals matched those of electrically-evoked dopamine measured at the same recording sites. Administration of nomifensine amplified natural and evoked dopamine release, and increased the frequency of detectable signals. While gradual changes in dopamine concentration during sexual behavior have been well established, these findings dramatically improve the time resolution. The observed dopamine transients, probably resulting from neuronal burst firing, represent the first direct correlation of dopamine with sexual behavior on a sub-second time scale.
Our previous study has shown that the postsynaptic dorsal column pathway is involved in transmission of pancreatic nociceptive information from the spinal cord to the thalamus. The aim of the present study was to characterize the neuronal responses in the dorsal column nuclei of the rat to pancreatic nociceptive stimulation. Brief application of bradykinin (10 microg/ml, 20s) to the surface of the pancreas resulted in a significantly increased firing rate in approximately 10% of neurons recorded. In conclusion, pancreatic nociceptive information relayed to the dorsal column nuclei is transmitted from the spinal cord through the dorsal columns.
Astrocytes induce blood-brain barrier (BBB) properties in brain endothelial cells (EC)*O(2)*, generated in blood and EC, opens the BBB. Hence, high activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) is a prerequisite for normal BBB function. Therefore, the influence of rat astrocytes on the expression of manganese (Mn)SOD in rat EC was investigated in two coculture models of the BBB, allowing either exchange of soluble factors or additionally cellular contacts. Activity, protein content and mRNA expression of endothelial MnSOD were significantly increased in both coculture models in comparison to monoculture by soluble astrocytic factors, such as cytokines. High activity of endothelial MnSOD may be considered as a further essential property of the BBB, which is induced and maintained by astrocytes.
Previous studies suggest that the dopaminergic system in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) is involved not only in the water balance control but also in the food intake regulation. Since we reported that an injection of the D2 receptor antagonist, sulpiride, into specific hypothalamic nuclei (e.g. the LHA, or the VMN) increases food intake in anorectic tumor-bearing rats, as well as in normal rats, we hypothesized that an injection of sulpiride into the SON would also improve cancer anorexia. Sulpiride injection (4 microg/0.5 microl) into bilateral SON of anorectic tumor-bearing male rats significantly improved food intake via increases in both meal size and meal number. These data suggest that pharmacological manipulation of the hypothalamic dopaminergic system is feasible in amelioration of cancer anorexia.
Persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have progressive reductions in the relative sizes of the corpus callosum and hippocampus. Homozygotic PDAPP transgenic mice over-expressing a mutant form of the human amyloid precursor protein have more pronounced reductions in these regions, which are apparent prior to the deposition of amyloid plaques and do not progress with advancing age. The length of the corpus callosum was reduced by two-thirds, the fornix commissure was negligible, and the hippocampal volume was reduced by one-third, suggesting a massive disconnection between the cerebral hemispheres and the hippocampi in PDAPP mice. These findings, which might account for the early, nonprogressive behavioral abnormalities observed in these animals, have implications for the study of AD.
The right posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is implicated in visuo-spatial processing, as illustrated by patients with visuo-spatial neglect, but the precise time-course of its contribution is still an open question. In the present study we assessed whether single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can interfere with the performance of normal subjects in a standard visuo-spatial task. Participants had to perform a landmark task while TMS was applied over the right PPC, the homologue region in the left hemisphere or the right primary motor cortex. Stimulation was time-locked to the stimulus presentation with a stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) varying between 50 and 200 ms. Our results indicate that TMS interfered mainly with the visuo-spatial task when applied over the right PPC at an early stage (50 ms post-stimulus). The interference effect of single-pulse TMS in the present visuo-spatial processing is revealed by a processing cost for ipsilateral targets. These results are in agreement with neuropsychological and brain imaging studies showing a right hemispheric dominance in visuo-spatial processing but add crucial information about the time-course of visuo-spatial processing within the right PPC.
The bradykinin B(1) receptor has been considered as a receptor induced by tissue injury and inflammation mainly in the peripheral tissues. In the present study, we have investigated whether there is a basal expression in the spinal cord by both reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemical staining methods. Southern blotting of the DNA reverse-transcribed from human and rat spinal cord mRNA and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) showed a substantial basal B(1) receptor expression in both human and rat spinal cord. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated B(1)-positive neurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn, suggesting that the B(1) receptor is constitutively expressed by spinal neurons.
Learning leads to neural changes often considered to be driven by 'smart' areas of the brain. A recent study of the cellular changes that underlie perceptual learning has found that plasticity in the primary visual cortex V1 is necessary for learning and the changes that correlate with learning are more complex than one might expect.
Research on sensory perception now often considers more than one sense at a time. This approach reflects real-world situations, such as when a visible object touches us. Indeed, vision and touch show great interdependence: the sight of a body part can reduce tactile target detection times [1], visual and tactile attentional systems are spatially linked [2], and the texture of surfaces that are actively touched with the fingertips is perceived using both vision and touch [3]. However, these previous findings might be mediated by spatial attention [1, 2] or by improved guidance of movement [3] via visually enhanced body position sense [4--6]. Here, we investigate the direct effects of viewing the body on passive touch. We measured tactile two-point discrimination thresholds [7] on the forearm while manipulating the visibility of the arm but holding gaze direction constant. The spatial resolution of touch was better when the arm was visible than when it was not. Tactile performance was further improved when the view of the arm was magnified. In contrast, performance was not improved by viewing a neutral object at the arm's location, ruling out improved spatial orienting as a possible account. Controls confirmed that no information about the tactile stimulation was provided by visibility of the arm. This visual enhancement of touch may point to online reorganization of tactile receptive fields.
To explore the possible role of Trp side chains in gramicidin channel conductance dispersity, we studied the dispersity of gramicidin M (gM), a gramicidin variant in which all four tryptophan residues are replaced with phenylalanine residues, and its enantiomer, gramicidin M(-) (gM(-)), and compared them to that of gramicidin A (gA). The conductances of highly purified gM and gM(-) were studied in alkali metal solutions at a variety of concentrations and voltages, in seven different types of lipid, and in the presence of detergent. Like gA channels, the most common gM channel conductance forms a narrow band. However, unlike gA channels, where the remaining 5-30% of channel conductances are broadly distributed below (and slightly above) the main band, in gM there is a narrow secondary band with &lt;50% of the main peak conductance. This secondary peak was prominent in NaCl and KCl, but significantly diminished in CsCl and RbCl. Under some conditions, minor components can be observed with conductances yet lower than the secondary peak. Interconversions between the primary conductance state and these yet lower conductance states were observed. The current-voltage relations for both primary and secondary gM channel types have about the same curvature. The mean lifetime of the secondary channel type is below one third that of the primary type. The variants represent state deviations in the peptide or adjacent lipid structure.
Neurotrophic factors exert many effects on the intact and lesioned adult central nervous system (CNS). Among these effects are prevention of neuronal death (neurotrophism) and promotion of axonal growth (neurotropism) after injury. To date, however, it has not been established whether survival and axonal growth functions of neurotrophins can be independently modulated in injured adult neurons in vivo. To address this question, the ability of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to influence corticospinal motor neuronal survival and axonal growth was examined in two injury paradigms. In the first paradigm, a survival assay, adult Fischer 344 rats underwent subcortical lesions followed by grafts to the lesion cavity of syngenic fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete high amounts BDNF or, in control subjects, the reporter gene green fluorescent protein. In control subjects, only 36.2 +/- 7.0% of the retrogradely labeled corticospinal neurons survived the lesion, whereas 89.8 +/- 5.9% (P &lt; 0.001) of the corticospinal neurons survived in animals that received BDNF-secreting grafts. However, in an axonal growth assay, BDNF-secreting cell grafts that were placed into either subcortical lesion sites or sites of thoracic spinal cord injury failed to elicit corticospinal axonal growth. Despite this lack of a neurotropic effect on lesioned corticospinal axons, BDNF-secreting cell grafts placed in the injured spinal cord significantly augmented the growth of other types of axons, including local motor, sensory, and coerulospinal axons. Immunolabeling for tyrosine kinase B (trkB) demonstrated that BDNF receptors were present on corticospinal neuronal somata and apical dendrites but were not detected on their projecting axons. Thus, single classes of neurons in the adult CNS appear to exhibit disparate survival and growth sensitivity to neurotrophic factors, potentially attributable at least in part to differential trafficking of neurotrophin receptors. The possibility of tropic/trophic divergence must be considered when designing strategies to promote CNS recovery from injury.
The organization of axonal projections from the oval and fusiform nuclei of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BST) was characterized with the Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHAL) anterograde tracing method in adult male rats. Within the BST, the oval nucleus (BSTov) projects very densely to the fusiform nucleus (BSTfu) and also innervates the caudal anterolateral area, anterodorsal area, rhomboid nucleus, and subcommissural zone. Outside the BST, its heaviest inputs are to the caudal substantia innominata and adjacent central amygdalar nucleus, retrorubral area, and lateral parabrachial nucleus. It generates moderate inputs to the caudal nucleus accumbens, parasubthalamic nucleus, and medial and ventrolateral divisions of the periaqueductal gray, and it sends a light input to the anterior parvicellular part of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and nucleus of the solitary tract. The BSTfu displays a much more complex projection pattern. Within the BST, it densely innervates the anterodorsal area, dorsomedial nucleus, and caudal anterolateral area, and it moderately innervates the BSTov, subcommissural zone, and rhomboid nucleus. Outside the BST, the BSTfu provides dense inputs to the nucleus accumbens, caudal substantia innominata and central amygdalar nucleus, thalamic paraventricular nucleus, hypothalamic paraventricular and periventricular nuclei, hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus, perifornical lateral hypothalamic area, and lateral tegmental nucleus. Moderately dense inputs are found in the parastrial, tuberal, dorsal raph, and parabrachial nuclei and in the retrorubral area, ventrolateral division of the periaqueductal gray, and pontine central gray. Light projections end in the olfactory tubercle, lateral septal nucleus, posterior basolateral amygdalar nucleus, supramammillary nucleus, and nucleus of the solitary tract. These and other results suggest that the BSTov and BSTfu are basal telencephalic parts of a circuit that coordinates autonomic, neuroendocrine, and ingestive behavioral responses during stress.
Glial-cell-line--derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been identified as a potent survival and differentiation factor for several neuronal populations in the central nervous system (CNS), but to date, distinct effects of GDNF on motor axon growth and regeneration in the adult have not been demonstrated. In the present study, ex vivo gene delivery was used to directly examine whether GDNF can influence axonal growth, expression of neuronal regeneration-related genes, and sustain the motor neuronal phenotype after adult CNS injury. Adult Fischer 344 rats underwent unilateral transections of the hypoglossal nerve, followed by intramedullary grafts of fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete GDNF. Control animals received lesions and grafts of cells expressing a reporter gene. Two weeks later, GDNF gene delivery (1) robustly promoted the growth of lesioned hypoglossal motor axons, (2) altered the expression and intracellular trafficking of the growth-related protein calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and (3) significantly sustained the cholinergic phenotype in 84 +/- 6% of hypoglossal neurons compared with 39 +/- 6% in control animals (P &lt; 0.001). This is the first neurotrophic factor identified to increase the in vivo expression of the trophic peptide CGRP and the first report that GDNF promotes motor axonal growth in vivo in the adult CNS. Taken together with previous in vitro studies, these findings serve as the foundation for a model wherein GDNF and CGRP interact in a paracrine manner to regulate neuromuscular development and regeneration.
Exogenous administration of the neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5), or blockade of their endogenous actions, have been reported to affect the anatomic organization and physiological responses of neurons in developing mammalian primary visual cortex. Experimental alteration of levels of these neurotrophic factors can also influence the morphology of the geniculocortical afferents that project from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) to primary visual cortex. BDNF and NT-4/5 are ligands of the TrkB tyrosine kinase receptor. Although multiple populations of cortical neurons express TrkB, it is not known whether geniculocortical afferents express this receptor on their axon branches in visual cortex. We have anatomically labeled geniculocortical afferents of postnatal day 40 kittens with the anterograde neuronal tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) and performed double-label immunofluorescence with a panel of anti-TrkB antibodies. Confocal microscopy and object-based colocalization analysis were used to measure levels of TrkB-like immunoreactivity (IR) on geniculocortical afferents in layer IV of primary visual cortex. By using a conservative analysis involving a comparison of measured colocalization with the amount of colocalization expected based on random overlap of TrkB puncta and PHA-L--labeled afferents, 3 of 5 anti-TrkB antibodies tested showed significant colocalization with the geniculocortical axons. Results for the other two antibodies were indeterminate. The indices obtained for colocalization of TrkB and geniculocortical afferents were also compared with the equivalent index obtained for GAD65, a protein that has a similar overall expression pattern to that of TrkB but is not expressed on geniculocortical axons. This analysis indicated that TrkB was present on geniculocortical axons for all five TrkB antibodies tested. TrkB-like IR was also observed on neuronal somata in the LGN. These results indicate that TrkB receptors on geniculocortical afferents are potential mediators of the actions of BDNF and NT-4/5 in developing visual cortex.
Sixty male non-psychotic forensic psychiatric patients (aged 16-35 years) were studied after they completed their ordinary forensic psychiatric assessment (FPA). The prevalence of flunitrazepam (FZ) abuse was investigated by using both structured and in-depth interviews with the objective of studying the relationship between the abuse and personality traits. The patient's characteristics, DSM-IV disorders, and actual sentences were obtained by studying their files. In order to obtain measures on their personality traits, self-report inventories were administered to the patients. Eighteen out of 60 patients were FZ abusers, but only 4 of them received a diagnosis related to the FZ abuse during the ordinary FPA. In almost all cases, however, indications of the FZ abuse were found in the files. No differences in personality traits were found between the groups. The frequency of previous admissions to an FPA and actual sentences of robbery, weapons offenses, narcotic-related offenses, and other crimes (such as theft) among the FZ abusers deviated significantly from forensic non-FZ abusers. Therefore, the FZ abuse per se might be more responsible for their tendency to commit crimes characterized by danger and thrill-seeking (such as robbery, weapons offences, and theft) than personality. The most important conclusion is that assessment of FZ abuse is needed in forensic psychiatry.
Free radicals have gained wide acceptance as mediators of cerebral ischemic injury. It has previously been reported that a spin trap nitrone, alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN), can reduce infarct volumes in rats subjected to either permanent or transient focal cerebral ischemia. A recent study has demonstrated that NXY-059, a novel free radical trapping nitrone compound, has a neuroprotective effect against transient focal cerebral ischemia. This study was designed to determine the effect of NXY-059 in a rodent model of permanent focal cerebral ischemia. Male spontaneously hypertensive rats were subjected to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) by placement of a microaneurysm clip on the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Animals were divided into three groups: (1) physiological saline given as a 1 ml/kg i.v. bolus administered 5 min post MCAO followed immediately by a continuous i.v. infusion of 0.5 ml/h of physiological saline for 24 h (n=10); (2) 30 mg/kg, 1 ml/kg, i.v. bolus of NXY-059 dissolved in physiological saline administered 5 min post MCAO followed immediately by a continuous i.v. infusion of 30 mg/kg/h, 0.5 ml/h, of NXY-059 for 24 h (n=9); (3) 60 mg/kg, 1 ml/kg, i.v. bolus of NXY-059 dissolved in physiological saline administered 5 min post MCAO followed immediately by a continuous i.v. infusion of 60 mg/kg/h, 0.5 ml/h, of NXY-059 for 24 h (n=12). Infarction was quantified after a survival period of 24 h. Differences in infarct volume were examined with one-way ANOVA following Dunnet's multiple comparison test. The percentage of cortical infarction in the saline control group was 22.6 +/- 6.8% (mean+/-S.D.) of contra-lateral hemisphere, and in the 30 mg/kg/h NXY-059-treated group was 17.4% +/- 6.8% (NS). Plasma concentration (microM/l) of NXY-059 in the 30 mg/kg/h group was 80.2 +/- 52.2 (n=9), while in the 60 mg/kg/h group plasma concentration (microM/l) of NXY-059 was 391.0 +/- 207.0 (n=10). Infarction in the 60 mg/kg/h NXY-059-treated group was significantly reduced (P=0.009) to 14.5 +/- 5%. Our preliminary data demonstrate that administration of NXY-059 (60 mg/kg/h for 24 h) ameliorates cortical infarction in rats subjected to permanent focal cerebral ischemia with 24 h survival.
The phenotypic modulation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) from the differentiated state to the dedifferentiated one is critically involved in the development and progression of atherosclerosis. Although many cytokines and growth factors have been reported as atherogenic factors, the critical pathogens for inducing atherosclerosis remain unknown, largely because proper examining systems of them have not been developed. We recently established primary culture systems for visceral SMCs and VSMCs in which both SMCs, when cultured on laminin with insulin-like growth factor-I, show a differentiated phenotype, as indicated by a spindle-like shape, ligand-induced contractility, and a high level of SMC differentiation marker gene expression. In this study, we searched for critical dedifferentiation factors for these SMCs using our culture system. We found that polar lipids extracted from human serum markedly induced VSMC dedifferentiation, and this activity was solely present in the lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) fraction. Among several LPA species detected in human serum lipids, unsaturated LPAs were identified as major contributors to the induction of VSMC dedifferentiation. Signaling and phenotype analyses revealed that unsaturated LPA-induced VSMC dedifferentiation is mediated through the coordinated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Thus, this report demonstrates the first finding that unsaturated LPAs, but not saturated LPAs, specifically induce VSMC phenotypic modulation, suggesting that these molecules could function as atherogenic factors.
Epidemiological studies have shown gender differences in the age of onset and symptoms of schizophrenia. Because sensorimotor gating mechanisms are deficient in schizophrenia, we studied the effect of administration of estrogen on prepulse inhibition of startle in rats, an animal model of sensorimotor gating. Rats were tested in an automated startle apparatus for their responses to random combinations of 115-dB sound pulses and prepulses of various intensity. Startle responses were reduced by increasing intensities of prepulses, indicating prepulse inhibition. Repeated administration of startle pulses caused gradual habituation of startle responses. Ovariectomy did not induce significant changes in either habituation of the startle response or prepulse inhibition of startle. Treatment with 17beta-estradiol caused an increase in percentage prepulse inhibition at all prepulse intensities at 18 h, but only at higher prepulse intensities at 30 min after injection. Habituation of startle responses was not affected. The enhancing effect of estradiol on prepulse inhibition was mimicked by testosterone, but not by dihydrotestosterone. Estradiol treatment increased prepulse inhibition similarly in controls or after disruption of prepulse inhibition induced by treatment with apomorphine or dizocilpine (MK-801). Our results may help to explain gender differences in schizophrenia and some of the beneficial clinical effects of estrogen treatment in this disease.
Amyloid beta-protein (A beta) is the main constituent of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease and is derived by proteolysis from the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Generation and secretion of both A beta 40 and A beta 42 isoforms depend largely on internalization of APP and occurs mainly in the endocytic pathway. Evidence has also been presented (Gervais, F. G., Xu, D., Robertson, G. S., Vaillancourt, J. P., Zhu, Y., Huang, J., LeBlanc, A., Smith, D., Rigby, M., Shearman, M. S., Clarke, E. E., Zheng, H., Van der Ploeg, L. H. T., Ruffolo, S. C., Thornberry, N. A., Xanthoudakis, S., Zamboni, R. J., Roy, S., and Nicholson, D. W. (1999) Cell, 97, 395--406) that caspase cleavage of APP at its cytosolic tail affects its processing such that it is redirected to a more amyloidogenic pathway, resulting in enhanced A beta generation. However, caspase cleavage of APP also results in loss of its endocytosis signal (YENP), an event that would predict a decline in internalization and a concomitant decrease, not an increase, in A beta generation. In the present work, we examined whether caspase cleavage of APP is relevant to amyloidogenesis. We found that 1) caspase cleavage of APP results in reduced internalization and, accordingly, a decline in A beta secretion; 2) masking of the caspase site in APP did not affect A beta levels and, 3) caspase activation in cells by serum withdrawal did not increase A beta secretion. Thus, caspase cleavage of APP is unlikely to play a direct role in amyloidogenesis.
Vesicle-mediated protein sorting plays an important role in segregation of intracellular molecules into distinct organelles. Extensive genetic studies using yeast have identified more than 40 vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) genes involved in vesicle transport to vacuoles. However, their mammalian counterparts are not fully elucidated. In this study, we identified two human homologues of yeast Class C VPS genes, human VPS11 (hVPS11) and human VPS18 (hVPS18). We also characterized the subcellular localization and interactions of the protein products not only from these genes but also from the other mammalian Class C VPS homologue genes, hVPS16 and rVPS33a. The protein products of hVPS11 (hVps11) and hVPS18 (hVps18) were ubiquitously expressed in peripheral tissues, suggesting that they have a fundamental role in cellular function. Indirect immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that the mammalian Class C Vps proteins are predominantly associated with late endosomes/lysosomes. Immunoprecipitation and gel filtration studies showed that the mammalian Class C Vps proteins constitute a large hetero-oligomeric complex that interacts with syntaxin-7. These results indicate that like their yeast counterparts, mammalian Class C Vps proteins mediate vesicle trafficking steps in the endosome/lysosome pathway.
We have utilized computational biology to screen GenBank for the presence of recently integrated Ya5 and Yb8 Alu family members. Our analysis identified 2640 Ya5 Alu family members and 1852 Yb8 Alu family members from the draft sequence of the human genome. We selected a set of 475 of these elements for detailed analyses. Analysis of the DNA sequences from the individual Alu elements revealed a low level of random mutations within both subfamilies consistent with the recent origin of these elements within the human genome. Polymerase chain reaction assays were used to determine the phylogenetic distribution and human genomic variation associated with each Alu repeat. Over 99 % of the Ya5 and Yb8 Alu family members were restricted to the human genome and absent from orthologous positions within the genomes of several non-human primates, confirming the recent origin of these Alu subfamilies in the human genome. Approximately 1 % of the analyzed Ya5 and Yb8 Alu family members had integrated into previously undefined repeated regions of the human genome. Analysis of mosaic Yb8 elements suggests gene conversion played an important role in generating sequence diversity among these elements. Of the 475 evaluated elements, a total of 106 of the Ya5 and Yb8 Alu family members were polymorphic for insertion presence/absence within the genomes of a diverse array of human populations. The newly identified Alu insertion polymorphisms will be useful tools for the study of human genomic diversity.
Quantification of arthritic pain can be very useful in elucidating the mechanisms of arthritis and in assessing the effect of anti-arthritic medication or treatment. Here we report a novel method that allows convenient measurements of the severity of arthritic pain in voluntarily walking rats. We constructed a device to measure the weight load on each leg while the animal was walking through a path, the bottom of which was equipped with strain gauge weight sensors. Using this device, we measured the weight load on the right hind leg before and after induction of arthritis by carrageenan injection into the knee joint cavity of this leg. The carrageenan injection resulted in a significant reduction of weight load on the affected leg; the load decreased to the minimum level at 4 h after the injection and gradually returned to the pre-injection level by the fifth day. Intraperitoneal administration of morphine at 5.5 h after carrageenan injection could reverse the weight load change. These results suggest that our new device is an effective tool for convenient measurements of arthritic pain in dynamic conditions like walking.


It is not known exactly which cortical areas compute somatosensory representations of shape. This was investigated using positron emission tomography and cytoarchitectonic mapping. Volunteers discriminated shapes by passive or active touch, brush velocity, edge length, curvature, and roughness. Discrimination of shape by active touch, as opposed to passive touch, activated the right anterior lobe of cerebellum only. Areas 3b and 1 were activated by all stimuli. Area 2 was activated with preference for surface curvature changes and shape stimuli. The anterior part of the supramarginal gyrus (ASM) and the cortex lining the intraparietal sulcus (IPA) were activated by active and passive shape discrimination, but not by other mechanical stimuli. We suggest, based on these findings, that somatosensory representations of shape are computed by areas 3b, 1, 2, IPA, and ASM in this hierarchical fashion.
Odorant receptors and signaling proteins are localized to sensory cilia on olfactory dendrites. Using a GFP-tagged odorant receptor protein, Caenorhabditis elegans ODR-10, we characterized protein sorting and transport in olfactory neurons in vivo. ODR-10 is transported in rapidly moving dendritic vesicles that shuttle between the cell body and the cilia. Anterograde and retrograde vesicles move at different speeds, suggesting that dendrites have polarized transport mechanisms. Residues immediately after the seventh membrane-spanning domain of ODR-10 are required for localization; these residues are conserved in many G protein-coupled receptors. UNC-101 encodes a mu1 subunit of the AP-1 clathrin adaptor complex. In unc-101 mutants, dendritic vesicles are absent, ODR-10 receptor is evenly distributed over the plasma membrane, and other cilia membrane proteins are also mislocalized, implicating AP-1 in protein sorting to olfactory cilia.
Neurotrophin regulation of actin-dependent changes in growth cone motility may depend on the signaling of beta-actin mRNA transport. Formation of an RNP complex between the beta-actin mRNA zipcode sequence and Zipcode Binding Protein 1 (ZBP1) was required for its localization to growth cones. Antisense oligonucleotides to the zipcode inhibited formation of this RNP complex in vitro and the neurotrophin-induced localization of beta-actin mRNA and ZBP1 granules. Live cell imaging of neurons transfected with EGFP-ZBP1 revealed fast, bidirectional movements of granules in neurites that were inhibited by antisense treatment, as visualized by FRAP analysis. NT-3 stimulation of beta-actin protein localization was dependent on the 3'UTR and inhibited by antisense treatment. Growth cones exhibited impaired motility in the presense of antisense. These results suggest a novel mechanism to influence growth cone dynamics involving the regulated transport of mRNA.
The quantal release of glutamate depends on its transport into synaptic vesicles. Recent work has shown that a protein previously implicated in the uptake of inorganic phosphate across the plasma membrane catalyzes glutamate uptake by synaptic vesicles. However, only a subset of glutamate neurons expresses this vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT1). We now report that excitatory neurons lacking VGLUT1 express a closely related protein that has also been implicated in phosphate transport. Like VGLUT1, this protein localizes to synaptic vesicles and functions as a vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT2). The complementary expression of VGLUT1 and 2 defines two distinct classes of excitatory synapse.
Distinct classes of neurons are generated from progenitor cells distributed in characteristic dorsoventral patterns in the developing spinal neural tube. We define restricted neural progenitor populations by the discrete, nonoverlapping expression of Ngn1, Math1, and Mash1. Crossinhibition between these bHLH factors is demonstrated and provides a mechanism for the generation of discrete bHLH expression domains. This precise control of bHLH factor expression is essential for proper neural development since as demonstrated in both loss- and gain-of-function experiments, expression of Math1 or Ngn1 in dorsal progenitor cells determines whether LH2A/B- or dorsal Lim1/2-expressing interneurons will develop. Together, the data suggest that although Math1 and Ngn1 appear to be redundant with respect to neurogenesis, they have distinct functions in specifying neuronal subtype in the dorsal neural tube.

The role of nurse manager of an acute or critical care unit is one of the most difficult roles in healthcare today. This individual must juggle patient care issues, staff concerns, medical staff relationships, supply inadequacies, and organizational initiatives--and then balance all of this with a personal life. The only way in which any of this is remotely possible is if the patient care unit provides a supportive environment for patients, families, and staff. The nurse manager is a pivotal person in this effort: research repeatedly shows that people don't leave their jobs, they leave their managers. This article describes how the nurse manager of an acute neurosciences unit worked with her staff to define, create, and maintain a work environment in which patient care improved, people enjoyed working, and retention of staff increased.
Weight loss is a frequent problem in space flights. We now claim that it may affect performance and drug-seeking behavior by altering midbrain neurochemistry. In food-deprived rats (20-30% underweight) basal extracellular dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens decrease to 40-50% of normal and locomotion is depressed. However, amphetamine-induced dopamine release and locomotion are higher than in controls (1825% vs. 595% after a 25 micromoles d-amphetamine intraaccumbens infusion). The lower basal and the higher stimulated dopamine levels suggest that the neurotransmitter accumulates presynaptically in the accumbens of the underweight rats due to subnormal basal release. Psychostimulants are more rewarding for underweight subjects possibly because they release significantly more dopamine from elevated presynaptic stores into the accumbens. Consequently, weight loss can lead both to depression of performance and propensity to substance abuse. These effects should be considered when providing nutritional resources for space flights so that weight loss is limited.
Short-radius centrifugation is a potential countermeasure to long-term weightlessness. Unfortunately, head movements in a rotating environment induce serious discomfort, non-compensatory vestibulo-ocular reflexes, and subjective illusions of body tilt. In two experiments we investigated the effects of pitch and yaw head movements in participants placed supine on a rotating bed with their head at the center of rotation, feet at the rim. The vast majority of participants experienced motion sickness, inappropriate vertical nystagmus and illusory tilt and roll as predicted by a semicircular canal model. However, a small but significant number of the 28 participants experienced tilt in the predicted plane but in the opposite direction. Heart rate was elevated following one-second duration head turns. Significant adaptation occurred following a series of head turns in the light. Vertical nystagmus, motion sickness and illusory tilt all decreased with adaptation. Consequences for artificial gravity produced by short-radius centrifuges as a countermeasure are discussed. Grant numbers: NCC 9-58.
Concerning with the relation of vection induced by the optokinetic stimulation and the body movement, especially we attended to the neck joint movement, which counteracted to the shoulder movement. Then, we analyzed the mechanisms of the sitting postural control by using the seesaw board. By the optokinetic stimulation through the head mounted display (H.M.D.), the vection was leaded, and it affected to the sway of the body on the seesaw board. In this experiment, we found that the movement of upper part of body except for the head was the same direction to the seesaw board but the head moved out of phase to the seesaw board. This phenomenon will be suggested that the unstable condition of sway is balanced by the counter swing of head and the neck muscle tonus is controlled by acting of the vestibulo-collic reflex.

Neuronal intranuclear inclusions (NIIs) found in CAG/polyglutamine-expansion disorders contain both expanded polyglutamine and the gene product without the CAG repeat. The gene product containing expanded polyglutamine has, therefore, been considered to be a major component of NIIs. In this immunohistochemical study, we showed recruitment of ataxin-2, ataxin-3 and TATA box binding protein (TBP) into NIIs of the pontine neurons of spinocerebellar ataxia type (SCA) 1, SCA2, SCA3 and dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy brains. Triple-labeling immunofluorescence demonstrated colocalization of ataxin-2 and ataxin-3 in NIIs containing expanded polyglutamine, irrespective of the disease examined. These in vivo findings indicate that polyglutamine proteins recruited into NIIs are not restricted to their expanded form. Among these proteins, recruitment of ataxin-2 was least frequent in every case examined, suggesting that the rate of recruitment partly depends on the protein transported into NIIs. Because other proteins lacking polyglutamine motif were not detected in NIIs, it is suggested that the presence of polyglutamine is a prerequisite for these proteins to be recruited into nucleus and to form NIIs. Interaction between expanded and non-expanded polyglutamine may play roles during these processes.

Our objectives were to characterize colonic viscoelastic properties of the human descending colon by assessing pressure-volume (P-V) relationships during barostatic balloon distension. In 16 healthy subjects, a balloon was inflated to 44 mmHg and then deflated to 0 mmHg in 4-mmHg steps at 10, 30, and 60 ml/min, allowing volume fluctuations to stabilize at each pressure increment. Thereafter, these &quot;quasi-static&quot; P-V curves were compared with &quot;dynamic&quot; distensions to 300 ml, at 1 and 10 ml/s, before and after intravenous atropine in another five subjects. During quasi-static curves, balloon volume stabilized at each pressure increment. Quasi-static P-V curves were reproducible within individuals and approximated to a power exponential function and revealed hysteresis, indicative of viscoelasticity. Body mass index influenced quasi-static P-V curves during inflation but not during deflation. The colon was less compliant during dynamic distensions at 10 ml/s than during quasi-static distensions. Atropine increased quasi-static compliance and attenuated differences between quasi-static and rapid distensions. We conclude that colonic viscoelastic properties can be assessed by quasi-static P-V curves. Rapid colonic distension activated neural reflexes, thereby reducing colonic compliance compared with quasi-static distensions.
The role of the sympathetic nervous system in 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl piperidinoxyl (tempol)-induced cardiovascular responses in urethane-anesthetized, normotensive rats was evaluated. Tempol caused dose-dependent (30-300 micromol/kg iv) decreases in renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), and heart rate (HR). Similar responses were obtained after sinoaortic denervation and cervical vagotomy. These responses were not blocked following treatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine (2.6 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) iv for 5 min) or the alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist idazoxan (0.3 mg/kg iv bolus). Idazoxan blocked the effects of clonidine (10 miccrog/kg iv) on HR, MAP, and RSNA. Hexamethonium (30 mg/kg iv) inhibited RSNA, and tempol did not decrease RSNA after hexamethonium. The effects of tempol on HR and MAP were reduced by hexamethonium. In conclusion, depressor responses caused by tempol are mediated, partly, by sympathoinhibition in urethane-anesthetized, normotensive rats. Nitric oxide does not contribute to this response, and the sympathoinhibitory effect of tempol is not mediated via alpha2-adrenergic receptors. Finally, tempol directly decreases HR, which may contribute to the MAP decrease.
The role of mitochondrial free radicals in the cardioprotective effect of ischemic preconditioning was examined in isolated buffer-perfused rat hearts. Infarct size in control rat hearts subjected to 30 min of regional ischemia and 120 min of reperfusion was 32.6 +/- 3.4% of the risk zone. Ischemic preconditioning (3 cycles of 5-min global ischemia/5-min reperfusion) before the same regional ischemia and reperfusion protocol significantly reduced infarct size to 2.6 +/- 0.8% of the risk zone. Perfusion with menadione (3.0 microM), a generator of mitochondrial free radicals, in lieu of preconditioning ischemia significantly reduced infarction to 10.9 +/- 2.7%. N-2-mercaptopropionylglycine (1.0 mM), a free radical scavenger, blocked the protection of menadione, significantly increasing infarction to 23.5 +/- 1.1%. Myxothiazol (0.6 microM), a site III mitochondrial inhibitor, blocked the protection of menadione and significantly increased infarction to 25.2 +/- 3.8%. The infarct-limiting effect of menadione was attenuated to 19.7 +/- 1.5% of the risk zone by 10 microM SB203580, a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor. Furthermore, menadione significantly increased p38 MAPK phosphorylation to a level 5.6-fold over basal. These results indicate that free radicals that originate within mitochondria can activate p38 MAPK and protect hearts against infarction.
To elucidate the effects of linear acceleration on muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in humans, 16 healthy men were tested in a linear accelerator. Measurements of MSNA, electrocardiogram, blood pressure, and thoracic impedance were undertaken during linear acceleration. Sinusoidal linear acceleration with peak values at +/-0.10, +/-0.15, and +/-0.20 G was applied in anteroposterior (+/-G(x), n = 10) or lateral (+/-G(y), n = 6) directions. The total activity and burst rate of MSNA decreased significantly during forward, backward, left, or right linear accelerations. The total activity of MSNA decreased to 50.5 +/- 6.9, 52.5 +/- 4.4, 71.2 +/- 9.6, and 67.6 +/- 8.2% from the baselines (100%) during linear accelerations with peak values at +/-0.20 G in the four directions, respectively. These results suggest that dynamic stimulation of otolith organs in horizontal directions in humans might inhibit MSNA directly in order to quickly redistribute blood to muscles during postural reflexes induced by passive movement, which supports the concept that the vestibular system contributes to sympathetic regulation in humans.
Lacunar infarction is associated with distinct clinical features. It is thought to result from occlusion of a deep perforating artery in the basal ganglia, centrum semiovale, or brain stem. However, occluded perforating arteries have only rarely been observed at postmortem in patients with lacunar stroke and have not been noted previously on imaging despite the increasing sophistication of the techniques. We observed nine patients with lacunar stroke imaged with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging in whom we observed a linear structure with density or signal features consistent with an occluded (or at least abnormal) perforating artery associated with the relevant lacunar infarct. The appearance might also have been caused by a leak of blood and fluid into the perivascular space around the artery, as in several patients the width of the tubular vessel-like structure (&gt;1 mm in diameter) was greater than the expected width of a perforating artery (&lt;0.8 mm in diameter). This interpretation is supported by the fact that the area of infarction was usually around the abnormal vessel, not at the end of it. We describe the patients' clinical and imaging features, and discuss alternative explanations for the imaging appearance and the implications for gaining insights into the cause of lacunar infarction.
In the last decade, the molecular mechanisms of apoptosis, a major type of active cell death (type I cell death) have largely been clarified in mammalian cells. Particularly, the caspase family of proteinases has been shown to play crucial roles in the execution of apoptosis. Differing from apoptosis, type II cell death is known to be associated with autophagosomes/autolysosomes and appear in the developing nervous system (CLARKE, 1990). We have previously shown that delayed neuronal death occurring in the CA1 pyramidal layer of the gerbil hippocampus after brief forebrain ischemia is apoptotic in nature and autophagosomes/autolysosomes abundantly appear in the neurons before DNA fragmentation. To further understand the roles of autophagosomes/autolysosomes in active cell death, we examined the apoptosis of PC12 cells using morphological and biochemical techniques. PC12 cells are known to undergo apoptosis when cultured in the absence of serum. In such an environment, the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis is activated; cytochrome c is released from mitochondria, and caspase-9/caspase-3 are activated. We have first examined morphological features of PC12 cells during the apoptotic process following serum deprivation, and found that autophagy is induced from the early stage of the process in the cells before typical nuclear changes. When autophagy is inhibited in the cells by 3-methyladenine, an autophagy inhibitor, they are largely protected from apoptosis. In relation to the induction of autophagy in PC12 cells following serum deprivation, immunoreactivity, protein amounts, and the proteolytic activity of lysosomal proteinases, particularly cathepsins B and D, are all greatly altered; those of cathepsin B drastically decrease in the cells from the early stage of serum-deprived cultures, whereas those of cathepsin D increase. Moreover, PC12 cells overexpressing cathepsin D undergo apoptosis more rapidly in serum-deprived cultures than wild-type cells, whereas those overexpressing cathepsin B increase the viability. These lines of evidence suggest that autophagy is involved in PC12 cell death following serum deprivation, this type of cell death being regulated by lysosomal proteinases, cathepsins B and D, downstream autophagy.




This study investigates concept formation and cross-modal integration in baboons. Response times were recorded in a categorical task involving discrimination between human and baboon vocalizations. We show that a brief presentation of human or baboon prime pictures conceptually related to the target sound shortened response speed of one baboon. Cross-modal priming effects were replicated with degraded pictures, and were also found in a sample of humans. Cross-modal priming demonstrates that this baboon had formed amodal abstract concepts of the human and baboon categories.
Two experiments were conducted in order to determine the patterns of transfer of visuomotor adaptation between arm and head pointing. An altered gain of display of pointing movements was used to induce a conflict between visual and somatosensory representations. Two subject groups participated in Experiment 1: group 1 adapted shoulder pointing movements, and group 2 adapted wrist pointing movements to a 0.5 gain of display. Following the adaptation regimen, subjects performed a transfer test in which the shoulder group performed wrist movements and the wrist group performed shoulder movements. The results demonstrated that both groups displayed typical adaptation curves, initially undershooting the target followed by a return to baseline performance. Transfer tests revealed that both groups had high transfer of the acquired adaptation to the other joint. Experiment 2 followed a similar design except that group 1 adapted head pointing movements and group 2 adapted arm pointing movements. The arm adaptation had high transfer to head pointing while the head adaptation had very little transfer to arm pointing. These results imply that, while the arm segments may share a common target representation for goal-directed actions, individual but functionally dependent target representations may exist for the control of head and arm movements.
Dopamine (DA) in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) can modulate the short-term retention of information and other executive functions. The present study examined whether administration of a DA D1 agonist into the PFC could have differential effects on memory retrieval in circumstances in which memory was either excellent or poor. Separate groups of rats were trained on a delayed version of the radial maze task. On the test day, the delay between the phases was either 30 min or 12 hr. Infusions of the D1 receptor agonist SKF 81297 (0.05, 0.10, or 0.20 microg/0.5 microl) into the PFC before the test phase improved memory retrieval after a 12-hr delay but disrupted performance after a 30-min delay. These data suggest that D1 receptor activity can exert differential effects over PFC function, depending on the strength of the memory trace. When memory is decremented by an extended delay, activation of PFC DA D1 receptors by an agonist can improve cognitive function.
Male prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) form a pair bond with a female partner after mating, and this behavior is regulated by the neuropeptide vasopressin (AVP). The authors report that AVP in the lateral septum is important for pair bond formation. Administration of an AVP V1a receptor antagonist in the lateral septum blocked mating-induced pair bonding, whereas administration of AVP induced this behavior in the absence of mating. In addition, administration of an oxytocin (OT) receptor antagonist in the lateral septum also blocked pair bond formation induced by either mating or AVP administration, suggesting that the OT receptor blockade may have interfered with the AVP regulation of behavior. Together, these data provide evidence suggesting that AVP in the lateral septum regulates pair bond formation in male prairie voles and that this process requires access to both AVP and OT receptors.
The role of awareness and its impact on learning the conditioned eyeblink response was investigated in both trace and delay discrimination eyeblink conditioning in young and aging participants, in 4 paradigms: delay 750, delay 1,250, trace 500, and trace 1,000. Participants concurrently watched a silent movie about which they were questioned afterward. Acquisition in both the trace and delay discrimination task was correlated with awareness of conditioning stimulus contingencies, regardless of age. Age-dependent deficits were observed in trace discrimination but not in delay discrimination, with more severe deficits appearing at the longer trace interval. The percentage of aware participants was also found to be greater in the young population than in the aging population. These results indicate that awareness or knowledge of stimulus contingencies may be an important contributor to successful acquisition in higher order discrimination tasks.
Rats fed a vitamin E-depleted diet for 48 weeks had undetectable levels of vitamin E in the gastrocnemius muscle and liver, leading to elevated malondialdehyde levels in both tissues and an elevated GSH level in muscle. Skeletal-muscle mitochondria showed decreased mitochondrial respiratory chain (MRC) activities, whereas liver MRC activities were increased. Exposure of normal rat liver submitochondrial particles (SMPs) to an in vitro NADPH-dependent lipid peroxidation system resulted in a dose-dependent increase in lipid peroxidation and inhibition of complex I and complex IV activities. Complex I exhibited greater sensitivity to lipid peroxidation than complex IV. At low and high NADPH concentrations, the rate of lipid peroxidation and the level of enzyme inhibition were essentially the same in liver SMPs from both vitamin E-deficient and control rats, suggesting that under these conditions, the loss of vitamin E did not exacerbate the effects of either lipid peroxidation or enzyme inhibition. These results indicate that normal vitamin E levels in liver mitochondria are not required for protection against lipid peroxidation and are consistent with the normal liver mitochondrial function in vitamin E-deficient animals. This suggests other antioxidants, such as ubiquinol and GSH, may be more important in protecting liver mitochondria and MRC from lipid peroxidation.
The release of neurotransmitter at a synapse occurs via the regulated fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane. The fusion of the two lipid bilayers is mediated by a protein complex that includes the plasma membrane target soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF) attachment protein (SNAP) receptors (t-SNAREs), syntaxin 1A and synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), and the vesicle SNARE (v-SNARE), vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP). Whereas syntaxin 1A and VAMP are tethered to the membrane by a C-terminal transmembrane domain, SNAP-25 has been suggested to be anchored to the membrane via four palmitoylated cysteine residues. We demonstrate that the cysteine residues of SNAP-25 are not required for membrane localization when syntaxin 1A is present. Analysis of the 7 S and 20 S complexes formed by mutants that lack cysteine residues demonstrates that the cysteines are required for efficient SNARE complex dissociation. Furthermore, these mutants are unable to support exocytosis, as demonstrated by a PC12 cell secretion assay. We hypothesize that syntaxin 1A serves to direct newly synthesized SNAP-25 through the Golgi transport pathway to the axons and synapses, and that palmitoylation of cysteine residues is not required for targeting, but to optimize interactions required for SNARE complex dissociation.
In an effort to further understand the pharmacology of sigma receptors, we have cloned the rat homolog of the sigma1 receptor. We isolated a cDNA clone (rs2-2) from rat brain tissue using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and 5' and 3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) that encoded a full-length sequence of 223 amino acids. The predicted protein sequence of the clone has high homology with that of the murine (93.3%), guinea pig (93.7%), and human (96%) sigma1 receptors. Northern analysis showed a major mRNA band of approximately 1.8 kb. RT-PCR revealed the presence of the mRNA in all the tissues tested, with high levels in the brain, spinal cord, liver, thymus, adrenal glands, and kidneys. When expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, the level of sigma1 binding increased markedly, and the binding profile was consistent with sigma1 sites. However, measurable levels of sigma1 binding present in the cell lines before transfection made the interpretation of these results difficult. To ensure that the binding reflected the transfected protein, we tagged the receptors with a hemagglutinin (HA) epitope at the amino terminus and examined binding in immunoprecipitated receptors. Western analysis using an antisera against the HA epitope revealed a molecular weight of approximately 28 kDa, close to the predicted value. The receptor binding profile of the immunopurified receptor was consistent with that seen with traditional sigma1 binding sites. Thus, rs2-2.HA encodes a high-affinity [3H](+)-pentazocine binding site with characteristics of a rat sigma1 receptor.
Cytochrome c oxidase is an intricate metalloprotein that transfers electrons from cytochrome c to oxygen in the last step of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It uses the free energy of this reaction to sustain a transmembrane electrochemical gradient of protons. Site-directed mutagenesis studies of bacterial terminal oxidases and the recent availability of refined crystal structures of the enzyme are rapidly expanding the understanding of the coupling mechanism between electron transfer and proton translocation. In contrast, relatively little is known about the assembly pathway of cytochrome c oxidase. Studies in yeast have indicated that assembly is dependent on numerous proteins in addition to the structural subunits and prosthetic groups. Human homologues of a number of these assembly factors have been identified and some are now known to be involved in disease. To dissect the assembly pathway of cytochrome c oxidase, we are characterizing tissues and cell cultures derived from patients with genetically defined cytochrome c oxidase deficiency, using biochemical, biophysical and immunological techniques. These studies have allowed us to identify some of the steps of the assembly process.
Presenilin-1 (PS1) is thought to regulate cell differentiation and survival by modulating the Notch signaling pathway. Mutations in PS1 have been shown to cause early-onset inherited forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by a gain-of-function mechanism that alters proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) resulting in increased production of neurotoxic forms of amyloid beta-peptide. The present article considers a second pathogenic mode of action of PS1 mutations, a defect in cellular calcium signaling characterized by overfilling of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium stores and altered capacitive calcium entry; this abnormality may impair synaptic plasticity and sensitize neurons to apoptosis and excitotoxicity. The calcium signaling defect has also been documented in lymphocytes, suggesting a contribution of immune dysfunction to the pathogenesis of AD. A better understanding of the calcium signaling defect resulting from PS1 mutations may lead to the development of novel preventative and therapeutic strategies for disorders of the nervous and immune systems.
Frank Buckland introduced salmon and trout to Australia. He was also one of the most popular writers on natural history in the 19th century and this interest, particularly in fish farming, rapidly overtook his work as a doctor.

1. The ability of a series of homologues and analogues of palmitoylethanolamide to inhibit the uptake and fatty acid amidohydrolase (FAAH)-catalysed hydrolysis of [(3)H]-anandamide ([(3)H]-AEA) has been investigated. 2. Palmitoylethanolamide and homologues with chain lengths from 12 - 18 carbon atoms inhibited rat brain [(3)H]-AEA metabolism with pI(50) values of approximately 5. Homologues with chain lengths &lt; or = eight carbon atoms gave &lt; 20% inhibition at 100 microM. 3. R-palmitoyl-(2-methyl)ethanolamide, palmitoylisopropylamide and oleoylethanolamide inhibited [(3)H]-AEA metabolism with pI(50) values of 5.39 (competitive inhibition), 4.89 (mixed type inhibition) and 5.33 (mixed type inhibition), respectively. 4. With the exception of oleoylethanolamide, the compounds did not produce dramatic inhibition of [(3)H]-WIN 55,212-2 binding to human CB(2) receptors expressed on CHO cells. Palmitoylethanolamide, palmitoylisopropylamide and R-palmitoyl-(2-methyl)ethanolamide had modest effects upon [(3)H]-CP 55,940 binding to human CB(1) receptors expressed on CHO cells. 5. Most of the compounds had little effect upon the uptake of [(3)H]-AEA into C6 and/or RBL-2H3 cells. However, palmitoylcyclohexamide (100 microM) and palmitoylisopropylamide (30 and 100 microM) produced more inhibition of [(3)H]-AEA uptake than expected to result from inhibition of [(3)H]-AEA metabolism alone. 6. In intact C6 cells, palmitoylisopropylamide and oleoylethanolamide inhibited formation of [(3)H]-ethanolamine from [(3)H]-AEA to a similar extent as AM404, whereas palmitoylethanolamide, palmitoylcyclohexamide and R-palmitoyl-(2-methyl)ethanolamide were less effective. 7. These data provide useful information upon the ability of palmitoylethanolamide analogues to act as 'entourage' compounds. Palmitoylisopropylamide may prove useful as a template for design of compounds that reduce the cellular accumulation and metabolism of AEA without affecting either CB(1) or CB(2) receptors.
If one drug, B, antagonizes another, A, by producing the opposite physiological effect, the antagonist concentration-effect curves should be affected by the recording system, which limits the range of agonist responses. With pieces of isolated guinea-pig ileum taken from adjacent parts of the same animal, one recorded isotonically, the other isometrically with the same load, the isotonic IC(50) values for (-)isoprenaline opposing carbachol or histamine were lower than the isometric values (P&lt;0.01) but there was a significant correlation between them (P&lt;0.01): the isotonic curves were steeper (P&lt;0.01) and there were wider shifts in IC(50) before increasing the agonist reduced the maximum relaxation. In similar experiments with pieces of rat uterus in oestrus from the same animal, the concentration-effect curves for carbachol opposed by increasing concentrations of (-)isoprenaline or (-)adrenaline had slightly lower EC(50) values with isometric recording but there was a significant correlation (P&lt;0.01) with isotonic values. The antagonist effect (ratio of the EC(50) relative to that for the control) was higher with isotonic recording (P&lt;0.01 for (-)isoprenaline, P&lt;0.025 for (-)adrenaline) and all (27) curves were steeper than the corresponding isometric curve (P&lt;0.001). The influence of the method of recording on the results is expected from the narrower operational window and smaller upper limit to relaxation with isotonic recording. A way of obtaining measurements of IC(50) against a standard agonist effect is suggested in an Appendix.
Concentration-effect curves were obtained with carbachol tested on isolated preparations of guinea-pig ileum taken from adjacent sites in the same animal, one recorded isotonically, the other isometrically: similar experiments were made with histamine as agonist and with carbachol on rat uterus (in oestrus). The position and steepness of the curves was expressed as the values of [EC(50)] and the exponent, P: with carbachol or histamine on guinea-pig ileum the curves were significantly steeper with isotonic recording (P&lt;0.02, sign test) and displaced towards lower concentrations (P&lt;0.005) but there were significant correlations (P&lt;0.05) between values obtained with tissues from the same animal. The curves for carbachol on the rat uterus were very steep: with isotonic recording the exponent (often eight or more) was consistently higher than with isometric (P&lt;0.001): there was no significant displacement but there was a significant correlation (P&lt;0.05) between values of [EC(50)] obtained with tissues from the same animal. Although the results obtained by the two methods are different, they are correlated. These effects are to be expected because with isotonic recording there can be no change in length until the tension exceeds the load and the tissue bulk sets an upper limit to shortening: the range within which an effect can be measured (the &quot;operational window&quot;) is smaller. The observed effects on [EC(50)] and P have been reproduced with theoretical data.
These studies investigated the pharmacology of neurogenic dural vasodilation in anaesthetized guinea-pigs. Following introduction of a closed cranial window the meningeal (dural) blood vessels were visualized using intravital microscopy and the diameter constantly measured using a video dimension analyser. Dural blood vessels were constricted with endothelin-1 (3 microg kg(-1), i.v.) prior to dilation of the dural blood vessels with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP; 1 microg kg(-1), i.v.) or local electrical stimulation (up to 300 microA) of the dura mater. In guinea-pigs pre-treated with the CGRP receptor antagonist CGRP((8-37)) (0.3 mg kg(-1), i.v.) the dilator response to electrical stimulation was inhibited by 85% indicating an important role of CGRP in neurogenic dural vasodilation in this species. Neurogenic dural vasodilation was also blocked by the 5-HT(1B/1D) agonist rizatriptan (100 microg kg(-1)) with estimated plasma levels commensurate with concentrations required for anti-migraine efficacy in patients. Rizatriptan did not reverse the dural dilation evoked by CGRP indicating an action on presynaptic receptors located on trigeminal sensory fibres innervating dural blood vessels. In addition, neurogenic dural vasodilation was also blocked by the selective 5-HT(1D) agonist PNU-142633 (100 microg kg(-1)) but not by the 5-HT(1F) agonist LY334370 (3 mg kg(-1)) suggesting that rizatriptan blocks neurogenic vasodilation via an action on 5-HT(1D) receptors located on perivascular trigeminal nerves to inhibit CGRP release. This mechanism may underlie one of the anti-migraine actions of the triptan class exemplified by rizatriptan and suggests that the guinea-pig is an appropriate species in which to investigate the pharmacology of neurogenic dural vasodilation.
Employing [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and PET, we have found previously that stereotaxic ablation of the internal globus pallidus (GPi) for Parkinson's disease causes resting metabolic changes in brain regions remote from the lesion site. In this study we determined whether similar metabolic changes occur in Parkinson's disease patients treated with deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the GPi. We studied seven Parkinson's disease patients with FDG-PET to measure resting regional cerebral glucose utilization on and off GPi stimulation. We used statistical parametric mapping to identify significant changes in regional brain metabolism that occurred with this intervention. We also quantified stimulation-related changes in the expression of a specific abnormal Parkinson's disease-related pattern of metabolic covariation (PDRP) that had been identified in earlier FDG-PET studies. Metabolic changes with DBS were correlated with clinical improvement as measured by changes in Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor ratings off medication. GPi DBS improved UPDRS motor ratings (36%, P &lt; 0.001) and significantly increased regional glucose metabolism in the premotor cortex ipsilateral to stimulation and in the cerebellum bilaterally. GPi DBS also resulted in a significant (P &lt; 0.01) decline in PDRP activity ipsilateral to stimulation, which correlated significantly with clinical improvement in UPDRS motor ratings (P &lt; 0.03). Clinical improvement with GPi DBS is associated with reduced expression of an abnormal Parkinson's disease-related metabolic network involving elements of the cortico-striato-pallido-thalamocortical and the cerebello-cortical motor loops.
The prevailing concept in modern neuroscience is that neuron networks play a dominant role in the functioning of the nervous system, whereas the role of individual neurons is rather insignificant. This concept suggests that &quot;individuality&quot; of single neurons is primarily determined by their place in a network rather than their intrinsic properties. Here I argue that individual neurons may play an important, if not decisive, role in performing cognitive functions of the brain. This tentative viewpoint is supported by experimental and clinical insights into disorders of cognitive functions and by genetic studies of cognitive abilities and disabilities. The results obtained in these studies indicate that many specific cognitive functions are carried out by groups of highly specialized neurons whose roles in performing these functions are genetically predetermined and their activity could not be substituted by the activity of other neurons. In this context, the main role of neural networks and intercellular interactions is to form dynamic ensembles of neurons involved in performing a given cognitive function.
J. C. Eccles (1903-1997) had a highly distinguished career in neurophysiology, being awarded the Nobel Prize for Medicine or Physiology in 1963. This paper sets him within the Cartesian tradition of British neurophysiology initiated by Thomas Henry Huxley in the mid-19th century. It shows how the mind-brain problematique of the Cartesian tradition troubled him throughout his career, leading him finally to a solution in terms of quantum microphysics and microphysiology. This position, which has subsequently become fashionable, is discussed and shown (at least in the form Eccles espoused) to provide no solution to the problem posed by Descartes in the early 17th century.
The objective of this study was to present clinical and electroencephalographic findings in 18 cases with late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses, focusing on features that assist early diagnosis. Clinical and EEG findings have been described in the past for classic types, but several variants have recently been reported. The authors reviewed the clinical and EEG findings of 18 childhood onset neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses cases. In the late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses type, both typical and variant cases have been observed. In this type, the presence of a particular pseudoperiodic EEG pattern that we found in 15/18 patients and observed in the first stages of the disease could be useful in early diagnosis, especially if associated with the absence of sleep spindles. A precise nosological classification, based both on clinical and instrumental findings is the prerequisite for a correct genotype-phenotype correlation that could greatly improve our knowledge of this disease, providing a better understanding of pathogenesis and increasing our ability to treat it.
To determine the incidence of selective type 1 fiber atrophy (hypotrophy) and its possible significance in various muscle diseases of childhood, we reviewed 2212 muscle biopsies from children which we had examined in the past 20 years histochemically with ATPase staining. Type 1 fiber atrophy was seen in a variety of neuromuscular disorders, but predominantly in congenital myopathies, including all patients with congenital fiber type disproportion myopathy (20 patients), central core disease (12 patients) and multicore disease (four patients). Although type 1 fiber atrophy was not a constant feature in nemaline myopathy and myotubular myopathy, all patients with these diseases had abnormal fiber type distribution which included type 1 fiber predominance both with and without type 2B fiber deficiency. Together with abnormal fiber type distribution, type 1 fiber atrophy was a common finding in childhood neuromuscular disorders, especially congenital myopathies.
The exogenous administration of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), a constituent of the mammalian brain where it likely functions as a neurotransmitter or a neuromodulator, exerts a number of pharmacological effects, including sedation and hypnosis. The present paper describes a procedure for selective breeding of two rat lines which markedly differ in sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic effect of GHB. Selective breeding originated from Wistar rats showing opposite sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic effect of 1 g/kg GHB (i.p.). 'Sensitive' Wistar rats, defined as those individuals displaying values of r = sleep time/onset greater than the upper 15th percentile, were mated to generate the GHB-sensitive (GHB-S) line; conversely, 'resistant' Wistar rats (r-values lower than the lower 15th percentile) were mated to generate the GHB-resistant (GHB-R) line. Upper and lower 15th percentiles were also used to establish the selection cut-offs and criteria for rats of subsequent generations. Specifically, r-values of GHB-S rats were required to be r &gt; or =8 on two separate tests with GHB; r-values of GHB-R rats were required to be r &lt; or =2 on two separate tests with GHB. In each of the three generations produced to date, GHB-S rats showed significantly shorter onset, longer sleep times and greater r-scores than GHB-R rats. The selective breeding of GHB-S and GHB-R rats: (a) suggests that sensitivity to GHB is under genetic control, and (b) may constitute a unique model for investigation of the physiological function of GHB.
The method described was designed to elucidate the role of a particular neuronal system or specific nucleus in the central nervous system (CNS) in controlling physiological and biological functions. The neurochemical aspects of the CNS regulatory mechanism and related networks remain to be further investigated. There is little information available about the relationship between neuroactivity in the specific brain nuclei and physiological or biological responses in mammals. An adequate analysis of this relationship provides valuable insight to clarify which nucleus and what types of neurons are truly involved in the excitation of physiological events and its regulation. In the present study, we used microdialysis for stimulation of the anterior hypothalamus (AH) and simultaneous analysis of cholinergic activity, and we investigated c-Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) in the brain in the same animal following microdialysis. The nuclear protein c-Fos, the product of c-fos oncogene, has been used as a marker of neuronal activity at the cellular level in the brain. Various physiological and pharmacological stimuli have been shown to induce Fos-IR in specific neuronal populations located in various regions of the brain. However, there are few studies investigating the responses produced by c-Fos expression in specific regions in same animals. We showed the involvement of hypothalamic cholinergic mechanisms in the thermoregulatory and water regulatory processes using the above procedures.
The protocols described here refer to Hydn's technique of isolation and microdissection of vestibular Deiters' neurons from adult mammals. The isolation of Deiters' cells from bovine is described and an example is given of the immunocytochemical visualization of their GABA(A) receptors by monoclonal antibodies against the beta(2/3) subunit. In addition, the protocol of the method for isolation of Deiters' cells from adult rabbit brain stem, the preparation of their plasma membranes and the study of their permeability characteristics is presented. Also in this case, examples of its application to the determination of chloride permeability and its modulation by GABA are given.
Previous methods for determining morphological features of vascular networks in cerebral cortex were subject to arbitrary variation and bias. Unbiased estimates of vessel number, volume, surface area and length can be obtained using stereology but these techniques tend to be tedious and time-consuming. Stereologic protocols generally require micrographs that have to be analyzed manually for intersections of vessels on grid points or lines. In this report, we provide a simpler and more precise method for measuring morphological features of cerebral cortical microvessels. Images of microvessels in 1 microm toluidine blue stained sections were captured using a popular image analysis software package. Luminal surfaces of endothelial cells were automatically traced using commonly available features; the two-dimensional data of vessels (diameter, area, perimeter and number of vessels) were automatically computed and transferred to a spreadsheet. Three-dimensional features were then determined using basic stereologic equations. The method eliminates the need for manual measurements and is particularly time- and cost-effective for quantitative studies where numerous images have to be evaluated.
The Morris water maze (MWM) was described 20 years ago as a device to investigate spatial learning and memory in laboratory rats. In the meanwhile, it has become one of the most frequently used laboratory tools in behavioral neuroscience. Many methodological variations of the MWM task have been and are being used by research groups in many different applications. However, researchers have become increasingly aware that MWM performance is influenced by factors such as apparatus or training procedure as well as by the characteristics of the experimental animals (sex, species/strain, age, nutritional state, exposure to stress or infection). Lesions in distinct brain regions like hippocampus, striatum, basal forebrain, cerebellum and cerebral cortex were shown to impair MWM performance, but disconnecting rather than destroying brain regions relevant for spatial learning may impair MWM performance as well. Spatial learning in general and MWM performance in particular appear to depend upon the coordinated action of different brain regions and neurotransmitter systems constituting a functionally integrated neural network. Finally, the MWM task has often been used in the validation of rodent models for neurocognitive disorders and the evaluation of possible neurocognitive treatments. Through its many applications, MWM testing gained a position at the very core of contemporary neuroscience research.
Although brain studies began in ancient Egypt, speculations on vertebrate brain evolution occurred only much later, after the publication of Darwin's Origin of Species in 1859. Subsequently, views of brain evolution have been shaped by a complex interplay of theory and technique. Darwin's theory allowed the variation in brain size and complexity to be re-interpreted within an evolutionary context, albeit an erroneous pre-Darwinian context based on scala naturae. With the development of histological techniques, research shifted to descriptions of cellular structure, cellular aggregates and their putative interconnections. In spite of these technical advances, brain evolution continued to be viewed within the context of scala naturae. Following the publication of The Comparative Anatomy of the Nervous System of Vertebrates by Arins Kappers, Huber, and Crosby in 1936, there followed a period of stasis, after which biological views of evolution were radically altered by the confluence of genetics, paleontology, and systematics, termed the Evolutionary Synthesis. Against this background, the development of new experimental techniques for establishing neural connections resulted in a new flowering of comparative neuroanatomy. While comparative descriptive and experimental studies of brain organization continue, the rapprochement of embryology and genetics is fueling a new renaissance that promises to increase our understanding of brain evolution and its genetic basis.
Recent studies show that in addition to enhancing neural processing for attentionally relevant stimuli, selective attention also operates by suppressing the processing of distracter stimuli. When subjects are pre-cued to selectively deploy attention during voluntary (endogenous) attentional tasks, these mechanisms can be set up in advance of actual stimulus processing. That is, the brain can be placed in a biased attentional state. Two recent cueing studies have provided evidence for the deployment of such biased attentional states [J.J. Foxe, G.V. Simpson, S.P. Ahlfors, Neuroreport 9 (1998) 3929-3933; M.S. Worden, J.J. Foxe, N. Wang, G.V. Simpson, J. Neurosci. 20:RC63 (2000) 1-6]. Specifically, these studies implicated oscillatory activity in the alpha frequency-band (8-14 Hz) as an anticipatory mechanism for suppressing distracter visual stimulation. The current study extends these findings by showing that this alpha-suppressive effect is also invoked by cross-modal cues. Auditory symbolic cues were used in an intermodal attention task, to direct subjects' attention to a subsequent task in either the visual or auditory modality. Cueing attention to the auditory features of the imminent task stimuli resulted in significantly higher parieto-occipital alpha amplitude in the period preceding onset of this stimulus than when attention was cued to the visual features. Topographic mapping suggests that this effect is generated in regions of the inferior parietal cortex, areas that have been repeatedly implicated in the engagement and maintenance of visual attention. Taken together, the results of this series of studies suggest that these parietal regions are capable of integrating sensory cues from multiple sensory modalities in order to program the subsequent deployment of visual attention.
Studies in primates have found visually responsive neurons that are distributed beyond cortical areas typically described as directly involved in vision. Among these areas are premotor cortex, supplementary motor area, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and frontal eye fields. Given these findings, visual stimulation would be expected to result in activation of human frontal cortex. However, few human studies have described sensory activations in frontal regions in response to simple visual stimulation. Such studies have classically described event-related potential (ERP) components over occipital regions. The present study sought to further characterize the spatiotemporal dynamics of visually-evoked electrocortical responses elicited by simple visual stimuli using scalp current density measures derived from high-density ERP recordings, with particular emphasis on the distribution of stimulus-related activity over frontal cortex. Hemiretinal stimuli were viewed passively and during a simple ipsi- or contramanual (RT) task. The motor requirement was included to investigate the effects of response preparation on premovement frontal activations. The results indicate early frontocentral activation, particularly over the right hemisphere (peak magnitude 124-148 ms) that is independent of input visual field or motor response requirement, and that is clearly separate in timecourse from the posterior responses elicited by visual input. These findings are in accord with the multiplicity of visual inputs to frontal cortex and are discussed in terms of frontal lobe functions as may be required in these tasks.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were used to investigate whether the neural correlates of successful episodic encoding differ according to the nature of the study task. At study, 16 subjects were cued to make either animacy or alphabetic decisions about visually presented words. A recognition memory test with confidence judgements followed after a delay of 30 min. For the animacy task, words that were subsequently confidently recognised were associated with a positive-going ERP modulation. By contrast, for the alphabetic task, confident recognition was associated with a negative-going ERP modulation. Both types of subsequent memory effects started shortly after word onset. These findings suggest that the neural correlates of memory encoding differ qualitatively, rather than quantitatively, according to the nature of the study task. Episodic encoding thus seems to be supported by multiple, task-specific, neural systems. The early onset of these memory effects suggests that episodic encoding can be facilitated by processes that start before the onset of the to-be-encoded item.
Using 7.4 kb of 5' flanking DNA from the Drosophila cholinergic gene locus to drive Gal4 expression we can visualize essentially all cholinergic neurons and neuropiles after genetic recombination with a UAS-GFP (S65T) reporter gene. In contrast to previous methods somata and neuropiles can be observed in the same samples. Fluorescence intensity is strong enough to allow observations in live animals at all developmental stages. Three-dimensional reconstructions made from confocal sections of whole-mount preparations reveal the extensive cholinergic connections among various regions of the nervous system.
Neuromedin U (NMU) is a family of peptides found in the gut and the central nervous system [Neuroscience 25 (1988) 797; Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 130 (1985) 1078]. While several peripheral activities such as uterus stimulating and hypertensive effects have been described for NMU [Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 130 (1985) 1078], its role in the CNS remains poorly understood. Recently, we reported the identification of two receptors for NMU (NMU1R and NMU2R), and demonstrated that NMU may play a role in regulating feeding behavior. The central effect of NMU is likely mediated primarily via NMU2R, since NMU1R is detectable only in the periphery, but not in the brain [Nature 406 (2000) 70]. In this report, we describe detailed mapping of NMU2R mRNA expression in the rat brain by in situ hybridization. The most intense signals were observed in the ependymal cell layer along the wall of the third ventricle in the hypothalamus, CA1 region of the hippocampus, indusium griseum and septohippocampal nucleus. Moderate expression was detected in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, dorsal raphe nucleus as well as a number of other brain structures. The presence of NMU2R in the hypothalamus is consistent with its role in energy balance. Significant levels of expression of NMU2R elsewhere in the brain may suggest additional physiological functions for this neuropeptide.


The classification of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and related hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies has evolved to incorporate clinical, electrophysiological and burgeoning molecular genetic information that characterize the many disorders. For several inherited neuropathies, the gene product abnormality is known and for others, candidate genes have been identified. Genetic testing can pinpoint a specific inherited neuropathy for many patients. However, clinical and electrophysiological assessments continue to be essential tools for diagnosis and management of this disease group. This article reviews clinical, electrophysiological, pathological and molecular aspects of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies.
The cell surface molecules controlling apoptosis in cortical neurons are largely unknown. A monoclonal antibody was derived that induces cultured neocortical neurons to undergo apoptosis. A Fab fragment of the antibody, however, lacked the ability to induce cell death. The antigen was purified, and characterized by compositional analysis, fast atom bombardment (FAB) mass spectrometry, sequential exoglycosidase treatments, methylation analysis, and (1)H-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, proving to be isoglobotetraosylceramide (IsoGb4). IsoGb4 has been shown previously to be a metastasis marker, antibodies against which block metastases in a mammary adenocarcinoma model (S. A. Carlsen et al., Cancer Res., 53: 2906-2911, 1993). Addition of the purified antigen to cells lacking this glycolipid demonstrated that it is capable of functioning as a portable apoptosis-transducing molecule. Intracellular ceramide levels were increased after the treatment with the apoptosis-inducing antibody, but the membrane sphingomyelin level remained unchanged. Fumonisin B1 inhibited both the ceramide increase and the apoptosis induced via IsoGb4, which indicated that the ceramide synthase pathway is likely to be involved in apoptosis induction by IsoGb4.
The poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is involved in cell recovery from DNA damage, such as methylation of N3-adenine, that activates the base excision repair process. In the present study we demonstrated that MeOSO(2)(CH(2))(2)-lexitropsin (Me-Lex), a methylating agent that almost exclusively produces N3-methyladenine, induced different modalities of cell death in human leukemic cell lines, depending on the presence of PARP inhibitor. Growth inhibition, provoked by the combination of Me-Lex and PARP inhibitor, was associated with a marked down-regulation of c-myc, increased generation of single strand breaks and apoptosis. When used as single agent, at concentrations that saturated cell repair ability, Me-Lex induced mainly cell death by necrosis. Surprisingly, addition of a PARP inhibitor enhanced apoptosis and reduced the early appearance of necrosis. Telomerase activity was completely suppressed in cells exposed to Me-Lex alone, by 24 h after treatment, whereas it did not change when Me-Lex was combined with PARP inhibitor. Thereafter, inhibition of telomerase was observed with both treatments. The results suggest new insights on different modalities of cell death induced by high levels of N3-methyladenine per se, or by the methylated base in the presence of PARP inhibitor.
1. Cell death mode switch of cortical neurons from E17 rats was studied. Cells rapidly died under the serum-free condition. The time-course of cell death was markedly delayed by increasing cell density for primary culture in the trypan blue exclusion, LDH release, and MTT assays. 2. By analyzing cell death by the use of double staining using PI/TUNEL and PI/Annexin V combinations, the mode in the low density culture was found to be necrosis, while that in the high density culture was apoptosis. 3. The intracellular ATP level after the start of serum-free culture rapidly decline to 25% of 0-time level in the low density culture, but it was 60% in the high density culture. Both oligomycin and zVAD-fmk markedly decreased ATP levels and the population of TUNEL-positive neurons, while 3-aminobenzamide slightly increased these indices. 4. Thus. it is strongly suggested that the cell death mode switch from necrosis to apoptosis is closely related to intracellular ATP levels, and some conditioned medium factors observed in the high density culture may affect both ATP level and cell death mode switch.

This study sought to investigate whether clinical and neuropsychological impairment in cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) can be evaluated by proton spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) and structural magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Sixteen patients with CSVD and 15 healthy age-matched controls participated in the study. In addition to spectroscopic and structural MR examination all patients underwent a comprehensive clinical and neuropsychological investigation. Significant differences in between patients and controls were revealed by (1)H-MRS in the parietal white matter: decreased metabolic ratios of N-acetyl aspartate to choline (NAA/Cho; patients: 1.37 +/- 0.17, control: 1.72 +/- 0.25, p &lt; 0.001) and of N-acetyl aspartate to creatin (NAA/Cr; patients: 1.41 +/- 0.15, control: 1.66 +/- 0.2, p &lt; 0.01) indicated a pathological state. Evaluation of spectroscopic and neuropsychological data revealed a close relation between attentional impairment, i.e. delayed cerebral transmission time and decreased NAA/Cho and NAA/Cr (r = 0.62, p = 0.014). In sum, (1)H-MRS allowed a clear discrimination between patients with CSVD and age-matched normal controls. Moreover, comparisons of (1)H-MRS and neuropsychological data suggested that NAA metabolic levels, and particularly the delay in cerebral transmission time, could be potential predictors of the severeness of attentional impairment.
This study was designed to determine the efficacy and tolerability of increasing doses of L-threo-dihydroxyphenylserine (L-threo-DOPS) in treating symptomatic orthostatic hypotension associated with multiple system atrophy (MSA) and pure autonomic failure (PAF). Following a one-week run-in, patients (26 MSA; 6 PAF) with symptomatic orthostatic hypotension received increasing doses of L-threo-DOPS (100, 200 and 300 mg, twice daily) in an open, dose-ranging study. Incremental dose adjustment (after weeks two and four of outpatient treatment) was based on clinical need until blood pressure (BP), and symptoms improved. Final dosage was maintained for six weeks. With L-threo-DOPS, systolic BP decrease was reduced during orthostatic challenge (-22+/-28 mm Hg reduction from a baseline decrease of 54.3+/-27.7 mm Hg, p = 0.0001, n = 32; supine systolic BP at final visit was 118.9+/-28.2 mm Hg). By the end of the study, 25 patients (78%) improved, and in 14 patients (44%) orthostatic hypotension was no longer observed. Decreased orthostatic systolic BP decrease occurred in 22% (7/32), 24% (6/25) and 61% (11/18) of patients treated with 100, 200, and 300 mg L-threo-DOPS twice daily, respectively. An improvement occurred in symptoms associated with orthostatic hypotension, such as light-headedness, dizziness (p = 0.0125), and blurred vision (p = 0.0290). L-threo-DOPS was well tolerated, with the 2 serious adverse events reported being a possible complication of the disease under study, and with no reports of supine hypertension. In conclusion, L-threo-DOPS (100, 200, and 300 mg, twice daily) was well tolerated. The dosage of 300 mg twice daily L-threo-DOPS seemed to offer the most effective control of symptomatic orthostatic hypotension in MSA and PAF.
In the central nervous system, the neurotransmitter norepinephrine is involved in normal physiology, neuropsychiatric disorders, and the effects of numerous drugs. Although alterations of the central noradrenergic system are involved in the pathophysiology and pharmacotherapy of mood disorders, the basis and nature of these changes remain unresolved. Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging agents will be valuable for further elucidating the roles of norepinephrine in health and disease. This review discusses PET and SPECT radioligands that have been developed for the enzymes, receptors, and transporters involved in noradrenergic neurotransmission. Currently, imaging agents that exhibit specific in vivo uptake in the brain have been described for monoamine oxidase A and beta-adrenergic receptors, but have not undergone detailed evaluation or experimental application. Based on the successful development and utilization of in vivo imaging agents for elements of the central dopaminergic and serotoninergic systems, PET and SPECT radioligands are expected to serve as new tools for studying the physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacology of the central noradrenergic system.
Two experiments assessed ordinal numerical knowledge in 2- and 3-year-old children and investigated the relationship between ordinal and verbal numerical knowledge. Children were trained on a 1 vs 2 comparison and then tested with novel numerosities. Stimuli consisted of two trays, each containing a different number of boxes. In Experiment 1, box size was held constant. In Experiment 2, box size was varied such that cumulative surface area was unrelated to number. Results show children as young as 2 years of age make purely numerical discriminations and represent ordinal relations between numerosities as large as 6. Children who lacked any verbal numerical knowledge could not make ordinal judgments. However, once children possessed minimal verbal numerical competence, further knowledge was entirely unrelated to ordinal competence. Number may become a salient dimension as children begin to learn to count. An analog magnitude representation of number may underlie success on the ordinal task.



The amino acid glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in a range of organisms from Caenorhabditis elegans to mammals, and it mediates the information processing that underlies essentially all behavior. Recent advances in our understanding of glutamate storage and release now illuminate how this ubiquitous amino acid can function as a signalling molecule.
Recent experimental and theoretical results in cat primary visual cortex and in the whisker-barrel fields of rodent primary somatosensory cortex suggest common organizing principles for layer 4, the primary recipient of sensory input from the thalamus. Response tuning of layer 4 cells is largely determined by a local interplay of feed-forward excitation (directly from the thalamus) and inhibition (from layer 4 inhibitory interneurons driven by the thalamus). Feed-forward inhibition dominates excitation, inherits its tuning from the thalamic input, and sharpens the tuning of excitatory cells. Recurrent excitation enhances responses to effective stimuli.
The use of methods from contemporary nonlinear dynamics in studying neurobiology has been rather limited.Yet, nonlinear dynamics has become a practical tool for analyzing data and verifying models. This has led to productive coupling of nonlinear dynamics with experiments in neurobiology in which the neural circuits are forced with constant stimuli, with slowly varying stimuli, with periodic stimuli, and with more complex information-bearing stimuli. Analysis of these more complex stimuli of neural circuits goes to the heart of how one is to understand the encoding and transmission of information by nervous systems.
Information in nervous systems is often carried by neural ensembles--groups of neurons in transient functional linkage--and written in a code that involves the spatial locations of active neurons or synapses and the times at which activity occurs. Even in favorable neuroanatomical circumstances, studying neural ensemble function presents a serious experimental challenge. One recent strategy to overcome this challenge relies on protein-based sensors that provide direct optical images of neural activity, and on protein-based effectors that interfere with it. Because these molecules are encodable in DNA, they can be introduced into intact animals by genetic manipulation, and their expression pattern can be tailored to include--exclusively and at the same time comprehensively--the neurons of interest. Circumscribed populations of neurons can thus be studied in virtual isolation at defined stages of intact neural pathways.
Recent years have seen many advances in our understanding of the genetics of the dystonias, with 13 loci identified to date. The DYT1 gene, which causes most cases of childhood-onset generalized primary dystonia, was cloned in 1997, and use of cell models has begun to unravel the role of its protein (torsinA) in both health and disease. Treatment of more severe dystonia has been a difficult area, with only limited success from medical therapies. Recently, there has been increasing interest in the use of globus pallidus deep brain stimulation and a number of reports have shown promising results.
The detection of multisystemic involvement often leads to a correct diagnosis of the antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), even in cases with predominant neurologic manifestations. However, when central nervous system deficits are isolated and have a relapsing-remitting or a progressive course, other conditions must be carefully considered. In this context, the diagnostic accuracy of conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is hampered by its limited pathologic specificity, which is one of the reasons why no or only modest correlations have been found between the burden of MRI-visible lesions and other clinical or laboratory measures of disease severity in patients with APS. Neuroimaging techniques with a higher pathologic specificity than conventional MRI show promise in achieving diagnostic confidence earlier in the course of APS and in better monitoring the efficacy of therapeutic interventions.
Idiopathic slow-transit constipation is a clinical syndrome predominantly affecting women, characterized by intractable constipation and delayed colonic transit. This syndrome is attributed to disordered colonic motor function. The disorder spans a spectrum of variable severity, ranging from patients who have relatively mild delays in transit but are otherwise indistinguishable from irritable bowel syndrome to patients with colonic inertia or chronic megacolon. The diagnosis is made after excluding colonic obstruction, metabolic disorders (hypothyroidism, hypercalcemia), drug-induced constipation, and pelvic floor dysfunction (as discussed by Wald ). Most patients are treated with one or more pharmacologic agents, including dietary fiber supplementation, saline laxatives (milk of magnesia), osmotic agents (lactulose, sorbitol, and polyethylene glycol 3350), and stimulant laxatives (bisacodyl and glycerol). A subtotal colectomy is effective and occasionally is indicated for patients with medically refractory, severe slow-transit constipation, provided pelvic floor dysfunction has been excluded or treated.
During development of the vertebrate CNS, commissural axons initially grow circumferentially toward the ventral midline floor plate. After crossing the floor plate, they abruptly change their trajectory from the circumferential to the longitudinal axis. Although recent studies have unraveled the mechanisms that control navigation of these axons along the circumferential axis, those that result in the transition from circumferential to longitudinal trajectory remain unknown. Here, we examined whether an interaction with the floor plate is a prerequisite for the initiation of trajectory transition of commissural axons, using in vitro preparations of the rat metencephalon. We found that commissural axons in the metencephalon, once having crossed the floor plate, turned sharply to grow longitudinally. In contrast, axons extending in floor plate-deleted preparations, continued to grow circumferentially, ignoring the hypothetical turning point. These results suggest that a prior interaction of commissural axons with floor plate cells is a key step for these axons to activate a navigation program required for their change in axonal trajectory from the circumferential to the longitudinal axis.
To assess time costs of caring for children with severe disabilities in the community compared to caring for children without disabilities, a diary- and questionnaire-based study was carried out. Sixteen complete data sets were obtained from families with children who have disabilities (mean age 8.7 years) and 31 complete data sets from families with normally developing children (mean age 4.9 years). Diagnoses in the study group included cerebral palsy, autism, Sanfillipo syndrome, lissencephaly, and osteogenesis imperfecta. Items of personal care per waking hour were significantly greater in children with disabilities than non-disabled children (p&lt;0.001). In the study group, there was no correlation (r=-0.12) between age and frequency of care whereas a significant correlation was observed between degree of disability as measured by the Functional Independence Measure for children (WeeFIM) and frequency of care items (r=0.89). Twelve of the 16 mothers in the study group were not in paid employment. Twelve had little or no extended family support. Benefits awarded did not correlate with the degree of disability as measured by the WeeFIM (r=-0.11). Care needs of children with severe disabilities are significantly greater than those of non-disabled children and do not decrease with advancing age. Mothers of children with disabilities are unable to work outside the home because of these care needs. This brings the family income, even when benefits are included, to a level that is less than peer families with non-disabled children. A Functional Disability Score may help to achieve more appropriate allocation of state resources.
Semaphorin 3C is a secreted member of the semaphorin gene family. To investigate its function in vivo, we have disrupted the semaphorin 3C locus in mice by targeted mutagenesis. semaphorin 3C mutant mice die within hours after birth from congenital cardiovascular defects consisting of interruption of the aortic arch and improper septation of the cardiac outflow tract. This phenotype is similar to that reported following ablation of the cardiac neural crest in chick embryos and resembles congenital heart defects seen in humans. Semaphorin 3C is expressed in the cardiac outflow tract as neural crest cells migrate into it. Their entry is disrupted in semaphorin 3C mutant mice. These data suggest that semaphorin 3C promotes crest cell migration into the proximal cardiac outflow tract.
The C. elegans epidermis is a simple epithelium comprised of three major cell types, the seam, syncytial and P cells. While specification of all major epidermal cells is known to require the ELT-1 GATA transcription factor, little is known about how the individual epidermal cell types are specified. We report that elt-5 and -6, adjacent genes encoding GATA factors, are essential for the development of the lateral epidermal cells, the seam cells. Inhibition of elt-5 and -6 function by RNA-mediated interference results in penetrant late embryonic and early larval lethality. Seam cells in affected animals do not differentiate properly: the alae, seam-specific cuticular structures, are generally absent and expression of several seam-specific markers is blocked. In addition, elt-3, which encodes another GATA factor normally expressed in non-seam epidermis, is often ectopically expressed in the seam cells of affected animals, demonstrating that ELT-5 and -6 repress elt-3 expression in wild-type seam cells. Seam cells in affected animals often undergo inappropriate fusion with the epidermal syncytia. Interference of elt-5 and -6 function during larval development can cause fusion of all seam cells with the surrounding syncytia and pronounced defects in molting. elt-5 and -6 are both expressed in seam cells and many other cells, and are apparently functionally interchangeable. Their expression is controlled by separable tissue-specific regulatory elements and the apportionment of monocistronic versus dicistronic transcription of both genes appears to be subject to cell-type-specific regulation. Collectively, these findings indicate that elt-5 and -6 function continuously throughout C. elegans development to regulate seam cell differentiation and cell fusion.
The relationship between the effect of citalopram on alcohol intake and central serotonergic neurotransmission, as assessed by prolactin (PRL) response to fenfluramine, was investigated in 17 male heavy drinkers. A positive correlation was obtained, suggesting that the status of central serotonergic neurotransmission in individuals is associated with the treatment response to citalopram. When the group of subjects were divided into those with high and low PRL response (above and below median, respectively) to fenfluramine, those with high PRL response had a significant reduction in alcohol intake during citalopram treatment, whereas those with low PRL response had no such effect. Thus, in subjects with evidence of unimpaired or only slightly impaired central serotonergic neurotransmission (high PRL response) citalopram may have beneficial effect on alcohol consumption, whereas in those with more evidently impaired serotonergic neurotransmission (low PRL response) citalopram treatment may have no effect on or may even increase the alcohol consumption.
In the present study, the effects of orally-administered lithium on testicular morphology were examined in the spotted munia (Lonchura punctulata), a seasonally breeding sub-tropical finch. Adult males were procured from natural populations during the month of August, a time when these birds begin to show seasonal reproductive maturity in an annual cycle. Both during the period of acclimation, and throughout the subsequent experimental period, the birds were maintained in an open aviary simulating natural environmental conditions. Lithium was dissolved in distilled water and was administered via the oral route by means of a commercially available stomach-tube. A total of five experimental groups were utilized. The first group (Group A) served as control and received lithium-free distilled water in a similar manner. In the remaining four groups, lithium was administered daily as follows: Group B (2.5 mEq/Kg body weight for 5 days); Group C (2.5 mEq/Kg for 10 days); Group D (5.0 mEq/Kg for 5 days) and Group E (5.0 mEq/Kg for 10 days). All lithium administrations were carried out between 14:00 and 15:00h. Twenty-four hours after the last oral lithium, final body weights were recorded, blood samples were obtained (by brachial vein puncture for the measurement of serum lithium) and the animals were sacrificed, and testes were collected for histological studies. Our results indicated that lithium treatment led to a significant reduction in testicular weight and seminiferous tubular diameter, and a marked degenerative changes in germ cells in that most of the spermatids and mature spermatozoa showed necrotic changes and were sloughed off from the seminiferous tubular epithelium. Complete desquamation and loss of germ cells, and their clump formation were also noted within many seminiferous tubular lumen. Notably these adverse effects were observed when serum lithium levels were within the therapeutic range for human. These results confirm our earlier report on lithium's adverse effects on testicular function, and extend further to show that lithium indeed has a significant adverse effect on the histomorphology, and, thus, the function of the testis in birds.
The recent explosion of research on stem cells and neural grafting holds great promise for many neurological conditions, including epilepsy. Potential roles for cell grafting in epilepsy include remodeling of dysfunctional neuronal circuits and local delivery of neuromodulatory or neuroprotective factors. While many basic questions remain to be answered, initial human trials are underway in epilepsy as well as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, stroke, and other conditions. It is not too early to begin ethical reflection on this dynamic field. Donor cells are often derived from human embryos, raising scarcity concerns as well as opposition from anti-abortion forces. Alternative donor sources are being actively developed. Safety concerns, adequate consent, and equitable access to care will also become important issues. Ethical issues most unique to neural grafting will revolve around redefining self-identity when personality and cognition may be altered by therapy. Views of selfhood and of being human have evolved in a historically contingent process, so that neural grafting and other consequences of the genetic revolution fall within a series of reductionist scientific developments that lead to an increasing instrumentation of our self-image. Neuroscientists and clinicians must interact with other cultural, religious, and academic groups to promote mutual understanding and richer, but scientifically accurate, views of what it means to be human. A good starting point may come by telling patients' stories, connecting scientific knowledge with the density of lived experience.
The expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha was studied in the rat hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus by Western blot and immunocytochemistry at both light and electron microscopic levels. At 1 day after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, there was marked decrease in metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha immunoreactivity at the border between stratum oriens and alveus in CA1 and CA3, and in the hilus of dentate gyrus. Between 3 and 31 days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-immunoreactive dendrites and cell bodies in the border between stratum oriens and alveus gradually reappeared. Upregulation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha, however, was observed in the stratum oriens of CA1 at day 1, but returned to baseline by day 7. By electron microscopy, the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-immunoreactive product was demonstrated only in the post-synaptic elements in the border between the stratum oriens and alveus of CA1 and the hilus of the dentate gyrus in both control and experimental rats. At 1 day after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-immunoreactive degenerating neurons were identified in the border between stratum oriens and alveus of CA1 and the hilus of the dentate gyrus. At 7 and 31 days, many degenerating axons were also found. Present results suggest that excitoneurotoxicity mediated through post-synaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha may be involved in degeneration and death of interneurons in the hilus of dentate gyrus, and the border between stratum oriens and alveus of CA1 in the early stage after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.

We synthesized Xn (n = 9 -- 19) peptides that consist of 9 to 19 residues with random sequences. X19 is considered to deliver antigenic stimuli to CD4 T cells, because: (a) X19 induces proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), in the presence of IL-2, which is abrogated by monoclonal antibodies to class II HLA; (b) X19 + IL-2 induces proliferation of CD4 T cell clones of distinct specificities; and (c) T cell clones recognizing the same TCR ligands with distinct V beta usage are equally stimulated by X19 + IL-2. We next co-cultured single peripheral CD4 T cells with X19 and mitomycin-treated autologous PBMC. Indeed, single T cells of CD45RA(-) memory phenotype exhibited clonal expansion, with variable rates of proliferation, when IL-4, IL-7, IL-9, IL-15 and agonistic antibody to CD29 were included in the culture. These T cell clones showed heterogeneous proliferation patterns against KGXXXXXXXXXGK-based and KGXXXXXXXXXGKGKK-based combinatorial peptides libraries, in the presence of IL-2. Pattern-match search on a T cell clone resulted in peptide ligand candidates, one of which induced proliferation, as did protein molecules carrying the corresponding sequence. These results indicate that X19 can induce proliferation of peripheral memory T cells, the peptide ligands of which can be determined using combinatorial peptide libraries.
We examined the activation of memory-related processes in the hippocampus and the amygdala following spatial learning under stress, in the rat. Animals were trained in a water maze in a massed spatial task under two stress conditions (cold and warm water). In the dorsal CA1, training was accompanied by increased phosphorylation of ERK2 only in animals that have acquired the task (irrespective of whether they were trained in cold or warm water). In the amygdala, significant activation of ERK2 was found only in animals that learned the task well under high levels of stress. Hence, the results suggest that the amygdala and the hippocampus are differentially activated following spatial learning, depending on the level of stress involved.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), adrenomedullin (ADM), amylin and calcitonin (CT) are structurally and functionally related neuropeptides. It has recently been shown that the molecular pharmacology of CGRP and ADM is determined by coexpression of one of three receptor activity-modifying proteins (RAMPs) with calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CRLR). Furthermore, RAMP proteins have also been shown to govern the pharmacology of the calcitonin receptor, which in association with RAMP1 or RAMP3, binds amylin with high affinity. In this study, we have cloned the rat RAMP family and characterized the pharmacology of rat CGRP and ADM receptors. Rat RAMP1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 shared 72%, 69% and 85% homology with their respective human homologues. As expected CRLR-RAMP1 coexpression conferred sensitivity to CGRP, whilst association of RAMP2 or RAMP3 with CRLR conferred high affinity ADM binding. Using specific oligonucleotides we have determined the expression of RAMP1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 mRNAs in the rat central nervous system by in situ hybridization. The localization of RAMP mRNAs was heterogeneous. RAMP1 mRNA was predominantly expressed in cortex, caudate putamen and olfactory tubercles; RAMP2 mRNA was most abundant in hypothalamus; and RAMP3 was restrictively expressed in thalamic nuclei. Interestingly, in specific brain areas only a single RAMP mRNA was often detected, suggesting mutual exclusivity in expression. These data allow predictions to be made of where each RAMP protein may heterodimerize with its partner G-protein-coupled receptor(s) at the cellular level and consequently advance current understanding of cellular sites of action of CGRP, ADM, amylin and CT. Furthermore, these localization data suggest that the RAMP family may associate and modify the behaviour of other, as yet unidentified neurotransmitter receptors.
Previous studies showed that injections of somatostatin (SS-14) into the hippocampus facilitate the acquisition of spatial tasks in mice. The present study was aimed at better understanding the learning and memory processes that could be affected by hippocampal SS-14 stimulation. Balb/c mice were submitted to a two-stage learning paradigm. In stage 1, they were trained for acquisition of a spatial discrimination task in a radial maze and, in stage 2, were submitted to a probe test aiming at evaluating their ability to use flexibly their previously acquired knowledge. Injections of vehicle or SS-14 were given during the acquisition phase and/or before the probe test using a 2 x 2 factorial design. Mice receiving SS-14 during acquisition failed to succeed in the probe test despite showing a trend to faster acquisition of the initial spatial discrimination task. By contrast, when given only prior to probe trials, SS-14 did not yield any behavioural effects. Thus, SS-14 interfered with the establishment of a flexible form of memory, not with its expression per se, and therefore dissociated the acquisition of place responses from their flexible use. The theoretical issues raised by the present findings are discussed.
The respective role of various classes of central serotonin (5-HT) receptors in the regulation of sleep-wakefulness cycles has been the subject of many studies. Notably, it has been reported that 5-HT1A/B receptors are involved in the regulation of rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) and that 5-HT2A/C receptors participate in the control of slow wave sleep (SWS), but the role of 5-HT3 receptors is less well characterised. In this study we investigated the effects of SR 57227A, a potent and selective 5-HT3 agonist, on the sleep EEG of normal young male volunteers. SR 57227A (2.5, 5, 10, 20, 40 mg o.d. and 20 mg b.i.d.) or placebo were administered during 7 consecutive days in seven groups of ten subjects using a parallel group design. Sleep EEG recordings were performed on days 6 and 7 after an habituation session. SR 57227A produced a dose-dependent shift of REMS toward the end of the night without changing REMS and SWS duration nor altering sleep continuity. It suggests a role for the 5-HT3 receptor in the human sleep-wakefulness cycle and particularly in REMS regulation.
Changes in the ward atmosphere of a psychiatric work rehabilitation unit were investigated. Both trainees and staff filled in the Community-Oriented Programs Environment Scale (COPES) before and after a new rehabilitation model was implemented. It was hypothesised that the levels of autonomy and practical orientation would increase from both the trainees' and staff's perspective concerning the real ward atmosphere and that the staff's perceptions of an ideal ward atmosphere would change in the same way. The staff perceived an increased level of autonomy with respect to both the real ward atmosphere and to what constitutes an ideal ward atmosphere, which partly confirmed the hypotheses, but the level of practical orientation was stable. Concerning the staff's estimate of an ideal ward atmosphere, further changes were an increased level of involvement and a decrease in spontaneity, which was not hypothesised, but was not in conflict with the philosophy behind the new model. From the trainee's perspective there was no change of either autonomy or practical orientation. Instead, there was a decrease in personal problem orientation. Compared to an optimal profile, the ward atmosphere was beneficial, before as well as after implementation of the new programme. Differences were found between the staff and the trainees, but they were not large enough to separate the groups according to what is considered an optimal profile. The few changes found support earlier conclusions that the ward atmosphere is a stable phenomenon over time.
In healthy subjects, head tilt upon cessation of a constant-velocity yaw head rotation shortens the duration of postrotatory nystagmus. The presumed mechanism for this effect is that the velocity storage of horizontal semicircular canal inputs is being discharged by otolith organ inputs which signal a constant yaw head position when the head longitudinal axis is no longer earth-vertical. In the present study, normal subjects were rotated head upright in the dark on a vertical-axis rotational chair at 60 degrees/s for 75 s and were required to perform a specific task as soon as the chair stopped. Horizontal position of the right eye was recorded with an infra-red video camera. The average eye velocity (AEV) was measured over a 30-s interval following chair acceleration/deceleration. The ratios (postrotatory AEV/perrotatory AEV) were 1.1 (SD 0.112) when subjects (N=10) kept their head erect, 0.414 (SD 0.083) when subjects tilted their head forward, 1.003 (SD 0.108) when subjects imagined watching a TV show, 1.012 (SD 0.074) when subjects imagined looking at a painting on a wall, and 0.995 (SD 0.074) when subjects imagined floating in a prone position on a lake. Thus, while actual head tilt reduced postrotatory nystagmus, the imagination tasks did not have a statistically significant effect on postrotatory nystagmus. Therefore, velocity storage does not appear to be under the influence of cortical neural signals when subjects imagine that they are floating in a prone orientation.
Light touch of the index finger with a stationary surface at non-mechanically supportive force levels (&lt;100 g) greatly attenuates the body sway of standing subjects. In three experiments, we evaluated the properties of finger contact and of the contacted object necessary to produce postural stabilization in subjects standing heel-to-toe with eyes closed, as well as how accurately hand position can be controlled. Experiment 1 involved finger contact with flexible filaments of different bending strengths, a flat surface, and an imagined spatial position. Contact with the flat surface was most effective in attenuating sway; the flexible filaments were much less effective but still significantly better than imagined contact. Experiment 2 compared the effectiveness of finger contact with a flexible filament, a rigid filament of the same diameter, a flat surface, and an imagined spatial position. The rigid filament and flat surface conditions were equally effective in attenuating body sway and were greatly superior to contact with the flexible filament, which was superior to imagined contact. Experiment 3 included five conditions: arms by sides; finger &quot;contact&quot; with an imagined spatial position; finger contact with a flat surface; finger contact with a flexible filament attempting to maintain it bent; and contact with the flexible filament attempting not to bend it. The arms by sides and finger &quot;contact&quot; with an imagined position conditions did not differ significantly; all three conditions involving actual finger contact showed significantly less center of pressure and hand sway, but contact with the flat surface was most effective in attenuating both postural and hand displacement. In all three experiments, the level of force applied in fingertip contact conditions was far below that necessary to provide mechanical stabilization. Our findings indicate that: (1) stimulation of a small number of receptors in the fingertip is adequate to allow stabilization of sway, (2) fingertip force levels as low as 5-10 g provide some stabilization, (3) contact with a stationary spatial referent is most effective, and (4) independent control of arm and torso occurs when finger contact is allowed.
The effects of low concentrations of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) on the membrane properties of guinea pig cerebellar Purkinje cells were investigated in slice preparation using intracellular recordings. It was found that 1-10 microM 4-AP did not affect the resting potential or the input resistance of the cells, but reduced markedly the duration of the slowly depolarizing potential (SDP), and thus the latency to the firing of Ca2+ spikes in response to intracellular current pulses. Intradendritic recordings in the presence of tetrodotoxin, Cd2+, and low [Ca2+]o, which blocked all the regenerative responses, exhibited prominent membrane outward rectification in response to depolarizing current pulses. Under these conditions, the SDP was abolished and, in contrast, a slowly developing hyperpolarization was consistently observed. Application of 10 microM 4-AP reduced the outward membrane rectification in a reversible manner, but did not affect the transient hyperpolarization, which is usually attributed to the activation of potassium &quot;A&quot; current. These results demonstrate, for the first time, the presence of a highly 4-AP sensitive delayed rectifier in guinea pig cerebellar Purkinje cells, which prominently affects their excitability. The results also indicate that the slowly depolarizing potential of guinea pig Purkinje cells does not involve inactivation of transient potassium currents, which has been suggested previously as an underlying mechanism for this phenomenon in turtle Purkinje cells.
During postnatal development, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) expression progressively decreases in ventral and deep dorsal horns. This transient expression might play a role in activity-dependent development of segmental circuitry. NMDA-Rs were blocked unilaterally in the lower cervical spinal cord using Elvax implants that released the NMDA-R antagonist MK-801 maximally over a 2-week period from postnatal day 7 (P7) onward. At P14, the ratio of c-Jun immunoreactive motoneurons ipsilateral/contralateral to the implants was significantly increased and the ratio of parvalbumin immunoreactive neurons decreased, compared to control implants. However, at P84, MK-801-treated and control spinal cords appeared the same. Therefore, NMDA-R blockade during development only transiently altered expression of activity-dependent proteins in the spinal cord, unlike lesions to the developing motor cortex, which we have previously shown to have a permanent effect.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) initiates biochemical events that lead to an increase in extracellular excitatory amino acid concentrations, resulting in glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxic events. These receptors include the three groups of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Group I mGluR activation can initiate a number of intracellular pathways that increase neuronal excitability. Group II and III mGluRs may function as autoreceptors to modulate neurotransmission. Thus, all three groups may contribute to the mechanisms of central sensitization and chronic central pain. To begin evaluating mGluRs in SCI, we quantified the changes in mGluR expression after SCI in control (naive), sham, and impact injured adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (200-250 g). SCI was produced at spinal segment T10 with a New York University impactor (12.5-mm drop, 10-g rod of 2-mm diameter). Expression levels were determined by Western blot and immunohistochemistry analyses at the epicenter of injury, as well as segments rostral and caudal. The group I subtype mGluR1 was increased over control levels in segments rostral and caudal by postsurgical day (PSD) 7 and remained elevated through PSD 60. The group I subtype mGluR5 was unchanged in all segments rostral and caudal to the injury at every time point measured. Group II mGluRs were decreased compared to control levels from PSD 7 through PSD 60 in all segments. These results suggest that different subtypes of mGluRs have different spatial and temporal expression patterns following SCI. The expression changes in mGluRs parallel the development of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia following SCI; therefore, understanding the expression of mGluRs after SCI may give insight into mechanisms underlying the development of chronic central pain.


Dementia in the elderly used to be rare, but why has it become a major social threat today? There can be many potential answers, but an ultimate one is clear: the longer life expectancy today. This knowledge indicates that &quot;advanced aging&quot; is a primary suspect in the origin of senile dementia. If so, then why can many elderly remain healthy at the same old age? We know, for example, that elderly people commonly have a certain degree of atherosclerosis and osteoporosis, but only some of them develop severe clinical symptoms at the same age. These different outcomes generally can be explained by &quot;risk factors&quot; in life (exercise, diet, individual background, etc). It thus appears to be a general pattern that advanced aging (after age 80) will set the stage for various senile disorders, but risk factors largely determine the onset age as well as individual specificity of their clinical manifestations. In this context, senile disorders including senile dementia would differ fundamentally from the pathogen-caused conventional diseases (AIDS, polio, cancer, Down's, etc.) by origin, incidence, and intervention strategy. This view would call into question the current definition of senile dementia as a conventional &quot;disease&quot; (Alzheimer's). The term &quot;Alzheimer's disease&quot; originally referred to &quot;midlife&quot; dementia, but it is defined today to be the same medical entity as senile dementia on the basis that they both display the same hallmarks and symptoms despite their onset age difference. Now, after in-depth scrutiny, we finally come to realize that they are not the same disease, but as different as heart failure at midlife versus the &quot;same&quot; failure at advanced age (i.e., a conventional disease versus a senile condition). Thus, by eliminating the age difference, the new definition has converted a senile condition into a conventional &quot;disease&quot;, thereby changing the course of its scientific inquiry to miss the main targets. This may be why after extensive studies for 25 years, the origin of senile dementia has remained an enigma.
The efficiency of plasmid gene transfer to skeletal muscle can be significantly improved by the application of an electrical field to the muscle following injection of plasmid DNA. However, this electrotransfer is associated with significant muscle damage which may result in substantial loss of transfected muscle fibres. Reduction of the voltage used in the technique can result in a decrease in muscle damage, with a concomitant reduction in expression, but without a significant decrease in the number of transfected fibres. Pre-treatment of the muscle with a solution of bovine hyaluronidase greatly increases the efficiency of plasmid gene transfer when used in conjunction with electrotransfer, but not when used alone. This combination treatment results in greatly enhanced levels of transfected muscle fibres without the increases in muscle damage associated with the electrotransfer process.
The development of therapies aimed to promote remyelination is a major issue in chronic inflammatory demyelinating disorders of the central nervous system (CNS) such as multiple sclerosis (MS), where the permanent neurological impairment is due to the axonal loss resulting from recurrent episodes of immune-mediated demyelination. Here, we show that the intrathecal injection of a herpes simplex virus (HSV) type-1 replication-defective multigene vector, engineered with the human fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-II gene (TH:bFGF vector), was able to significantly revert in C57BL/6 mice the clinicopathological signs of chronic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model of MS. The treatment with the TH:bFGF vector was initiated within 1 week after the clinical onset of EAE and was effective throughout the whole follow-up period (ie 60 days). The disease-ameliorating effect in FGF-II-treated mice was associated with: (1) CNS production of FGF-II from vector-infected cells which were exclusively located around the CSF space (ependymal, choroidal and leptomeningeal cells); (2) significant decrease (P &lt; 0.01) of the number of myelinotoxic cells (T cells and macrophages) both in the CNS parenchyma and in the leptomeningeal space; and (3) significant increase (P &lt; 0.01) of the number of oligodendrocyte precursors and of myelin-forming oligodendrocytes in areas of demyelination and axonal loss. Our results indicate that CNS gene therapy using HSV-1-derived vector coding for neurotrophic factors (ie FGF-II) is a safe and non-toxic approach that might represent a potential useful 'alternative' tool for the future treatment of immune-mediated demyelinating diseases.
Nodal proteins have crucial roles in mesendoderm formation and left-right patterning during vertebrate development. The molecular mechanisms of signal transduction by Nodal and related ligands, however, are not fully understood. In this paper, we present biochemical and functional evidence that the orphan type I serine/threonine kinase receptor ALK7 acts as a receptor for mouse Nodal and Xenopus Nodal-related 1 (Xnr1). Receptor reconstitution experiments indicate that ALK7 collaborates with ActRIIB to confer responsiveness to Xnr1 and Nodal. Both receptors can independently bind Xnr1. In addition, Cripto, an extracellular protein genetically implicated in Nodal signaling, can independently interact with both Xnr1 and ALK7, and its expression greatly enhances the ability of ALK7 and ActRIIB to respond to Nodal ligands. The Activin receptor ALK4 is also able to mediate Nodal signaling but only in the presence of Cripto, with which it can also interact directly. A constitutively activated form of ALK7 mimics the mesendoderm-inducing activity of Xnr1 in Xenopus embryos, whereas a dominant-negative ALK7 specifically blocks the activities of Nodal and Xnr1 but has little effect on other related ligands. In contrast, a dominant-negative ALK4 blocks all mesoderm-inducing ligands tested, including Nodal, Xnr1, Xnr2, Xnr4, and Activin. In agreement with a role in Nodal signaling, ALK7 mRNA is localized to the ectodermal and organizer regions of Xenopus gastrula embryos and is expressed during early stages of mouse embryonic development. Therefore, our results indicate that both ALK4 and ALK7 can mediate signal transduction by Nodal proteins, although ALK7 appears to be a receptor more specifically dedicated to Nodal signaling.
Most of the physiological effects of brain angiotensins are currently believed to be mediated by angiotensin receptors located principally on neurons. However, numerous studies in vitro have demonstrated the presence of functional angiotensin receptors on brain astrocytes, raising the possibility that glial cells may also participate in mediating the effects of the central renin-angiotensin system. Nevertheless, it is uncertain whether these cells in situ express angiotensin receptors, raising questions about the physiological significance of results observed in cell cultures. We have examined the distribution of angiotensin receptor-like immunoreactivity in glial cells in white matter tracts in the adult CNS, using a panel of antisera to the AT1 and AT2 angiotensin receptors. Antiserum preadsorption and/or Western blot demonstrated the specificity of the antisera in brain tissue. In immunohistochemical experiments, the AT1 antisera selectively labeled AT1-expressing neurons in the piriform cortex, whereas the AT2 antiserum stained cells in the trigeminal motor nucleus, these being nuclei known to express AT1 and AT2 receptors, respectively. Using double-label immunohistochemistry, we observed AT1- and AT2-immunoreactive astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in white matter tracts, which include the rat cerebellar white matter, periventricular white matter, and optic nerve, in addition to the bovine corpus callosum and human subcortical white matter. In contrast, astrocytes in the gray matter region of the cerebral cortex were not found to be angiotensin receptor-like immunoreactive. These results demonstrate the presence of AT1 and/or AT2 angiotensin receptor-like immunoreactivity in brain white matter macroglial cells in situ and support the idea that glial cells may play a more important role in the central renin-angiotensin system than previously thought.
Astrocytes participate in a wide variety of important physiological processes and pathological insults, including ischemia. Information on the mechanism of astroglial injury and death during ischemic insult, however, is scarce. In this study, we investigated the mode of astrocytic cell death using an in vitro ischemic model. Cultured astrocytes exhibited several distinct morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis under ischemia. At 4 h of ischemia, Annexin V staining demonstrated an early commitment of some astrocytes to apoptosis. Condensed nuclei became visible from 4 h and the number increased with ischemic incubation time. Electron microscopy showed compacted and segregated chromatin along the edges of nuclear membranes. The number of TUNEL-positive nuclei and the degree of DNA laddering increased with ischemic incubation. Caspase-3, but not caspase-1, activity was increased in ischemia-injured astrocytes. Swollen mitochondria and vacuoles found in some cells with chromatin condensation indicated that these apoptotic-like cells might die of necrosis. The results imply that astrocytes are capable of undergoing apoptosis without the presence of other cell types, such as neurons. Ischemia can induce apoptosis in astrocytes contributing to the pathogenesis of ischemic injury in the CNS.
The laminin alpha2 chain is a major component of basal lamina in both skeletal muscle and the peripheral nervous system. Laminin alpha2 chain deficiency causes merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy, which affects not only skeletal muscles, but also the peripheral and central nervous systems. It has been reported that the formation of basal lamina is required for myelination in the peripheral nervous system. In fact, the spinal root of dystrophic mice (dy/dy mice), whose laminin alpha2 chain expression is greatly reduced, shows lack of basal lamina and clusters of naked axons. To investigate the role of laminin alpha2 chain and basal lamina in vivo, we examined the peripheral nervous system of dy3K/dy3K mice, which are null mutants of laminin alpha2 chain. The results indicate the presence of myelination although Schwann cells lacked basal lamina in the spinal roots of dy3K/dy3K mice, suggesting that basal lamina is not an absolute requirement for myelination in vivo. Immunohistochemically, the expression of laminin alpha4 chain was increased and laminin alpha5 chain was preserved in the endoneurium of the spinal root. Laminin alpha4 and alpha5 chains may play the critical role in myelination instead of laminin alpha2 chain in dy3K/dy3K mice. In addition, the motor conduction velocity of the sciatic nerve was significantly reduced compared with that of wild-type littermate. This reduction in conduction velocity may be due to small axon diameter, thin myelin sheath and the patchy disruption of the basal lamina of the nodes of Ranvier in dy3K/dy3K mice.
A common problem among the elderly is a difficulty in discriminating speech sounds. One factor that may contribute to this is a deterioration in the ability to process dynamic aspects of speech such as formant transitions. For the aging auditory system, this deterioration in temporal processing speed may be manifest as a deficit in encoding time-varying sounds that contain rapidly changing frequencies such as formant transitions. The primary goal of this study was to explore the neural basis of the effects of aging on temporal processing speed. To this end, single units were recorded from the auditory cortex of young and aged rats in response to frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps that changed from trial to trial in both direction and speed. Results showed that the majority of cells recorded from young rats responded most vigorously to fast and medium speeds. By contrast, the majority of units recorded from aged animals responded best to slow speeds. For preferred direction of FM sweep, similar results were observed for both age groups, namely, approximately half of the units exhibited a direction-selective response. The results of the present study demonstrate an age-related decrease in the rate of change of frequency that can be processed by the auditory cortex.
Biologically relevant sounds such as speech, animal vocalizations and music have distinguishing temporal features that are utilized for effective auditory perception. Common temporal features include sound envelope fluctuations, often modeled in the laboratory by amplitude modulation (AM), and starts and stops in ongoing sounds, which are frequently approximated by hearing researchers as gaps between two sounds or are investigated in forward masking experiments. The auditory system has evolved many neural processing mechanisms for encoding important temporal features of sound. Due to rapid progress made in the field of auditory neuroscience in the past three decades, it is not possible to review all progress in this field in a single article. The goal of the present report is to focus on single-unit mechanisms in the mammalian brainstem auditory system for encoding AM and gaps as illustrative examples of how the system encodes key temporal features of sound. This report, following a systems analysis approach, starts with findings in the auditory nerve and proceeds centrally through the cochlear nucleus, superior olivary complex and inferior colliculus. Some general principles can be seen when reviewing this entire field. For example, as one ascends the central auditory system, a neural encoding shift occurs. An emphasis on synchronous responses for temporal coding exists in the auditory periphery, and more reliance on rate coding occurs as one moves centrally. In addition, for AM, modulation transfer functions become more bandpass as the sound level of the signal is raised, but become more lowpass in shape as background noise is added. In many cases, AM coding can actually increase in the presence of background noise. For gap processing or forward masking, coding for gaps changes from a decrease in spike firing rate for neurons of the peripheral auditory system that have sustained response patterns, to an increase in firing rate for more central neurons with transient responses. Lastly, for gaps and forward masking, as one ascends the auditory system, some suppression effects become quite long (echo suppression), and in some stimulus configurations enhancement to a second sound can take place.
Repeated mating of estradiol-primed female rats increases sexual receptivity. Two studies were conducted to determine the contribution of vaginal--cervical stimulation (VCS) to this increase. In the first study, female rats were repeatedly mated for 165 min. The vaginas of half of the females were covered with tape (masked) to prevent intromissions by the males. The remaining females were unmasked. Only females receiving intromissions (unmasked) showed a significant increase in sexual receptivity during repeated mating, suggesting that VCS from intromissions is necessary for repeated mating to increase sexual receptivity. In the second experiment, female rats received either experimentally administered VCS or control scapular stimulation administered with a plastic probe 1 h prior to testing for sexual receptivity. VCS applied in this manner significantly increased sexual receptivity. Together, these findings suggest that VCS from intromissions is one of the primary factors responsible for increases in sexual receptivity following repeated mating.
This paper presents a new approach to functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) data analysis. The main difference lies in the view of what comprises an observation. Here we treat the data from one scanning session (comprising t volumes, say) as one observation. This is contrary to the conventional way of looking at the data where each session is treated as t different observations. Thus instead of viewing the v voxels comprising the 3D volume of the brain as the variables, we suggest the usage of the vt hypervoxels comprising the 4D volume of the brain-over-session as the variables. A linear model is fitted to the 4D volumes originating from different sessions. Parameter estimation and hypothesis testing in this model can be performed with standard techniques. The hypothesis testing generates 4D statistical images (SIs) to which any relevant test statistic can be applied. In this paper we describe two test statistics, one voxel based and one cluster based, that can be used to test a range of hypotheses. There are several benefits in treating the data from each session as one observation, two of which are: (i) the temporal characteristics of the signal can be investigated without an explicit model for the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast response function, and (ii) the observations (sessions) can be assumed to be independent and hence inference on the 4D SI can be made by nonparametric or Monte Carlo methods. The suggested 4D approach is applied to FMRI data and is shown to accurately detect the expected signal.
We find that chronic exposure of human saphenous vein, atria and internal thoracic artery endothelium to the human immunodeficiency virus surface glycoprotein gp120, results in an increase in endothelial mu opioid receptor expression (52%). gp120 acts, in this regard, as a proinflammatory cytokine (e.g. interleukin-1-alpha) by increasing endothelial mu opioid receptor expression. In contrast, morphine decreases mu opioid receptor expression by 90% in a dose dependent fashion. Pretreatment of these tissues with the respective antagonists e.g., naloxone and anti-gp120 blocks the opiate decrease and increase gp120 induced increase in mu expression, respectively. Further, pretreatment of these endothelia with morphine inhibits gp120-stimulated mu transcript expression. Therefore, the immune down-regulating action of morphine may prevent viral replication because this process requires immune activation that can, in part, be provided for by gp120 proinflammatory actions.
Pregnant Wistar rats were exposed to either 0.5 Hz Rotating Magnetic Fields (50 microT to 300 microT or 1.5 mT to 3.0 mT) or to sham field or control environments for 3 days before to 3 days after the day of birth. The adult male offspring that had been exposed perinatally to the RMF displayed significantly heavier testicle weights but fewer neurons within the medial preoptic nucleus (MPO) and caudal ventromedial hypothalamus relative to sham field controls (effect size about 30%). There was no statistically significant difference between the two ranges of RMF intensities for these measures. RMF-exposed rats relative to sham-field exposed rats did not differ with respect to spleen weights, body weights, or mounting (reproductive) activity. The heavier testicle weights replicated previous studies and suggest that permanent, selective alterations in neuronal density can also occur subsequent to perinatal exposure to relatively weak, extremely low frequency magnetic fields.
In Experiment I, the nociceptive threshold for a criterion response to thermal stimuli (hot plate) for rats was obtained following injections with one of various dosages of either morphine or the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NAME. On the bases of these results, rats in Experiment II were injected with either morphine (4 mg/kg), L-NAME (50 mg/kg), both morphine and L-NAME, or saline after baseline measurements for nociception and then exposed to either a 1 microTesla magnetic field or to a sham field for 30 min. The magnetic field, presented once every 4 sec, was a frequency-modulated pattern whose pixel durations, for each of the 837 successive values, were 1 msec. Nociceptive thresholds were measured immediately after the exposure and 30 min later. The results indicated that exposure to this magnetic field abolished the analgesic effects of morphine or L-NAME when injected separately but not when injected together relative to rats that had received these drugs and had been exposed to the sham field.
Numbers of mast cells within brain space can be influenced by exposures to weak, complex magnetic fields. The present studies were designed to help isolate the factors that control numbers of mast cell within the thalamus (n=96) of 15 and 20 day old rat pups. In Experiment I, rat pups were injected daily with either 1 microliter/g or 10 microliter/g of either distilled water, isotonic saline or 0.5 M saline; another group served as controls. The numbers of thalamic mast cells did not differ significantly between the four groups. In Experiment II, that employed a cross-fostering, split litter design, the rats whose mothers had consumed 0.9% taurine during pregnancy contained about twice as many mast cells within the thalamus compared to controls. Fifteen day old pups that had been reared by other mothers showed more mast cells than those reared by their own mothers. There were negative correlations (-.60) between the numbers of mast cells within the leptomeninges of the pups and the mothers' ovarian weights but no significant associations between the numbers of mast cells within the brains of the pups and the mothers.
The effects of self-hypnosis training on immune function and mood were examined in medical students at exam time. Hypnosis involved relaxation and imagery directed at improved immune function and increased energy, alertness and concentration. Hypotheses were made about activated and withdrawn personality differences. Eight high and eight low hypnotically susceptible participants were given 10 sessions of hypnosis, one live and nine tape-recorded, and were compared with control subjects (N=12). CD3, CD4, CD8, CD19 and CD56 NK cells and blood cortisol were assayed. Life-style, activated vs. withdrawn temperament, arousal and anxiety questionnaires were administered. Self-hypnosis buffered the decline found in controls in NK (P&lt;0.002) and CD8 cells (P&lt;0.0.07) and CD8/CD4% (P&lt;0.06) (45-35% order of magnitude differences) while there was an increase in cortisol (P&lt;0.05). The change in NK cell counts correlated positively with changes in both CD8 cells and cortisol. Results were independent of changes in life-style. Energy ratings were higher after hypnosis (P&lt;0.01), and increased calmness with hypnosis correlated with an increase in CD4 counts (P&lt;0.01). The activated temperament, notably the cognitive subscale (speaking and thinking quickly), was predictive of exam levels of T and B lymphocytes (P&amp;z.Lt;0.08-P&lt;0.02), and reaching r=0.72 (P&lt;0.001) in the non-intervention control group. The sizeable influences on cell-mediated immunity achieved by a relatively brief, low cost psychological intervention in the face of a compelling, but routine, stress in young, healthy adults have implications for illness prevention and for patients with compromised immunity.



Single vasoconstrictor nerve fibers in humans normally fire only once but have the capacity to fire as many as eight times, per cardiac interval. Our laboratory recently demonstrated that the mean firing frequency of individual vasoconstrictor fibers is more than doubled in the sympathoexcitation associated with congestive heart failure (Macefield VG, Rundqvist B, Sverrisdottir YB, Wallin BG, and Elam M. Circulation 100: 1708--1713, 1999). However, the propensity to fire only once per cardiac interval was retained. In the present retrospective study, we tested the hypothesis that vasoconstrictor fibers fire more than once per cardiac interval in response to transient sympathoexcitatory stimuli, providing one mechanism for further increase of an already augmented sympathetic discharge. Six patients with congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association functional class II--IV; left ventricular ejection range 13--37%, average 22%) were studied at rest and during premature ectopic heartbeats. Analyzed for a total of 60 premature beats, the average firing probability of 10 vasoconstrictor fibers increased from 61 to 80% in the prolonged cardiac interval (i.e., reduced diastolic pressure) after premature beats. The incidence of multiple within-burst firing increased markedly, with two spikes being more common than one. Our results illustrate two different mechanisms (increases in firing probability and multiple within-burst firing), and indirectly indicate a third mechanism (recruitment of previously silent fibers), for acute sympathoexcitatory responses.
1. Permeabilization of cells mediated by P2X(7) receptors occurs to varied degrees in native and heterologous expression systems. Previous studies on P2X(7) receptors in parotid acinar cells suggested that ATP does not permeabilize these cells. 2. Modification of the assay conditions showed that ATP permeabilizes freshly dissociated rat parotid acinar cells to the fluorescent dye YOPRO-1. 3. The pharmacological and physiological properties of this effect indicate that permeabilization is mediated by the P2X(7) receptor. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and 3'-O-(4-benzoyl)benzoyl adenosine 5'-triphosphate (BzBzATP) were effective agonists with EC(50) values of 49.3 and 0.6 microM, respectively. 4. Permeabilization was best observed in low divalent cation concentrations and at physiological temperatures. Previous studies failed to detect permeabilization because of the sensitivity of this effect to temperature and divalent cations. 5. An important consideration in understanding the effect of divalent cations is that the fluorescence of YOPRO-1/nucleic acid complexes is directly quenched by addition of divalent cations. This must be considered if quantitative study of the interaction of divalent cations with P2X(7) receptors is carried out using fluorescent DNA-binding dyes. 6. In summary, our data show that P2X(7) receptors in parotid acinar cells can form large pores in the plasma membrane. This property likely contributes to signalling and may be cytotoxic and have particular significance in damaged or inflamed salivary glands.
Quantification of regional cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) using positron emission tomography and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (PET-FDG) requires knowledge of the correction factor between FDG and glucose net clearance, the FDG lumped constant (LC). Because diverging values for LC have been obtained, the authors reevaluated LC by measuring the ratio of the cerebral net extraction fractions of FDG (E*) and glucose (E) from arteriovenous cerebral measurements. Thirty subjects were studied (mean age = 25 +/- 4 years): 12 during a programed infusion of FDG and 18 after a bolus injection of FDG. In the infusion study, LC was calculated as the ratio E*/E. In the bolus study, E* was calculated from the slope of a Patlak-Gjedde plot. Lumped constant was significantly smaller in the infusion study as compared with the bolus study (0.48 +/- 0.16 vs. 0.81 +/- 0.27, P &lt; 0.001). In 4 subjects studied during continuous FDG infusion for 2.5 hours, LC decreased to 0.36 +/- 0.11. These results suggest that the &quot;steady-state&quot; method underestimates LC because E* continues to decline because of significant labeled product. Further, the authors provide evidence for resetting of LC toward a greater value. The subsequent resetting of CMRglc provides a physiologically more meaningful estimate and allows for comparison of CMRglc values between different methodologies.
The present study describes the effect of the HIV protease inhibitor saquinavir on telomerase activity and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production of nonadherent mononuclear cells (NA-MNC). Cells obtained from peripheral blood of healthy donors were exposed in vitro to a mixture of monoclonal antibodies against CD3 and CD28 membrane antigens in order to activate prevalently T cell subsets. Treatment with saquinavir was performed at the time of cell stimulation. Thereafter, NA-MNC were tested for telomerase activity (TRAP assay) and interferon-gamma production up to 7 days later. The results show that saquinavir up-regulates telomerase activity and IFN-gamma release in activated NA-MNC. These observations suggest that the anti-HIV effects of saquinavir could be accompanied by other immunopharmacological properties, influencing some aspects of the functional activity of immunocompetent cells. These include possible antagonistic effects against lymphocyte senescence, through telomerase activation, and a potentiating activity on the production of IFN-gamma following T cell activation.
Brainstem vascular malformations can sometimes simulate other conditions such as multiple sclerosis and pontine glioma. We report a case of brainstem cavernous angioma for which clinical course and radiologic appearance were suggestive of a pontine glioma. The diagnosis was uncertain until the clinical and radiologic evolution made it clear that the patient had a cavernous angioma. We suggest that brainstem angioma be considered as a differential diagnosis for pontine glioma.
Different symptoms, together with neck pain, have been attributed to persons with persistent complaints after a previous motor vehicle crash (MVC) and are sometimes referred to as the &quot;late whiplash syndrome.&quot; A cohort study was conducted to determine whether exposure to a rear-end collision, with or without whiplash injury, is associated with future health complaints. The results regarding future neck or shoulder pain have previously been described, and the objective of the present report was to focus on outcomes other than neck pain. Included in the study were persons 18 to 65 years of age and covered by traffic insurance at one of the largest insurance companies in Sweden. Claim reports were collected from the period November 1987 to April 1988. Drivers exposed to a rear-end collision were divided into two subgroups: those with reported whiplash injury (n = 232) and those without reported whiplash injury (n = 204). For comparison, 3688 subjects who were unexposed to MVCs were selected, with consideration taken to the age and gender distribution in the exposed subgroups. The prevalence of different health complaints among the study subjects was estimated according to a mailed questionnaire at follow-up in 1994, 7 years after the rear-end collision. When exposed subjects with whiplash injury were compared to unexposed subjects, increased relative risks in the range of 1.6-3.7 were seen for headache, thoracic and low back pain, as well as for fatigue, sleep disturbances and ill health. No corresponding increased risks were found among the exposed subjects without reported whiplash injury. We conclude that rear-end collisions resulting in reported whiplash injuries seem to have a substantial impact on health complaints, even a long time after the collision. There is a need to identify factors that predict a non-favorable outcome in order to improve clinical management.
Stromal-derived cell factor-1 alpha (SDF-1 alpha; CXCL12) and its receptor, CXCR4, are constitutively expressed on neuroepithelial cells and are believed to be involved in both development and pathological processes, such as AIDS-associated neurologic disorders. Here, we demonstrate that SDF-1 alpha activates NF-kappa B, stimulates production of chemokines and cytokines, and induces cell death in primary astrocytes, effects that depend on ongoing secretion of TNF-alpha. SDF-1 alpha upregulated TNF-alpha mRNA and protein secretion, as well as TNF receptor 2 expression. TNF-alpha treatment mimicked SDF-1 alpha induction of NF-kappa B, IL-1 alpha/beta, and RANTES, as well as cell death; neutralizing antibodies against TNF-alpha opposed these responses. We also found that SDF-1 alpha activated Erk1 and Erk2 (Erk1/2) MAPK in a biphasic fashion. Early Erk1/2 activation was stimulated directly by SDF-1 alpha and late activation was mediated by TNF-alpha. PD98059 suppression of early Erk1/2 activation correlated with reduction of SDF-1 alpha-induced TNF-alpha expression. Late Erk1/2 activation was involved in TNF-alpha-stimulated NF-kappa B activation and cytokine induction. SDF-1 alpha was induced in reactive CXCR4-positive astrocytes near axotomized spinal cord motor neurons, consistent with autocrine SDF-1/CXCR4 signaling in these cells. We propose that these novel effects of SDF-1 alpha are relevant to the pathogenic and developmental roles of SDF-1 alpha in the CNS.



Though ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors have recently been recognized to play important roles in the transmission of orofacial nociceptive impulses, their detailed distribution in the spinal trigeminal nucleus has not been systematically investigated. There is also controversy regarding the electron microscope localization of metabotropic receptors. We therefore undertook this investigation to address the above-mentioned issues in the caudal part of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, using light and electron microscope immunocytochemistry, to provide baseline information for the development of agonists and antagonists of these receptors in the clinical treatment of orofacial pain. The results showed some moderately to strongly stained glutamate receptor 1 neurons, and many strongly stained glutamate receptor 2/3 neurons in lamina II of the nucleus, suggesting that the latter may play an important role in orofacial pain processing, with the former playing a minor role. The metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 immunoreactive product was localized mostly in dendrites, while most of the metabotropic glutamate receptors 2/3 immunoreactive product was deposited in axon terminals containing synaptic vesicles of different shapes, suggesting that glutamate receptors 2/3 may control the release of both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters.
The crustacean cardioactive peptide (CCAP) gene was isolated from the tobacco hawkmoth Manduca sexta. The gene has an open reading frame of 125 amino acid residues containing a single, complete copy of CCAP. Analysis of the gene structure revealed three introns interrupting the coding region. A comparison of the M. sexta CCAP gene with the Drosophila melanogaster genome database reveals significant similarities in sequence and gene structure. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of the CCAP gene in the M. sexta central nervous system were determined in all major post-embryonic stages using in situ hybridization techniques. The CCAP gene is expressed in a total of 116 neurons in the post-embryonic M. sexta central nervous system. Nine pairs of cells are observed in the brain, 4.5 pairs in the subesophageal ganglion, three pairs in each thoracic ganglion (T1-T3), three pairs in the first abdominal ganglion (A1), five pairs each in the second to sixth abdominal ganglia (A2-A6) and 7.5 pairs in the terminal ganglion. The CCAP gene is expressed in every ganglion in each post-embryonic stage, except in the thoracic ganglia of first- and second-instar larvae. The number of cells expressing the CCAP gene varies during post-embryonic life, starting at 52 cells in the first instar and reaching a maximum of 116 shortly after pupation. One set of thoracic neurons expressing CCAP mRNA shows unusual variability in expression levels immediately prior to larval ecdysis. Using previously published CCAP immunocytochemical data, it was determined that 91 of 95 CCAP-immunopositive neurons in the M. sexta central nervous system also express the M. sexta CCAP gene, indicating that there is likely to be only a single CCAP gene in M. sexta.
A gain-of-function mutation in the Caenorhabditis elegans exp-2 K(+)-channel gene is caused by a cysteine-to-tyrosine change (C480Y) in the sixth transmembrane segment of the channel (Davis, M.W., R. Fleischhauer, J.A. Dent, R.H. Joho, and L. Avery. 1999. Science. 286:2501-2504). In contrast to wild-type EXP-2 channels, homotetrameric C480Y mutant channels are open even at -160 mV, explaining the lethality of the homozygous mutant. We modeled the structure of EXP-2 on the 3-D scaffold of the K(+) channel KcsA. In the C480Y mutant, tyrosine 480 protrudes from S6 to near S5, suggesting that the bulky side chain may provide steric hindrance to the rotation of S6 that has been proposed to accompany the open-closed state transitions (Perozo, E., D.M. Cortes, and L.G. Cuello. 1999. Science. 285:73-78). We tested the hypothesis that only small side chains at position 480 allow the channel to close, but that bulky side chains trap the channel in the open state. Mutants with small side chain substitutions (Gly and Ser) behave like wild type; in contrast, bulky side chain substitutions (Trp, Phe, Leu, Ile, Val, and His) generate channels that conduct K(+) ions at potentials as negative as -120 mV. The side chain at position 480 in S6 in the pore model is close to and may interact with a conserved glycine (G421) in S5. Replacement of G421 with bulky side chains also leads to channels that are trapped in an active state, suggesting that S5 and S6 interact with each other during voltage-dependent open-closed state transitions, and that bulky side chains prevent the dynamic changes necessary for permanent channel closing. Single-channel recordings show that mutant channels open frequently at negative membrane potentials indicating that they fail to reach long-lasting, i.e., stable, closed states. Our data support a &quot;two-gate model&quot; with a pore gate responsible for the brief, voltage-independent openings and a separately located, voltage-activated gate (Liu, Y., and R.H. Joho. 1998. Pflgers Arch. 435:654-661).
We have examined biopsies of Dupuytren's contracture palmar fascia, overlying subcutis and skin, and have correlated the distribution of gross macroscopic changes in the hand, mapped pre- and intraoperatively, with light microscopic immunohistochemical findings. We report increased numbers of S100 positive Langerhans cells (an epidermal cell of dendritic lineage) and CD45 positive cells, both in &quot;nodules&quot; and at dermo-epidermal junctions, in the biopsied tissues. This suggests that Langerhans cells migrate from the epidermis into Dupuytren's contracture tissue, possibly in response to local changes in levels of inflammatory cytokines within the tissue. Our findings, together with other reports of increased numbers of dermal dendrocytes and inflammatory cells in Dupuytren's contracture tissue, lend circumstantial support to the &quot;extrinsic theory&quot; of the pathogenesis of Dupuytren's contracture. However, the earliest stages of the disease process have not been defined, and therefore the events which ultimately produce fibrosis in the palmar fascial complex in susceptible individuals could begin in the skin and/or within deeper tissues, especially where there is dysregulation of the immune system.


Damasio (1994) claims that Descartes imagined thinking as an activity separate from the body, and that the effort to understand the mind in general biological terms was retarded as a consequence of Descartes' dualism. These claims do not hold; they are &quot;Damasio's error&quot;. Descartes never considered what we today call thinking or cognition without taking the body into account. His new dualism required an embodied understanding of cognition. The article gives an historical overview of the development of Descartes' radically new psychology from his account of algebraic reasoning in the early Regulae (1628) to his &quot;neurobiology of rationality&quot; in the late Passions of the soul (1649). The author argues that Descartes' dualism opens the way for mechanistic and mathematical explanations of all kinds of physiological and psychological phenomena, including the kind of phenomena Damasio discusses in Descartes' error. The models of understanding Damasio puts forward can be seen as advanced version of models which Descartes introduced in the 1640s. A far better title for his book would have been Descartes' vision.
If John Martyn Harlow is known at all in the neurosciences, it is because he was the physician who attended Phineas Gage and followed up his case. Although Harlow's brief but insightful accounts of the changes in Gage's personality are fairly well recognized, and his skill in treating Gage often acknowledged, Harlow himself is, for the most part, the shadowy figure caught by the self-depreciatory characterization of the subtitle of this paper. Although his contribution to the neurosciences was singular, literally and figuratively, he deserves a place in the history of the subject. Harlow's training in antiphlogistic therapy can be seen in his treatment of Gage and in his evaluation of its results. As a medical student, he was also exposed to phrenological doctrine, the influence of which can also be seen in his appreciation and explanation of some aspects of Gage's behaviour. Manuscript materials, newspaper reports, and other little known material are used here to evaluate Harlow's contributions to medicine and to the medical, political, and civic life of Cavendish, Woburn, and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Because of the presence of a low-permeability cuticle covering the animal, fixation of C. elegans tissue for immunoelectron microscopy has proved very difficult. Here we applied a microwave fixation protocol to improve penetration of fixatives before postembedding immunogold labeling. Using this technique, we were able to successfully localize several components of yolk (YP170) trafficking in both wild-type and transgenic strains expressing a vitellogenin::green fluorescent protein fusion (YP170::GFP). Green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its variants are commonly used as markers to localize proteins in transgenic C. elegans using fluorescence microscopy. We have developed a robust method to localize GFP at the EM level. This procedure is applicable to the characterization of transgenic strains in which GFP is used to mark particular proteins or cell types and will undoubtedly be very useful for high-resolution analysis of marked structures.
Basal ganglia lie between the cerebral cortex and the thalamus, and have dense fiber connections between them. These connections form 4-5 distinct loops or circuits to allow parallel processing of information. Among them, the most intensively studied is the motor loop, which comprises 2 distinct direct and indirect pathways. The direct pathway disinhibits the powerful inhibition of the internal segment of the globus pallidus/substantia nigra pars reticulata upon thalamic ventrolateral nuclei with a net result of facilitatory influence upon the motor cortex. By contrast, the indirect pathway exerts an inhibitory effect. Overall this dual system provides a center (excitatory)-surround (inhibitory) mechanism to focus its effect on selected cortical neurons. Although putative transmitters, inhibitory or excitatory nature of these projections and their receptors are mostly known, the functional role of the loop in motor control is not precisely understood. Several lines of evidence have recently been presented to support the view that this center-surround mechanism is used to focus the output to a specific group of muscles required for performing a specific task. This operation is made possible through opening the sensory channel for the expected sensory feed-back afferents during movement. Thus one of the important functions of basal ganglia seems to be the gating of sensory input for motor control.
Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a member of metabolite-sensing kinase family that plays important roles in responses of muscle cells to metabolic stress. AMPK is a heterotrimer of a catalytic alpha subunit (alpha1 or alpha2), and beta (beta1 or beta2) and gamma (gamma1 or gamma2) subunits. Because the brain has a high metabolic rate and is sensitive to changes in the supply of glucose and oxygen, we investigated the expression of AMPK in rat embryonic and adult brain and its role in modifying neuronal survival under conditions of cellular stress. We report that catalytic (alpha1 and alpha2) and noncatalytic (beta2 and gamma1) subunits of AMPK are present at high levels in embryonic hippocampal neurons in vivo and in cell culture. In the adult rat brain, the catalytic subunits alpha1 and alpha2 are present in neurons throughout the brain. The AMPK-activating agent AICAR protected hippocampal neurons against death induced by glucose deprivation, chemical hypoxia, and exposure to glutamate and amyloid beta-peptide. Suppression of levels of the AMPK alpha1 and alpha2 subunits using antisense technology resulted in enhanced neuronal death following glucose deprivation, and abolished the neuroprotective effect of AICAR. These findings suggest that AMPK can protect neurons against metabolic and excitotoxic insults relevant to the pathogenesis of several different neurodegenerative conditions.
The GluR2 subunit of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) receptor determines many of the biophysical properties of native AMPA receptors, including Ca++ permeability. Genetically engineered mice unable to edit the Q to R site of the GluR2 subunit die within 3 wk postpartum, presumably due to toxicity associated with enhanced Ca++ influx through AMPA receptors. In contrast, disruption of the gene encoding GluR2 is not necessarily lethal. The objective of this study was to explore potential mechanisms that permit survival of GluR2 (-/-) mice despite AMPA receptors that are highly Ca++ permeable. Whole-cell, patch-clamp recording of AMPAreceptor responses in cortical pyramidal cells revealed that the kinetics of recovery from desensitization were significantly slower for receptors from GluR2 (-/-) mice compared to receptors from GluR2 (+/+) mice. The recovery time constants for AMPA receptors from GluR2 (-/-) and GluR2 (+/+) mice were 109.8 +/- 17 ms and 54.4 +/- 7.1 ms, respectively. The slower recovery kinetics would be expected to reduce Ca++ influx during repetitive stimulation. Because both RNA editing at the R/G site and alternative splicing of the flip and flop module affect AMPA receptor desensitization recovery rates, the possibility that these mechanisms were changed in GluR2 (-/-) mice was investigated. On a macroscopic level, neither editing nor splicing of the GluR-1, 3 or 4 subunits were changed in GluR2 (-/-) mice compared to GluR2 (+/+) mice. In summary, an increase in the time constant for recovery from desensitization may contribute to the ability of GluR2 (-/-) to survive.
In muscle, dystrophin anchors a complex of proteins at the cell surface which includes alpha-dystroglycan, beta-dystroglycan, syntrophins and dystrobrevins. Mutations in the dystrophin gene lead to muscular dystrophy and mental retardation. In contrast to muscle, little is known about the localization and the molecular interactions of dystrophin and dystrophin associated proteins (DAPs) in brain. In the present study, we show that alpha-dystroglycan and dystrophin are localized to large neurones in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum and spinal cord. Furthermore, we show that dystroglycan is a member of three distinct dystrophin-containing complexes. Two of these complexes contain syntrophin and both dystrophin and syntrophin are enriched in post-synaptic densities. These data suggest that dystrophin and DAPs may have a role in the organization of CNS synapses. Interestingly, the enrichment for syntrophin in post-synaptic densities is not affected in mice mutant for all dystrophin isoforms. Thus in the brain, unlike in muscle, the association of syntrophin with dystrophin is not crucial for the DAP complex which suggests that it may be associated with other proteins.
Despite its growing use as a radiological indicator of neuronal viability, the biological function of N-acetylaspartate (NAA) has remained elusive. This is due in part to its unusual metabolic compartmentalization wherein the synthetic enzyme occurs in neuronal mitochondria whereas the principal metabolizing enzyme, N-acetyl-L-aspartate amidohydrolase (aspartoacylase), is located primarily in white matter elements. This study demonstrates that within white matter, aspartoacylase is an integral component of the myelin sheath where it is ideally situated to produce acetyl groups for synthesis of myelin lipids. That it functions in this manner is suggested by the fact that myelin lipids of the rat optic system are well labeled following intraocular injection of [14C-acetyl]NAA. This is attributed to uptake of radiolabeled NAA by retinal ganglion cells followed by axonal transport and transaxonal transfer of NAA into myelin, a membrane previously shown to contain many lipid synthesizing enzymes. This study identifies a group of myelin lipids that are so labeled by neuronal [14C]NAA, and demonstrates a different labeling pattern from that produced by neuronal [14C]acetate. High performance liquid chromatographic analysis of the deproteinated soluble materials from the optic system following intraocular injection of [14C]NAA revealed only the latter substance and no radiolabeled acetate, suggesting little or no hydrolysis of NAA within mature neurons of the optic system. These results suggest a rationale for the unusual compartmentalization of NAA metabolism and point to NAA as a neuronal constituent that is essential for the formation and/or maintenance of myelin. The relevance of these findings to Canavan disease is discussed.
Transgenic Huntington's disease (HD) mice, expressing exon 1 of the HD gene with an expanded CAG repeat, are totally resistant to striatal lesion induced by excessive NMDA receptor activation. We now show that striatal lesions induced by the mitochondrial toxin malonate are reduced by 70-80% in transgenic HD mice compared with wild-type littermate controls. This occurred in 6- and 12-week-old HD mice with 150 CAG repeats (line R6/2) and in 18-week-old, but not 6-week-old, HD mice with 115 CAG repeats (line R6/1). Therefore, we show for the first time that the resistance to neurotoxin in transgenic HD mice is dependent on both the CAG repeat length and the age of the mice. Importantly, most HD patients develop symptoms in adulthood and exhibit an inverse relationship between CAG repeat length and age of onset. Transgenic mice expressing a normal CAG repeat (18 CAG) were not resistant to malonate. Although endogenous glutamate release has been implicated in malonate-induced cell death, glutamate release from striatal synaptosomes was not decreased in HD mice. Malonate-induced striatal cell death was reduced by 50-60% in wild-type mice when they were treated with either the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 or the caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk. These two compounds did not reduce lesion size in transgenic R6/1 mice. This might suggest that NMDA receptor- and caspase-mediated cell death pathways are inhibited and that the limited malonate-induced cell death still occurring in HD mice is independent of these pathways. There were no changes in striatal levels of the two anti cell death proteins Bcl-X(L) and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), before or after the lesion in transgenic HD mice. We propose that mutant huntingtin causes a sublethal grade of metabolic stress which is CAG repeat length-dependent and results in up-regulation over time of cellular defense mechanisms against impaired energy metabolism and excitotoxicity.
Increased oxyradical production and membrane lipid peroxidation occur in neurons under physiological conditions and in neurodegenerative disorders. Lipid peroxidation can alter synaptic plasticity and may increase the vulnerability of neurons to excitotoxicity, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We report that 4-hydroxy-2,3-nonenal (4HN), an aldehyde product of lipid peroxidation, exerts a biphasic effect on NMDA-induced current in cultured rat hippocampal neurons with current being increased during the first 2 h and decreased after 6 h. Similarly, 4HN causes an early increase and a delayed decrease in NMDA-induced elevation of intracellular Ca2+ levels. In contrast, 4HN affects neither the ion current nor the Ca2+ response to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA). The initial enhancement of NMDA-induced current is associated with increased phosphorylation of the NR1 receptor subunit, whereas the delayed suppression of current is associated with cellular ATP depletion and mitochondrial membrane depolarization. Cell death induced by 4HN is attenuated by an NMDA receptor antagonist, but not by an AMPA receptor antagonist. A secreted form of amyloid precursor protein, previously shown to protect neurons against oxidative and excitotoxic insults, prevented each of the effects of 4HN including the early and late changes in NMDA current, delayed ATP depletion, and cell death. These findings show that the membrane lipid peroxidation product 4HN can modulate NMDA channel activity, suggesting a role for this aldehyde in physiological and pathophysiological responses of neurons to oxidative stress.
Although earlier studies on thiamine deficiency have reported increases in extracellular glutamate concentration in the thalamus, a vulnerable region of the brain in this disorder, the mechanism by which this occurs has remained unresolved. Treatment with pyrithiamine, a central thiamine antagonist, resulted in a 71 and 55% decrease in protein levels of the astrocyte glutamate transporters GLT-1 and GLAST, respectively, by immunoblotting in the medial thalamus of day 14 symptomatic rats at loss of righting reflexes. These changes occurred prior to the onset of convulsions and pannecrosis. Loss of both GLT-1 and GLAST transporter sites was also confirmed in this region of the thalamus at the symptomatic stage using immunohistochemical methods. In contrast, no change in either transporter protein was detected in the non-vulnerable frontal parietal cortex. These effects are selective; protein levels of the astrocyte GABA transporter GAT-3 were unaffected in the medial thalamus. In addition, astrocyte-specific glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) content was unchanged in this brain region, suggesting that astrocytes are spared in this disorder. Loss of GLT-1 or GLAST protein was not observed on day 12 of treatment, indicating that down-regulation of these transporters occurs within 48 h prior to loss of righting reflexes. Finally, GLT-1 content was positively correlated with levels of the neurofilament protein alpha-internexin, suggesting that early neuronal drop-out may contribute to the down-regulation of this glutamate transporter and subsequent pannecrosis. A selective, focal loss of GLT-1 and GLAST transporter proteins provides a rational explanation for the increase in interstitial glutamate levels, and may play a major role in the selective vulnerability of thalamic structures to thiamine deficiency-induced cell death.
Angiotensin II (AII, 100 nM) stimulation of bovine adrenal chromaffin cells (BACCs) produced angiotensin II receptor subtype 1 (AT1)-mediated increases in extracellular regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and stress-activated p38MAPK (p38 kinase) phosphorylation over a period of 10 min. ERK1/2 and p38 kinase phosphorylation preceded Ser31 phosphorylation on tyrosine hydroxylase (TOH). The inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2) activation, PD98059 (0.1-50 microM) and UO126 (0.1-10 microM), dose-dependently inhibited both ERK2 and Ser31 phosphorylation on TOH in response to AII, suggesting MEK1/2 involvement. The p38 kinase inhibitor SB203580 (20 microM, 30 min) abolished Ser31 and Ser19 phosphorylation on TOH and partially inhibited ERK2 phosphorylation produced by AII. In contrast, 1 microM SB203580 did not affect AII-stimulated TOH phosphorylation, but fully inhibited heat shock protein 27 (HSP27) phosphorylation produced by AII. Also, 1 microM SB203580 fully inhibited Ser19 phosphorylation on TOH and HSP27 phosphorylation in response to anisomycin (30 min, 10 microg/mL). The results suggest that ERKs mediate Ser31 phosphorylation on TOH in response to AII, but p38 kinase is not involved. Previous studies suggesting a role for p38 kinase in the phosphorylation of Ser31 are explained by the non-specific effects of 20 microM SB203580 in BACCs. The p38 kinase pathway is able to phosphorylate Ser19 on TOH in response to anisomycin, but does not do so in response to AII.
Toxic effects of HIV-1 proteins contribute to altered function and decreased survival of select populations of neurons in HIV-1-infected brain. One such HIV-1 protein, Tat, can activate calcium release from IP3-sensitive intracellular pools, induce calcium influx in neural cells, and, as a result, can increase neuronal cell death. Here, we provide evidence that Tat potentiates excitatory amino acid (glutamate and NMDA) triggered calcium flux, as well as glutamate- and staurosporine-mediated neurotoxicity. Calcium flux in cultured rat hippocampal neurons triggered by the transient application of glutamate or NMDA was facilitated by pre-exposure to Tat. Facilitation of glutamate-triggered calcium flux by Tat was prevented by inhibitors of ADP-ribosylation of G(i)/G(o) proteins (pertussis toxin), protein kinase C (H7 and bisindolymide), and IP3-mediated calcium release (xestospongin C), but was not prevented by an activator of G(s) (cholera toxin) or an inhibitor of protein kinase A (H89). Facilitation of NMDA-triggered calcium flux by Tat was reversed by inhibitors of tyrosine kinase (genestein and herbimycin A) and by an inhibitor of NMDA receptor function (zinc). Tat increased 32P incorporation into NMDA receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B and this effect was blocked by genestein. Subtoxic concentrations of Tat combined with subtoxic concentrations of glutamate or staurosporine increased neuronal cell death significantly. Together, these findings suggest that NMDA receptors play an important role in Tat neurotoxicity and the mechanisms identified may provide additional therapeutic targets for the treatment of HIV-1 associated dementia.
Previous reports have demonstrated the presence of functional thromboxane A2 (TP) receptors in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. In these experiments, the presence and function of TP receptors in primary rat Schwann cells (rSC) and a neurofibrosarcoma-derived human Schwann cell line (T265) was investigated. Immunocytochemical and immunoblot analyses using polyclonal anti-TP receptor antibodies demonstrate that both cell types express TP receptors. Treatment with the stable thromboxane A2 mimetic U46619 (10 microM) did not stimulate intracellular calcium mobilization in rSC, whereas T265 cells demonstrated a calcium response that was inhibited by prior treatment with TP receptor antagonists. U46619 also stimulated CREB phosphorylation on Ser133 in T265 cells and, to a lesser extent, in rSC. To identify potential mechanisms of CREB phosphorylation in rSC, we monitored intracellular cAMP levels following U46619 stimulation. Elevated levels of cAMP were detected in both rSC (20-fold) and T265 (15-fold) cells. These results demonstrate that TP receptor activation specifically stimulates CREB phosphorylation in T265 cells, possibly by a calcium- and/or cAMP-dependent mechanism. In contrast, TP receptor activation in rSC stimulates increases in cAMP and CREB phosphorylation but does not elicit changes in intracellular calcium.
Adult rats were subjected to a moderate lateral fluid percussion injury (FPI), followed by survival periods of 2 and 12 h. Regional NMDA subtype glutamate, muscarinic acetylcholine and GABA(A) receptor binding in various brain regions was analysed by quantitative in vitro autoradiography and short-lived positron emission tomography tracers [11C]cyano-dizocilpine, 4-N-[11C]methylpiperidylbenzilate (4-N-[11C]MPB), and [11C]flumazenil, respectively. The binding potential (BP, Bmax/KD) was calculated. The data with [11C]cyano-dizocilpine showed a significant decrease in BP bilaterally for the frontoparietal cortex and hippocampus at both time points, in comparison with that of the sham-operated controls. At 12 h the decrease was significantly more prominent for the ipsilateral cortex and hippocampus than for the contralateral side. The BP of 4-N-[11C]MPB was significantly decreased after 2 h for the trauma-side hippocampus, and after 12 h it had decreased for the trauma-site cortex and the bilateral hippocampus. The [11C]flumazenil exhibited a significant decrease in BP for the trauma-site cortex and the underlying hippocampus by 2 h after the traumatic brain injury. After 12 h a significantly decreased BP was observed only for the trauma-site cortex. The finding of a decreased BP demonstrates the involvement of these receptor systems in the development of cellular dysfunction, which is widespread and not limited to the site of lateral FPI.
The spatiotemporal localization of calbindin D-28k (Calb), a calcium-binding protein, was examined immunohistochemically in the developing rat olfactory system with special reference to cell migration from the olfactory placode. Calb immunoreactivity was first detected at embryonic day 12 (E12) in a few cells just outside the olfactory epithelium, and at E13, Calb-immunoreactive cells were found scattered in the laminin-rich mesenchyme. By E14, Calb-immunoreactive cells had increased in number and were seen along the entire migratory route between the vomeronasal organ, a derivative of the medial olfactory pit, and the ventromedial surface of the telencephalic vesicle. Calb neurones were not seen in the olfactory epithelium, a derivative of the lateral olfactory pit. Although the distribution pattern of Calb-immunoreactive cells was similar to that of luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH)-producing neurones, which are known to originate in the vomeronasal organ and migrate into the forebrain, Calb and LHRH immunoreactivities were contained in separate neuronal populations. Calb-immunoreactive cells were localized along the vomeronasal nerves, identified by labelling the vomeronasal organ with the lipophilic dye, DiI, and strongly immunoreactive for neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). These data strongly suggest that, in addition to LHRH neurones, the rat vomeronasal organ generates Calb-immunoreactive neurones which migrate along the vomeronasal nerves to enter the forebrain. The final fate and functional importance of these cells remains to be determined.
From previous work, it appears that glutamate can activate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis by an interaction at either ionotopic or metabotropic (G-protein coupled) receptors. For example, (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate (ACPD), a metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor agonist, has been shown to increase the levels of serum corticosterone in rats. The present study was undertaken to further characterize which of the mGlu receptors are substantially involved in control of the HPA axis. The group I mGlu receptor agonists, 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), 1S,3R-ACPD, and 2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) but not the inactive isomer 1R,3S-ACPD were found to dose-dependently increase serum corticosterone 1 h after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection in male rats. The relative potency, DHPG (EC50 = 520 nmol) &gt; 1S,3R-ACPD (1.4 micromol) = CHPG (2.7 micromol) &gt; 1R,3S-ACPD (&gt; 3 micromol) is consistent with activation of group I (mGlu1/5) receptors. The effects of DHPG were long lasting with substantial elevations in corticosterone remaining for at least 3 h. In a similar manner, the group III mGlu receptor agonists, L-AP4 (4-phosphono-2-aminobutyric acid) and L-SOP (serine-O-phosphate), were found to increase serum corticosterone levels at 1 h. In contrast, the mGlu group II selective agonists LY354740 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and subtype-selective doses of the group II antagonist LY341495 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) did not significantly elevate serum corticosterone. Given the group I agonists results, it was surprising to find that group I selective and mGlu1 selective antagonists given alone also increased serum corticosterone. As with the agonists, the rise in serum corticosterone with LY393675 (an mGlu1/5 antagonist, EC50 = 20 nmol, i.c.v.) and LY367385 (an mGlu1 antagonist, 325 nmol, i.c.v.) were dose-dependent and consistent with their relative affinity for the group I mGlu receptors. The selective mGlu5 antagonist MPEP [2-methyl-6-(phenylethylnyl)pyridine] increased serum corticosterone but only at high doses (&gt; 30 mg/kg, i.p.). A model involving the high glutamatergic tone on GABAergic interneurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus is discussed as a possible explanation for these results.
The objective was to assess whether polymorphisms in the dopamine receptor and transporter genes are associated with development of primary cervical dystonia. A case-control allelic association study is described of 100 patients with cervical dystonia and 100 controls using polymorphisms within D1-5 receptor and dopamine transporter genes. No significant association was found between patient and control allele frequencies for polymorphisms in genes for the D1 to 4 receptors and dopamine transporter. Significant associations, however, were found for alleles 2 and 6 of the D5 receptor microsatellite. Carriage of allele 2 was associated with cervical dystonia, whereas allele 6 was overrepresented in the control group, implying a possible protective effect. The association with allele 6 remained significant after Bonferroni correction. In conclusion, the finding of a significant association with an allele in the D5 receptor gene in patients with cervical dystonia may indicate a pathogenic role of this gene (or neighbouring genes). Further studies are required to confirm this finding and to assess whether these alleles are part of distinct haplotypes associated with other polymorphisms imparting a functional effect on the D5 receptor.
To assess which features of transient monocular blindness (TMB) are associated with atherosclerotic changes in the ipsilateral internal carotid artery (ICA), 337 patients with sudden, transient monocular loss of vision were prospectively studied. History characteristics of the attack were compared with the presence of atherosclerotic lesions of the ipsilateral ICA. All patients were directly interviewed by a single investigator. Of all patients, 159 had a normal ICA on the relevant side, 33 had a stenosis between 0%-69%, 100 had a stenosis of 70%-99%, and 45 had an ICA occlusion. An altitudinal onset or disappearance of symptoms was associated with atherosclerotic lesions of the ipsilateral ICA. A severe (70%-99%) stenosis was also associated with a duration between 1 and 10 minutes, and with a speed of onset in seconds. An ICA occlusion was associated with attacks being provoked by bright light, an altitudinal onset, and the occurrence of more than 10 attacks. Patients who could not remember details about the mode of onset, disappearance, or duration of the attack were likely to have a normal ICA. Our findings may facilitate the clinical decision whether or not to perform ancillary investigations in these patients.



Sixteen cases of ependymoma were studied for CDKN2A/p16 inactivation by immunohistochemistry using a p16 monoclonal antibody, by homozygous deletion (HD) assay and 5'CpG promoter methylation assay (methylation-specific PCR). Three out of 16 cases were p16 immuno-negative: two corresponded to grade II ependymomas and one to grade III. The latter ependymoma, characterized by a high Ki-67/MIB-1 LI, was the only one of the whole series to show CDKN2A HD. No promoter methylation was found in the two immuno-negative cases without CDKN2A HD. Alternative mechanisms, such as point mutations or alterations in p16 post-translational regulation, may be responsible for p16 inactivation. Since in our series just one out of eight anaplastic cases showed negative immunostaining and CDKN2A HD, p16/CDKN2A inactivation may not play an important role in the malignant transformation of ependymomas. Amplification of CCNDI and CDK4, p27/Kipl degradation and TP53 mutations were previously studied by other authors and were demonstrated not to correlate with anaplasia. Up to date, molecular genetic studies have not been useful in recognizing the anaplastic variant in ependymomas.
Intrastriatal transplantation of embryonic dopaminergic neurons is currently explored as a restorative cell therapy for Parkinson disease (PD). Clinical results have varied, probably due to differences in transplantation methodology and patient selection. In this review, we assess clinical trials and autopsy findings in grafted PD patients and suggest that a minimum number of surviving dopaminergic neurons is required for a favorable outcome. Restoration of [18F]-fluorodopa uptake in the putamen to about 50% of the normal mean seems necessary for moderate to marked clinical benefit to occur. Some studies indicate that this may require mesencephalic tissue from 3-5 human embryos implanted into each hemisphere. The volume, density and pattern of fiber outgrowth and reinnervation, as well as functional integration and dopamine release. are postulated as additional important factors for an optimal clinical outcome. For neural transplantation to become a feasible therapeutic alternative in PD, graft survival must be increased and the need for multiple donors of human embryonic tissue substantially decreased or alternate sources of donor tissue developed. Donor cells derived from alternative sources should demonstrate features comparable to those associated with successful implantation of human embryonic tissue before clinical trials are considered.
The contribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and AMPA receptors to auditory responses in the rat's inferior colliculus was examined by recording single-unit activity before, during, and after local iontophoretic application of receptor-specific antagonists. Tone bursts and sinusoidal amplitude modulated sounds were presented to one ear, and recordings were made from the contralateral central nucleus of inferior colliculus (ICC). The receptor specific antagonists, (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) for NMDA receptors and 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX) for AMPA receptors, were released at the recording site through a multi-barreled pipette. For most neurons, either CPP or NBQX alone resulted in a reversible reduction in the number of action potentials evoked by tonal stimulation. For neurons with an onset response pattern, NBQX either completely eliminated or greatly reduced the number of action potentials. CPP also reduced the number of action potentials but had a less pronounced effect than NBQX. For neurons with a sustained firing pattern, NBQX reduced the total number of action potentials, but had a preferential effect on the early part (first 10-20 ms) of the response. CPP also resulted in a reduction in the total number of action potentials, but had a more pronounced effect on the later part (&gt;20 ms) of the response. These results indicate that both AMPA and NMDA receptors contribute to sound evoked excitatory responses in the ICC. They have a selective influence on early and late components of tone-evoked responses. Both receptor types are involved in generating excitatory responses across a wide range of sound pressure levels as indicated by rate level functions obtained before and during drug application. In addition, both CPP and NBQX reduced responses to sinusoidal amplitude modulated sounds. The synchrony of firing to the modulation envelope as measured by vector strength at different rates of modulation was not greatly affected by either CPP or NBQX in spite of the decrease in firing rate.
Pavlovian conditioning effects on the brain were investigated by mapping rat brain activity with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) autoradiography. The goal was to map the effects of the same tone after blocking or eliciting a conditioned emotional response (CER). In the tone-blocked group, previous learning about a light blocked a CER to the tone. In the tone-excitor group, the same pairings of tone with shock US resulted in a CER to the tone in the absence of previous learning about the light. A third group showed no CER after pseudorandom presentations of these stimuli. Brain systems involved in the various associative effects of Pavlovian conditioning were identified, and their functional significance was interpreted in light of previous FDG studies. Three conditioning effects were mapped: 1) blocking effects: FDG uptake was lower in medial prefrontal cortex and higher in spinal trigeminal and cuneate nuclei in the tone-blocked group relative to the tone-excitor group. 2) Contiguity effects: relative to pseudorandom controls, similar FDG uptake increases in the tone-blocked and -excitor groups were found in auditory regions (inferior colliculus and cortex), hippocampus (CA1), cerebellum, caudate putamen, and solitary nucleus. Contiguity effects may be due to tone-shock pairings common to the tone-blocked and -excitor groups rather than their different CER. And 3) excitatory effects: FDG uptake increases limited to the tone-excitor group occurred in a circuit linked to the CER, including insular and anterior cingulate cortex, vertical diagonal band nucleus, anterior hypothalamus, and caudoventral caudate putamen. This study provided the first large-scale map of brain regions underlying the Kamin blocking effect on conditioning. In particular, the results suggest that suppression of prefrontal activity and activation of unconditioned stimulus pathways are important neural substrates of the Kamin blocking effect.
Smooth pursuit eye movements are guided by visual feedback and are surprisingly accurate despite the time delay between visual input and motor output. Previous models have reproduced the accuracy of pursuit either by using elaborate visual signals or by adding sources of motor feedback. Our goal was to constrain what types of signals drive pursuit by obtaining data that would discriminate between these two modeling approaches, represented by the &quot;image motion model&quot; and the &quot;tachometer feedback&quot; model. Our first set of experiments probed the visual properties of pursuit with brief square-pulse and sine-wave perturbations of target velocity. Responses to pulse perturbations increased almost linearly with pulse amplitude, while responses to sine wave perturbations showed strong saturation with increasing stimulus amplitude. The response to sine wave perturbations was strongly dependent on the baseline image velocity at the time of the perturbation. Responses were much smaller if baseline image velocity was naturally large, or was artificially increased by superimposing sine waves on pulse perturbations. The image motion model, but not the tachometer feedback model, could reproduce these features of pursuit. We used a revision of the image motion model that was, like the original, sensitive to both image velocity and image acceleration. Due to a saturating nonlinearity, the sensitivity to image acceleration declined with increasing image velocity. Inclusion of this nonlinearity was motivated by our experimental results, was critical in accounting for the responses to perturbations, and provided an explanation for the unexpected stability of pursuit in the presence of perturbations near the resonant frequency. As an emergent property, the revised image motion model was able to reproduce the frequency and damping of oscillations recorded during artificial feedback delays. Our second set of experiments replicated prior recordings of pursuit responses to multiple-cycle sine wave perturbations, presented over a range of frequencies. The image motion model was able to reproduce the responses to sine wave perturbations across all frequencies, while the tachometer feedback model failed at high frequencies. These failures resulted from the absence of image acceleration signals in the tachometer model. We conclude that visual signals related to image acceleration are important in driving pursuit eye movements and that the nonlinearity of these signals provides stability. Smooth pursuit thus illustrates that a plausible neural strategy for combating natural delays in sensory feedback is to employ information about the derivative of the sensory input.
Neurons in the central amygdala express two distinct types of ionotropic GABA receptor. One is the classical GABA(A) receptor that is blocked by low concentrations of bicuculline and positively modulated by benzodiazepines. The other is a novel type of ionotropic GABA receptor that is less sensitive to bicuculline but blocked by the GABA(C) receptor antagonist (1,2,5,6-tetrohydropyridine-4-yl) methylphosphinic acid (TPMPA) and by benzodiazepines. In this study, we examine the distribution of these two receptor types. Recordings of GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) showed a wide variation in amplitude. Most events had amplitudes of &lt; 50 pA, but a small minority had amplitudes &gt;100 pA. Large-amplitude events also had rise times faster than small-amplitude events. Large-amplitude events were fully blocked by 10 microM bicuculline but unaffected by TPMPA. Small amplitude events were partially blocked by both bicuculline and TPMPA. Focal application of hypertonic sucrose to the soma evoked large-amplitude mIPSCs, whereas focal dendritic application of sucrose evoked small-amplitude mIPSCs. Thus inhibitory synapses on the dendrites of neurons in the central amygdala express both types of GABA receptor, but somatic synapses expressed purely GABA(A) receptors. Minimal stimulation revealed that inhibitory inputs arising from the laterally located intercalated cells innervate dendritic synapses, whereas inhibitory inputs of medial origin innervated somatic inhibitory synapses. These results show that different types of ionotropic GABA receptors are targeted to spatially and functionally distinct synapses. Thus benzodiazepines will have different modulatory effects on different inhibitory pathways in the central amygdala.
The modulation of action potential discharge rates is an important aspect of neuronal information processing. In these experiments, we have attempted to determine how effectively spike discharge modulation reflects changes in the membrane potential in central vestibular neurons. We have measured how their spike discharge rate was modulated by various current inputs to obtain neuronal transfer functions. Differences in the modulation of spiking rates were observed between neurons with a single, prominent after hyperpolarization (AHP, type A neurons) and cells with more complex AHPs (type B neurons). The spike discharge modulation amplitudes increased with the frequency of the current stimulus, which was quantitatively described by a neuronal model that showed a resonance peak &gt;10 Hz. Modeling of the resonance peak required two putative potassium conductances whose properties had to be markedly dependent on the level of the membrane potential. At low frequencies (&lt; or =0.4 Hz), the gain or magnitude functions of type A and B discharge rates were similar relative to the current input. However, resting input resistances obtained from the ratio of the membrane potential and current were lower in type B compared with type A cells, presumably due to a higher level of active potassium conductances at rest. The lower input resistance of type B neurons was compensated by a twofold greater sensitivity of their firing rate to changes in membrane potential, which suggests that synaptic inputs on their dendritic processes would be more efficacious. This increased sensitivity is also reflected in a greater ability of type B neurons to synchronize with low-amplitude sinusoidal current inputs, and in addition, their responses to steep slope ramp stimulation are enhanced over the more linear behavior of type A neurons. This behavior suggests that the type B MVNn are moderately tuned active filters that promote high-frequency responses and that type A neurons are like low-pass filters that are well suited for the resting tonic activity of the vestibular system. However, the more sensitive and phasic type B neurons contribute to both low- and high-frequency control as well as signal detection and would amplify the contribution of both irregular and regular primary afferents at high frequencies.
The TTX-sensitive and -resistant components of the voltage-gated Na(+) current (TTX-s I(Na) and TTX-r I(Na)) are increased within 2 wk of cutting the axons of B-cells in bullfrog paravertebral sympathetic ganglia (BFSG). Axotomy also increases the noninactivating, voltage-activated K(+) current (M current I(M)), whereas delayed rectifier K(+) current (I(K)) is reduced. We found that similar effects were produced when BFSG B cells were dissociated from adult bullfrogs and maintained in a defined-medium, neuron-enriched, low-density, serum-free culture. Thus the density of TTX-s I(Na), TTX-r I(Na), and I(M) were transiently increased, whereas I(K) density was decreased. Reduction in voltage-sensitive, Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) current (I(C)) was attributed to previously documented decreases in Ca(2+) channel current (I(Ca)). To test whether axotomy- or culture-induced changes in ion channel function reflect loss of retrograde influence of nerve growth factor (NGF), we examined the effect of murine beta-NGF on TTX-s I(Na), TTX-r I(Na), I(K), and I(M). Culture of neurons for 15 days in the presence of NGF (200 ng/ml), more than doubled total I(Na) density but did not enhance neurite outgrowth. The TTX-r I(Na) density was increased about threefold and the TTX-s I(Na) density increased 2.4-fold. NGF did not affect the activation or inactivation kinetics of the total Na(+) conductance. Effects of NGF were blocked by the transcription inhibitors, cordycepin (20 microM) and actinomycin D (0.01 microg/ml). I(K) and I(M) were unaffected by NGF, and although I(C) was enhanced, this likely reflected the known effect of NGF on I(Ca) in BFSG neurons. Na(+) channel synthesis and/or expression in adult sympathetic neurons is therefore subject to selective regulation by NGF. Despite this, the increase in I(Na) and I(M) as well as the decrease in I(K) seen in BFSG neurons in culture or after axotomy cannot readily be explained in terms of alterations in the availability of target-derived NGF.
C-type dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons can generate tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) sodium-dependent action potentials. However, multiple sodium channels are expressed in these neurons, and the molecular identity of the TTX-R sodium channels that contribute to action potential production in these neurons has not been established. In this study, we used current-clamp recordings to compare action potential electrogenesis in Na(v)1.8 (+/+) and (-/-) small DRG neurons maintained for 2-8 h in vitro to examine the role of sodium channel Na(v)1.8 (alpha-SNS) in action potential electrogenesis. Although there was no significant difference in resting membrane potential, input resistance, current threshold, or voltage threshold in Na(v)1.8 (+/+) and (-/-) DRG neurons, there were significant differences in action potential electrogenesis. Most Na(v)1.8 (+/+) neurons generate all-or-none action potentials, whereas most of Na(v)1.8 (-/-) neurons produce smaller graded responses. The peak of the response was significantly reduced in Na(v)1.8 (-/-) neurons [31.5 +/- 2.2 (SE) mV] compared with Na(v)1.8 (+/+) neurons (55.0 +/- 4.3 mV). The maximum rise slope was 84.7 +/- 11.2 mV/ms in Na(v)1.8 (+/+) neurons, significantly faster than in Na(v)1.8 (-/-) neurons where it was 47.2 +/- 1.3 mV/ms. Calculations based on the action potential overshoot in Na(v)1.8 (+/+) and (-/-) neurons, following blockade of Ca(2+) currents, indicate that Na(v)1.8 contributes a substantial fraction (80-90%) of the inward membrane current that flows during the rising phase of the action potential. We found that fast TTX-sensitive Na(+) channels can produce all-or-none action potentials in some Na(v)1.8 (-/-) neurons but, presumably as a result of steady-state inactivation of these channels, electrogenesis in Na(v)1.8 (-/-) neurons is more sensitive to membrane depolarization than in Na(v)1.8 (+/+) neurons, and, in the absence of Na(v)1.8, is attenuated with even modest depolarization. These observations indicate that Na(v)1.8 contributes substantially to action potential electrogenesis in C-type DRG neurons.
To investigate the organization of multi-fingered grasping, we asked subjects to grasp an object using three digits: the thumb, the index finger, and the middle or ring finger. The object had three coarse flat contact surfaces, whose locations and orientations were varied systematically. Subjects were asked to grasp and lift the object and then to hold it statically. We analyzed the grasp forces in the horizontal plane that were recorded during the static hold period. Static equilibrium requires that the forces exerted by the three digits intersect at a common point, the force focus. The directions of the forces exerted by the two fingers opposing the thumb depended on the orientation of the contact surfaces of both fingers but not on the orientation of the contact surface of the thumb. The direction of the thumb's force did not depend on the orientation of the contact surfaces of the two fingers and depended only weakly on the orientation of the thumb's contact surface. In general, the thumb's force was directed to a point midway between the two fingers. The results are consistent with a hierarchical model of the control of a tripod grasp. At the first level, an opposition space is created between the thumb and a virtual finger located approximately midway between the two actual fingers. The directions of the forces exerted by the two fingers are constrained to be mirror symmetric about the opposition axis. The actual directions of finger force are elaborated at the next level on the basis of stability considerations.
A longstanding but still controversial hypothesis is that long-term depression (LTD) of parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses in the cerebellum embodies part of the neuronal information storage required for associative motor learning. Transgenic mice in which LTD is blocked by Purkinje cell-specific inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC) (L7-PKCI mutants) do indeed show impaired adaptation of their vestibulo-ocular reflex, whereas the dynamics of their eye movement performance are unaffected. However, because L7-PKCI mutants have a persistent multiple climbing fiber innervation at least until 35 d of age and because the baseline discharge of the Purkinje cells in the L7-PKCI mutants is unknown, factors other than a blockage of LTD induction itself may underlie their impaired motor learning. We therefore investigated the spontaneous discharge of Purkinje cells in alert adult L7-PKCI mice as well as their multiple climbing fiber innervation beyond the age of 3 months. We found that the simple spike and complex spike-firing properties (such as mean firing rate, interspike interval, and spike count variability), oscillations, and climbing fiber pause in the L7-PKCI mutants were indistinguishable from those in their wild-type littermates. In addition, we found that multiple climbing fiber innervation does not occur in cerebellar slices obtained from 3- to 6-month-old mutants. These data indicate (1) that neither PKC inhibition nor the subsequent blockage of LTD induction disturbs the spontaneous discharge of Purkinje cells in alert mice, (2) that Purkinje cell-specific inhibition of PKC detains rather than prevents the developmental conversion from multiple to mono-innervation of Purkinje cells by climbing fibers, and (3) that as a consequence the impaired motor learning as observed in older adult L7-PKCI mutants cannot be attributable either to a disturbance in the baseline simple spike and complex spike activities of their Purkinje cells or to a persistent multiple climbing fiber innervation. We conclude that cerebellar LTD is probably one of the major mechanisms underlying motor learning, but that deficits in LTD induction and motor learning as observed in the L7-PKCI mutants may only be reflected in differences of the Purkinje cell signals during and/or directly after training.
Short-term plasticity is a pervasive feature of synapses. Synapses exhibit many forms of plasticity operating over a range of time scales. We develop an optimization method that allows rapid characterization of synapses with multiple time scales of facilitation and depression. Investigation of paired neurons that are postsynaptic to the same identified interneuron in the buccal ganglion of Aplysia reveals that the responses of the two neurons differ in the magnitude of synaptic depression. Also, for single neurons, prolonged stimulation of the presynaptic neuron causes stimulus-induced increases in the early phase of synaptic depression. These observations can be described by a model that incorporates two availability factors, e.g., depletable vesicle pools or desensitizing receptor populations, with different time courses of recovery, and a single facilitation component. This model accurately predicts the responses to novel stimuli. The source of synaptic heterogeneity is identified with variations in the relative sizes of the two availability factors, and the stimulus-induced decrement in the early synaptic response is explained by a slowing of the recovery rate of one of the availability factors. The synaptic heterogeneity and stimulus-induced modifications in synaptic depression observed here emphasize that synaptic efficacy depends on both the individual properties of synapses and their past history.
Many neurons in the rat lateral mammillary nuclei (LMN) fire selectively in relation to the animal's head direction (HD) in the horizontal plane independent of the rat's location or behavior. One hypothesis of how this representation is generated and updated is via subcortical projections from the dorsal tegmental nucleus (DTN). Here we report the type of activity in DTN neurons. The majority of cells (75%) fired as a function of the rat's angular head velocity (AHV). Cells exhibited one of two types of firing patterns: (1) symmetric, in which the firing rate was positively correlated with AHV during head turns in both directions, and (2) asymmetric, in which the firing rate was positively correlated with head turns in one direction and correlated either negatively or not at all in the opposite direction. In addition to modulation by AHV, some of the AHV cells (40.1%) were weakly modulated by the rat's linear velocity, and a smaller number were modulated by HD (11%) or head pitch (15.9%). Autocorrelation analyses indicated that with the head stationary, AHV cells displayed irregular discharge patterns. Because afferents from the DTN are the major source of information projecting to the LMN, these results suggest that AHV information from the DTN plays a significant role in generating the HD signal in LMN. A model is proposed showing how DTN AHV cells can generate and update the LMN HD cell signal.
The present study explores the possible involvement of a purinergic mechanism in mechanosensory transduction in the bladder using P2X(3) receptor knock-out (P2X(3)-/-) and wild-type control (P2X(3)+/+) mice. Immunohistochemistry revealed abundant nerve fibers in a suburothelial plexus in the mouse bladder that are immunoreactive to anti-P2X(3). P2X(3)-positive staining was completely absent in the subepithelial plexus of the P2X(3)-/- mice, whereas staining for calcitonin gene-related peptide and vanilloid receptor 1 receptors remained. Using a novel superfused mouse bladder-pelvic nerve preparation, we detected a release of ATP proportional to the extent of bladder distension in both P2X(3)+/+ and P2X(3)-/- mice, although P2X(3)-/- bladder had an increased capacity compared with that of the P2X(3)+/+ bladder. The activity of multifiber pelvic nerve afferents increased progressively during gradual bladder distension (at a rate of 0.1 ml/min). However, the bladder afferents from P2X(3)-/- mice showed an attenuated response to bladder distension. Mouse bladder afferents of P2X(3)+/+, but not P2X(3)-/-, were rapidly activated by intravesical injections of P2X agonists (ATP or alpha,beta-methylene ATP) and subsequently showed an augmented response to bladder distension. By contrast, P2X antagonists [2',3'-O-(2,4,6-trinitrophenyl)-ATP and pyridoxal 5-phosphate 6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid] and capsaicin attenuated distension-induced discharges in bladder afferents. These data strongly suggest a major sensory role for urothelially released ATP acting via P2X(3) receptors on a subpopulation of pelvic afferent fibers.
Neural pathways between sexually dimorphic forebrain regions develop under the influence of sex steroid hormones during the perinatal period, but how these hormones specify precise sex-specific patterns of connectivity is unknown. A heterochronic coculture system was used to demonstrate that sex steroid hormones direct development of a sexually dimorphic limbic-hypothalamic neural pathway through a target-dependent mechanism. Explants of the principal nucleus of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BSTp) extend neurites toward explants of the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) derived from male but not female rats. Coculture of BSTp explants from male rats with AVPV explants derived from females treated in vivo with testosterone for 9 d resulted in a high density of neurites extending from the BSTp to the AVPV explant, as was the case when the BSTp explants were derived from females and the AVPV explants were derived from males or androgen-treated females. These in vitro findings suggest that during the postnatal period testosterone induces a target-derived, diffusible chemotropic activity that results in a sexually dimorphic pattern of connectivity.
Layer I, which plays an important role in the development of the cerebral cortex, expands in size and diversity in primates. We found that, unlike in rodents, in the macaque monkey, neurons of this layer are generated during the entire 2 month period of corticogenesis, within the middle of the 165-d-long gestation. The large, classical Cajal-Retzius cells, immunoreactive to reelin and calretinin but not to GABA, are generated first [embryonic day 38 (E38)-E50], with the peak of [(3)H]thymidine ([(3)H]TdR) labeling at E43. Ultrastructural analysis revealed that processes of these cells form a stereotyped, rectangular network oriented parallel to the pial surface. Genesis of smaller, GABAergic neurons begins slightly later (E43), reaches a peak of [(3)H]TdR labeling between E54 and E70, and continues until the completion of corticogenesis (E94). These late-generated layer I cells are imported from outside sources such as the olfactory primordium and ganglionic eminence and via a massive subpial granular layer that may also supply some GABAergic interneurons to the subjacent cortical plate. The ratio of large-to-small layer I neurons changes differentially, indicating that each class is produced and/or eliminated at a different rate and suggesting that their roles in primates are diverse.
We studied the regenerative properties of one of two electrically coupled molluscan neurons, the serotonergic cerebral giant cells (CGCs) of Lymnaea stagnalis, after axotomy. The CGCs play a crucial role in feeding behavior, and when both cells are disconnected from their target neurons, animals no longer feed. When one CGC was permanently disconnected from its targets and the other was reversibly damaged by a nerve crush, the latter one regenerated over a period of 2 weeks to reform functional synapses with specific target neurons. At the same time, recovery of the feeding behavior was observed. After the crush, neuropeptide gene expression in the CGC was downregulated to approximately 50%. Serotonin synthesis, on the other hand, remained unaffected, suggesting that serotonin might have an active role in regeneration. In primary neuron culture, CGCs failed to extend neurites in the presence of serotonin; in cells that extended neurites in the absence of serotonin, focally applied serotonin, but not neuropeptides, induced growth cone collapse. Using serotonin-sensitive sniffer cells, we show that CGC neurites and growth cones release serotonin in culture. Finally, both the spontaneous and stimulation-induced release of serotonin from CGCs in culture resulted in growth cone collapse responses that could be blocked by the serotonin receptor antagonist methysergide. Our data suggest that auto-released serotonin is inhibitory to CGC neurite outgrowth in vitro. During regeneration in vivo, serotonin release might fine-tune axon guidance and branching by inducing local collapse responses in extending neurites.
The molluscan Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-amide (FMRFamide)-gated sodium channels (FaNaCs) show both structural and functional similarities to the mammalian acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs). Both channel types are related to the epithelial sodium channels and, although the neuropeptide FMRFamide directly gates the FaNaCs, it also modulates the proton-gating properties of ASICs. It is not yet known whether protons can alter the gating properties of the FaNaCs. We chose to examine this possibility at a site of FaNaC expression in the nervous system of the mollusk Lymnaea stagnalis. We cloned a putative L. stagnalis FaNaC (LsFaNaC) that exhibited a high degree of sequence identity to the Helix aspersa FaNaC (HaFaNaC, 60%), and a weaker homology to the ASICs (ASIC3, 22%). In situ hybridization was used to map the LsFaNaC expression pattern in the brain and to identify the right pedal giant1 (RPeD1) neuron as a site where the properties of the endogenous channel could be studied. In RPeD1 neurons isolated in culture, we demonstrated the presence of an FMRFamide-gated sodium current with features expected for a FaNaC: amiloride sensitivity, sodium selectivity, specificity for FMRFamide and Phe-Leu-Arg-Phe-amide (FLRFamide), and no dependency on G-protein coupling. The sodium current also exhibited rapid desensitization in response to repeated FMRFamide applications. Lowering of the pH of the bathing solution reduced the amplitude of the FMRFamide-gated inward current, while also activating an additional sustained weak inward current that was apparently not mediated by the FaNaC. Acidification also prevented the desensitization of the FMRFamide-induced inward current. The acid sensitivity of LsFaNaC is consistent with the hypothesis that FaNaCs share a common ancestry with the ASICs.
We investigated a role for endogenous Rap1, a small monomeric GTP-binding protein of the Ras family, in nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling in PC12 cells. Although both epidermal growth factor (EGF) and NGF caused transient activation of Ras, only NGF induced the activation of Rap1. Moreover, Rap1 activation was sustained for hours, an effect that matched the sustained activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. To investigate the molecular basis for Rap1 activation, we examined complexes containing C3G, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Rap1, and CrkL, an adapter protein known to influence Rap1 signaling. NGF induced the formation of a long-lived complex containing C3G/CrkL/Shp2/Gab2/TrkA. Linking the complex to Rap1 activation, we coprecipitated activated TrkA and activated MAPK with activated Rap1 in NGF-treated cells. Confocal microscopy and subcellular fractionation showed that activated Rap1 and the other proteins of the signaling complex were present in endosomes. Pretreatment of PC12 cells with brefeldin A (BFA), which disrupts the Golgi and endosomal compartments, had little effect on Ras activation but strongly inhibited NGF-induced Rap1 activation and continuing MAPK activation. We propose that endosomes are a site from which NGF induces the prolonged activation of Rap1 and MAPK.
Effect size is used in single studies to complement inferential statistical analysis. It also is used to compare and synthesize data across studies in meta-analysis. Effect size provides information about clinical importance of differences found in research observations. For researchers, effect size is useful in establishing support for the theoretical framework of a story and in planning for future research. Application of effect size to data in three studies about the effects of backrest position on ICP and CPP in brain-injured adults illustrates the utility of effect size analysis in neuroscience nursing research.
The purpose of this study was to determine the difference in rates of pulmonary complications (e.g., aspiration, pneumonia) in head-injured patients with and without concomitant alcohol intoxication. The records of 98 consecutive patients admitted over a 1-year period to a Level I Trauma Center were reviewed. The patients were grouped into three subsets: acutely intoxicated (n = 26), acutely intoxicated with a diagnosis of chronic alcoholism (n = 14), and non-intoxicated (n = 58). Alcohol intoxication was defined as a blood alcohol level (BAL) &gt; or = 0.08 mg/dl. Admission BALs and Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores were tabulated at admission. Frequency of arterial blood gas (ABG) measurements, need for an artificial airway/mechanical ventilation, and length of stay (LOS) were analyzed by using one-way analysis of variance. Intergroup differences in breath sounds were compared by using the nonparametric Kruskall-Wallis technique. We found no statistical difference between groups in terms of pulmonary sequelae despite the remarkably high BALs observed in the study groups. Similarly, there was no statistically greater LOS in the groups with alcohol intoxication than in alcohol-free cohorts. Despite a great deal of BAL science research to support our hypothesis, we failed to demonstrate a significantly higher rate of pulmonary problems in inebriated individuals with head injuries. We found that our strict exclusion criteria (no concomitant chest, abdominal, or pelvic trauma) limited the sample to only those patients without significant intracranial bleeding, whereas most complications in blood alcohol neuroscience research have been associated with much larger mass lesions (e.g., epidural or subdural hematomas). In addition, we found the characterizations of patients as chronically alcoholic were cumbersome and inaccurate in many cases. Future research should allow for a greater range of concomitant injuries that might suggest a positive or negative relationship to acute intoxication.
The Human Genome Project has nearly completed the identification of the human genome. The medical, social, and legal implications are numerous. Neuroscience nurses have the unique opportunity to be an integral part of the genetics age because of the many genetic-based neuroscience diseases.
alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPA-R)-mediated neurotoxicity was studied in relation to subunit expression and the presence of Ca(2+)-permeable receptor channels. AMPA-mediated toxicity had two components: 1) a direct AMPA-R-mediated component, which was not due to Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, reversal of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger or release of calcium from dantrolene-sensitive intracellular Ca(2+) stores, and 2) a minor, indirect component involving activation of NMDA receptor channels, because of glutamate release and removal of the Mg(2+) block of the NMDA receptor on AMPA-R stimulation. The involvement of Ca(2+) influx through AMPA-R was also examined. The number of neurons possessing Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA-R increased during culture development, concurrently with an increasing susceptibility for AMPA-induced toxicity during development. GluR2(R) levels also increased during development, and channel blockers of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA-R lacking the GluR2(R) subunit (spermine and philanthotoxin) failed to prevent neurotoxicity or increases in [Ca(2+)](i). Thus, the direct AMPA-R-mediated toxicity may be explained by initiation of cell death by Ca(2+) fluxing through AMPA-R containing GluR2(R). The components of direct AMPA-R-mediated toxicity are proposed to be 1) toxicity mediated by GluR2(R)-lacking AMPA-R and 2) toxicity mediated by low-Ca(2+)-permeability AMPA-R containing GluR2(R).
Many tissues arise from pluripotent stem cells through cell-type specification and maturation. In the bone marrow, primitive stem cells generate all the different types of blood cells via the sequential differentiation of increasingly committed progenitor cells. Cell-surface markers that clearly distinguish stem cells, restricted progenitors, and differentiated progeny have enabled researchers to isolate these cells and to study the regulatory mechanisms of hematopoiesis. Neuronal differentiation appears to involve similar mechanisms. However, neural progenitor cells that are restricted to a neuronal fate have not been characterized in vivo, because specific cell-surface markers are not available. We have developed an alternative strategy to identify and isolate neuronal progenitor cells based on dual-color fluorescent proteins. To identify and isolate directly progenitor cells from brain tissue without the need for either transfection or intervening cell culture, we established lines of transgenic mice bearing fluorescent transgenes regulated by neural promoters. One set of transgenic lines expressed enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) in neuronal progenitor cells and neurons under the control of the Talpha1 alpha-tubulin promoter. Another line expressed enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in immature neural cells under the control of the enhancer/promoter elements of the nestin gene. By crossing these lines we obtained mice expressing both transgenes. To isolate neuronal progenitor cells directly from the developing brain, we used flow cytometry, selecting cells that expressed EGFP and EYFP simultaneously. We expect this strategy to provide valuable material with which to study the mechanisms of neurogenesis and to develop cell-based therapies for neurological disorders.
Previous studies have shown that location and direction of injury may affect outcome in experimental models of traumatic brain injury. Significant variability in outcome data has also been noted in studies using the lateral fluid percussion brain injury model (FPI) in rats. In recent studies from our laboratory, we observed considerable variability in localization and severity of tissue damage as a function of small changes in craniotomy position. To further address this issue, we examined the relationship between craniotomy position and brain lesion size/location in rats subjected to moderate FPI (2.28 +/- 0.18 atmospheres). With placement of a 5-mm craniotomy adjacent to the sagittal suture, there was both ipsilateral and contralateral damage as detected at 3 weeks posttrauma using T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The MRI lesions were generally restricted to the hippocampus and subcortical layers. Shifting of the craniotomy site laterally was associated with increased ipsilateral tissue damage and a greater cortical component that correlated with distance from the sagittal suture. In contrast, the contralateral MRI lesion did not change significantly in size or location unless the center of the craniotomy was placed more than 3.5 mm from the sagittal suture, under which condition contralateral damage could no longer be detected. Ipsilateral tissue damage as determined from the MRI scans was linearly correlated to motor outcome but not with cognitive outcome as assessed by the Morris Water Maze. We conclude that craniotomy position is critical in determining extent and location of tissue injury produced during the lateral FPI model in rats. Addressing such potential variability is essential for studies that address either injury mechanisms or therapeutic treatments.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are thought to contribute to the secondary injury process after traumatic brain injury (TBI). ROS scavenging compounds have shown neuroprotective properties in various models of experimental brain injury, including TBI. Administration of nitrone radical scavengers has emerged as a promising pharmacological concept in focal experimental ischemia due to their low toxicity and neuroprotective properties, with a time window of several hours. The aim of this study was to test the neuroprotective efficacy of two nitrones, the readily blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetrating alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) and the poorly BBB penetrating sulfo-derivative, 2-sulfo-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (S-PBN) after moderate (2.20-2.45 atm) lateral fluid percussion injury (FPI) in rats. Twenty-six rats received a 24-h intravenous infusion (30 mg/kg/h) of saline, PBN, or an equimolar dose of S-PBN beginning 30 min after FPI. Eight sham-operated animals were used as controls. Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris Water Maze at day 11-15 after TBI, neurological status at day 1, 4, and 8 and morphological outcome at day 15. PBN and S-PBN treatment significantly reduced the loss of ipsilateral hemispheric tissue whereas only S-PBN tended to reduce the cortical lesion volume. PBN treatment caused a significant improvement in the neurological score as compared to saline-treated animals, while S-PBN alone attenuated the cognitive deficit. Our results suggest that nitrone radical scavengers are neuroprotective when administered 30 min after FPI in rats. Differences in pharmacokinetics may account for the observed individual neuroprotective profiles of the two nitrones.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in loss of function below the level of injury and the development of chronic central pain (CCP) syndromes. Since different strains may develop and express chronic pain behaviors differently, we evaluated behavioral outcomes (locomotor recovery and the development of mechanical and thermal allodynia) in three commonly used strains of rats (Long-Evans, Wistar, and Sprague-Dawley) using two models of SCI. The two models examined were contusion at T10 (NYU impactor, 12.5 mm height) and the T13 hemisection. Mechanical stimulation (von Frey filaments) revealed significantly lower baseline responses for Long-Evans rats and significantly higher baseline paw withdrawal latencies to thermal stimulation for Wistar rats compared to the other strains. Following contusion SCI, Long-Evans rats had the highest percentage of animals that developed mechanical allodynia (73%), while Sprague-Dawley rats had the highest percentages (75%) following hemisection SCI. Interestingly, the Sprague-Dawley rats had the highest percentage (87%) to develop thermal allodynia following contusion SCI, while 100% of both Long-Evans and Sprague Dawley rats developed thermal allodynia in the hemisection model. Locomotor recovery after SCI was similar for each model in that Long-Evans rats recovered slower and to a lesser extent than the other strains. In each model, Sprague-Dawley rats recovered faster and achieved greater function. Overall, the hemisection model produced a larger percentage of animals that developed CCP and had greater responses to mechanical stimulation. Thus, it appears that strain selection has a greater impact on locomotor recovery and model selection has a greater impact on the development of CCP following SCI. Furthermore, these results suggest that genetic factors may play a role in recovery following SCI.
The human polyomavirus JCV is responsible for the central nervous system (CNS) demyelination observed in cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Lytic infection of oligodendrocytes, the cells that constitute the basis of myelin in the CNS, is established by JCV in conjunction with immunosuppressive conditions. Beyond this, however, many questions related to JCV pathogenesis remain unanswered. The JCV regulatory region is a hypervariable noncoding sequence positioned between the early and late protein-coding regions. The particular nucleotide sequence of a JCV regulatory region affects levels of viral transcription and replication. Modifications to this promoter/enhancer structure can alter the cellular host range and may be responsible for switching JCV between states of lytic and latent infection. The regulatory region structure has, therefore, been used to distinguish JCV variants. Nucleotide sequencing studies have uncovered numerous variations of regulatory region structure. Until now, however, no inclusive nomenclature existed that linked variants by regulatory region structure and/or activity. We have arranged all known variant JCV regulatory regions into quadrants according to the integration of particular sequence sections and repetition of sequence section groups. This arrangement of regulatory regions results in an updated nomenclature that is well-suited for describing the relationships between JCV variants. Four distinct structural forms (I-S, I-R, II-S, and II-R) are defined along with tissue tropisms. This design provides logical connections between the variant regulatory regions and may be useful for elucidating crucial steps in JCV pathogenesis.
In peripheral nociceptive flexor test, SA4503, (+)-pentazocine, and (+)-3-(hydroxyphenyl)-N-(1-propyl)piperidine, representative sigma-receptor agonists, elicited dose-dependent flexor responses. These responses were blocked by sigma-receptor antagonists NE-100 or BD1063, but not by pretreatments with antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for sigma1 binding protein. The sigma-agonists' nociception is attributed to the substance P (SP) release from nociceptor endings through activations of Galpha(i1) and phospholipase C (PLC). On the other hand, attomolar doses of neurosteroids such as dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) and pregnenolone sulfate caused similar nociception, and they were blocked by progesterone (PROG). However, DHEAS nociception was not affected by pertussis toxin, but was completely inhibited by a PLC inhibitor or thapsigargin. Although the nociception by lower doses of DHEAS was abolished by diphenhydramine (DPH), H1 antagonist, there were dose-dependent responses by high doses of DHEAS in the presence of DPH. The responses by DHEAS in the presence of DPH were blocked by NE-100, and those by (+)-pentazocine were blocked by PROG. All these findings suggest that two novel types of neurosteroid receptors exist, neuronal NS1/sigma-type, which mediates activation of Galpha(i1) by neurosteroids and sigma-agonists, followed by SP release from nociceptor endings; and NS2 type, which mediates histamine release from mast cells by very low doses of neurosteroids.
To examine the role of the 5-hydroxytryptamine(1B) (5-HT1B) and 5-HT3 receptor subtypes in the analgesia produced by 5-HT (serotonin) agonists, we assessed the effect of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (AODNs) designed to &quot;knock down&quot; the number of these receptor subtypes on analgesia produced by intrathecal (i.t.) 5-HT, the 5-HT1B receptor agonist, 7-trifluoromethyl-4-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-pyrrolo[1,2-a]quinoxaline maleate (CGS-12066A), and the 5-HT3 receptor agonist, 2-methyl-5-HT. Groups of mice (n = 17-20) were injected i.t. on days 1, 3, and 5 with one of the AODNs, a mismatch oligo, or saline. On day 6, all mice were injected i.t. with 70.5 nmol of 5-HT, 44.4 nmol of CGS-12066A, or 49 nmol of 2-methyl-5-HT by lumbar puncture. Following testing, spinal cords were rapidly removed and prepared for receptor binding assays. Treatment with AODN for 5-HT1B receptors produced a 70% reduction in ligand binding to this receptor subtype. After treatment with AODN for 5-HT3 receptors, ligand binding to this receptor subtype was undetectable. In mice tested with i.t. 5-HT, tail-flick analgesia was attenuated only in mice treated with the 5-HT3 receptor AODN. Mice treated with the AODN designed to knock down 5-HT(1B) receptors or with its mismatch oligo were not significantly different from controls. In mice tested with i.t. administration of CGS-12066A, none of the oligo treatments produced a significant attenuation of analgesia. In mice tested with i.t. administration of 2-methyl-5-HT, only 5-HT3 receptor AODN attenuated analgesia. Thus, 5-HT and 2-methyl-5-HT analgesia are mediated by the 5-HT3 receptor subtype. However, spinal CGS-12066A analgesia appears not to be mediated by either the 5-HT1B or the 5-HT3 receptor subtypes.
1. We have compared the mRNA distribution of sodium channel alpha subunits known to be expressed during development with the known auxiliary subunits Nabeta1.1 and Nabeta2.1 and the novel, recently cloned subunit, beta3. 2. In situ hybridisation studies demonstrated high levels of Nav1.2, Nav1.3, Nav1.6 and beta3 mRNA at embryonic stages whilst Nabeta1.1 and Nabeta2.1 mRNA was absent throughout this period. 3. Nabeta1.1 and Nabeta2.1 expression occurred after postnatal day 3 (P3), increasing steadily in most brain regions until adulthood. beta3 expression differentially decreased after P3 in certain areas but remained high in the hippocampus and striatum. 4. Emulsion-dipped slides showed co-localisation of beta3 with Nav1.3 mRNA in areas of the CNS suggesting that these subunits may be capable of functional interaction. 5. Co-expression in Xenopus oocytes revealed that beta3 could modify the properties of Nav1.3; beta3 changed the equilibrium of Nav1.3 between the fast and slow gating modes and caused a negative shift in the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation. 6. In conclusion, beta3 is shown to be the predominant beta subunit expressed during development and is capable of modulating the kinetic properties of the embryonic Nav1.3 subunit. These findings provide new information regarding the nature and properties of voltage-gated sodium channels during development.
1. To confer their acute sensitivity to mechanical stimuli, hair cells employ Ca(2+) ions to mediate sharp electrical tuning and neurotransmitter release. We examined the diversity and properties of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels in bullfrog saccular hair cells by means of perforated and cell-attached patch-clamp techniques. Whole-cell Ca(2+) current records provided hints that hair cells express L-type as well as dihydropyridine-insensitive Ca(2+) currents. 2. Single Ca(2+) channel records confirmed the presence of L-type channels, and a distinct Ca(2+) channel, which has sensitivity towards omega-conotoxin GVIA. Despite its sensitivity towards omega-conotoxin GVIA, the non-L-type channel cannot necessarily be considered as an N-type channel because of its distinct voltage-dependent gating properties. 3. Using 65 mM Ca(2+) as the charge carrier, the L-type channels were recruited at about -40 mV and showed a single-channel conductance of 13 pS. Under similar recording conditions, the non-L-type channels were activated at approximately -60 mV and had a single-channel conductance of approximately 16 pS. 4. The non-L-type channel exhibited at least two fast open time constants (tau(o) = 0.2 and 5 ms). In contrast, the L-type channels showed long openings (tau(o) = approximately 23 ms) that were enhanced by Bay K 8644, in addition to the brief openings (tau(o) = 0.3 and 10 ms). 5. The number of functional channels observed in patches of similar sizes suggests that Ca(2+) channels are expressed singly, in low-density clusters (2-15 channels) and in high-density clusters (20-80 channels). Co-localization of the two channel subtypes was observed in patches containing low-density clusters, but was rare in patches containing high-density clusters. 6. Finally, we confirmed the existence of two distinct Ca(2+) channel subtypes by using immunoblot and immunohistochemical techniques.
This review focuses on recent developments in our understanding of neurodegeneration at the mammalian neuromuscular junction. We provide evidence to support a hypothesis of compartmental neurodegeneration, whereby synaptic degeneration occurs by a separate, distinct mechanism from cell body and axonal degeneration. Studies of the spontaneous mutant Wld(s) mouse, in which Wallerian degeneration is characteristically slow, provide key evidence in support of this hypothesis. Some features of synaptic degeneration in the absence of Wallerian degeneration resemble synapse elimination in neonatal muscle. This and other forms of synaptic plasticity may be accessible to further investigations, exploiting advantages afforded by the Wld(s) mutant, or transgenic mice that express the Wld(s) gene.
Intravenous leiomyomatosis is a histologically benign smooth-muscle tumor arising from either a uterine myoma or the wall of a uterine vessel with extension into veins. We describe a 71-year-old woman with a prior history of subtotal hysterectomy for uterine myoma years earlier who presented with palpitation. Echocardiographic examination revealed an intracardiac mass protruding into the right ventricle during diastole. The caval tumor could be traced to the right renal vein by magnetic resonance image. She was operated on for intracardiac and intracaval leiomyomatosis. The intracaval tumor proved to be not totally resectable. Presence of smooth muscle was confirmed by smooth muscle actin and desmin positive cells in the tumor. Tumor cells also proved to possess estrogen receptors. The patient has been closely followed-up with antiestrogen therapy.
Conventional approaches to the diagnosis of mitochondrial respiratory chain diseases, using enzyme assays and histochemistry, are laborious and give limited information concerning the genetic basis of a deficiency. We have evaluated the diagnostic value of 12 monoclonal antibodies to subunits of the four respiratory chain enzyme complexes and F(1)F(0)-ATP synthase. Antibodies were used in immunological studies with skin fibroblast cultures derived from patients with diverse mitochondrial diseases, including patients in which the disease was caused by a nuclear genetic defect and patients known to harbor a heteroplasmic mutation in a mitochondrial tRNA gene. Immunoblotting experiments permitted the identification of specific enzyme assembly deficits and immunocytochemical studies provided clues regarding the genetic origin of the disease. The immunological findings were in agreement with the biochemical and genetic data of the patients. Our study demonstrates that characterization of the fibroblast cultures with the monoclonal antibodies provides a convenient technique to complement biochemical assays and histochemistry in the diagnosis of mitochondrial respiratory chain disorders.
Eggs enriched with n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) could contribute to dietary intake of these healthful fatty acids (FA). Because n-3 PUFA are highly susceptible to peroxidation, a first part of the study with Leghorn laying hens was carried out to investigate the influence of different levels of fish oil (0, 0.7, 1.4, 2.8, or 5.6%, respectively) in the diet on n-3 PUFA, cholesterol, vitamin E, and lipid peroxidation product contents in eggs. Addition of fish oil to a complete diet based on wheat, rye, tapioca, and soybean constituents containing 11 IU vitamin E/kg resulted in increased n-3 PUFA content in egg yolk, mainly due to accumulation of docosahexaenoic acid. Cholesterol was not altered up to 2.8% fish oil in the diet. The vitamin E content of the yolk was insufficient for the protection of PUFA from peroxidation. Addition of up to 2.8% fish oil to laying hen diets increased the n-3 PUFA content of yolks with a concomitant imbalance between vitamin E and PUFA, leading to increased levels of cytotoxic aldehydic lipid peroxidation products such as malondialdehyde (MDA). In a second part of the studies, the balance between vitamin E, PUFA, and lipid peroxidation was analyzed during the period of storage of n-3 PUFA-enriched eggs produced after feeding the laying hens with 1.5% fish oil diets with different concentrations of vitamin E (0, 5, 10, 20, 40, 80, 160 IU/kg). Storage of eggs resulted in a marked loss of vitamin E in yolk. In stored eggs, the cytotoxic lipid peroxidation products MDA, 4-hydroxynonenal, and 4-hydroxyhexenal were reduced in response to vitamin E supplementation. To prevent the increase of cytotoxic aldehydic lipid peroxidation during production and storage of n-3 PUFA-enriched eggs, a high vitamin E supplementation with at least 80 IU vitamin E/kg is needed.
A postprocessing method to restore motion-related signal loss and line-shape deterioration in single-volume proton MR spectroscopy (MRS) is presented. Each acquisition is corrected by its phase offset and frequency shift, extracted from the residual water signal prior to averaging. Requirements are good gradient selection and selective suppression of CSF in residual water. Stimulated echo acquisition mode (STEAM) spectra (TE = 30 ms) were analyzed using the LCModel program to study gains in metabolite signal and spectral quality in five brain regions. Increases of total N-acetyl-aspartate concentrations of up to 5% were observed. The method may be beneficial for clinical examinations of less compliant subjects and for dynamic spectroscopy.
In the post-genomic era, the laboratory mouse will excel as a premier mammalian system to study normal and disordered biological processes, in part because of low cost, but largely because of the rich opportunities that exist for exploiting genetic tools and technologies in the mouse to systematically determine mammalian gene function. Many robust models of human disease may therefore be developed, and these in turn will provide critical clues to understanding gene function. The full potential of the mouse for understanding many of the neural and behavioral phenotypes of relevance to neuroscientists has yet to be realized. With the full anatomy of the mouse genome at hand, researchers for the first time will be able to move beyond traditional gene-by-gene approaches and take a global view of gene expression patterns crucial for neurobiological processes. In response to an action plan for mouse genomics developed on the basis of recommendations from the scientific community, seven institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) initiated in 1999 a mouse genetics research program that specifically focused on neurobiology and complex behavior. The specific goals of these neuroscience initiatives are to develop high-throughput phenotyping assays and to initiate genome-wide mutagenesis projects to identify hundreds of mutant strains with heritable abnormalities of high relevance to neuroscientists. Assays and mutants generated in these efforts will be made widely available to the scientific community, and such resources will provide neuroscientists unprecedented opportunities to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of neural function and complex behavior. Such research tools ultimately will permit the manipulation and analysis of the mouse genome, as a means of gaining insight into the genetic bases of the mammalian nervous system and its complex disorders.
Prostate cancer has become the most commonly diagnosed cancer in men over recent years. The initiating mechanism for tumorigenesis within the prostate remains an unknown. The observation, that the cancer incidence in patients with chronic neurological disabilities is significantly lower than in the normal population lead to the hypothesis, that changed processing due to a barrage of aberrant sensory information within a healthy CNS can trigger events within the prostate cell, that cause malignant transformation. There is a broad overlap of cellular mechanism of gene expression, that lead to either long term potentiation, learning and memory storage or deregulated differentiation and malignant transformation.
Fractal analysis has already found widespread application in the field of neuroscience and is being used in many other areas. Applications are many and include ion channel kinetics of biological membranes and classification of neurons according to their branching characteristics. In this article we review some practical methods that are now available to allow the determination of the complexity and scaling relationships of anatomical and physiological patterns. The problems of describing fractal dimensions are discussed and the concept of fractal dimensionality is introduced. Several related methodological considerations, such as preparation of the image and estimation of the fractal dimensions from the data points, as well as the advantages and problems of fractal geometric analysis, are discussed.
This review deals particularly with the recent literature on the structural and functional aspects of the retino-brain-pituitary system that controls the physiological process of background adaptation in the aquatic toad Xenopus laevis. Taking together the large amount of multidisciplinary data, a consistent picture emerges of a highly plastic system that efficiently responds to changes in the environmental light condition by releasing POMC-derived peptides, such as the peptide alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), into the circulation. This plasticity is exhibited by both the central nervous system and the pituitary pars intermedia, at the level of molecules, subcellular structures, synapses, and cells. Signal transduction in the pars intermedia of the pituitary gland of Xenopus laevis appears to be a complex event, involving various environmental factors (e.g., light and temperature) that act via distinct brain centres and neuronal messengers converging on the melanotrope cells. In the melanotropes, these messages are translated by specific receptors and second messenger systems, in particular via Ca(2+) oscillations, controlling main secretory events such as gene transcription, POMC-precursor translation and processing, posttranslational peptide modifications, and release of a bouquet of POMC-derived peptides. In conclusion, the Xenopus hypothalamo-hypophyseal system involved in background adaptation reveals how neuronal plasticity at the molecular, cellular and organismal levels, enable an organism to respond adequately to the continuously changing environmental factors demanding physiological adaptation.
This study examines filopodial initiation and implicates a putative actin filament organizer, the focal ring. Filopodia were optically recorded as they emerged from veils, the active lamellar extensions of growth cones. Motile histories revealed three events that consistently preceded filopodial emergence: an influx of cytoplasm into adjacent filopodia, a focal increase in phase density at veil margins, and protrusion of nubs that transform into filopodia. The cytoplasmic influx probably supplies materials needed for initiation. In correlated time lapse-immunocytochemistry, these focal phase densities corresponded to adhesions. These adhesions persisted at filopodial bases, regardless of subsequent movements. In correlated time lapse-electron microscopy, these adhesion sites contained a focal ring (an oblate, donut-shaped structure approximately 120 nm in diameter) with radiating actin filaments. Filament geometry may explain filopodial emergence at 30 degree angles relative to adjacent filopodia. A model is proposed in which focal rings play a vital role in initiating and stabilizing filopodia: 1) they anchor actin filaments at adhesions, thereby facilitating tension development and filopodial emergence; 2) &quot;axial&quot; filaments connect focal rings to nub tips, thereby organizing filament bundling and ensuring the bundle intersects an adhesion; and 3) &quot;lateral&quot; filaments interconnect focal rings and filament bundles, thereby helping stabilize lamellar margins and filopodia.
Rab8 is a GTPase involved in membrane trafficking. In photoreceptor cells, rab8 is proposed to participate in the late stages of delivery of rhodopsin-containing post-Golgi membranes to the plasma membrane near the base of the connecting cilium. To test the function of rab8 in vivo, we generated transgenic Xenopus laevis expressing wild-type, constitutively active (Q67L), and dominant negative (T22N) forms of canine rab8 in their rod photoreceptors as green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins. Wild-type and constitutively active GFP-rab8 proteins were primarily associated with Golgi and post-Golgi membranes, whereas the dominant negative protein was primarily cytoplasmic. Expression of wild-type GFP-rab8 had minimal effects on cell survival and intracellular structures. In contrast, GFP-rab8T22N caused rapid retinal degeneration. In surviving peripheral rods, tubulo-vesicular structures accumulated at the base of the connecting cilium. Expression of GFP-rab8Q67L induced a slower retinal degeneration in some tadpoles. Transgene effects were transmitted to F1 offspring. Expression of the GFP-rab8 fusion proteins appears to decrease the levels of endogenous rab8 protein. Our results demonstrate a role for rab8 in docking of post-Golgi membranes in rods, and constitute the first report of a transgenic X. laevis model of retinal degenerative disease.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is important for regulation, differentiation, and survival of peripheral and central nervous system neurons, including basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCN) which degenerate in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Mature NGF protein is processed from a larger precursor, proNGF. We demonstrate that proNGF is the predominant form of NGF in mouse, rat, and human brain tissue, whereas little or no mature NGF is detected. Previous reports showed NGF protein, measured by ELISA, is increased in AD BFCN target regions such as hippocampus and cortex. Using Western blotting, we demonstrate a twofold increase in proNGF in AD parietal cortex compared to controls, indicating that it is this precursor form, proNGF, that accumulates in AD. This increase may reflect either a role for biologically active proNGF or posttranslational disturbances in NGF biosynthesis that decrease the processing of proNGF to mature NGF in AD.
Psychotic symptoms in different neuropsychiatric disorders are treated by neuroleptic drugs. Neuroleptics are known to block dopamine (DA) neurotransmission, however, cell types mediating their actions have not been determined. Recently, astrocytes have been demonstrated to express D1- and D2-DA receptors, whose activation leads to transient increases in intracellular calcium concentration. We show here that DA-sensitivity of cortical and striatal rat astroglial cultures, as monitored by calcium imaging, is reduced by a 12-h exposure to the atypical antipsychotic agents Clozapine (&gt;1 nmol/liter), Olanzapine (&gt;100 nmol/liter), and Risperidone (&gt;1 nmol/liter), but not by classical neuroleptics Haloperidol and Sulpiride. These effects could not be reverted by the receptor-specific antagonists SCH23390, Sulpiride, L745 870, Ergotamine, and Propranolol. In addition, RT-PCR and Western blot analyses concerning the effects of Clozapine, Olanzapine, and Risperidone on DA receptor expression in cortical and striatal astroglial cells revealed no alterations in mRNAs and immunoreactive protein of D1- and D2-DA receptor subtypes. These results provide the first evidence that atypical but not classical neuroleptic drugs reduce astroglial DA-sensitivity, a mechanism that may be important for a better understanding of differences in effects and side effects between atypical and classical neuroleptic drugs.
Mature dorsal root ganglion cells respond to neurotrophins, and the intracellular signalling pathways activated by neurotrophins have been characterized in vitro. We have now used immunocytochemistry and Western blots to examine the expression and activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1/2 (ERK) in rat dorsal root ganglion cells in vivo, using antisera to total (tERK) and phosphorylated (pERK) forms. This has revealed a number of novel findings. tERK immunoreactivity is present in most dorsal root ganglion cells but is expressed most strongly in small (nociceptive) cells and, surprisingly, is absent in a population of large cells that expressed trkB or trkC but mainly lack p75(NTR) immunoreactivity. In contrast pERK is prominent in a few trkA cells and in satellite glial cells, and is further increased by NGF treatment. tERK and pERK both undergo fast anterograde and retrograde axonal transport, indicated by accumulation at a sciatic nerve ligature, and NGF reduces the level of retrograde pERK transport.
Leigh syndrome is a rare pediatric neurodegenerative disorder attributed to impaired mitochondrial energy metabolism. Mutations in SURF1 have been described in several patients with Leigh syndrome associated with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. We report a new 18-bp deletion (821del18), spanning the splice donor junction of exon 8 of SURF1, in an infant presenting with cytochrome c oxidase-deficient Leigh syndrome and hypertrichosis. cDNA sequencing demonstrated that this deletion results in a messenger lacking exon 8. RT-PCR experiments suggested a rapid degradation of the aberrant mRNA species from the 5'-end.
Among the many phenotypes associated with Gaucher disease, the inherited deficiency of glucocerebrosidase, are reports of patients with parkinsonian symptoms. The basis for this association is unknown, but could be due to alterations in the gene or gene region. The human glucocerebrosidase gene, located on chromosome 1q21, has a nearby pseudogene that shares 96% identity. Immediately adjacent to the glucocerebrosidase pseudogene is a convergently transcribed gene, metaxin, which has a pseudogene that is located just downstream to the glucocerebrosidase gene. We describe a patient with mild Gaucher disease but impaired horizontal saccadic eye movements who developed a tremor at age 42, followed by rapid deterioration of her gait. A pallidotomy at age 47 was unsuccessful. Her motor and cognitive deterioration progressed despite enzyme replacement therapy. Sequencing of the glucocerebrosidase gene identified mutations L444P and D409H. Southern blot analysis using the enzyme SspI showed that the maternal allele had an additional 17-kb band. PCR amplifications and sequencing of this fragment demonstrated a duplication which included the glucocerebrosidase pseudogene, metaxin gene, and a pseudometaxin/metaxin fusion. Gene alterations associated with this novel rearrangement, resulting from a crossover between the gene for metaxin and its pseudogene, could contribute to the atypical phenotype encountered in this patient.
With the arrival of effective symptomatic treatments and the promise of drugs that may delay progression, we now need to identify Alzheimer's disease (AD) at an early stage of the disease. To diagnose AD earlier and more accurately, attention has been directed toward peripheral biochemical markers. This article reviews promising potential cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for AD focussing on their role in clinical diagnosis. In particular, two biochemical markers, CSF total tau (t-tau) protein and the 42 amino acid form of beta-amyloid (Abeta42), perform satisfactorily enough to achieve a role in the clinical diagnostic settings of patients with dementia together with the cumulative information from basic clinical work-up, genetic screening, and brain imaging. These CSF markers are particularly useful to discriminate early or incipient AD from age-associated memory impairment, depression, and some secondary dementias. In order to discriminate AD from other primary dementia disorders, however, more accurate and specific markers are needed. Preliminary evidence strongly suggests that quantification of tau phosphorylated at specific sites in CSF improves early detection, differential diagnosis, and tracking of disease progression in AD.
Synaptic signaling, memory formation, neuronal development, and neuronal pathology are strongly influenced by the properties of intracellular Ca2+ channels, ryanodine, and inositol 1, 4, 5 trisphosphate receptors. This review will focus on recently developed and discovered pharmacological tools to modulate these channel proteins at the single-channel level. It will allow the readers of Molecular Neurobiology to evaluate the current knowledge on the pharmacological modulation of intracellular Ca2+ channels and to direct future research efforts effectively using available experimental tools and concepts.
Information processing in neurobiological systems is commonly thought to rely on the assessment of a signal-to-noise ratio as the key mechanism of signal detection; it assumes and requires that both signal and noise are concurrently available. An alternative theory holds that detection proceeds by the system appreciating any instantaneous input by the input's departure from the moving average of past activity. The evidence reviewed here suggests that this latter transduction mechanism provides a unique, formal account of the highly dynamic, neuroadaptative plasticity (i.e., tolerance, dependence, sensitization) that ensues upon mu-opioid receptor activation. The mechanism would appear already to operate with the receptor-G protein coupling that occurs upon agonist binding to mu-opioid receptors, and also with highly integrated responses such as whole-organism analgesia. The mechanism may perhaps operate ubiquitously with further neuronal and non-neuronal, cell surface, and intracellular-signaling systems, and may govern the experience-dependent regulation of synaptic strength. The transduction mechanism defines a continuously evolving process; the process's most peculiar feature is that it makes any input generate not one but two outcomes that are paradoxical, or opposite in sign.
Recent studies have suggested a role for neuronal apoptosis in cell loss following acute CNS injury as well as in chronic neurodegeneration. Caspases are a family of cysteine requiring aspartate proteases with sequence similarity to Ced-3 protein of Caenorhabditis elegans. These proteases have been found to contribute significantly to the morphological and biochemical manifestations of apoptotic cell death. Caspases are translated as inactive zymogens and become active after specific cleavage. Of the 14 identified caspases, caspase-3 appears to be the major effector of neuronal apoptosis induced by a variety of stimuli. A role for caspase-3 in injury-induced neuronal cell death has been established using semispecific peptide caspase inhibitors. This article reviews the current literature relating to pathways regulating caspase activation in apoptosis associated with acute and chronic neurodegeneration, and suggests that identification of critical upstream caspase regulatory mechanisms may permit more effective treatment of such disorders.
Excitotoxicity is one of the most extensively studied processes of neuronal cell death, and plays an important role in many central nervous system (CNS) diseases, including CNS ischemia, trauma, and neurodegenerative disorders. First described by Olney, excitotoxicity was later characterized as an excessive synaptic release of glutamate, which in turn activates postsynaptic glutamate receptors. While almost every glutamate receptor subtype has been implicated in mediating excitotoxic cell death, it is generally accepted that the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtypes play a major role, mainly owing to their high calcium (Ca2+) permeability. However, other glutamate receptor subtypes such as 2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazol-4-yl) propionate (AMPA) or kainate receptors have also been attributed a critical role in mediating excitotoxic neuronal cell death. Although the molecular basis of glutamate toxicity is uncertain, there is general agreement that it is in large part Ca(2+)-dependent. The present review is aimed at summarizing the molecular mechanisms of NMDA receptor and AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated excitotoxic neuronal cell death.
A homology model of the dopamine D2 receptor was constructed based on the crystal structure of rhodopsin. A putative sodium-binding pocket identified in an earlier model (PDB ) was revised. It is now defined by Asn-419 backbone oxygen at the apex of a pyramid and Asp-80, Ser-121, Asn-419, and Ser-420 at each vertex of the planar base. Asn-423 stabilizes this pocket through hydrogen bonds to two of these residues. Highly conserved Asn-52 is positioned near the sodium pocket, where it hydrogen-bonds with Asp-80 and the backbone carbonyl of Ser-420. Mutation of three of these residues, Asn-52 in helix 1, Ser-121 in helix 3, and Ser-420 in helix 7, profoundly altered the properties of the receptor. Mutants in which Asn-52 was replaced with Ala or Leu or Ser-121 was replaced with Leu exhibited no detectable binding of radioligands, although receptor immunoreactivity in the membrane was similar to that in cells expressing the wild-type D2L receptor. A mutant in which Asn-52 was replaced with Gln, preserving hydrogen-bonding capability, was similar to D2L in affinity for ligands and ability to inhibit cAMP accumulation. Mutants in which either Ser-121 or Ser-420 was replaced with Ala or Asn had decreased affinity for agonists (Ser-121), but increased affinity for the antagonists haloperidol and clozapine. Interestingly, the affinity of these Ser-121 and Ser-420 mutants for substituted benzamide antagonists showed little or no dependence on sodium, consistent with our hypothesis that Ser-121 and Ser-420 contribute to the formation of a sodium-binding pocket.
The presenilins and nicastrin, a type 1 transmembrane glycoprotein, form high molecular weight complexes that are involved in cleaving the beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) and Notch in their transmembrane domains. The former process (termed gamma-secretase cleavage) generates amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), which is involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The latter process (termed S3-site cleavage) generates Notch intracellular domain (NICD), which is involved in intercellular signalling. Nicastrin binds both full-length betaAPP and the substrates of gamma-secretase (C99- and C83-betaAPP fragments), and modulates the activity of gamma-secretase. Although absence of the Caenorhabditis elegans nicastrin homologue (aph-2) is known to cause an embryonic-lethal glp-1 phenotype, the role of nicastrin in this process has not been explored. Here we report that nicastrin binds to membrane-tethered forms of Notch (substrates for S3-site cleavage of Notch), and that, although mutations in the conserved 312-369 domain of nicastrin strongly modulate gamma-secretase, they only weakly modulate the S3-site cleavage of Notch. Thus, nicastrin has a similar role in processing Notch and betaAPP, but the 312-369 domain may have differential effects on these activities. In addition, we report that the Notch and betaAPP pathways do not significantly compete with each other.
'Pitch' refers to a sound's subjective highness or lowness, as distinct from 'frequency,' which refers to a sound's physical structure. In speech, music and other natural contexts, complex tones are often perceived with a single pitch. Using whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) and stimuli that dissociate pitch from frequency, we studied cortical dynamics in normal individuals who extracted different pitches from the same tone complexes. Whereas all subjects showed similar spatial distributions in the magnitude of their brain responses to the stimuli, subjects who heard different pitches exhibited contrasting temporal patterns of brain activity in their right but not their left hemispheres. These data demonstrate a specific relationship between pitch perception and the timing (phase) of dynamic patterns of cortical activity.
Long-term memory formation consists of multiple phases. A new memory is initially labile and sensitive to disruption by a variety of interfering events or agents. To become stable, this new memory undergoes a process known as consolidation, which, in the case of declarative memories, occurs within the medial temporal lobes and requires gene expression. When recalled, memories re-enter a new phase of vulnerability and seem to require a reconsolidation process in order to be maintained. Here we show that consolidation but not reconsolidation of inhibitory avoidance memory requires the expression of the transcription factor CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPbeta) in the hippocampus. Furthermore, in the same region, de novo protein synthesis is not essential for memory reconsolidation. C/EBPbeta is an evolutionarily conserved genetic marker that has a selective role in the consolidation of new but not reactivated memories in the hippocampus.
In standard models, word meanings contribute to reading words aloud and writing them to dictation. It is known that categories of knowledge and the associated word meanings can be spared or impaired selectively, but it has not been possible to demonstrate that category-specific effects apply to reading and writing. Here we report the case of a neurodegenerative patient with selectively spared numerical abilities whose brain damage left him able to read and write only number words.
Evidence of amodal completion exists for both visual and auditory stimuli in humans. The importance of this mechanism in forming stable representations of sensory information suggests that it may be common among multiple modalities and species. Here we show that a species of nonhuman primate amodally completes biologically meaningful acoustic stimuli, which provides evidence that the neural mechanism mediating this aspect of auditory perception is shared among primates, and perhaps other taxonomic groups as well.



We discuss how visual nonlinearity can be optimized for the precise representation of environmental inputs. Such optimization leads to neural signals with a compressively nonlinear input-output function the gradient of which is matched to the cube root of the probability density function (PDF) of the environmental input values (and not to the PDF directly as in histogram equalization). Comparisons between theory and psychophysical and electrophysiological data are roughly consistent with the idea that parvocellular (P) cells are optimized for precision representation of colour: their contrast-response functions span a range appropriately matched to the environmental distribution of natural colours along each dimension of colour space. Thus P cell codes for colour may have been selected to minimize error in the perceptual estimation of stimulus parameters for natural colours. But magnocellular (M) cells have a much stronger than expected saturating nonlinearity; this supports the view that the function of M cells is mainly to detect boundaries rather than to specify contrast or lightness.
Soon after Shannon defined the concept of redundancy it was suggested that it gave insight into mechanisms of sensory processing, perception, intelligence and inference. Can we now judge whether there is anything in this idea, and can we see where it should direct our thinking? This paper argues that the original hypothesis was wrong in over-emphasizing the role of compressive coding and economy in neuron numbers, but right in drawing attention to the importance of redundancy. Furthermore there is a clear direction in which it now points, namely to the overwhelming importance of probabilities and statistics in neuroscience. The brain has to decide upon actions in a competitive, chance-driven world, and to do this well it must know about and exploit the non-random probabilities and interdependences of objects and events signalled by sensory messages. These are particularly relevant for Bayesian calculations of the optimum course of action. Instead of thinking of neural representations as transformations of stimulus energies, we should regard them as approximate estimates of the probable truths of hypotheses about the current environment, for these are the quantities required by a probabilistic brain working on Bayesian principles.
The neurochemical alterations associated with neurodegeneration in prion diseases are not well defined. It is therefore of interest to study the influence of prion infection on messenger molecules and their receptors. In the present study we have analyzed the possible involvement of NMDA receptors in prion-infected mice using ligand binding autoradiography and iodinated MK-801, a noncompetitive NMDA antagonist. The results show a reduced binding of MK-801 in discrete regions of hippocampus at 110 days after infection, that is before the appearance of behavioral symptoms. In addition, early transient increases in MK-801 binding were observed in several layers. The exact neuroanatomical correlate of these changes in MK-801 binding, as well as its functional significance in relation to prion symptomatology, remain to be analyzed.
Excitotoxic cell death due to glutamate release is important in the secondary injury following CNS trauma or ischemia. Proinflammatory cytokines also play a role. Both glutamate and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF(alpha)) are released immediately after spinal cord injury. Neurophysiological studies show that TNF(alpha) can potentiate the effects of glutamatergic afferent input to produce hyperactivation of brain-stem sensory neurons. Therefore, we hypothesized that TNF(alpha) might act cooperatively with glutamate to affect cell death in the spinal cord as well. Nanoinjections of either TNF(alpha) (60 pg) or kainate (KA; 32 ng) alone into the thoracic gray resulted in almost no tissue damage or cell death 90 min after injection. However, the combination of TNF(alpha) plus KA at these same doses produced a large area of tissue necrosis and neuronal cell death, an effect which was blocked by the AMPA receptor antagonist CNQX (17 ng). These results suggest that secondary injury may involve potentiation of AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory cell death by TNF(alpha).
Effects of prolonged (48 h) inhibition of glutamate reuptake on the relative abundance of mRNAs coding for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits, and the expression of corresponding proteins were investigated in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons. In cells exposed to the glutamate transport blocker, L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC), the expression of the C1 exon-positive NR1 mRNA variant was reduced by about 40% whereas, the expression of C1-negative mRNA was increased leading to significant reduction of the +C1/-C1 ratio. The expression of the N1-negative NR1 variants was slightly reduced following exposure to PDC, indicating that increased medium levels of glutamate changed the relative abundance of NR1 splice-variant expression but did not reduce the overall NR1 transcription. Expression of NR2A and NR2B mRNAs was 40-50% lower in PDC-treated cells as compared to control. Immunoblot experiments revealed that PDC exposure reduced the expression of NR1 and all NR2 proteins with NR2A and NR2B proteins being reduced to a greater extent than NR1. The overall decrease in NMDA receptor subunit protein expression was considerably more pronounced than the reduction of their corresponding mRNAs, suggesting involvement of a post-transcriptional regulation. Our data support the hypothesis that functional activity and number of NMDA receptors are regulated by strength of the glutamatergic input. Thus, reduced glutamate uptake resulting in increased concentration of ambient glutamate initiate a series of adaptive responses manifested as a gradual down-regulation of the functional activity and expression of NMDA receptors.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) displays diverse modes of action in the CNS including the modulation of feeding behavior, gonadotropin releasing hormone release, and stress responses. Many of the above physiological actions have been at least partially attributed to actions of NPY on the NPY Y5 receptor subtype. We utilized an antibody directed against the NPY Y5 receptor to characterize the distribution of this receptor in the rat brain. Using Western blot analysis, this antibody recognized a single major band at approximately 57 kD. To further verify the specificity of the antibody, animals were treated for 5 days with antisense oligonucleotides for the Y5 receptor. The antisense treatment significantly reduced food intake and body weight. Furthermore, the Y5 antibody detected a significant decrease in Y5 receptor protein. Y5-like immunoreactivity (-ir) was observed throughout the hypothalamus, thalamus, hippocampus and cortex. Double-label immunofluorescence demonstrated that Y5-ir was colocalized with the following neuronal phenotypes in the hypothalamus, gonadotropin-releasing hormone, neurophysins, corticotropin-releasing hormone, and gamma-amino butyric acid. In addition, functional interactions were demonstrated by the presence of close appositions of NPY fibers with Y5-ir expressing cells. The wide distribution of the Y5 receptor-ir, as well as the colocalization within specific neuronal populations, agrees with the distribution of the Y5 receptor mRNA and the known physiological roles of the NPY/Y5 system. The role of the NPY/Y5 receptor system as a mediator between signals of peripheral energy availability and reproductive neuroendocrine function is discussed.
A population-based cluster survey on stroke disorders was conducted for the first time in the city of Calcutta, India. The population surveyed totaled 50,291. The crude prevalence rate of stroke was 147/100,000 (age-adjusted prevalence 334/100,000). The annual incidence rate of stroke for the year 1998-1999 was 36/100,000 (age-adjusted annual incidence rate 105/100,000). Women outnumbered men regarding stroke prevalence in all age groups except in the 50- to 69-year age group. There were relatively more cases of cerebral haemorrhage in our study, compared to those in the western countries. Case-control analysis found hypertension to be the most significant risk factor for stroke.
The goals of this review are to summarize some of the novel observations on the genetic and molecular basis of enteric nervous system disorders, with particular emphasis on the relevance of these observations to the practicing neurogastroenterologist. In the last two decades, there has been a greater understanding of genetic loci involved in congenital forms of pseudo-obstruction and Hirschsprung's disease; and the contribution of endothelins and nuclear transcription factors to the development of the enteric nervous system. In addition, clarification of the molecules involved in the activation of the peristaltic reflex, the disorders of the interstitial cells of Cajal, the clinical manifestations of mitochondrial cytopathies affecting the gut, and the application of neurotrophic factors for disorders of colonic function have impacted on practical management of patients with gut dysmotility.
Virtual reality (VR) and event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging were used to study memory for the spatial context of controlled but lifelike events. Subjects received a set of objects from two different people in two different places within a VR environment. Memory for the objects, and for where and from whom they were received was tested by putting the subject back into a place in the company of a person and giving a paired forced choice of objects. In four conditions objects had to be chosen according to different criteria: which was received in that place, which was received from that person, which object was recognized, and which object was widest. Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed during testing to identify areas involved in retrieval of the spatial context of an event. A network of areas was identified consisting of a temporoparietal pathway running between the precuneus and parahippocampi via retrosplenial cortex and the parieto-occipital sulcus, left hippocampus, bilateral posterior parietal, dorsolateral, ventrolateral and anterior prefrontal cortices, and the anterior cingulate. Of these areas the parahippocampal, right posterior parietal, and posteriodorsal medial parietal areas were specifically involved in retrieval of spatial context compared to retrieval of nonspatial context. The posterior activations are consistent with a model of long-term storage of allocentric representations in medial temporal regions with translation to body-centered and head-centered representations computed in right posterior parietal cortex and buffered in the temporoparietal pathway so as to provide an imageable representation in the precuneus. Prefrontal activations are consistent with strategic retrieval processes, including those required to overcome the interference between the highly similar events.
Frequency-transformed EEG resting data has been widely used to describe normal and abnormal brain functional states as function of the spectral power in different frequency bands. This has yielded a series of clinically relevant findings. However, by transforming the EEG into the frequency domain, the initially excellent time resolution of time-domain EEG is lost. The topographic time-frequency decomposition is a novel computerized EEG analysis method that combines previously available techniques from time-domain spatial EEG analysis and time-frequency decomposition of single-channel time series. It yields a new, physiologically and statistically plausible topographic time-frequency representation of human multichannel EEG. The original EEG is accounted by the coefficients of a large set of user defined EEG like time-series, which are optimized for maximal spatial smoothness and minimal norm. These coefficients are then reduced to a small number of model scalp field configurations, which vary in intensity as a function of time and frequency. The result is thus a small number of EEG field configurations, each with a corresponding time-frequency (Wigner) plot. The method has several advantages: It does not assume that the data is composed of orthogonal elements, it does not assume stationarity, it produces topographical maps and it allows to include user-defined, specific EEG elements, such as spike and wave patterns. After a formal introduction of the method, several examples are given, which include artificial data and multichannel EEG during different physiological and pathological conditions.
Most of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) time series analysis is based on single voxel data evaluation using parametric statistical tests. The result of such an analysis is a statistical parametric map. Voxels with a high significance value in the parametric test are interpreted as activation regions stimulated by the experimental task. However, for the investigation of functional connectivities it would be interesting to get some detailed information about the temporal dynamics of the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal. For investigating that behavior, a method for fMRI data analysis has been developed that is based on Wiener theory of spectral analysis for multivariate time series. Spectral parameters such as coherence measure and phase lead can be estimated. The resulting maps give detailed information on brain regions that belong to a network structure and also show the temporal behavior of the BOLD response function. This paper describes the method and presents a visual fMRI experiment as an example to demonstrate the results.
Polygon-mesh representations of the cortices of individual subjects are of anatomical interest, aid visualization of functional imaging data and provide important constraints for their statistical analysis. Due to noise and partial volume sampling, however, conventional segmentation methods rarely yield a voxel object whose outer boundary represents the folded cortical sheet without topological errors. These errors, called handles, have particularly deleterious effects when the polygon mesh constructed from the segmented voxel representation is inflated or flattened. So far handles had to be removed by cumbersome manual editing, or the computationally more expensive method of reconstruction by morphing had to be used, incorporating the a priori constraint of simple topology into the polygon-mesh model. Here we describe a linear time complexity algorithm that automatically detects and removes handles in presegmentations of the cortex obtained by conventional methods. The algorithm's modifications reflect the true structure of the cortical sheet. The core component of our method is a region growing process that starts deep inside the object, is prioritized by the distance-to-surface of the voxels considered for inclusion and is selftouching-sensitive, i.e., voxels whose inclusion would add a handle are never included. The result is a binary voxel object identical to the initial object except for &quot;cuts&quot; located in the thinnest part of each handle. By applying the same method to the inverse object, an alternative set of solutions is determined, correcting the errors by addition instead of deletion of voxels. For each handle separately, the solution more consistent with the intensities of the original anatomical MR scan is chosen. The accuracy of the resulting polygon-mesh reconstructions has been validated by visual inspection, by quantitative comparison to an expert's manual corrections, and by crossvalidation between reconstructions from different scans of the same subject's cortex.
Botulinum toxin (BT) injections into vocalis (thyroarytenoid) muscle is currently considered the first-choice treatment for adductor spasmodic dysphonia, producing improvement for an average period of 3 months. In our experience, sporadic failure of BT efficacy can occur even in patients usually responsive to this therapy. The reasons for these episodes have not been clarified. In a retrospective, open trial, we investigated the effect toxin preparation (Botox or Dysport) and injection monitoring (electromyography or laryngoscopy) on the success rate of BT treatment. We studied 15 patients with adductor dysphonia usually responsive to BT therapy. BT was administered into the vocalis muscle in 112 and 36 injections under electromyographic or laryngoscopic guidance, respectively. Botox and Dysport were used in 106 and 42 sessions, respectively. In 29% of all injections, no subjective or objective changes, nor side effects were observed. Failure rate did not differ using electromyographic (28.6%) or laryngoscopic (30.5%) guidance. Failure rates with Botox and Dysport were 30.2% and 26.2%, respectively, but this difference was not statistically significant. These data suggest that treatment failure may occur regardless of the method of injection and of the drug preparation used, possibly due to mislocalisation of vocal folds.
Lewy bodies and dystrophic neurites have been considered a common substrate for dementia, but they are also frequently found in the normal elderly population. The primary component of this pathology involves alpha-synuclein. The main objective of the present study was to estimate the prevalence of alpha-synuclein pathology in aged population, and to assess its relative significance in relation to dementia. The study also investigated whether differences could be detected in alpha-synuclein pathology in relation to age, gender or concomitant Alzheimer's pathology. Furthermore, the influence of sampling strategies was analysed. Alpha-synuclein pathology was assessed using immunohistochemistry in well-characterized post-mortem material. The investigation included patients from a longitudinal study of dementia of Alzheimer's type (n = 103, 85% demented), subjects from a prospective longitudinal clinical study of ageing (n = 69, 29% demented), a cohort of consecutive clinical post-mortem cases collected for 1 year (n = 262, 12% demented), a sample of forensic post-mortem cases collected for 6 months (n = 121, 15% demented) and a sample of Brain Bank material (n = 234, 26% demented). Overall, alpha-synuclein pathology was found in 14% of all 774 subjects over 40 years of age, and this percentage varied from 8% to 27% according to sampling strategies. These results indicate that the prevalence of alpha-synuclein pathology clearly depends on the selection of material. Furthermore alpha-synuclein pathology was found in 23% of clinically demented patients and in 11% of non-demented subjects. The load of alpha-synuclein pathology was significantly greater in the demented patients versus non-demented subjects indicating that alpha-synuclein pathology is indeed of importance in the pathogenesis of dementia.
Mutations in the MECP2 gene are known to be associated with Rett Syndrome (RTT) in the large majority of sporadic cases. Four Swedish families with a total of eight RTT patients (two in each family), were screened and found negative for MECP2 mutations. The series included females with both classical and forme fruste phenotypes. Rett syndrome thus might still be complex and genetically multifactorial.
Tianeptine, an atypical antidepressant that exhibits clinical efficacy in measures of depression and anxiety, has been reported to enhance learning and memory in rats under certain conditions, an effect not observed with other tricyclic antidepressants. The present study explores further the possibility that tianeptine or its enantiomers (S 16190 and S 16191) can enhance either learning or retention in animals in which the hippocampus has been made partially dysfunctional. The effects of tianeptine and its enantiomers were tested using an open field watermaze test, in rats with partial lesions of the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca (MSDB). When given to normal rats, tianeptine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) did not significantly affect learning as compared to animals injected with saline. We therefore created, in other animals, partial ibotenic acid lesions of MSDB and showed histochemically that these lesions reduced but did not abolish the density of acetylcholinesterase staining in the hippocampus. They impaired both the acquisition of place-navigation and the long-term retention of spatial information over 7 days. Against the baseline of impaired performance in animals with these lesions, neither tianeptine (10 mg/kg) nor its enantiomers (5 mg/kg) affected the rate of acquisition of place navigation. However, tianeptine did enhance the retention of spatial memory over 7 days. These results are discussed in relation to different effects that tianeptine may have on learning including its ability to block stress-induced dendritic re-modelling of the hippocampus.
The effect of EP 91073, EP 51389, EP 70555 and EP 51216, peptide analogues of the growth hormone releasing peptide hexarelin, on penile erection induced by EP 80661 or EP 60761 injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, was studied in male rats. Of the above peptides only EP 91073 (0.2-1 microg) was found capable of reducing penile erection induced by EP 80661 or EP 60761, when given into the paraventricular nucleus. Despite its ability to prevent EP peptide-induced penile erection, EP 91073 (1 microg) was unable to prevent penile erection induced by the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (50 ng), oxytocin (30 ng) and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (50 ng), when given into the paraventricular nucleus 10 min prior to the above substances. The EP 91073-induced prevention of penile erection occurred with a reduction in the increase in nitric oxide production that occurs in the paraventricular nucleus concomitant to penile erection induced by EP 80661 and EP 60761, as measured by intracerebral vertical microdialysis. The present results are in line with the hypothesis that EP 80661 and EP 60761 induce penile erection by activating specific receptors in the paraventricular nucleus, located possibly in oxytocinergic neurons mediating penile erection, and show that EP 91073 acts as an antagonist of these EP peptide receptors mediating penile erection.
SB-243213 (5-methyl-1-[[-2-[(2-methyl-3-pyridyl)oxy]-5-pyridyl]carbamoyl]-6-trifluoromethylindoline hydrochloride) is a new, selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2C receptor inverse agonist. SB-243213 has high affinity for the human 5-HT2C receptor (pK(i) 9.37) and greater than a 100-fold selectivity over a wide range of neurotransmitter receptors, enzymes and ion channels. In in vitro functional studies, SB-243213 acted as an inverse agonist at the human 5-HT2C receptor with a pK(b) of 9.8. In in vivo studies, SB-243213 was a potent inhibitor of central 5-HT2C receptor-mediated function in rats, blocking meta-chlorophenylpiperazine-induced hypolocomotion with an ID50 of 1.1 mg/kg p.o. and a long duration of action (&gt;8 h). In rats, SB-243213 exhibited anxiolytic-like activity in both the social interaction and Geller-Seifter conflict tests. Importantly, unlike diazepam, chronic administration of SB-243213 did not result in the development of either tolerance to the anxiolytic-like effects or withdrawal anxiogenesis. Furthermore, in rodents, SB-243213 did not affect seizure threshold, did not increase body weight or induce catalepsy, but attenuated the haloperidol-induced catalepsy. SB-243213 did not affect amphetamine-, MK-801- or phencyclidine-induced hyperactivity. In conclusion, SB-243213 may possess an improved anxiolytic profile compared to benzodiazepines. SB-243213 also modulates dopaminergic transmission, lacks pro-psychotic properties and may have utility in the treatment of schizophrenia and motor disorders.

Using in situ hybridization, we studied the effects of age and gender on the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA and heat shock protein hsp-70 mRNA in the rat retrosplenial cortex following administration of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist (+)-MK-801 (dizocilpine). Male and female Sprague-Dawley rats (5 weeks, 12 weeks, or 10 months old) were given a single intraperitoneal injection of saline (1 ml/kg) or dizocilpine (0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg). No expression of BDNF mRNA and hsp-70 mRNA was detected in the rat retrosplenial cortex after administration of saline (1 ml/kg, IP). Administration of dizocilpine (0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg, IP) caused a marked induction of BDNF mRNA and hsp-70 mRNA in the retrosplenial cortex of male and female rats, in a dose-dependent manner. Female rats were more sensitive to the induction of BDNF mRNA and hsp-70 mRNA in the retrosplenial cortex by dizocilpine as compared to male rats. It was also found that adult (12 weeks old) and aged (10 months old) rats were more sensitive to the induction of hsp-70 mRNA and BDNF mRNA in the retrosplenial cortex by dizocilpine as compared to young (5 weeks old) rats. These results suggest that the age and gender differences observed in the expression of BDNF mRNA and hsp-70 mRNA in the retrosplenial cortex by dizocilpine may be associated with the differences in dizocilpine-induced neurotoxicity observed with gender and age within the same region.
Functional dopaminergic hyperactivity is a key feature of schizophrenia. Recent in vivo imaging studies have demonstrated greater striatal dopamine release in response to amphetamine challenge in schizophrenia subjects than in normal controls. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are known to play a prominent role in regulation of striatal dopamine release. In humans, NMDA antagonists induce a psychotic state that closely resembles schizophrenia. The present study investigates the degree to which chronic continuous administration of the NMDA antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) induces schizophrenia-like hyperreactivity of striatal dopamine release to amphetamine in rodents. Rats were treated with 10 or 15 mg/kg/d PCP for two weeks by osmotic minipump, and striatal dopamine release to amphetamine challenge (1 mg/kg) was monitored by microdialysis. PCP-treated rats showed significant enhancement in amphetamine-induced dopamine release, along with significantly enhanced locomotor activity. These findings support the concept that NMDA receptor dysfunction may contribute to dopaminergic dysfunction in schizophrenia.
Electrophysiological and hemodynamical responses of the brain allow investigation of the neural origins of human attention. We review attention-related brain responses from auditory and visual tasks employing oddball and novelty paradigms. Dipole localization and intracranial recordings as well as functional magnetic resonance imaging reveal multiple areas involved in generating and modulating attentional brain responses. In addition, the influence of brain lesions of circumscribed areas of the human cortex onto attentional mechanisms are reviewed. While it is obvious that damaged brain tissue no longer functions properly, it has also been shown that functions of non-lesioned brain areas are impaired due to loss of modulatory influence of the lesioned area. Both early (P1 and N1) and late (P3) event-related potentials are modulated by excitatatory and inhibitory mechanisms. Oscillatory EEG-correlates of attention in the alpha and gamma frequency range also show attentional modulation.

Brain activation associated with reading was investigated in ten normal Japanese volunteers (five highly literate in both Japanese and English) and ten American native English speakers (five highly literate in both English and Japanese) in order to determine the neuroanatomic substrates employed in reading the first language (L1), and to determine the effect of L1 on the neurosubstrates involved in reading the second language (L2). The study was performed using blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) on a high-field (3.0T) system specifically optimized for fMRI. The activation patterns in Japanese subjects reading Japanese (L1) were substantially different from the patterns obtained in American subjects reading English text (L1). The activation patterns reading L2 were virtually identical to the patterns seen when reading L1 in both Japanese and English natives highly literate in both language systems. The results demonstrated that the neuroanatomical substrates underlying the cognitive processing of reading are differentially determined based on the language system. The study further indicates that the cognitive processes for reading in the second language involve the same cortical structures employed for the first language, supporting the hypothesis that the second language represents the cognitive extension of the first language.
The superior colliculus (SC), through its descending projections to the brainstem and spinal cord, is involved in initiating sensory-driven orienting behaviors. Ferrets are carnivores that hunt both above and below ground using visual (and auditory) cues in the daylight but non-visual cues in darkness and in subterranean environments. The present investigation sought to determine whether the ferret SC shows organizational features similar to those found in other visually dominant animals (e.g. cats), or whether characteristics of colliculi from non-visually dominant animals (e.g. rodents) prevail. Injection of retrograde tracer into the identified targets of the colliculus (cervical spinal cord, the contralateral pontomedullary reticular formation, or the ipsilateral pontine reticular formation) labeled tectospinal, crossed tectoreticular, and ipsilateral tectoreticular neurons, respectively, within the adult ferret SC. Labeled tectospinal and crossed tectoreticular neurons were far outnumbered by neurons with ipsilateral reticular projections. Like those of their visually dominant relatives, ferret tectospinal neurons were well represented throughout the anterior-posterior extent of the SC and crossed tectoreticular neurons tended to be distributed more broadly across the intermediate gray layer than those of rodents. Thus, even though ferrets perform well as subterranean predators where non-visual cues initiate orienting behaviors, these anatomical characteristics indicate that their colliculi are organized similar to that of their visually dominant, carnivorous relatives.
Dopamine projections from the midbrain to the striatum and frontal cortex are involved in behavioral reactions controlled by rewards, as inferred from deficits in parkinsonism, schizophrenia, and drug addiction. Recent experiments have shown that dopamine neurons are not directly modulated in relation to movements. Rather, they appear to code the rewarding aspects of environmental stimuli. They show short, phasic increases of activity following primary food and liquid rewards (&quot;unconditioned stimuli&quot;) and conditioned, reward-predicting stimuli of visual, auditory, and somatosensory modalities. They also display smaller activation-depression sequences after stimuli resembling rewards and after novel or particularly intense stimuli. Rewards are only reported as far as they occur differently than predicted. According to learning theories, a &quot;prediction error&quot; message may constitute a powerful teaching signal for behavior and learning. The phasic reward message is different from the more tonic enabling function of dopamine that is deficient in Parkinson's disease, indicating that dopamine neurons subserve different functions at different time scales. Neurons in other brain structures, such as the striatum, orbitofrontal cortex, and amygdala, code the quality, quantity, and preference of rewards. The dopamine reward prediction error signal may cooperate with these reward perception signals during the learning and performance of behavioral reactions to motivating environmental stimuli.
It is perhaps presumptuous to talk about the molecular basis of a subjective sensation such as pain, but defined conformational changes in membrane proteins, controlled by a family of extra- and intracellular messenger molecules, are known to underlie the activation of sensory nerve terminals and the process of synaptic neurotransmission, which are necessary for pain perception. Furthermore, a subset of neurotransmission processes has a permissive, and possibly exclusive, role in pain perception. Clearly, the experience of pain in the clinical sense with all its affective components of unpleasantness and suffering cannot yet be fully understood in molecular terms, but the process of nociception, whereby the signal generated as a result of tissue damaging or potentially damaging peripheral stimuli reaches and evokes neuronal activity in the central nervous system, is becoming better characterized. Recent advances in neurobiology have given us insights that are already helping improve understanding of the events that lead to a patient experiencing pain and, it is hoped, will also lead to more successful treatment strategies.
The present study investigated the effects of RS-100642-198 (a novel sodium channel blocker), and two related compounds (mexiletine and QX-314), in in vitro models of neurotoxicity. Neurotoxicity was produced in primary cerebellar cultures using hypoxia/hypoglycemia (H/H), veratridine or glutamate where, in vehicle-treated neurons, 65%, 60% and 75% neuronal injury was measured, respectively. Dose-response neuroprotection experiments were carried out using concentrations ranging from 0.1-500 micro M. All the sodium channel blockers were neuroprotective against H/H-induced injury, with each exhibiting similar potency and efficacy. However, against veratridine-induced neuronal injury only RS-100642-198 and mexiletine were 100% protective, whereas QX-314 neuroprotection was limited (i.e. only 54%). In contrast, RS-100642-198 and mexiletine had no effect against glutamate-induced injury, whereas QX-314 produced a consistent, but very limited (i.e. 25%), neuroprotection. Measurements of intraneuronal calcium [Ca(2+)]i) mobilization revealed that glutamate caused immediate and sustained increases in [Ca(2+)]i which were not affected by RS-100642-198 or mexiletine. However, both drugs decreased the initial amplitude and attenuated the sustained rise in [Ca(2+)]i mobilization produced by veratridine or KCl depolarization. QX-314 produced similar effects on glutamate-, veratridine- or KCl-induced [Ca(2+)]i dynamics, effectively decreasing the amplitude and delaying the initial spike in [Ca(2+)]i, and attenuating the sustained increase in [Ca(2+)]i mobilization. By using different in vitro models of excitotoxicity, a heterogeneous profile of neuroprotective effects resulting from sodium channel blockade has been described for RS-100642-198 and related drugs, suggesting that selective blockade of neuronal sodium channels in pathological conditions may provide therapeutic neuroprotection against depolarization/excitotoxicity via inhibition of voltage-dependent Na(+) channels.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is a dopaminergic toxin which produces Parkinson's disease-like symptoms in primates and dopaminergic cell loss in mice. MPTP is bioactivated through monoamine oxidase to MPP(+) and detoxified by cytochrome P450 to nor-MPTP. We have examined metabolisms of MPTP to nor-MPTP by mouse brain microsomes and compared it with corresponding activity in liver. In brain, but not in liver, this biotransformation was completely abolished by quinidine, an inhibitor of P4502D. Northern blotting experiments demonstrated constitutive expression of cytochrome P4502D mRNA predominantly in neuronal cells within the cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, Purkinje and granule cell layers of the cerebellum and in the reticular neurons of midbrain. Striatal neurons were sparsely stained indicating a relative paucity of expression. These studies demonstrate for the first time that detoxification of MPTP to nor-MPTP occurs in mouse brain through cytochrome P4502D which is primarily localized in neuronal cells. Cytochrome P4502D6 is known to exhibit genetic polymorphism in humans, and a defect in this isoform could potentially lead to decreased detoxification of neurotoxins in certain neuronal sub-population, which in turn may have implications in pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.

It has been reported that 20-65% of cerebral infarction patients suffers from depression. On the other hand, elderly-onset depression has more cerebro-vascular changes such as deep white matter lesion and periventricular hyperintensity on MRI than young-onset depression. These findings together leads new disease category 'vascular depression' (VD), meaning depression primarily caused by cerebral infarction. VD patients show less family history and symptomatic changes within a day than those with non-vascular depression. Though anti-depressants are effective on VD, they have higher incidence of side effect on VD than on non-vascular depression. Benzodiazepines and cerebral circulation and metabolism enhancers are also used in VD therapy. The prognosis of VD is worse than that of non-VD or cerebral infarction without depression.
Neuropathic pain associated with abnormal tactile and thermal responses that are extraterritorial to the injured nerve is known to be difficult to diagnose and treat because of clinical observation of limited responsiveness to opioids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. To reproduce the different pathological changes observed in neuropathic pain patients, several laboratory animal models have been proposed. Recent studies using such models suggest the involvement of neuronal plasticity in pain pathways through nociceptive neurons. Our new experimental model using specific pain-producing molecules that clearly distinguish three different nociceptive fibers from each other reproduces neuropathic pain-like hyperalgesia and less sensitivity to morphine. After nerve injury, the nociceptive responses through type I neurons, which are polymodal C-fibers and drive NK1-receptor mechanisms in spinal pain transmission, were completely lost, but without changes in type II ones, which are polymodal C-fibers and drive NMDA receptor-mechanisms, while type III ones, which are capsaicin-insensitive (possibly A-fibers) and drive NMDA-receptor mechanisms, were markedly enhanced. Such pain transmission switch mechanisms are clearly consistent with clinical effectiveness including less sensitivity to morphine and more sensitivity to NMDA-antagonists. This article also presents currently used methods for experimental neuropathic pain models.
The treatment of craniopharyngioma becomes quite difficult when it extends into the third ventricle. In a 4-year-old boy, we encountered a large cystic craniopharyngioma which grew into the third ventricle. Initially, the tumor was successfully removed via a right transcallosal transchoroidal approach. A residual part seemed to have remained in the right perioptic region. Even though the patient had an episode of SIADH, his postoperative course was uneventful. He developed visual disturbance 4 months after the initial operation. CT and MRI revealed a large suprasellar mass. The tumor was totally resected via a right pterional approach. Careful follow-up disclosed again a small recurrent lesion in the anterior commisure. Gamma knife therapy was used to successfully reduce the volume of the tumor. The MIB-1 labeling index (LI) of the specimen taken at the time of the first operation was at 9.2% and that of the second operation at 21.2%. Recently, the importance of MIB-1 LI for assessing proliferative activity of this tumor was reported. In patients whose MIB-1 LI is higher, they have more significant rate of recurrence. Our results also indicate that in cases where MIB-1 LI indicates a high value, careful follow-up is necessary. Through fact of the necessity of two operations and additional gamma knife therapy, we would like to stress the importance of MIB-1 LI in indicating the proliferative activity of this tumor. These surgical procedures are presented here, and the role of MIB-1 LI in determining the proliferative activity of craniopharyngioma is also discussed.
Two cases of multiple brain abscesses associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula are reported. A 57-year-old male with Rendu-Osler-Weber disease complicated by pulmonary arteriovenous fistula developed multiple brain abscesses in the right parietal region. He responded well to surgical drainage and antibiotic therapy, and the pulmonary arteriovenous fistula, located in the left lower lobe, was resected. A 26-year-old female with Rendu-Osler-Weber disease complicated by pulmonary arterivenous fistula developed recurrent multiple brain abscesses in both the frontal and right parietal regions. The brain abscesses were successfully treated with aspiration and antibiotic therapy. She had a history of two previous brain abscesses in the right parietal regions that were excised on separate occasions at 16 and 23 years of age. Although pulmonary arteriovenous fistula was confirmed by angiography, in this case surgical removal of the pulmonary lesions was not indicated due to multiple vascular shunting. The patient had no recurrence of brain abscess with oral antibiotic therapy.


This article was designed to make a strong case for the importance of studying behavior and using behavioral therapy in the treatment of pediatric obesity. Behavioral treatments have been the most studied approaches to pediatric obesity, with great success. Six studies that provided long-term results are presented, and ideas for translating behavioral therapy into common pediatric practice are presented. Additional progress is needed to incorporate new findings in learning and behavioral neuroscience into clinical interventions and to integrate behavioral therapy with pharmacologic interventions and genetic predispositions and new advances in nutrition and exercise science.
The ability of the brain to store a readily bioavailable source of iron is essential for normal neurologic function because both iron deficiency and iron excess in the brain have serious neurologic consequences. The blood-brain barrier presents unique challenges to timely and adequate delivery of iron to the brain. The regional compartmentalization of neurologic function and a myriad of cell types provide additional challenges. Furthermore, iron-dependent events within the central nervous system (CNS) are age dependent (e.g., myelination) or region specific (e.g., dopamine synthesis). Thus the mechanisms for maintaining the delicate balance of CNS iron concentration must be considered on a region-specific and age-specific basis. Confounding factors that influence brain iron acquisition in addition to age-specific and region-specific requirements are dietary factors and disease. This article raises and addresses the novel concept of regional regulation of brain iron uptake by reviewing the developmental patterns of iron accumulation and expression of proteins responsible for maintaining iron homeostasis in a region-specific and cell-specific manner. Understanding these mechanisms is essential for generating insights into diseases such as Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome, in which excess iron accumulation in the brain plays a significant role in the disease process, and should also unveil windows of opportunity for replenishing the brain in a state of iron deficiency.
Serotonin 5-HT(3) antagonists have been suggested for treatment of several disorders involving altered gastrointestinal (GI) function. CCK also has well documented GI actions on both food intake and vago-vagal reflexes. To evaluate potential interactions, the effect of a 5-HT(3) antagonist, ondansetron, on exogenous CCK induced satiety and c-fos activation was determined. Ondansetron reduced both actions of CCK by approximately 50%. The reduction in c-fos was localized to a specific subregion of the dorsal medulla, suggesting that a distinct subpopulation of CCK receptive fibers are modulated by 5-HT(3) ligands. Treatments using 5-HT(3) antagonists also may affect endogenous CCK functions.
The high abundance of the cholecystokinin octapeptide in various brain regions is expressed by involvement of this neuropeptide in diverse brain functions. This peptide is mostly, if not always, co-localized with classic transmitters in central nerve terminals. Since the functions of the coexisting transmitters are often different, differential regulation of their release is obvious. This differentiation is realized by differences in presynaptic localization, release dynamics, and calcium regulation. In addition, CCK release is locally modulated by receptors, kinases and phosphatases. The regulatory mechanisms of CCK release are placed into physiological perspective.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are a new and expanding family of proton-gated cation (Na+/Ca2+) channels that are widely expressed in sensory neurons and the central nervous system. Their distribution suggests that they may play a critical role in the sensation of the pain that accompanies tissue acidosis and may also be important in detecting the subtle pH variations that occur during neuronal signalling. Here, using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we show that HEK293 cells, a commonly used cell line for the expression and characterisation of many ion channels, functionally express an endogenous proton-gated conductance attributable to the activity of human ASIC1a. These data therefore represent the first functional characterisation of hASIC1 and have many important implications for the use of HEK293 cells as a host cell system for the study of ASICs, vanilloid receptor-1 and any other proton-gated channel. With this latter point in mind we have devised a simple desensitisation strategy to selectively remove the contribution of hASIC1a from proton-gated currents recorded from HEK293 cells expressing vanilloid receptor-1.
In a recent study, the initial rise of the mutual information between the firing rates of N neurons and a set of p discrete stimuli has been analytically evaluated, under the assumption that neurons fire independently of one another to each stimulus and that each conditional distribution of firing rates is Gaussian. Yet real stimuli or behavioral correlates are high dimensional, with both discrete and continuously varying features. Moreover, the Gaussian approximation implies negative firing rates, which is biologically implausible. Here, we generalize the analysis to the case where the stimulus or behavioral correlate has both a discrete and a continuous dimension, like orientation and shape could be in a visual stimulus, or type and direction in a motor action. The functional relationship between the firing patterns and the continuous correlate is expressed through the tuning curve of the neuron, using two different parameters to modulate its width and its flatness. In the case of large noise, we evaluate the mutual information up to the quadratic approximation as a function of population size. We also show that in the limit of large N and assuming that neurons can discriminate between continuous values with a resolution Delta(theta), the mutual information grows to infinity like ln(1/Delta(theta)) when Delta(theta) goes to zero. Then we consider a more realistic distribution of firing rates, truncated at zero, and we prove that the resulting correction, with respect to the Gaussian firing rates, can be expressed simply as a renormalization of the noise parameter. Finally, we demonstrate the effect of averaging the distribution across the discrete dimension, evaluating the mutual information only with respect to the continuously varying correlate.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by a progressive loss of cognitive function. Despite considerable progress, a complete description of the molecular pathology of this disease has yet to be elucidated. In this respect, the need for an animal model that develops some or all aspects of this uniquely human disease in a reproducible fashion is crucial for the development and testing of potential treatments. A valid animal model for AD should exhibit (1) progressive AD-like neuropathology and (2) cognitive deficits, and (3) should be verified in several laboratories. Transgenic models should be able to (4) discern pathogenic effects of familial forms (FAD) mutations from those of transgene overexpression. Models derived from microinjection of FAD mutant alleles should (5) encompass more than one Tg line. At present, however, no model that replicates all of these desirable features exists. In this review, we discuss transgenic mouse models with well-characterized AD-like neuropathology that show some form of cognitive impairment. We argue that conclusions drawn from a limited selection of cross-sectional experiments should be verified in longitudinally designed experiments. Future studies should attempt to establish a closer relationship between molecular pathology and the degree of cognitive impairment. While exact replication of AD in mice may not attainable (due to phylogenetic differences and fundamental differences in behavioral ecology), rigorous comparative analysis of cognitive behavior observed in various mouse models of AD should provide a framework for better understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying cognitive impairment observed in AD patients.
Currently, the most popular technology used to modify the molecular makeup of the nervous system is through germline modifications of early embryos. This allows to construct gene 'knock-ins' (gene overexpression) or 'knock-outs' (gene deletions). This technology leads to gene additions or deletions from the earliest developmental stages. This can potentially lead to compensatory genetic changes. The technology to achieve inducible and cell-type-specific changes in gene expression in transgenic animals has been established. However, it is not yet possible, to reliably turn a particular gene 'on' or 'off' exclusively in adult animals. Alternatively, the use of gene transfer technology in fully mature animals could overcome many of these shortcomings. Gene therapy is the use of nucleic acids as drugs, and uses gene transfer technology to genetically engineer adult animals. Viral and nonviral vectors have been modified to serve as vectors for nucleic acid sequences of interest. Thus, over the last two decades, methods have been developed to deliver particular nucleic acids directly to target tissues. Further technological advances allow delivery of transgenes or antisense mRNAs directly to predetermined cell types, as well as their delivery under the control of inducible promoter elements. Combined transgenic (i.e., germline modifications) and viral vector technology will also be very powerful in allowing the genetic modification of selected neuronal populations in adult animals. In this review, we discuss the potential of gene delivery to the brain to analyze the effect of genetic engineering of particular neuronal groups on behavior, as well as recent developments and applications of newly engineered vector systems to allow transgenesis within nervous structures of adult animals.
This work suggests that class I mGluRs are involved in long-term potentiation (LTP) at CA1 synapses within the hippocampus. Our data support a pathway linking class I-mGluRs with PKC and src to enhance the open probability of the NMDAR channel. This leads to LTP of the NMDAR, but not the AMPAR. We are currently analyzing double mGluR1 X mGluR5 knockouts with Collingridge for a loss of the LTP induction switch [Nature 368 (1994) 740.]. This induction of LTP of the NMDAR is necessary for &quot;spatial&quot; learning and memory to occur, since mice lacking the mGluR5 are deficient in the Morris water maze and context-dependent fear conditioning. We postulate that AMPARs may provide negative feedback inhibition to the NMDAR. Hence, in null mutants lacking the AMPAR subtype, GluR2, LTP in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices was markedly enhanced (twofold) and non-saturating, whereas neuronal excitability and paired-pulse facilitation were normal. The ninefold increase in Ca(2+) permeability, in response to kainate application, suggests one possible mechanism for enhanced LTP. Enhanced LTP could result from enhanced AMPAR channel conductance or increased recruiting of previously silent synapses. Since the GluR2 null mutants showed reduced exploration and impaired motor coordination, we could make no conclusion about its role in learning and memory. Future work will be directed to inducible deletion of GluR2 only in CA1 after development is complete. These results support the correlation between LTP and learning and memory.
The aging of the central nervous system and the development of incapacitating neurological diseases like Alzheimer's disease (AD) are generally associated with a wide range of histological and pathophysiological changes eventually leading to a compromised cognitive status. Although the diverse triggers of the neurodegenerative processes and their interactions are still the topic of extensive debate, the possible contribution of cerebrovascular deficiencies has been vigorously promoted in recent years. Various forms of cerebrovascular insufficiency such as reduced blood supply to the brain or disrupted microvascular integrity in cortical regions may occupy an initiating or intermediate position in the chain of events ending with cognitive failure. When, for example, vasoconstriction takes over a dominating role in the cerebral vessels, the perfusion rate of the brain can considerably decrease causing directly or through structural vascular damage a drop in cerebral glucose utilization. Consequently, cerebral metabolism can suffer a setback leading to neuronal damage and a concomitant suboptimal cognitive capacity. The present review focuses on the microvascular aspects of neurodegenerative processes in aging and AD with special attention to cerebral blood flow, neural metabolic changes and the abnormalities in microvascular ultrastructure. In this context, a few of the specific triggers leading to the prominent cerebrovascular pathology, as well as the potential neurological outcome of the compromised cerebral microvascular system are also going to be touched upon to a certain extent, without aiming at total comprehensiveness. Finally, a set of animal models are going to be presented that are frequently used to uncover the functional relationship between cerebrovascular factors and the damage to neural networks.
1. It has been conceivable that the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis hyperactivity plays an important role in the pathophysiology of depression. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of repeated treatment with dexamethasone on serotonin (5-HT) 1A, 5-HT2A and alpha1-adrenergic receptors in the rat frontal cortex. Moreover, several studies have suggested the effectiveness of L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine for the treatment of depression. We also investigated the effect of repeated treatment with nimodipine on 5-HT2A receptor in rats with repeated dexamethasone treatment. 2. Repeated treatment with dexamethasone (1 mg/kg/day for 14 days) increased the density of 5-HT2A receptor, but not 5-HT1A and alpha1-adrenergic receptors in the rat frontal cortex. 3. The density of 5-HT2A receptor in the rat frontal cortex was significantly increased 1 day after repeated treatment with dexamethasone, but was not increased 7 or 14 days after repeated treatment. Wet dog shakes (WDS) induced by (+/-)-1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride (DOI), a 5-HT2A receptor agonist, in rats were significantly enhanced 1, 7 and 14 days after repeated treatment with dexamethasone, although the frequency of WDS gradually decreased after repeated treatment. 4. Repeated treatment with nimodipine (5 mg/kg/day for 14 days) attenuated DOI-induced WDS enhanced by repeated treatment with dexamethasone (1 mg/kg/day for 14 days), however, it did not change the density of 5-HT2A receptor. Repeated treatment with dexamethasone decreased locomotor activity and body weight, but repeated treatment with nimodipine did not recover these parameters. 5. The results of the present study suggest that repeated treatment with dexamethasone may selectively increase the 5-HT2A receptor in the rat frontal cortex and affect 5-HT2A receptor-mediated signal transduction. In addition, the intracellular calcium homeostasis by blocking calcium influx through L-type calcium channel may play an important role in the regulation of the 5-HT2A receptor function by dexamethasone.


Findings are inconsistent regarding whether women's cognitive performance fluctuates across phases of the menstrual cycle, but differences in methodology and the use of reported cycle phase rather than precise hormonal measures may underlie these disparities. Studies in monkeys may help resolve these discrepant findings, since hormonal status can be reliably determined. We tested four young (5-7 years old) female rhesus monkeys daily during one entire menstrual cycle on three cognitive tasks displayed on a computerized touch-screen system: a Matching to Sample task with a 30 s delay (MTS-30s), a Matching to Sample task without delay (MTS-no delay) and the spatial condition of the Delayed Recognition Span Test (spatial-DRST). Blood samples were collected at specific time intervals throughout the cycle and assayed for estradiol and progesterone in order to identify hormonal status. There was a nonsignificant trend for the MTS-30s scores to be better during the follicular and luteal phases, when estradiol levels were low, than during the peri-ovulatory phase, when estradiol levels were at their highest. MTS-no delay performance did not vary as a function of hormonal status. Spatial-DRST scores were significantly better during the follicular and luteal phases than during the peri-ovulatory phase of the cycle. These data in the female rhesus monkey support the hypothesis that spatial memory performance is sensitive to estradiol variations across the menstrual cycle, with better performance associated with low estradiol levels.
The hippocampus has long been presumed the primary site of action of estrogens on cognition; and explicit memory is considered the cognitive function most vulnerable to menopausal loss of estrogen. We hypothesize instead that the prefrontal cortex and its neural circuitry are prime mediators of estrogen's role in cognition. We also propose that previously reported menopausal cognitive decline, presumed to be hippocampally mediated, may be secondary to executive dysfunction. We used a cross sectional design to compare the performance of nine menopausal women on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and 10 menopausal women with no prior exposure to HRT on a battery of neuropsychological tests. The battery was comprised primarily of tests of memory and executive functioning. Executive functioning is mediated by the frontal lobes and encompasses working memory, directed attention, the inhibition of inappropriate responses, cognitive set switching, and behavioral monitoring. Unlike most previous studies, we used a memory measure that yields multiple scores reflecting various problem-solving strategies and error types, thus isolating spared and impaired cognitive processes. Results yielded both qualitative and quantitative evidence for disruption of cognitive processes subserved by the frontal lobes rather than the hippocampus: 1) despite intact free recall on a list-learning task (CVLT), untreated menopausal women were relatively impaired in correctly recognizing words previously learned and distinguishing them from items not on the list (discriminability), 2) untreated women also had difficulty inhibiting inappropriate responses in the form of perseverative errors, and 3) the non-HRT group consistently performed worse on the N-back test of working memory. The prefrontal cortex is critical for intact working memory and estrogen enhances performance on working memory tasks. In conclusion, this study provides preliminary evidence for executive dysfunction in untreated menopausal women as women with HRT outperformed women without HRT on tests requiring directed attention, inhibition of inappropriate responses, and cognitive set switching.



The sex of individuals plays an important part in determining their olfactory abilities, with females generally being superior to males. The present review examines the way in which sex differences influence sensitivity, identification, familiarity, and recognition of odours. It also examines whether sex differences are more pronounced with some odours than others, and how sex differences are affected by the manner of testing. Two different explanations for the superiority of females over males in olfaction are evaluated.
A comprehensive taxonomy categorizing passive behaviors in people with dementia was developed and revised through the use of expert raters. The taxonomy was first derived from the synthesis of 15 empirical studies that addressed this phenomenon, then was rated by an expert panel of six nurse-scientists with expertise in dementia and neuroscience research. This article describes the application of two measures of agreement, multiple rater kappa and proportion of agreement for multiple raters, calculated using Stata and SPSS, to evaluate and revise the taxonomy. The method proved useful for estimating the content validity of the taxonomy and provided evidence of stronger agreement among raters for the revised and final forms of the taxonomy. Nurse researchers will find this methodology to be an efficient, practical approach to applying measures of agreement for a variety of purposes, including taxonomy development.
The study of ethanol's effects on sleep has a long history dating back to the work of Nathaniel Kleitman. This paper reviews the extensive literature describing ethanol's effects on the sleep of healthy normals and alcoholics and the newer literature that describes its interactive effects on daytime sleepiness, physiological functions during sleep, and sleep disorders. Ethanol initially improves sleep in non-alcoholics at both low and high doses with disturbance in the second half of the night sleep at high doses. Tolerance develops to the initial beneficial effects. In alcoholics sleep is disturbed both while drinking and for months of abstinence and the nature of the abstinent sleep disturbance is predictive of relapse. Ethanol interacts to exacerbate daytime sleepiness and sleep-disordered breathing, even inducing apnea in persons at risk. Ethanol's effects on other physiological functions during sleep and other sleep disorders has yet to be documented. 2001 Harcourt Publishers Ltd

Receptive-field plasticity within the auditory neocortex is associated with learning, memory, and acetylcholine (ACh). However, the interplay of elements involved in changing receptive-fields remains unclear. Herein, we describe a depolarizing and a hyperpolarizing potential elicited by repetitive stimulation (20-100 Hz, 0.5-2 sec) and dependent on ACh, which may be involved in modifying receptive-fields. These potentials were recorded, using whole cell techniques, in layer II/III pyramidal cells in the rat auditory cortex in vitro. Stimulation at low stimulus intensities can give rise to a hyperpolarizing response and stimulation at higher stimulus intensities can elicit a depolarizing response. The depolarizing response had a reversal potential of -35 mV, and was reduced by the combination of AMPA/kainate and NMDA glutamate receptor antagonists (AMPA/kainate: CNQX, DNQX, and GYKI 52466; NMDA: APV, MK-801) and by the muscarinic ACh receptor antagonist atropine. The hyperpolarizing response had a reversal potential of -73 mV and could be reduced by atropine, GABA(A) receptor antagonists (bicuculline and a Cl(-) channel blocker picrotoxin), and to a small extent a GABA(B) receptor antagonist (saclofen). This suggests that the hyperpolarizing response is likely to be mediated by ACh acting on GABAergic interneurons. Extracellular recordings, also made from layer II/III of cortical slices, yielded a negative-going potential which was reduced by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists (same as above) and by the ACh receptor antagonists atropine and scopolamine, suggesting that this potential was the extracellular representation of the depolarizing response.
The &quot;kiss-and-run&quot; model of exocytosis and endocytosis predicts that synaptic vesicles can undergo fast and efficient recycling, after fusion with the plasmalemma, without intermixing of membranes. Evidence is mounting from several new experimental approaches that kiss-and-run occurs at synapses. Distinct vesicle pools, which initially were identified in morphological terms, are now being characterized in biochemical and functional terms. In addition, at least two functional recycling pathways, operating on different time scales (from milliseconds to tens of seconds), have been shown to coexist in the same synaptic system, and the two pathways appear to be differentially regulated. Taken together, these data suggest that kiss-and-run operates in parallel with the classical, coated-vesicle recycling. Here, we review recent evidence for kiss-and-run recycling and discuss whether it is a distinct process, dependent on the molecular organization of the fusing vesicle. We propose that vesicles undergo a process of &quot;competence maturation&quot;. According to this view, the specific molecular make-up of the vesicles, their location and their interactions with nerve terminal proteins might determine not only the differential availability of the vesicles for fusion and neurotransmitter release but also the recycling path that they will follow.
Pain is classically viewed as being mediated solely by neurons, as are other sensory phenomena. The discovery that spinal cord glia (microglia and astrocytes) amplify pain requires a change in this view. These glia express characteristics in common with immune cells in that they respond to viruses and bacteria, releasing proinflammatory cytokines, which create pathological pain. These spinal cord glia also become activated by certain sensory signals arriving from the periphery. Similar to spinal infection, these signals cause release of proinflammatory cytokines, thus creating pathological pain. Taken together, these findings suggest a new, dramatically different approach to pain control, as all clinical therapies are focused exclusively on altering neuronal, rather than glial, function.

Recent advances in experimental genomics, coupled with the wealth of sequence information available for a variety of organisms, have the potential to transform the way pharmacological research is performed. At present, high-density DNA microarrays allow researchers to quickly and accurately quantify gene-expression changes in a massively parallel manner. Although now well established in other biomedical fields, such as cancer and genetics research, DNA microarrays have only recently begun to make significant inroads into pharmacology. To date, the major focus in this field has been on the general application of DNA microarrays to toxicology and drug discovery and design. This review summarizes the major microarray findings of relevance to neuropsychopharmacology, as a prelude to the design and analysis of future basic and clinical microarray experiments. The ability of DNA microarrays to monitor gene expression simultaneously in a large-scale format is helping to usher in a post-genomic age, where simple constructs about the role of nature versus nurture are being replaced by a functional understanding of gene expression in living organisms.
Remembered saccades of rhesus monkeys are markedly influenced by starting eye position. Altering the initial position systematically affects the direction or amplitude of the movements to a striking degree. In general, changes in the horizontal or vertical starting position primarily produce changes in the horizontal or vertical component, respectively, regardless of whether the target displacement occurs in the horizontal or vertical direction. For some monkeys, a similar pattern of initial position influence on movement direction can be seen in the curvature of visually guided saccades. Starting position also modulates the upward offset in fixation, which monkeys display in the dark.
Neon color spreading is closely related to the photopic visual phantom illusion, since these two completion phenomena are characterized by in-phase lightness induction, and the only difference in the stimulus configuration is the difference in the inducer height. This idea was supported by the present study. Neon color spreading showed almost the same function of critical spatial frequency as photopic visual phantoms (Experiment 1), and the critical spatial frequency was constant as the inducer height was changed (Experiment 2). We also examined the relationship between neon color spreading and grating induction (characterized by counterphase lightness induction) in critical spatial frequency (Experiment 3) and in magnitudes of lightness induction (Experiment 4) as a function of the inducer height. The inducer height at which in-phase (neon color spreading) appearance gave way to counterphase (grating) induction was approximately 0.1 deg. These results suggest that neon color spreading shares a common neural mechanism with the photopic visual phantom illusion and that this mechanism is different from, and competes with, the mechanism of grating induction.
Several recent studies [Farell, B., &amp; Pelli, D. (1993). Can we attend to large and small at the same time? Vision Research, 33, 2757-72; Shih, S., &amp; Sperling, G. (1996). Is there feature-based attentional selection in visual search? Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 22, 758-79] have found that visual selection based on the size of stimuli is impossible when the stimuli are presented in rapid succession in overlapping positions (RSVP paradigm). In the present study effective size-based selection is demonstrated in several conditions with RSVP stimuli. Attention to specific size is highly efficient when stimuli are presented in a single location (at fixation point) and may be possible also with a few (2-4) locations. When overlapping small and large characters are presented without abrupt onsets, then selection by size is effective at least over six locations. The results are explained by certain mandatory properties of spatial attention.
1. Enzyme induction has traditionally been studied during drug development to assess the potential of drug entities to interact with concomitant medications and alter their pharmacological effects, and clearly it is an unwanted phenomenon. However, another hurdle caused by induction occurs during preclinical development via the attainment of safety data, obtained by dosing high quantities of compound to species used in toxicology assessment. This review considers the techniques that can now be utilized in drug discovery, their relevance, the pharmacokinetic aspects of this phenomenon, and it discusses the consequences and implications of induction during preclinical and clinical development. 2. It is becoming increasingly routine to employ hepatocyte cultures and novel techniques such as quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase PCR to identify enzyme inducers in vitro. The major challenge is to utilize these in vitro data to predict the consequences of induction in vivo. From an understanding of pharmacokinetic principles and low clinical doses relative to preclinical studies, there is limited potential for induction by a development candidate to significantly alter the pharmacological efficacy of a co-administered drug. 3. The most comprehensive approach when considering induction involves integrating quantitative in vitro data, information on the pharmacokinetic behaviour of the compound and the PK/PD) relationship in order to predict its consequences. The generation of this holistic strategy would enable more detailed and informed decision-making about both the suitability of molecules for development and the development strategy itself.
What determines the firing rate of cortical neurons in the absence of external sensory input or motor behavior, such as during sleep? Here we report that, in a familiar environment, the discharge frequency of simultaneously recorded individual CA1 pyramidal neurons and the coactivation of cell pairs remain highly correlated across sleep-wake-sleep sequences. However, both measures were affected when new sets of neurons were activated in a novel environment. Nevertheless, the grand mean firing rate of the whole pyramidal cell population remained constant across behavioral states and testing conditions. The findings suggest that long-term firing patterns of single cells can be modified by experience. We hypothesize that increased firing rates of recently used neurons are associated with a concomitant decrease in the discharge activity of the remaining population, leaving the mean excitability of the hippocampal network unaltered.
When Horsley and Clark invented the stereotaxic technique they revolutionized experimental neurobiology. For the first time it became possible to repeatably place experimental or surgical probes at precise locations within the skull. Unfortunately, variations in the position and size of neuroanatomical structures within the cranium have always limited the efficiency of this technology. Recent advances in diagnostic medical ultrasonography, however, allow for the real-time visualization of anatomical structures, in some cases with resolutions of up to 150 microm. We report here that commercially available ultrasonographs can be used in the laboratory to generate real-time in vivo images of brain structures in both anesthetized and awake-behaving animals. We found that ultrasonic imaging is compatible with many types of experimental probes including single neuron recording electrodes, microinjection pipettes, and electrodes for producing electrolytic lesions. Ultrasonic imaging can be used to place, monitor and visualize these probes in vivo. In our hands, commercially available ultrasonic probes designed for pediatric use allowed us to visualize anatomical structures with sub-millimeter resolution in primate brains. Finally, ultrasonic imaging allowed us to reduce the risk of accidentally damaging major blood vessels, greatly reducing the incidence of stroke as an unintended complication of an experimental neurosurgical procedure. Diagnostic ultrasound holds the promise of reducing the uncertainty associated with stereotaxic surgery, an improvement which would significantly improve the efficiency of many neurobiological investigations, reducing the number of animal subjects employed in this research. While this demonstration focuses on sonographic imaging in non-human primates, similar advances should also be possible for studies in other species, including rodents.
As mammalian genome projects move towards completion, the attention of molecular neuroscientists is currently moving away from gene identification towards both cell-specific gene expression patterns (neuronal transcriptions) and protein expression/interactions (neuronal proteomics). In the long term, attention will increasingly be directed towards experimental interventions which are able to question neuronal function in a sophisticated manner that is cognisant of both transcriptomic and proteomic organization. Central to this effort will be the application of a new generation of transgenic approaches which are now evolving towards an appropriate level of molecular, temporal and spatial resolution. In this review, we summarize recent developments in transgenesis, and show how they have been applied in the principal model species for neuroscience, namely rats and mice. Current concepts of transgene design are also considered together with an overview of new genetically-encoded tools including both cellular indicators such as fluorescent activity reporters, and cellular regulators such as dominant negative signalling factors. Application of these tools in a whole animal context can be used to question both basic concepts of brain function, and also current concepts of underlying dysfuction in neurological diseases.
In order to develop transgenic animal models that selectively overexpress various Abeta peptides, we have developed a novel expression system that selectively expresses Abeta40 or Abeta42 in the secretory pathway. This system utilizes fusion constructs in which the sequence encoding the 23-amino-acid ABri peptide at the carboxyl terminus of the 266-amino-acid type 2 transmembrane protein BRI is replaced with a sequence encoding either Abeta40 or Abeta42. Constitutive processing of the resultant BRI-Abeta fusion proteins in transfected cells results in high-level expression and secretion of the encoded Abeta peptide. Significantly, expression of Abeta42 from the BRI-Abeta42 construct resulted in no increase in secreted Abeta40, suggesting that the majority of Abeta42 is not trimmed by carboxypeptidase to Abeta40 in the secretory pathway.
In the brain, the neuropeptide cholecystokinin (CCK) appears to be involved in the mediation of stress responses. Here we provide new evidence that mild stress induces long-term changes in CCK-like immunoreactivity (CCK-LI) in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). The changes in CCK-LI show a biphasic pattern, with a decrease 20 min after and an increase 8 h after mild stress. These changes seem to be region specific. Measurement of CCK mRNA in prefrontal cortex neurons 4 or 8 h after the stress stimulus did not reveal changes in mRNA levels, suggesting that afferent CCK-containing neuron terminals may be more affected than local cortical CCK-ergic neurons. Furthermore, treatment with the glutamate NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine, led to more pronounced decreases in CCK-LI observed within 20 min after mild stress and counteracted the stress induced increase in cortical CCK-LI levels observed at 8 h. Implantation of a microdialysis probe in the PFC affected the response to mild stress, with no significant decrease in the CCK-LI level 20 min after, and attenuated reactivity to stress 8 h after the saline injection. Our results indicate that a mild stressful stimulus such as an intraperitoneal saline injection may have long-lasting effects on CCK-ergic transmission in the PFC. The use of microdialysis to study stress induced in vivo CCK-LI release in awake animals may, however, be significantly compromised by the impact of the microdialysis probe implantation on CCK-ergic mechanisms in the PFC. In addition, we hypothesize that subanesthetic doses of the psychotomimetic drug ketamine interfere with CCK-ergic mechanisms in the PFC during stress.
There is some evidence that a traumatic life event can induce long-term alterations in corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) producing neurons in humans, which may play a role in the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). To study the long-term effects of a traumatic event on brain CRH-immunoreactivity (CRH-ir) and phospho-cAMP response element binding protein-immunoreactivity (P-CREB-ir), rats were exposed to a single session of foot shocks (preshocked) or no shocks (control). Two weeks later half of the control rats and half of the preshocked rats received an electrified prod in the home cage for 15 min and behavior was recorded. Fifteen minutes after the removal of the prod rats were perfused and brain sections were stained for CRH-ir and P-CREB-ir. There was no basal difference between preshocked and control rats in brain CRH-ir and P-CREB-ir. Exposure to the electrified prod induced a significant increase in CRH-ir in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the median eminence and the central amygdala in preshocked rats, but not in control rats. The electrified prod increased the number of P-CREB-ir neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the locus coeruleus, but the preshock experience did not affect this response. In an additional experiment with a similar design plasma hormone levels were measured 14 days after the foot shocks. The preshock experience sensitized the shock prod-induced ACTH and corticosterone response. No behavioral differences between preshocked and control rats were found during the shock prod tests. We suggest that long-term stress-induced changes in neuropeptide dynamics of CRH-ir neurons may play a role in long-term stress-induced neuroendocrine sensitization.
While muscarinic receptor antagonists are used to reduce motor side effects associated with the use of antipsychotic drugs, their site of action remains unclear. The study investigated the site of action of the non-selective muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine on catalepsy induced by the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, raclopride. Initially, catalepsy and striatal muscarinic receptor occupancy was assessed 2 h following subcutaneous injection of raclopride and either atropine or vehicle. Catalepsy was significantly reduced by doses of atropine that occupied more than 69% of muscarinic receptors. Next, atropine was injected bilaterally into the ventral striatum, which produced a significant reduction in catalepsy, while injections into the dorsal striatum and substantia nigra had no effect. The site of atropine's action was localised to a discrete area of the ventral striatum through the use of quantitative autoradiographic techniques. These findings provide further evidence for the importance of the ventral striatum in the expression of behaviours.
By using the large cytoplasmic domain of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha4 subunit as a bait in the yeast two-hybrid system, we isolated the first cytosolic protein, 14-3-3eta, known to interact directly with neuronal AChRs. 14-3-3eta is a member of a family of proteins that function as regulatory or chaperone/ scaffolding/adaptor proteins. 14-3-3eta interacted with the recombinant alpha4 subunit alone in tsA 201 cells following activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase by forskolin. The interaction of 14-3-3eta with recombinant alpha4 subunits was abolished when serine 441 of the alpha4 subunit was mutated to alanine (alpha4(S441A)). The surface levels of recombinant wild-type alpha4beta2 AChRs were approximately 2-fold higher than those of mutant alpha4(S441A)beta2 AChRs. The interaction significantly increased the steady state levels of the alpha4 subunit and alpha4beta2 AChRs but not that of the mutant alpha4(S441A) subunit or mutant alpha4(S441A)beta2 AChRs. The EC50 values for activation by acetylcholine were not significantly different for alpha4beta2 AChRs and alpha4(S441A)beta2 AChRs coexpressed with 14-3-3eta in oocytes following treatment with forskolin. 14-3-3 coimmunopurified with native alpha4 AChRs from brain. These results support a role for 14-3-3 in dynamically regulating the expression levels of alpha4beta2 AChRs through its interaction with the alpha4 subunit.
To study rhodopsin biosynthesis and transport in vivo, we engineered a fusion protein (rho-GFP) of bovine rhodopsin (rho) and green fluorescent protein (GFP). rho-GFP expressed in COS-1 cells bound 11-cis retinal, generating a pigment with spectral properties of rhodopsin (A(max) at 500 nm) and GFP (A(max) at 488 nm). rho-GFP activated transducin at 50% of the wild-type activity, whereas phosphorylation of rho-GFP by rhodopsin kinase was 10% of wild-type levels. We expressed rho-GFP in the rod photoreceptors of Xenopus laevis using the X. laevis principal opsin promoter. Like rhodopsin, rho-GFP localized to rod outer segments, indicating that rho-GFP was recognized by membrane transport mechanisms. In contrast, a rho-GFP variant lacking the C-terminal outer segment localization signal distributed to both outer and inner segment membranes. Confocal microscopy of transgenic retinas revealed that transgene expression levels varied between cells, an effect that is probably analogous to position-effect variegation. Furthermore, rho-GFP concentrations varied along the length of individual rods, indicating that expression levels varied within single cells on a daily or hourly basis. These results have implications for transgenic models of retinal degeneration and mechanisms of position-effect variegation and demonstrate the utility of rho-GFP as a probe for rhodopsin transport and temporal regulation of promoter function.
Vam3p, a syntaxin-like SNARE protein involved in yeast vacuole fusion, is composed of a three-helical N-terminal domain, a canonical SNARE motif, and a C-terminal transmembrane region (TMR). Surprisingly, we find that the N-terminal domain of Vam3p is not essential for fusion, although analogous domains in other syntaxins are indispensible for fusion and/or protein-protein interactions. In contrast to the N-terminal domain, mutations in the SNARE motif of Vam3p or replacement of the SNARE motif of Vam3p with the SNARE motif from other syntaxins inhibited fusion. Furthermore, the precise distance between the SNARE motif and the TMR was critical for fusion. Insertion of only three residues after the SNARE motif significantly impaired fusion and insertion of 12 residues abolished fusion. As judged by co-immunoprecipitation experiments, the SNARE motif mutations and the insertions did not alter the association of Vam3p with Vam7p, Vti1p, Nyv1p, and Ykt6p, other vacuolar SNARE proteins implicated in fusion. In contrast, the SNARE motif substitutions interfered with the stable formation of Vam3p complexes with Nyv1p and Vti1p, although Vam3p complexes with Vam7p and Ykt6p were still present. Our data suggest that in contrast to previously characterized syntaxins, Vam3p contains only two domains essential for fusion, the SNARE motif and the TMR, and these domains have to be closely coupled to function in fusion.
To interpret the recent atomic structures of the Kv (voltage-dependent potassium) channel T1 domain in a functional context, we must understand both how the T1 domain is integrated into the full-length functional channel protein and what functional roles the T1 domain governs. The T1 domain clearly plays a role in restricting Kv channel subunit heteromultimerization. However, the importance of T1 tetramerization for the assembly and retention of quarternary structure within full-length channels has remained controversial. Here we describe a set of mutations that disrupt both T1 assembly and the formation of functional channels and show that these mutations produce elevated levels of the subunit monomer that becomes subject to degradation within the cell. In addition, our experiments reveal that the T1 domain lends stability to the full-length channel structure, because channels lacking the T1 containing N terminus are more easily denatured to monomers. The integration of the T1 domain ultrastructure into the full-length channel was probed by proteolytic mapping with immobilized trypsin. Trypsin cleavage yields an N-terminal fragment that is further digested to a tetrameric domain, which remains reactive with antisera to T1, and that is similar in size to the T1 domain used for crystallographic studies. The trypsin-sensitive linkages retaining the T1 domain are cleaved somewhat slowly over hours. Therefore, they seem to be intermediate in trypsin resistance between the rapidly cleaved extracellular linker between the first and second transmembrane domains, and the highly resistant T1 core, and are likely to be partially structured or contain dynamic structure. Our experiments suggest that tetrameric atomic models obtained for the T1 domain do reflect a structure that the T1 domain sequence forms early in channel assembly to drive subunit protein tetramerization and that this structure is retained as an integrated stabilizing structural element within the full-length functional channel.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) rescues dorsal root ganglion neurons and PC12 cells from cisplatin-induced cell death. Two model systems were used to demonstrate that rescue is mediated through the high affinity NGF receptor. In dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons isolated from p75(-/-) and control mice, 20 ng/ml NGF completely prevented cisplatin-induced death. In PC12 cells, we overexpressed receptor chimeras between the tumor necrosis factor and NGF receptors. We demonstrated that activation of the intracellular domain of Trk A is responsible for the NGF rescue effect.



A series of indolylcyclohexylamines possessing potent and selective serotonin reuptake inhibition is reported. The most interesting compounds proved to have subnanomolar 5-HT transporter activity, and exhibited moderate 5-HT(1A) affinity.
In nonneuronal cells, the cell surface protein dystroglycan links the intracellular cytoskeleton (via dystrophin or utrophin) to the extracellular matrix (via laminin, agrin, or perlecan). Impairment of this linkage is instrumental in the pathogenesis of muscular dystrophies. In brain, dystroglycan and dystrophin are expressed on neurons and astrocytes, and some muscular dystrophies cause cognitive dysfunction; however, no extracellular binding partner for neuronal dystroglycan is known. Regular components of the extracellular matrix, such as laminin, agrin, and perlecan, are not abundant in brain except in the perivascular space that is contacted by astrocytes but not by neurons, suggesting that other ligands for neuronal dystroglycan must exist. We have now identified alpha- and beta-neurexins, polymorphic neuron-specific cell surface proteins, as neuronal dystroglycan receptors. The extracellular sequences of alpha- and beta-neurexins are largely composed of laminin-neurexin-sex hormone-binding globulin (LNS)/laminin G domains, which are also found in laminin, agrin, and perlecan, that are dystroglycan ligands. Dystroglycan binds specifically to a subset of the LNS domains of neurexins in a tight interaction that requires glycosylation of dystroglycan and is regulated by alternative splicing of neurexins. Neurexins are receptors for the excitatory neurotoxin alpha-latrotoxin; this toxin competes with dystroglycan for binding, suggesting overlapping binding sites on neurexins for dystroglycan and alpha-latrotoxin. Our data indicate that dystroglycan is a physiological ligand for neurexins and that neurexins' tightly regulated interaction could mediate cell adhesion between brain cells.
These studies examined the ability of a conditioned stimulus previously paired with footshock to reinstate cocaine-induced conditioned place preference. Male rats were given either odor or tone in a paired (PRD group) or explicitly unpaired (random, RND group) manner with footshock. All rats were subsequently trained in a cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP) task. Cocaine CPP was demonstrated in all groups. After CPP extinction, presentation of the conditioned fear stimulus produced a greater degree of reinstatement in PRD rats compared to the RND group. This was true whether the conditioned stimulus was odor or tone, but when odor was used as the conditioned stimulus, the RND group also partially reinstated cocaine CPP. In rats trained with tone as the conditioned stimulus, presentation of the tone during the test for reinstatement produced robust reinstatement of cocaine CPP only in the PRD, but not RND, group. In contrast, a subsequent priming injection with cocaine reinstated cocaine CPP equally in both RND and PRD groups. These studies indicate for the first time that conditioned fear stimuli induce reinstatement of cocaine CPP, and suggest that stimuli associated with prior stress may produce relapse in humans.
Experience affects how brains respond to sound. Here, we examined how the sensitivity and selectivity of auditory cortical neuronal responses were affected in adult rats by the repeated presentation of a complex sound that was paired with basal forebrain stimulation. The auditory cortical region that was responsive to complex sound was 2-5 five times greater in area in paired-stimulation rats than in naive rats. Magnitudes of neuronal responses evoked by complex sounds were also greatly increased by associative pairing, as were the percentages of neurons that responded selectively to the specific spectrotemporal features that were paired with stimulation. These findings demonstrate that feature selectivity within the auditory cortex can be flexibly altered in adult mammals through appropriate intensive training.
Fractional anisotropy and the mean diffusion coefficient were measured in the cerebral volume in 20 schizophrenic and 24 healthy subjects, men and women, using diffusion tensor imaging. In addition, 3D SPGR was used for segmentation of brain tissue into grey and white matter and cerebrospinal fluid. In schizophrenic patients, fractional anisotropy was reduced in the splenium of the corpus callosum and in adjacent occipital white matter. The segmentation revealed no tissue deficits in the volume of reduced fractional anisotropy. The mean diffusion was increased in the total white and grey matter volume of the schizophrenic patients compared with the healthy subjects. The findings support the view that global and regional white matter abnormalities occur in chronic schizophrenia.
gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) is a widely used recreational drug known to exert positive reinforcing effects in animals and humans. The GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen has been proved to possess antimotivational effect and to inhibit alcohol, cocaine, heroin and nicotine intake. In the present study we evaluated the effect of baclofen on i.v. self-administration of GHB in drug-naive mice under a fixed-ratio (FR-1) schedule of reinforcement and nose-poking-like response as operandum. Results show that baclofen was able to completely prevent GHB seeking behaviour, decreasing the rate of responding to basal values, without showing any reinforcing properties when made contingent on nose-poking response. Our findings demonstrate that baclofen antagonises GHB i.v. self-administration, supporting an important role for the GABA(B) receptor in reward-related mechanisms underlying addictive behaviour.
Parietal neurons have retinotopic receptive fields whose response is modulated by eye gaze signals. We examined the role of eye position and eye movement direction on visual extinction in three patients with parietal damage and left neglect, characterized by impaired perception of contralesional field stimuli despite intact visual cortex. Patients tracked a horizontally moving fixation point, while discriminating fine changes at the fixated point and detecting more salient targets flashed on either side of fixation. Eye position modulated extinction, with worse detection of left field targets during eccentric fixation towards the left. Direction of eye movement also modulated extinction, with worse detection of left targets during rightward scanning. These results demonstrate that extinction in contralesional field is influenced by extra-retinal factors related to eye position and eye movements, consistent with a convergence of these signals in parietal cortex.
We examined the immunoreactivity of ubiquitin-binding protein p62 and its association with ubiquitin (Ub), alpha-synuclein, and paired helical filament (PHF)-tau in the affected brain areas of human tauopathies and synucleinopathies. Ubiquitin-binding protein p62 is a widely expressed protein that can bind to Ub noncovalently and is involved in several signalling pathways, making p62 a candidate regulator of Ub-mediated proteolysis. We show that p62 immunoreactivity co-localizes with neuronal and glial Ub-containing inclusions in Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease, and multiple system atrophy. This is the first demonstration of a common protein component, apart from Ub, that is present in both PHF-tau and alpha-synuclein inclusions. In both tauo- and synucleinopathies, the staining patterns for p62 and Ub were markedly similar, suggesting that a common mechanism which requires interaction of p62 and Ub contributes to the formation of PHF-tau and alpha-synuclein inclusions.
We investigated the effects of the menstrual cycle on visual-vestibular interaction by measuring optokinetic function and postural stability at different phases of the cycle. Menstrual cycle phase had no significant effect on gaze-holding, optokinetic nystagmus slow phase velocity, amplitude or frequency, circularvection latency or optokinetic afternystagmus frequency, amplitude or duration. While menstrual cycle phase had no significant effect on anterior-posterior sway, it did significantly affect lateral sway (P&lt;0.001), with sway on day 5 significantly greater than on days 12 and 21 (P&lt;0.05 and 0.01, respectively), and sway on day 25 significantly greater than that on day 21 (P&lt;0.05).
Topographic distribution of motoneurons innervating hand muscles through the median (Mn), ulnar (Ul), or radial (Rd) nerves was examined using a retrograde multiple-labeling technique in the macaque monkey. The Mn and Ul motoneurons, i.e. flexor motoneurons, were distributed from C6 to T2 and from C7 to T2 segments of the spinal cord, respectively, while the Rd motoneurons, i.e. extensor motoneurons, were distributed from C4 to T2. The present study further revealed partial intermingling of the cell bodies and partial overlap of the dendritic fields among the motoneurons projecting through different nerves, indicating that subregions of motoneuronal pool participate in coordination between the flexor and extensor, or among the flexor muscles. It was suggested that there exists a control mechanism for precise hand movements in the spinal cord.


Short- and long-term synaptic facilitation induced by serotonin at Aplysia sensory-motor (SN-MN) synapses has been widely used as a cellular model of short- and long-term memory for sensitization. In recent years, a distinct intermediate phase of synaptic facilitation (ITF) has been described at SN-MN synapses. Here, we identify a novel intermediate phase of behavioral memory (ITM) for sensitization in Aplysia and demonstrate that it shares the temporal and mechanistic features of ITF in the intact CNS: (1) it declines completely prior to the onset of LTM, (2) its induction requires protein but not RNA synthesis, and (3) its expression requires the persistent activation of protein kinase A. Thus, in Aplysia, the same temporal and molecular characteristics that distinguish ITF from other phases of synaptic plasticity distinguish ITM from other phases of behavioral memory.
This study reveals mechanisms in the mouse hippocampus that may underlie nicotinic influences on attention, memory, and cognition. Induction of synaptic plasticity, arising via generally accepted mechanisms, is modulated by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Properly timed nicotinic activity at pyramidal neurons boosted the induction of long-term potentiation via presynaptic and postsynaptic pathways. On the other hand, nicotinic activity on interneurons inhibited nearby pyramidal neurons and thereby prevented or diminished the induction of synaptic potentiation. The synaptic modulation was dependent on the location and timing of the nicotinic activity. Loss of these synaptic mechanisms may contribute to the cognitive deficits experienced during Alzheimer's diseases, which is associated with a loss of cholinergic projections and with a decrease in the number of nicotinic receptors.

Bcl10 was identified as a candidate gene responsible for low grade B cell lymphomas of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue. Overexpression of Bcl10 in cultured cells was reported to promote apoptosis, however, the mechanism of regulation of apoptosis mediated by Bcl10 has not been demonstrated. In the present study, we analysed the apoptosis signaling pathway mediated by Bcl10, focusing on phosphorylation of Bcl10 and the dynamic interaction with its binding partners during apoptosis. Previously, we have demonstrated that Bcl10 potentially interacts with the other apoptosis regulator, TNF receptor associated factor-2 (TRAF2) and inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (cIAPs). The present results showed that the complex formation of these molecules was regulated by phosphorylation of Bcl10, that is, phosphorylation of Bcl10 resulted in binding of Bcl10 to cIAPs and the dissociation of it from TRAF2. Moreover, hyperphosphorylation of Bcl10 enhanced apoptosis, suggesting that changes in the binding partners of Bcl10 were correlated to the promotion of apoptosis as mediated by Bcl10. Indeed, the mutant which was deleted from the binding site of Bcl10 for cIAPs, could not induce apoptosis. These findings indicate that Bcl10 is a mediator of apoptosis signaling, by switching over binding to cIAPs from TRAF2 through the events of Bcl10 phosphorylation.
When the illumination of a visual scene changes, the quantity of light reflected from objects is altered. Despite this, the perceived lightness of the objects generally remains constant. This perceptual lightness constancy is thought to be important behaviorally for object recognition. Here we show that interactions from outside the classical receptive fields of neurons in primary visual cortex modulate neural responses in a way that makes them immune to changes in illumination, as is perception. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that the responses of neurons in primary visual cortex carry information about surface lightness in addition to information about form. It also suggests that lightness constancy, which is sometimes thought to involve &quot;higher-level&quot; processes, is manifest at the first stage of visual cortical processing.
The &gt;1 kb XL-exon of the rat XLalphas/Galphas gene encodes the 37 kDa XL-domain, the N-terminal half of the 78 kDa neuroendocrine-specific G-protein alpha-subunit XLalphas. Here, we describe a novel feature of the XL-exon, the presence of an alternative &gt;1 kb open reading frame (ORF) that completely overlaps with the ORF encoding the XL-domain. The alternative ORF starts 32 nucleotides downstream of the start codon for the XL-domain and is terminated by a stop codon exactly at the end of the XL-exon. The alternative ORF encodes ALEX, a very basic (pI 11.8), proline-rich protein of 356 amino acids. Both XLalphas and ALEX are translated from the same mRNA. Like XLalphas, ALEX is expressed in neuroendocrine cells and tightly associated with the cytoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membrane. Remarkably, ALEX binds to the XL-domain of XLalphas. Our results reveal a mechanism of gene usage that is without precedent in mammalian genomes.
Work from our laboratory has shown that adult male rats have 19% more neurons than female rats in the binocular region and 18% more in the monocular region of the primary visual cortex (Reid and Juraska [1992] J Comp Neurol 321:448-455; Nuez et al., [1999] Soc Neurosci Abstr 25:229). In the current experiment, we investigated whether cell death in male and female rats (postnatal days 2-35) contributes to the formation of these differences. Using stereological techniques, we investigated neuron density along with pyknotic and apoptotic (TdT-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end-labeled) cell density in the developing posterior cortex (future primary visual cortex). Although no sex differences in neuronal density were found in early development, we observed a differential time course of cell death between the sexes. Consistent with earlier reports, males displayed a rapid rise in cell death, with a peak on day 7 followed by a sharp decline to negligible levels by day 15. Females, however, displayed moderate peaks of cell death on days 7 and 11, with the persistence of low-to-modest levels until day 25. Similar patterns were obtained from both pyknotic and apoptotic cell quantification. Also, a formula was developed to estimate the percentage of cells that die during development and the amount of time a dying cell is visible. This study demonstrates that there is a prolonged period of cell death in the posterior cortex of developing female rats that appears to result in more cell death in females than males. This may be an important mechanism by which the sex difference in adult neuron number is created.
The synaptic vesicle protein, synaptotagmin, has been hypothesized to mediate several functions in neurotransmitter release including calcium sensing, vesicle recycling, and synaptic vesicle docking. These hypotheses are based on evidence from in vitro binding assays, peptide and antibody injection experiments, and genetic knockout studies. Synaptotagmin contains two domains that are homologous to the calcium ion (Ca(2+))-binding C2 domain of protein kinase C. The two C2 domains of synaptotagmin have broadly differing ligand-binding properties. We have focused on the second C2 domain (C2B) of synaptotagmin I, in particular, on a series of conserved lysine residues on beta-strand 4 of C2B. This polylysine motif binds clathrin-adapter protein AP-2, neuronal calcium channels, and inositol high polyphosphates. It also mediates Ca(2+)-dependent oligomerization. To investigate the importance of these lysine residues in synaptic transmission, we have introduced synaptotagmin I (syt) transgenes harboring specific polylysine motif mutations into flies otherwise lacking the synaptotagmin I protein (syt(null)). Electrophysiological analyses of these mutants revealed that evoked transmitter release is decreased by approximately 36% and that spontaneous release is increased approximately twofold relative to syt(null) flies that express a wild type syt transgene. Synaptotagmin expression in both the mutant and the wild type transgenic lines was equivalent, as measured by semiquantitative Western blot analysis. Thus, the alteration in synaptic transmission was due to the mutation and not to the level of synaptotagmin expression. We conclude that synaptotagmin interactions mediated by the C2 B polylysine motif are required to attain full synaptotagmin function in vivo.
Little is understood about the genetic or epigenetic mechanisms that underlie brain asymmetry. Because higher cognitive functions such as language, constructional and spatial abilities, and attention are organized along the left/right axis, understanding the underpinnings of this process has significant implications for both developmental biology and cognitive neuroscience. However, scientists have begun to explore, in only the most preliminary manner, the influences of subtle biologically inherited brain asymmetries on human behavior and disease. Because brain asymmetry develops prenatally, the recognition of asymmetry in neurodegeneration implies a possible relationship between the development of cerebral laterality and regional vulnerability in neurodegenerative diseases. This suggests that the study of cerebral asymmetry and laterality is likely to be relevant to a number of degenerative conditions that were previously considered to be only diseases of aging. In this article, I will outline our perspective and some of the approaches that my laboratory has begun to take to characterize the molecular basis of cerebral asymmetry. Most of these data are preliminary and the models presented are highly speculative, reflecting the primitive stage of work defining the molecular basis of cerebral asymmetry.
A number of studies have shown that activation of gamma-aminobutyric acid(B) (GABA(B)) receptors potentiates neurotransmitter-induced accumulation of cyclic AMP in brain slices, but the mechanisms involved in the facilitatory effect have not been fully elucidated. In the present study, we showed that in membranes of rat frontal cortex the GABA(B) receptor agonist (-)baclofen increased basal adenylyl cyclase activity and potentiated the maximal enzyme stimulation elicited by corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). The less active enantiomer (+)baclofen had no effect on cyclic AMP formation, whereas the natural agonist GABA mimicked the stimulatory action of (-)baclofen. In radioligand-binding experiments, the affinity and maximal binding capacity of (125)I-Tyr-CRH was not affected by (-)baclofen. The GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 55845A competitively counteracted the (-)baclofen potentiation of CRH-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity with a pA(2) value of 6.70. Moreover, both (-)baclofen and GABA, but not (+)baclofen, caused a concentration-dependent stimulation of [(35)S]GTP gamma S binding to membrane G-proteins. The intracerebral injection of pertussis toxin significantly reduced the facilitatory effects of (-)baclofen on both basal and CRH-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities. Moreover, membrane incubation with the GDP-bound form of the alpha subunit of transducin, a scavenger of G protein beta gamma subunits, blocked the stimulatory effects of (-)baclofen. The data indicate that in rat frontal cortex activation of GABA(B) receptors potentiates the CRH stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity through a mechanism involving the beta gamma subunits of the pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein G(i)/G(o).
It is commonly held that substance use comorbidity in schizophrenia represents self-medication, an attempt by patients to alleviate adverse positive and negative symptoms, cognitive impairment, or medication side effects. However, recent advances suggest that increased vulnerability to addictive behavior may reflect the impact of the neuropathology of schizophrenia on the neural circuitry mediating drug reward and reinforcement. We hypothesize that abnormalities in the hippocampal formation and frontal cortex facilitate the positive reinforcing effects of drug reward and reduce inhibitory control over drug-seeking behavior. In this model, disturbances in drug reward are mediated, in part, by dysregulated neural integration of dopamine and glutamate signaling in the nucleus accumbens resulting form frontal cortical and hippocampal dysfunction. Altered integration of these signals would produce neural and motivational changes similar to long-term substance abuse but without the necessity of prior drug exposure. Thus, schizophrenic patients may have a predilection for addictive behavior as a primary disease symptom in parallel to, and in many, cases independent from, their other symptoms.
There is an established relationship between the monoaminergic neurotransmitter system and mood disorders. In an attempt to define further the pathophysiology of mood disorders, research is focussing on intracellular second messenger systems, including cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) and the polyphosphoinositol generated second messengers. The availability of tissue from the Stanley Foundation Neuropathology Consortium has offered us the opportunity to make a number of observations with respect to these second messenger systems in tissue from patients with major depressive disorder and bipolar affective disorder. There is evidence that antidepressants stimulate components of the cAMP pathway in patients with depression while mood stabilizers blunt the same pathway in patients with bipolar disorder. Furthermore, downstream targets of this pathway appear to be altered in patients with mood disorders. The relations between changes in second messenger systems, gene transcription, and clinical effects of current therapeutic regimens has implications for development of novel treatments of mood disorders.
The accumulation of lipofuscin by retinal pigment epithelium may be an important feature in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration, suggesting the possibility that this common cause of blindness might be prevented or delayed by antioxidants. In support of this idea, we now report significantly reduced formation of lipofuscin when the antioxidant substances lutein, zeaxanthin, lycopene (carotenoids), or alpha-tocopherol were added to rabbit and bovine (calf) retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells exposed to normobaric hyperoxia (40%) and photoreceptor outer segments. Rabbit and calf RPE cells were grown for 2 weeks with addition of one of the test substances every 48 h. The cellular uptake of carotenoids and alpha-tocopherol was assayed by HPLC after 2 weeks. The lipofuscin-content was measured by static fluorometry (rabbit cells) or by image analysis (calf cells). Both rabbit and calf RPE showed similar results with significantly lower amounts of lipofuscin in antioxidant-treated cells. The effect of carotenoids is especially interesting, since the result is not dependent on their protective effect against photo-oxidative reactions. The chain-breaking abilities of these antioxidants in peroxidative reactions of lipid membranes and quenching of free radicals seem to be of importance for inhibition of lipofuscin formation.
The dystroglycan complex is a membrane-spanning complex composed of two subunits, alpha- and beta-dystroglycan. alpha-dystroglycan is a cell surface peripheral membrane protein which binds to the extracellular matrix (ECM), whereas beta-dystroglycan is an integral membrane protein which anchors alpha-dystroglycan to the cell membrane. The dystroglycan complex provides a tight link between the ECM and cell membrane. Dysfunction of the dystroglycan complex has commonly been implicated in the molecular pathogenesis of severe forms of hereditary neuromuscular diseases, including Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy and sarcoglycanopathy (LGMD2C, -D, -E and -F). To begin to clarify the pathway by which the dysfunction of the dystroglycan complex could lead to muscle cell degeneration, we investigated the proteolytic processing of the dystroglycan complex in this study. We demonstrate that (i) a 30 kDa fragment of beta-dystroglycan is expressed in peripheral nerve, kidney, lung and smooth muscle, but not skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle or brain, and (ii) this fragment is the product of proteolytic processing of the extracellular domain of beta-dystroglycan by the membrane-associated matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity. Importantly, furthermore, we demonstrate that this processing disintegrates the dystroglycan complex. Our results indicate that the processing of beta-dystroglycan by MMP causes the disruption of the link between the ECM and cell membrane via the dystroglycan complex, which could have profound effects on cell viability. Based on these and previously reported findings, we propose a hypothesis that this processing may play a crucial role in the molecular pathogenesis of sarcoglycanopathy.
Optic nerve abnormalities are easily detectable in patients with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, the presence of structural changes in the optic radiations and calcarine cortex of these patients is still an unresolved issue. In this study, we obtained magnetization transfer (MT) and diffusion tensor (DT) MRI to investigate the integrity of these structures in patients with LHON. Dual echo, MT- and DT-MRI scans of the brain were obtained from 10 men with LHON and 10 healthy sex- and age-matched controls. After image co-registration, we obtained MT ratio (MTR), average diffusivity (D) and fractional anisotropy (FA) maps. MTR, D and FA values for the white matter of the optic radiations and MTR and D values for the calcarine cortex were obtained using a region of interest (ROI) analysis. No macroscopic abnormalities were detected in any of the scans from LHON patients and controls. No statistically significant differences of MTR, D or FA values were found for any of the regions studied in LHON patients and healthy controls. Our results suggest that, in patients with LHON, the optic radiations and the calcarine cortex are spared from structural damage, both at a macroscopic and a microscopic level.
Circadian or daily rhythms generated from the mammalian suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus can be synchronized by light and nonphotic stimuli. Whereas glutamate mediates photic information, nonphotic information can in some cases be mediated by neuropeptide Y (NPY) or serotonin. NPY or serotonin can reduce the phase-resetting effect of light or glutamate; however, the mechanisms and level of interaction of these two kinds of stimuli are unknown. Here we investigate the effect of NPY on the NMDA-induced phase shift of the hamster SCN circadian neural activity rhythm by means of single-unit recording techniques. NMDA (10-100 microm) applied in the early subjective night induced phase delays in the time of peak firing, whereas doses in the millimolar range disrupted firing patterns. The NMDA-induced phase delay was blocked by coapplication of NPY (0.02-200 microm). NPY Y1/Y5 and Y5 receptor agonists, but not the Y2 receptor agonist, blocked the NMDA-induced phase delay in a similar manner as NPY. The coapplication of a Y5 but not Y1 receptor antagonist eliminated NPY blockade of NMDA-induced phase delays, suggesting that the Y5 receptor is capable of mediating the inhibitory effect of NPY on photic responses. These results indicate that nonphotic and photic stimuli may interact at a level at or beyond NMDA receptor response and indicate that the Y5 receptor is involved in this interaction. Alteration of Y5 receptor function may therefore be expected to alter synchronization of circadian rhythms to light.
In previous studies we provided evidence that the gamma isoform of protein kinase C (PKCgamma) is an important contributor to the increased pain sensitivity that occurs after injury. Here we combined electrophysiological and behavioral approaches in wild-type and PKCgamma-null mice to compare the hyperexcitability of wide dynamic range neurons in lamina V of the spinal cord dorsal horn with the behavioral hyperexcitability produced by the same injury [application of a C-fiber irritant, mustard oil (MO), to the hindpaw]. Wild-type and null mice did not differ in their response to mechanical or thermal stimuli before tissue injury, and the magnitude of the response to the MO stimuli was comparable. In wild-type mice, MO produced a dramatic and progressive enhancement of the response of lamina V neurons to innocuous mechanical and thermal stimuli. The time course of the neuronal hyperexcitability paralleled the time course of the MO-induced behavioral allodynia (nocifensive behavior in response to a previously innocuous mechanical stimulus). Neuronal hyperexcitability was also manifest in the PKCgamma-null mice, but it lasted &lt;30 min. By contrast, the behavioral allodynia produced by MO in the PKCgamma-null mice, although reduced to approximately half that of the wild-type mice, persisted long after the lamina V hyperexcitability had subsided. Because the MO-induced behavioral allodynia was completely blocked by an NMDA receptor antagonist, we conclude that PKCgamma mediates the transition from short- to long-term hyperexcitability of lamina V nociresponsive neurons but that the persistence of injury-induced pain must involve activity within multiple NMDA-dependent spinal cord circuits.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were used to investigate the electrophysiological properties of mitral cells in rat main olfactory bulb brain slice preparations. The majority of mitral cells are bistable. These cells spontaneously alternate between two membrane potentials, separated by approximately 10 mV: a relatively depolarized potential (upstate), which is perithreshold for spike generation, and a relatively hyperpolarized potential (downstate), in which spikes do not occur. Bistability occurs spontaneously in the absence of ionotropic excitatory or inhibitory synaptic inputs. Bistability is voltage dependent; transition from the downstate to the upstate is a regenerative event activated by brief depolarization. A brief hyperpolarization can switch the membrane potential from the upstate to the downstate. In response to olfactory nerve (ON) stimulation, mitral cells in the upstate are more likely to fire an action potential than are those in the downstate. ON stimulation can switch the membrane potential from the downstate to the upstate, producing a prolonged and amplified depolarization in response to a brief synaptic input. We conclude that bistability is an intrinsic property of mitral cells that is a major determinant of their responses to ON input.
Members of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor family are thought to play key roles in the regulation of a large number of important functions of the CNS. However, the precise roles of the individual muscarinic receptor subtypes in modulating these processes are not well understood at present, primarily because of the lack of ligands with sufficient receptor subtype selectivity. To investigate the behavioral significance of the M(1) muscarinic receptor (M(1)R), which is abundantly expressed in the forebrain, we subjected M(1) receptor-deficient mice (M(1)R(-/-) mice) to a battery of behavioral tests. M(1)R(-/-) mice showed no significant impairments in neurological reflexes, motor coordination, pain sensitivity, and prepulse inhibition. Strikingly, however, M(1)R(-/-) mice consistently exhibited a pronounced increase in locomotor activity in various tests, including open field, elevated plus maze, and light/dark transition tests. Moreover, M(1)R(-/-) mice showed reduced immobilization in the Porsolt forced swim test and reduced levels of freezing after inescapable footshocks, suggesting that M(1)R(-/-) mice are hyperactive under stressful conditions as well. An increased number of social contacts was observed in a social interaction test. Surprisingly, M(1)R(-/-) mice displayed no significant cognitive impairments in the Morris water maze and in contextual fear conditioning. M(1)R(-/-) mice showed slight performance deficits in auditory-cued fear conditioning and in an eight-arm radial maze, most likely because of the hyperactivity phenotype displayed by the M(1)R(-/-) mice. Our results indicate that M(1) muscarinic receptors play an important role in the regulation of locomotor activity but appear to be less critical for cognitive processes, as generally assumed.
Factors that regulate terminal arbor size of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) neurons during development and after injury are not well understood. This study examined the role of dopamine receptors in regulating arbor size. Terminal arbors were examined in mice with targeted deletion of the D1 or D2 dopamine receptor [D1(-/-) and D2(-/-) mice, respectively]. Terminal trees were also examined after treatment with receptor blockers and after partial SNpc lesions. Immunohistochemistry was performed, and the number of SNpc neurons and dopaminergic terminals in the striatum was estimated. The number of dopaminergic SNpc neurons were reduced in D1(-/-) and D2(-/-) mice. Density of dopaminergic terminals was unchanged in D1(-/-) mice and increased in D2 (-/-) mice. Steady-state striatal DA and DOPAC levels revealed that dopamine activity was enhanced in D2(-/-) mice but reduced in D1(-/-) mice. Two months after partial SNpc lesions, striatal terminal density was normal in both wild-type and D1(-/-) mice but reduced in D2(-/-) mice. Administration of DA receptor antagonists resulted in larger terminal arbors in D1(-/-) and wild-type mice, whereas D2(-/-) mice showed no change in terminal density. Functional blockade of the D2R during development or in the adult brain results in increased axonal sprouting. Partial SNpc lesions resulted in compensatory sprouting, only in mice with functional D2R. These results suggest that individual dopaminergic axons in D2(-/-) mice have reached maximal arbor size. We conclude that the D2 receptor may play a role in modulating the extent of the terminal arbor of SNpc neurons.
To discover genes influencing cerebellum development, we conducted a complex trait analysis of variation in the size of the adult mouse cerebellum. We analyzed two sets of recombinant inbred BXD strains and an F2 intercross of the common inbred strains, C57BL/6J and DBA/2J. We measured cerebellar size as the weight or volume of fixed or histologically processed tissue. Among BXD recombinant inbred strains, the cerebellum averages 52 mg (12.4% of the brain) and ranges 18 mg in size. In F2 mice, the cerebellum averages 62 mg (12.9% of the brain) and ranges approximately 20 mg in size. Five quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that significantly control variation in cerebellar size were mapped to chromosomes 1 (Cbs1a), 8 (Cbs8a), 14 (Cbs14a), and 19 (Cbs19a, Cbs19b). In combination, these QTLs can shift cerebellar size an appreciable 35% of the observed range. To assess regional genetic control of the cerebellum, we also measured the volume of the cell-rich, internal granule layer (IGL) in a set of BXD strains. The IGL ranges from 34 to 43% of total cerebellar volume. The QTL Cbs8a is significantly linked to variation in IGL volume and is suggestively linked to variation in the number of cerebellar folia. The QTLs we have discovered are among the first loci shown to modulate the size and architecture of the adult mouse cerebellum.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a disorder of two pathologies: amyloid plaques, the core of which is a peptide derived from the amyloid precursor protein (APP), and neurofibrillary tangles composed of highly phosphorylated tau. Protein kinase C (PKC) is known to increase non-amyloidogenic alpha-secretase cleavage of APP, producing secreted APP (sAPPalpha), and glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta is known to increase tau phosphorylation. Both PKC and GSK-3beta are components of the wnt signaling cascade. Here we demonstrate that overexpression of another member of this pathway, dishevelled (dvl-1), increases sAPPalpha production. The dishevelled action on APP is mediated via both c-jun terminal kinase (JNK) and protein kinase C (PKC)/mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase but not via p38 MAP kinase. These data position dvl-1 upstream of both PKC and JNK, thereby explaining the previously observed dual signaling action of dvl-1. Furthermore, we show that human dvl-1 and wnt-1 also reduce the phosphorylation of tau by GSK-3beta. Therefore, both APP metabolism and tau phosphorylation are potentially linked through wnt signaling.
Benzodiazepines (BZDs) exert their effects in the CNS by binding to a modulatory site on GABA(A) receptors. Individual amino acids have been implicated in BZD recognition and modulation of the GABA(A) receptor, but the secondary structure of the amino acids contributing to the BZD binding site has not been elucidated. In this report we used the substituted cysteine accessibility method to understand the structural dynamics of a region of the GABA(A) receptor implicated in BZD binding, gamma(2)Y72-gamma(2)Y83. Each residue within this region was mutated to cysteine and expressed with wild-type alpha(1) and beta(2) subunits in Xenopus oocytes. Methanethiosulfonate (MTS) reagents were used to modify covalently the engineered cysteines, and the subsequent effects on BZD modulation of the receptor were monitored functionally by two-electrode voltage clamp. We identified an alternating pattern of accessibility to sulfhydryl modification, indicating that the region gamma(2)T73-gamma(2)T81 adopts a beta-strand conformation. By monitoring the ability of BZD ligands to impede the covalent modification of accessible cysteines, we also identified two residues within this region, gamma(2)A79 and gamma(2)T81, that line the BZD binding site. Sulfhydryl modification of gamma(2)A79C or gamma(2)T81C allosterically shifts the GABA EC(50) of the receptor, suggesting that certain MTS compounds may act as tethered agonists at the BZD binding site. Last, we present structural evidence that a portion of the BZD binding site undergoes a conformational change in response to GABA binding and channel gating (opening and desensitization). These data represent an important step in understanding allosteric communication in ligand-gated ion channels.
Recent work demonstrated the importance of perirhinal cortex (PR) in a variety of behavioral tasks and disease processes. Studies from our laboratory revealed that some layers of PR contain neurons with unusual properties. Here we report a detailed examination of the cellular neurobiology of layer VI of PR, using whole-cell recordings and biocytin cell fills in horizontal rat brain slices. The most striking finding is that an overwhelming majority ( approximately 86%) of neurons are late-spiking (LS) cells, which can delay the onset of their spike trains by several seconds or more relative to the onset of a depolarizing current step. LS neurons previously have been shown to exist only in very small numbers in a limited number of other cortical regions. Anatomical reconstructions have revealed that the LS neurons vary greatly in morphology, including both pyramidal and nonpyramidal cells. Another surprising physiological finding is the fact that single-spiking (SS) neurons are the second most common cell type ( approximately 7%). SS neurons issue only a single action potential even in response to extreme depolarization. They have been seen previously in the amygdala, but never in cortex. A third remarkable finding is that there are almost no regular spiking (RS) neurons, unlike all other cortical regions that have been studied. This unique abundance of LS neurons in layer VI, along with the presence of SS neurons and the absence of RS neurons, demonstrates that layer VI of PR is unlike any other cortical region that has been studied to date.
Although useful for determining neuronal damage in cell cultures, the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay is not suitable for acute brain preparations because LDH release is typically delayed relative to neuronal deterioration. The slow release suggests that LDH may remain trapped inside damaged cells until late in the degenerative process. To test this, we examined whether brief sonication facilitates LDH release from acutely damaged neurons. In rat isolated retinas and hippocampal slices, LDH release was minimal following acute administration of iodoacetate or kainate. However, these toxins promoted significant LDH release, when toxin exposure was followed by brief sonication. Increases in extracellular LDH correlated with changes in neuronal morphology. These findings suggest that sonication may facilitate the use of the LDH assay in acute brain preparations.
In this study we have used fluorescent microspheres to retrogradely label primary sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs). Following injection into peripheral nerves, the animals were allowed to survive up to 480 days. Simple profile count indicates that there is a substantial retention of the labeling still after at least 480 days, i.e. about two-thirds of a rat's life span. Moreover, the appearance of the labeling remains quite distinct. Using established markers for axon damage of DRG neurons, we could detect a slight and transient effect of the peripheral nerve injection on the gene expression pattern. It is concluded that fluorescent microspheres represents an attractive means of tagging neurons in experiments covering long time periods.
In rat brain and spinal cord slices, the local extracellular accumulation of K(+), as indicated by K(+) tail currents (I(tail)) after a depolarization step, is greater in the vicinity of oligodendrocytes than that of astrocytes. It has been suggested that this may reflect a smaller extracellular space (ECS) around oligodendrocytes compared to astrocytes [Chvtal et al. [1997] J. Neurosci. Res. 49:98-106; [1999] J. Neurosci. Res. 56:493-505). We therefore compared the effect of osmotic stress in spinal cord slices from 5-11-day-old rats on the changes in reversal potentials (V(rev)) of I(tail) measured by the whole-cell patch-clamp technique and the changes in ECS volume measured by the real-time iontophoretic method. Cell swelling induced by a 20 min perfusion of hypoosmotic solution (200 mmol/kg) decreased the ECS volume fraction from 0.21 +/- 0.01 to 0.15 +/- 0.02, i.e., by 29%. As calculated from V(rev) of I(tail) using the Nernst equation, a depolarizing prepulse increased [K(+)](e) around astrocytes from 11.0 to 44.7 mM, i.e., by 306%, and around oligodendrocytes from 26.1 to 54.9 mM, i.e., by 110%. The ECS volume fraction decrease had the same time course as the changes in V(rev) of I(tail). Cell shrinkage in hyperosmotic solution (400 mmol/kg) increased ECS volume fraction from 0.24 +/- 0.02 to 0.32 +/- 0.02, i.e., by 33%. It had no effect on [K(+)](e) evoked by a depolarizing prepulse in astrocytes, whereas in oligodendrocytes [K(+)](e) rapidly decreased from 52 to 26 mM, i.e., by 50%. The increase in ECS volume was slower than the changes in [K(+)](e). These data demonstrate that hypoosmotic solution has a larger effect on the ECS volume around astrocytes than around oligodendrocytes and that hyperosmotic solution affects the ECS volume around oligodendrocytes only. This indicates that increased K(+) accumulation in the vicinity of oligodendrocytes could be due to a restricted ECS. Oligodendrocytes in the CNS are therefore most likely surrounded by clusters of &quot;compacted&quot; ECS, which may selectively affect the diffusion of neuroactive substances in specific areas and directions and facilitate spatial K(+) buffering.
1. ATP can elicit pain in humans and, together with other P2X channel agonists, can produce nocifensive responses in rodents. We used the rat in vitro skin-nerve preparation to quantify primary afferent responses to ATP and its stable analogue alpha,beta-methylene ATP in normal and carrageenan-inflamed skin. 2. Both ATP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP were found to specifically activate the peripheral terminals of Adelta and C-fibre nociceptors in the skin. Thirty-nine per cent of the nociceptors tested responded to the maximal dose of alpha,beta-methylene ATP (5 mM). In contrast, non-nociceptive, low-threshold mechano-sensitive fibres were never activated by the same agonist concentrations. 3. Amongst the nociceptor population, C-mechanoheat fibres (C-MH or polymodal nociceptors) were markedly more responsive to P2X agonists than mechanonociceptors (C-M nociceptors) with Adelta- or C-fibre axons. Both C-mechanoheat and C-mechanonociceptors were activated by alpha,beta-methylene ATP doses as low as 50 microM. 4. In skin inflamed with carrageenan 3-4 h before recording both the number of responsive C-fibre nociceptors and their response magnitude increased. The increased neural response under inflammatory conditions was largely observed in C-mechanoheat or polymodal nociceptors. After low doses of P2X agonists C-MH fibres but not C-M fibres developed elevated ongoing activity and this effect was only seen after carrageenan inflammation. The time course of alpha,beta-methylene ATP-evoked discharges in nociceptors was found to correlate well with the time course of behavioural nocifensive responses in rats to the same agonist described in a previous study (Hamilton et al. 1999). 5. We conclude that the rapid increase in the number of alpha,beta-methylene ATP responsive nociceptors and the increased magnitude of the neural response following carrageenan inflammation explains why very low concentrations of such agonists can cause pain in inflammatory states.
Throughout life organisms are challenged with various physiological and psychological stressors, and the ability to handle these stressors can have profound effects on the overall health of the organism. In mammals, the effects of stressors on the aging process and age-related diseases are complex, involving the nervous, endocrine and immune systems. Certain types of mild stress, such as caloric restriction, may extend lifespan and reduce the risk of diseases, whereas some types of psychosocial stress are clearly detrimental. We now have a basic understanding of the brain regions involved in stress responses, their neuroanatomical connections with neuroendocrine pathways, and the neuropeptides and hormones involved in controlling responses of different organ systems to stress. Not surprisingly, brain regions involved in learning and memory and emotion play prominent roles in stress responses, and monoaminergic and glutamatergic synapses play particularly important roles in transducing stressful sensory inputs into neuroendocrine responses. Among the neuropeptides involved in stress responses, corticotropin-releasing hormone appears to be a pivotal regulator of fear and anxiety responses. This neuropeptide is responsible for activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which is critical for mobilizing energy reserves and immune responses, and improper regulation of the HPA axis mediates many of the adverse effects of chronic physical and psychosocial stress. In the brain, for instance, stress may contribute to disease processes by causing imbalances in cellular energy metabolism and ion homeostasis, and by inhibiting neuroprotective signaling pathways. There is considerable evidence that normal aging impacts upon neuroendocrine stress responses, and studies of the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the pathogenic actions of mutations that cause age-related neurological disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, are revealing novel insight into the involvement of perturbed neuroendocrine stress responses in these disorders.
Sphingomyelin (SM) is a prominent phospholipid component of cell membranes that has evolved diverse functions in cells beyond its role in membrane structural organization. Cleavage of SM by acid or neutral sphingomyelinase results in the liberation of ceramide, an intracellular messenger that regulates the activities of an array of kinases, phosphatases and transcription factors. Signals that activate sphingomyelinases range from growth factors and cytokines, to neurotransmitters, hormones and reactive oxygen species. Studies of experimental cell culture and animal models, and of patients with inherited defects in sphingomyelin metabolism suggest important roles for SM-ceramide signaling in the regulation of cell proliferation, differentiation and survival. At low concentrations SM and ceramide can stimulate cell proliferation and survival, whereas higher levels can induce cell dysfunction or death. Analyses of development and aging suggest a major role for SM metabolism in regulating development rate and lifespan. Several factors that alter the metabolism of sphingolipids, including oxidative and metabolic stress, also increase risk and progression of age-related diseases. In addition, recent findings have linked alterations in SM metabolism to the pathogenesis of several age-related diseases including cancers and neurodegenerative disorders. The emerging data suggest the possibility that dietary and pharmacological manipulations of SM metabolism might prove effective in extending lifespan and treating various age-related diseases.
The etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves a significant inflammatory component as evidenced by the presence of elevated levels of a diverse range of proinflammatory molecules in the AD brain. These inflammatory molecules are produced principally by activated microglia, which are found to be clustered within and adjacent to the senile plaque. Moreover, long-term treatment of patients with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been shown to reduce risk and incidence of AD and delay disease progression. The microglia respond to beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition in the brain through the interaction of fibrillar forms of amyloid with cell surface receptors, leading to the activation of intracellular signal transduction cascades. The activation of multiple independent signaling pathways ultimately leads to the induction of proinflammatory gene expression and production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species. These microglial inflammatory products act in concert to produce neuronal toxicity and death. Therapeutic approaches focused on inhibition of the microglial-mediated local inflammatory response in the AD brain offer new opportunities to intervene in the disease.
Glutamate receptor channels are built around an ancient pore loop structure which defines the inner channel environment and which is connected to structures for channel gating. This pore loop, which corresponds to the M2 region of the receptor subunits, enters the lipid bilayer from the intracellular side in an alpha-helical configuration, then kinks to form a random coil and exits the lipid bilayer at the intracellular side. The narrow constriction of the channel is formed by amino acid residues that occupy a position shortly after the end of the alpha-helical part of M2. These residues determine ion selectivity and conductance properties of the glutamate-gated channel. The critical residues are asparagines for NMDA receptor subunits and glutamine or arginine for AMPA and kainate receptor subunits. Presence of arginine in the critical channel position of AMPA and kainate receptors is controlled by site-selective RNA editing. To study the importance of these critical channel residues in the mouse, we introduced codon changes in the endogenous genes for NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits. Our results show that changes in the critical channel position are not tolerated, but lead to early death. Therefore, the impact on adult synaptic function and plasticity by glutamate receptor channels with changed ion selectivity and conductance needs to be addressed by conditional expression of the mutant receptors.
In this study, entorhinal cortex lesions and/or medial septal area cholinergic lesions were used in the rat to mimic some of the principal and earliest affects in Alzheimer's disease, namely hippocampal deafferentation. We wished to test the hypothesis that deafferentation lesions cause changes in the regulation of three proteins that are known to be important in Alzheimer's disease pathology, namely amyloid precursor protein, presenilin and tau. Expression of amyloid precursor protein mRNA was increased in several subfields of hippocampus when examined 1 week after entorhinal cortex lesion, but was reduced, compared to sham operated controls, after medial septal area cholinergic lesions. Cholinergic lesions were combined with entorhinal cortex lesions and produced no change in APP mRNA levels compared to controls. No significant changes were observed in the parietal cortex after entorhinal cortex or cholinergic lesions either alone or in combination. Tau mRNA level in hippocampus was unchanged after lesions. Presenilin-1 mRNA was expressed in the hippocampus at very low levels, and appeared to be increased following entorhinal cortex lesion. Our results support the hypothesis that amyloid precursor protein expression in hippocampal neurons is differentially affected by glutamatergic and cholinergic afferent input, and that presenilin-1, but not tau, may be subject to the same type of control in vivo.
We administered 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (1-BnTIQ; 80 mg/kg, i.p.), an endogenous neurotoxin known to cause bradykinesia, the Parkinson's disease-like symptom, in order to obtain biochemical and pathological evidence of behavioral abnormalities. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that 1-BnTIQ did not decrease the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the substantia nigra. Biochemical analysis demonstrated significantly increased striatal dopamine (DA) content, while DA metabolites in the striatum remained at control levels. We concluded that the 1-BnTIQ-induced bradykinesia has a different mechanism of action than that underlying the MPTP-induced depletion of striatal DA neurons.
We have isolated and characterized an atrial gland cDNA that corrects the previously reported sequence for Aplysia atrial gland granule-specific antigen (AGSA), a glycoprotein of unknown function. We designated the protein mollusk-derived growth factor (MDGF) to distinguish the revised sequence from AGSA and to emphasize its similarity to an insect-derived growth factor (IDGF). We describe MDGF mRNA expression that suggests a possible role during embryonic development and CNS injury repair.
The C termini of G protein alpha subunits are critical for binding to their cognate receptors, and peptides corresponding to the C terminus can serve as competitive inhibitors of G protein-coupled receptor-G protein interactions. This interface is quite specific as a single amino acid difference annuls the ability of a G alpha(i) peptide to bind the A(1) adenosine receptor (Gilchrist, A., Mazzoni, M., Dineen, B., Dice, A., Linden, J., Dunwiddie, T., and Hamm, H. E. (1998 ) J. Biol. Chem. 273, 14912--14919). Recently, we demonstrated that a plasmid minigene vector encoding the C-terminal sequence of G alpha(i) could specifically inhibit downstream responses to agonist stimulation of the muscarinic M(2) receptor (Gilchrist, A., Bunemann, M., Li, A., Hosey, M. M., and H. E. Hamm (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 6610--6616). To selectively antagonize G protein signal transduction events and determine which G protein underlies a given thrombin-induced response, we generated minigene vectors that encode the C-terminal sequence for each family of G alpha subunits. Minigene vectors expressing G alpha C-terminal peptides (G alpha(i), G alpha(q), G alpha(12), and G alpha(13)) or the control minigene vector, which expresses the G alpha(i) peptide in random order (G(iR)), were systematically introduced into a human microvascular endothelial cell line. The C-terminal peptides serve as competitive inhibitors presumably by blocking the site on the G protein-coupled receptor that normally binds the G protein. Our results not only confirm that each G protein can control certain signaling events, they emphasize the specificity of the G protein-coupled receptor-G protein interface. In addition, the C-terminal G alpha minigenes appear to be a powerful tool for dissecting out the G protein that mediates a given physiological function following thrombin activation.



Genetic mutations have been identified in the major motor neuron diseases, including ALS, spinal muscular atrophy, bulbospinal muscular atrophy (Kennedy's disease), the hereditary spastic paraplegias, and rarer conditions such as GM2 gangliosidosis (hexosaminidase A deficiency). These include mutations in the SOD1 gene, deletions of the telomeric copy of the SMN gene, expansions of the trinucleotide repeat region in the first exon of the androgen receptor gene, other rare mutations, and diseases where linkage has been established but the gene not identified. Identification of one of these genetic abnormalities will allow specific diagnosis in patients. Because cure is not yet available, presymptomatic testing is seldom indicated; in such cases, careful counseling is appropriate.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) levels were determined in the CSF of patients with chronic daily headache (CDH) and correlated with levels of sensory neuropeptides. Patients with CDH showed higher NGF levels in the CSF compared with control subjects (p &lt; 0.0001). Higher CSF levels of substance P (SP) (p &lt; 0.002) and calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) (p &lt; 0.0001) were also found. There was a significant positive correlation between NGF and both SP and CGRP values. These findings suggest that NGF is involved in the long-lasting sensitization and sustained activation of the trigeminal system in CDH.




T2Rs comprise a G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily that contains functionally defined bitter taste receptors. Here we report the tissue expressions and coding single-nucleotide polymorphisms (cSNPs) in human T2R genes (hT2R3, hT2R4, and hT2R5) on chromosome 7q31. We first demonstrated that hT2R3, hT2R4, and hT2R5 are actually expressed in the circumvallate papillae of the human tongue by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We identified six cSNPs within the T2R receptor genes. The hT2R4 and hT2R5 contained four and one cSNPs that cause missense mutations, respectively, while hT2R3 included one silent nucleotide mutation. However, we could not find any nonsense mutations that resulted in a frameshift or a premature stop codon within the open reading frames. Genotype frequencies of each cSNP were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The identification of nucleotide diversity and amino acid polymorphisms in human T2R receptors could help clarify individual differences in the acceptability and sensitivity to bitter compounds.
Somatostatin was first identified as a hypothalamic factor which inhibits the release of growth hormone from the anterior pituitary (somatotropin release inhibitory factor, SRIF). Both SRIF and its receptors were subsequently found widely distributed within and outside the nervous system, in the adult as well as in the developing organism. Reflecting this wide distribution, somatostatin has been implicated regulating a diverse array of biological processes. These include body growth, homeostasis, sensory perception, autonomous functions, rate of intestinal absorption, behavior, including cognition and memory, and developmental processes. We produced null mutant mice lacking somatostatin through targeted mutagenesis. The mutant mice are healthy, fertile, and superficially indistinguishable from their heterozygous and wildtype littermates. A 'first round' phenotype screen revealed that mice lacking somatostatin have elevated plasma growth hormone levels, despite normal body size, and have elevated basal plasma corticosterone levels. In order to uncover subtle and unexpected differences, we carried out a systematic behavioral phenotype screen which identified a significant impairment in motor learning revealed when increased demands were made on motor coordination. Motor coordination and motor learning require an intact cerebellum. While somatostatin is virtually absent from the adult cerebellum, the ligand and its receptor(s) are transiently expressed at high levels in the developing cerebellum. This result suggests the functional significance of transient expression of SRIF and its receptors in the development of the cerebellum.
INAD is a scaffolding protein containing five PSD95/dlg/zonular occludens-1 (PDZ) domains that tether NORPA (phospholipase Cbeta(4)), the TRP calcium channel, and eye-PKC in Drosophila photoreceptors. We previously showed that eye-PKC interacted with the second PDZ domain (PDZ2) of INAD. Sequence comparison with a prototypical type I PDZ domain predicts that PDZ2 is the best candidate among the five PDZ domains to recognize eye-PKC that contains a type I PDZ ligand, Ile-Thr-Ile-Ile, at its carboxyl terminus. Replacement of Ile(-3) in eye-PKC with charged residues resulted in a drastic reduction of the PDZ2 interaction. Substitution of a conserved His with Arg at the second alpha-helix of PDZ2 led to a reduced binding; however, a Leu replacement resulted in an enhanced eye-PKC association. We isolated and sequenced the InaD gene. The coding sequence of InaD contains nine exons spanning 3 kilobases. Translation of coding sequences from three wild-type alleles revealed three SNPs affecting residues, 282, 319, and 333 of INAD. These polymorphisms are localized in PDZ2. Interestingly, we found two of three PDZ2 variants displayed a greater affinity for eye-PKC. In summary, we evaluated the molecular basis of the eye-PKC and PDZ2 association by mutational analysis and concluded that PDZ2 of INAD is a type I domain important for the eye-PKC interaction.
In a previous study, we demonstrated that the forkhead associated (FHA) domain of pKi-67 interacts with the novel kinesin-like protein, Hklp2 (Sueishi, M., Takagi, M., and Yoneda, Y. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 28888-28892). In this study, we report on the identification of a putative RNA-binding protein of 293 residues as another binding partner of the FHA domain of pKi-67 (referred to as NIFK for nucleolar protein interacting with the FHA domain of pKi-67). Human NIFK (hNIFK) interacted with the FHA domain of pKi-67 (Ki-FHA) efficiently in vitro when hNIFK was derived from mitotically arrested cells. In addition, a moiety of hNIFK was co-localized with pKi-67 at the peripheral region of mitotic chromosomes. The hNIFK domain that interacts with Ki-FHA was mapped in the yeast two-hybrid system to a portion encompassed by residues 226-269. In a binding assay utilizing Xenopus egg extracts, it was found that the mitosis-specific environment and two threonine residues within this portion of hNIFK (Thr-234 and Thr-238) were crucial for the efficient interaction of hNIFK and Ki-FHA, suggesting that hNIFK interacts with Ki-FHA in a mitosis-specific and phosphorylation-dependent manner. These findings provide a new clue to our understanding of the cellular function of pKi-67.
Inka cells of insect epitracheal glands (EGs) secrete preecdysis and ecdysis-triggering hormones (PETH and ETH) at the end of each developmental stage. Both peptides act in the central nervous system to evoke the ecdysis behavioral sequence, a stereotype behavior during which old cuticle is shed. Secretion of ETH is stimulated by a brain neuropeptide, eclosion hormone (EH). EH evokes accumulation of cGMP followed by release of ETH from Inka cells, and exogenous cGMP evokes secretion of ETH. The secretory responses to EH and cGMP are inhibited by the broad-spectrum kinase inhibitor staurosporine, and the response to EH is potentiated by the phosphatase inhibitor calyculin A. Staurosporine did not inhibit EH-evoked accumulation of cGMP. Changes in cytoplasmic Ca2+ in Inka cells during EH signaling were monitored via fluorescence ratioing with fura-2-loaded EGs. Cytoplasmic Ca2+ increases within 30-120 s after addition of EH to EGs, and it remains elevated for at least 10 min, corresponding with the time course of secretion. Secretion is increased in dose-dependent manner by the Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin, a treatment that does not elevate glandular cGMP above basal levels. The secretory response to EH is partially inhibited in glands loaded with EGTA, while cGMP levels are unaffected. These findings suggest that EH activates second messenger cascades leading to cGMP accumulation and Ca2+ mobilization and/or influx and that both pathways are required for a full secretory response. cGMP activates a staurosporine-inhibitable protein kinase. We propose that Ca2+ acts via a parallel cascade with a time course that is similar to that for cGMP activation of a cGMP-dependent protein kinase.
In male Sprague-Dawley rats intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (0.25, 0.50 and 1 mg/kg) increased anxiety levels. This effect was reversed by a prior, concomitant, and subsequent i.p. treatment with melatonin (4 and 6 mg/kg). As the effects of melatonin upon the actions induced by lipopolysaccharide were reversed by the melatonin receptor antagonist luzindole (30 and 60 mg/kg, i.p.), we argued that they are, but not only, melatonin receptor mediated. These findings, in accordance with our previous works, suggest that melatonin could be useful in the treatment of sickness behaviour associated with systemic infection diseases or as adjuvant in the anti-anxiety therapy.
The ability of priming activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) to regulate long-term depression (LTD) was studied in area CA1 of hippocampal slices taken from young adult male rats. Pharmacological activation of Group I mGluRs 30-40 min prior to low-frequency stimulation at 3 Hz failed to affect LTD. Activation of Group II mGluRs, however, significantly inhibited the LTD by &gt;50%, while activation of Group III mGluRs had no statistically significant effect on LTD. The inhibition of LTD by activation of Group II mGluRs was even stronger when the Group II agonist was applied during the low-frequency stimulation. Because activation of Group II mGluRs is also known to inhibit LTP, the net effect of such stimulation is the induction of a metaplasticity that greatly restricts the effective range of stimuli that can evoke synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus.
Three novel alternatively spliced transcripts of the beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE) were cloned from human brain. Alternative splicing of the RNA occurs at an internal donor in exon 3 and/or an internal acceptor in exon 4. The splicing events lead to a deletion of 25 (BACE-I-476), 44 (BACE-I-457) and 69 (BACE-I-432) amino acids and the latter two caused the loss of two of four N-linked glycosylation sites. Although the mature form of BACE-501 was resistant to endoglycosidase H treatment, glycosylated forms of BACE-I-457 and BACE-I-476 were sensitive. This result suggests that BACE-I-457 and BACE-I-476 underwent different post-translational modifications. Moreover, the beta-secretase activity of BACE-I-457 and BACE-I-476 was significantly weaker than that of BACE-501. Thus, these isoforms may contribute to a physiological function of BACE.
The brain frequently needs to store information for short periods. In vision, this means that the perceptual correlate of a stimulus has to be maintained temporally once the stimulus has been removed from the visual scene. However, it is not known how the visual system transfers sensory information into a memory component. Here, we identify a neural correlate of working memory in the monkey primary visual cortex (V1). We propose that this component may link sensory activity with memory activity.
Amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP), a widely expressed cell-surface protein, is cleaved in the transmembrane region by gamma-secretase. gamma-Cleavage of APP produces the extracellular amyloid beta-peptide of Alzheimer's disease and releases an intracellular tail fragment of unknown physiological function. We now demonstrate that the cytoplasmic tail of APP forms a multimeric complex with the nuclear adaptor protein Fe65 and the histone acetyltransferase Tip60. This complex potently stimulates transcription via heterologous Gal4- or LexA-DNA binding domains, suggesting that release of the cytoplasmic tail of APP by gamma-cleavage may function in gene expression.


Representations of sensory stimuli in the cerebral cortex can undergo progressive remodelling according to the behavioural importance of the stimuli. The cortex receives widespread projections from dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which are activated by new stimuli or unpredicted rewards, and are believed to provide a reinforcement signal for such learning-related cortical reorganization. In the primary auditory cortex (AI) dopamine release has been observed during auditory learning that remodels the sound-frequency representations. Furthermore, dopamine modulates long-term potentiation, a putative cellular mechanism underlying plasticity. Here we show that stimulating the VTA together with an auditory stimulus of a particular tone increases the cortical area and selectivity of the neural responses to that sound stimulus in AI. Conversely, the AI representations of nearby sound frequencies are selectively decreased. Strong, sharply tuned responses to the paired tones also emerge in a second cortical area, whereas the same stimuli evoke only poor or non-selective responses in this second cortical field in naive animals. In addition, we found that strong long-range coherence of neuronal discharge emerges between AI and this secondary auditory cortical area.
According to contemporary learning theories, the discrepancy, or error, between the actual and predicted reward determines whether learning occurs when a stimulus is paired with a reward. The role of prediction errors is directly demonstrated by the observation that learning is blocked when the stimulus is paired with a fully predicted reward. By using this blocking procedure, we show that the responses of dopamine neurons to conditioned stimuli was governed differentially by the occurrence of reward prediction errors rather than stimulus-reward associations alone, as was the learning of behavioural reactions. Both behavioural and neuronal learning occurred predominantly when dopamine neurons registered a reward prediction error at the time of the reward. Our data indicate that the use of analytical tests derived from formal behavioural learning theory provides a powerful approach for studying the role of single neurons in learning.
Cell division during embryogenesis plays a crucial role in the formation of the nervous system. During this developmental process, proliferating neural precursor cells commit to a neuronal fate and, as a consequence, undergo terminal mitosis and adopt a neuronal phenotype. A key cell cycle regulator, the tumor suppressor protein, retinoblastoma (Rb), is involved in both terminal mitosis and neuronal differentiation. Neural development is a complex process involving cell proliferation, cell fate determination and differentiation, as well as programmed cell death. In this review, we will examine each of these processes in turn, focussing on the role of the Rb family proteins to examine their many influences on these events.
Several studies indicate that women outperform men in olfactory identification tasks. The psychophysical data are more divergent when it comes to gender differences at levels of odor processing which are cognitively less demanding. We therefore compared cerebral activation with H2(15)O PET in 12 females and 11 males during birhinal passive smelling of odors and odorless air. The odorous compounds (odorants) were pure olfactory, or mixed olfactory and weakly trigeminal. Using odorless air as the baseline condition, activations were found bilaterally in the amygdala, piriform and insular cortices in both sexes, irrespective of the odor. No gender difference was detected in the pattern of cerebral activation (random effect analysis SPM99, corrected p &lt; 0.05) or in the subjective perception of odors. Males and females seem to use similar cerebral circuits during the passive perception of odors. The reported female superiority in assessing olfactory information including odor identification is probably an effect of a difference at a cognitive, rather than perceptive level of olfactory processing.
Adenosine A2A receptors (A2AR) and dopamine D2 receptors (D2R) are highly concentrated in the striatum, where they are co-localized and exert reciprocal antagonistic interactions. It has been suggested that the A2R/D2R interactions might provide a therapeutic approach for basal ganglia disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, and schizophrenia. In the present work evidence is presented for the existence of an A2AR/D2R interaction in human brain by using quantitative autoradi- ography. The areas analyzed were the dorsal caudate nucleus and putamen. Parallel studies were performed in rat striatal sections. The A2AR agonist CGS 21680 was found to significantly increase IC50 values of competitive inhibition curves of the D2R/D3R antagonist [125I]iodosulpiride vs dopamine both in rat striatal and human striatal brain sections.
The lamprey (a lower vertebrate, cyclostome), in addition to ordinary swimming, is also capable of crawling. Here we describe crawling forward in a narrow U-shaped tunnel. A rapid movement along the tunnel was evoked by stimulating the tail. The muscle activity responsible for propulsion was confined to the area around the body bend. Muscles on the inner (concave) side were activated when approaching the turn, and inactivated on the top of the arc. Muscles on the outer (convex) side were co-active with their antagonists, but also active in the area of straightening of the body bend. This pattern of muscle activity propagated along the body. The role of central and reflex mechanisms in the generation of locomotor movements is discussed.
The perceived colors of reflecting surfaces generally remain stable despite changes in the spectrum of the illuminating light. This color constancy can be measured operationally by asking observers to distinguish illuminant changes on a scene from changes in the reflecting properties of the surfaces comprising it. It is shown here that during fast illuminant changes, simultaneous changes in spectral reflectance of one or more surfaces in an array of other surfaces can be readily detected almost independent of the numbers of surfaces, suggesting a preattentive, spatially parallel process. This process, which is perfect over a spatial window delimited by the anatomical fovea, may form an early input to a multistage analysis of surface color, providing the visual system with information about a rapidly changing world in advance of the generation of a more elaborate and stable perceptual representation.
Neurotrophins can directly modulate the function of diverse types of central nervous system synapses. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) might be released by nociceptors onto spinal neurons and mediate central sensitization associated with chronic pain. We have studied the role of BDNF and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), both ligands of the trkB tyrosine kinase receptor, in synaptic transmission and reflex plasticity in the mouse spinal cord. We used an in vitro spinal cord preparation to measure monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflexes evoked by primary afferents in BDNF- and NT-4-deficient mice. In situ hybridization studies show that both these neurotrophins are synthesized by sensory neurons, and NT-4, but not BDNF, also is expressed by spinal neurons. BDNF null mutants display selective deficits in the ventral root potential (VRP) evoked by stimulating nociceptive primary afferents whereas the non-nociceptive portion of the VRP remained unaltered. In addition, activity-dependent plasticity of the VRP evoked by repetitive (1 Hz) stimulation of nociceptive primary afferents (termed wind-up) was substantially reduced in BDNF-deficient mice. This plasticity also was reduced in a reversible manner by the protein kinase inhibitor K252a. Although the trkB ligand NT-4 is normally present, reflex properties in NT-4 null mutant mice were normal. Pharmacological studies also indicated that spinal N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function was unaltered in BDNF-deficient mice. Using immunocytochemistry for markers of nociceptive neurons we found no evidence that their number or connectivity was substantially altered in BDNF-deficient mice. Our data therefore are consistent with a direct role for presynaptic BDNF release from sensory neurons in the modulation of pain-related neurotransmission.
Many response properties in primary auditory cortex (AI) are segregated spatially and organized topographically as those in primary visual cortex. Intensive study has not revealed an intrinsic, anatomical organizing principle related to an AI functional topography. We used retrograde anatomic tracing and topographic physiologic mapping of acoustic response properties to reveal long-range (&gt; or = 1.5 mm) convergent intrinsic horizontal connections between AI subregions with similar bandwidth and characteristic frequency selectivity. This suggests a modular organization for processing spectral bandwidth in AI.
Numerous human and animal studies indirectly implicate neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in the encoding of the affective consequences of nociceptor stimulation. No causal evidence, however, has been put forth linking the ACC specifically to this function. Using a rodent pain assay that combines the hind-paw formalin model with the place-conditioning paradigm, we measured a learned behavior that directly reflects the affective component of pain in the rat (formalin-induced conditioned place avoidance) concomitantly with &quot;acute&quot; formalin-induced nociceptive behaviors (paw lifting, licking, and flinching) that reflect the intensity and localization of the nociceptive stimulus. Destruction of neurons originating from the rostral, but not caudal, ACC reduced formalin-induced conditioned place avoidance without reducing acute pain-related behaviors. These results provide evidence indicating that neurons in the ACC are necessary for the &quot;aversiveness&quot; of nociceptor stimulation.
Neural pathways conveying proprioceptive feedback from the jaw muscles were studied in rats by combining retrograde and intracellular neuronal labeling. Initially, horseradish peroxidase was iontophoresed unilaterally into the trigeminal motor nucleus (Vmo). Two days later, 1-5 jaw-muscle spindle afferent axons located in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus were physiologically identified and intracellularly stained with biotinamide. Stained mesencephalic trigeminal jaw-muscle spindle afferent axon collaterals and boutons were predominantly distributed in the supratrigeminal region (Vsup), Vmo, dorsomedial trigeminal principal sensory nucleus (Vpdm), parvicellular reticular formation (PCRt), alpha division of the parvicellular reticular formation (PCRtA), and dorsomedial portions of the spinal trigeminal subnuclei oralis (Vodm), and interpolaris (Vidm). Numerous neurons retrogradely labeled with horseradish peroxidase from the trigeminal motor nucleus were found bilaterally in the PCRt, PCRtA, Vodm, and Vidm. Retrogradely labeled neurons were also present contralaterally in the Vsup, Vpdm, Vmo, peritrigeminal zone, and bilaterally in the dorsal medullary reticular field. Putative contacts between intracellularly stained mesencephalic trigeminal jaw-muscle spindle afferent boutons and trigeminal premotor neurons retrogradely labeled with horseradish peroxidase were found in the ipsilateral Vodm, PCRtA, and PCRt, as well as the contralateral Vsup, Vmo, Vodm, PCRt, and PCRtA. Thus, multiple disynaptic jaw-muscle spindle afferent-motoneuron circuits exist. These pathways are likely to convey long-latency jaw-muscle stretch reflexes and may contribute to stiffness regulation of the masticatory muscles.
The present investigation is part of a broader effort to examine cortical areas that contribute to manual dexterity, reaching, and grasping. In this study we examine the thalamic connections of electrophysiologically defined regions in area 3a and architectonically defined primary motor cortex (M1). Our studies demonstrate that area 3a receives input from nuclei associated with the somatosensory system: the superior, inferior, and lateral divisions of the ventral posterior complex (VPs, VPi, and VPl, respectively). Surprisingly, area 3a receives the majority of its input from thalamic nuclei associated with the motor system, posterior division of the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus (VL), the mediodorsal nucleus (MD), and intralaminar nuclei including the central lateral nucleus (CL) and the centre median nucleus (CM). In addition, sparse but consistent projections to area 3a are from the anterior pulvinar (Pla). Projections from the thalamus to the cortex immediately rostral to area 3a, in the architectonically defined M1, are predominantly from VL, VA, CL, and MD. There is a conspicuous absence of inputs from the nuclei associated with processing somatic inputs (VP complex). Our results indicate that area 3a is much like a motor area, in part because of its substantial connections with motor nuclei of the thalamus and motor areas of the neocortex (Huffman et al. [2000] Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 25:1116). The indirect input from the cerebellum and basal ganglia via the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus supports its role in proprioception. Furthermore, the presence of input from somatosensory thalamic nuclei suggests that it plays an important role in somatosensory and motor integration.
Excitotoxicity due to excessive synaptic glutamate release is featured in many neurological conditions in which neuronal death occurs. Whether activation of primary sensory pathways can ever produce sufficient over-activity in secondary sensory neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord to induce cell death, however, has not been determined. In this study, we asked whether activity in myelinated afferents (A fibers), which use glutamate as a transmitter, can induce cell death in the dorsal horn. Using stereological estimates of neuron numbers from electron microscopic sections, we found that stimulation of A-fibers in an intact sciatic nerve at 10 Hz, 20 Hz, and 50 Hz in 10-minute intervals at a stimulus strength that activates both Abeta and Adelta fibers resulted in the loss of 25% of neurons in lamina III, the major site of termination of large Abeta fibers, but not in lamina I, where Adelta fibers terminate. Furthermore, sciatic nerve lesions did not result in detectable neuron loss, but activation of A fibers in a previously sectioned sciatic nerve did cause substantial cell death not only in lamina III but also in laminae I and II. The expansion of the territory of A-fiber afferent-evoked cell death is likely to reflect the sprouting of the fibers into these laminae after peripheral nerve injury. The data show, therefore, that primary afferent A-fiber activity can cause neuronal cell death in the dorsal horn with an anatomical distribution that depends on whether intact or injured fibers are activated. Stimulation-induced cell death potentially may contribute to the development of persistent pain.
This study examined the effects of cocaine use during the second trimester of pregnancy on cerebral neocortical volume and density, and total number of neocortical neurons and glia in offspring. We also evaluated the extent of postnatal recovery of cytoarchitectural abnormalities previously observed in the neocortex of two-month-old primates born from cocaine-treated mothers (Lidow [1995] Synapse 21:332-334). Pregnant monkeys received cocaine orally (20 mg/kg/day) from the 40th to 102nd days of pregnancy (embryonic day [E]40-E102). On E64 and E65, the animals were injected with [(3)H]thymidine. Cerebral hemispheres of the offspring were examined at three years of age. We found a reduction in the neocortical volume and density and total number of neocortical neurons. The observed reduction in neuronal number within the neocortex was not accounted for by the increase in the number of neurons in the white matter of cocaine-exposed animals, because the number of these &quot;extra&quot; neurons was equal to only half that of missing neurons. We detected no significant changes in the number of neocortical glia. The cytoarchitectural abnormalities in the neocortex of prenatally cocaine-exposed three-year-old monkeys closely resembled previously described neocortical abnormalities in similarly exposed two-month-old animals: the neocortex lacked a discernible lamination; the majority of the cells labeled by [(3)H]thymidine injected during neocortical neurogenesis did not reach their proper position within the cortical plate. Therefore, postnatal maturation is not associated with significant improvement in neocortical organization in primates prenatally exposed to cocaine. There was, however, a postnatal recovery of low glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity previously observed in 2-month-old cocaine-exposed animals.


We describe the case of a 59-year-old male in which several symptoms of autonomic dysfunction resulted associated with the presence of multiple ganglioneuromas in the adrenal glands and in paravertebral spaces. In a 2-year period, the patient developed sexual dysfunctions, micturitional disturbances and severe orthostatic hypotension and was erroneously diagnosed as having primary autonomic failure. However, the examination of all the autonomic functions showed that papillary function and cardiovascular reflexes were normal. CT scan of the abdomen revealed the presence of several small masses in the adrenal glands and along the lumbar sympathetic chain. Cytologic examination of the adrenal glands showed clusters of ganglionlike cells interspersed with Schwann cells, leading to the diagnosis of ganglioneuromas. Patients with signs and symptoms of autonomic dysfunction need an extensive clinical and laboratory examination of all the autonomic functions in order to exclude secondary causes of the symptomatology.
Expression of the late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (LINCL) gene (CLN2) protein was investigated by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry in human brains and visceral organs of control individuals and of patients with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL). Immunoblotting analyses showed reactivity in the cerebrum, liver, kidney, heart and colon of controls, whereas CLN2 protein was not detected in these organs in a LINCL patient. Immunohistochemistry showed that the reactivity of the protein was ubiquitous in extracerebral organs as well as within the CNS, apparently corresponding to widely distributed deposition of lipopigments in LINCL. The expression of CLN2 protein in the cerebral cortex increased with development, and reached adult level after the age of 2. This development of expression seemed to be related to the onset of LINCL at 2-4 years of age. We confirmed no immunoreactivity in two of three patients with LINCL, who were diagnosed clinicopathologically. One case showing combined ultrastructural morphology of fingerprint profiles and curvilinear bodies had intermediate reactivity, suggesting heterogeneity in clinical LINCL. Evaluation of the immunoreactivity of the CLN2 protein may be useful for characterization of a variant form.

The Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) is a widely used semiobjective instrument for staging dementia severity. A global CDR score is reported that is derived from individual scores in six domains. In this study, we examined both agreement and disagreement, among raters and with a gold standard, to identify domain-specific and global dementia severity level ratings that would most benefit from further training or greater emphasis in future training. We found that raters-in-training experienced the most difficulty with rating normal and questionable dementia. They also had the most trouble scoring the memory domain. When they disagreed with the gold standard, they nearly always gave higher ratings. A third, extremely experienced group of raters were uniform in their high levels of agreement on each domain and the global CDR and tended to give lower ratings if they disagreed with the gold standard. Analysis of the agreement and disagreement patterns suggested that greater emphasis on the memory, home and hobbies, and orientation domains during CDR training, and increasing the information provided for the judgment and problem solving domain on the standardized CDR worksheets, could improve the consistency of raters and increase the efficiency with which they are trained to use the CDR.
Addiction can be viewed as a form of drug-induced neural plasticity. One of the best established molecular mechanisms of addiction is the upregulation of the cAMP second messenger pathway, which occurs in many neuronal cell types in response to chronic administration of opiates or other drugs of abuse. This upregulation and the resulting activation of the transcription factor CREB appear to mediate aspects of tolerance and dependence. In contrast, induction of another transcription factor, termed delta FosB, exerts the opposite effect and may contribute to sensitized responses to drug exposure. Knowledge of these mechanisms could lead to more effective treatments for addictive disorders.
Hot flashes are the most common symptom of the climacteric, although prevalence estimates are lower in some rural and non-Western areas. The symptoms are characteristic of a heat-dissipation response and consist of sweating on the face, neck, and chest, as well as peripheral vasodilation. Although hot flashes clearly accompany the estrogen withdrawal at menopause, estrogen alone is not responsible since levels do not differ between symptomatic and asymptomatic women. Until recently it was thought that hot flashes were triggered by a sudden, downward resetting of the hypothalamic setpoint, since there was no evidence of increased core body temperature. Evidence obtained using a rapidly responding ingested telemetry pill indicates that the thermoneutral zone, within which sweating, peripheral vasodilation, and shivering do not occur, is virtually nonexistent in symptomatic women but normal (about 0.4 degrees C) in asymptomatic women. The results suggest that small temperature elevations preceding hot flashes acting within a reduced thermoneutral zone constitute the triggering mechanism. Central sympathetic activation is also elevated in symptomatic women which, in animal studies, reduces the thermoneutral zone. Clonidine reduces central sympathetic activation, widens the thermoneutral zone, and ameliorates hot flashes. Estrogen virtually eliminates hot flashes but its mechanism of action is not known.
Chronic patellar tendinosis or &quot;jumper's knee&quot; is a frequent source of persistent and often recurrent anterior knee pain in active, young people. Seventeen pathologic specimens retrieved during surgery for jumper's knee were evaluated by means of immunohistochemical (S-100) analysis. The patellar tendon-bone junction and the Hoffa fat pad adjacent to the inferior pole of the patella are structures that have a nerve supply that can be a potential source of nociceptive output resulting in the perception of pain at any given moment. In this study, pathologic neural changes also were observed. In eight cases, free nerve endings showed a histologic pattern of &quot;nerve sprouting&quot; in the patellar tendon-bone junction. Vascular innervation was seen in seven cases. S-100 positive fibers were observed within the muscular layer of medium and small arteries. These findings show an increase in vascular innervation. Lastly, neuromatous changes were observed in four cases, demonstrating a clear relationship with pain. These observations provide a neuroanatomic basis for pain in active, young patients with jumper's knee.
Obese, diabetic C57BL/Ks db/db mice that lack the long-form leptin receptor exhibit no decrease in body weight or food intake when treated with leptin. Here we compared responses to leptin in two strains of db/db mice: C57BL/6J mice that are hyperglycemic and hyperinsulinemic and C57BL/Ks that are hyperglycemic and normo- or hypoinsulinemic. Chronic intraperitoneal infusion of 10 microgram leptin/day partially reversed hyperglycemia in C57BL/6J male mice but exaggerated the diabetic state of female mice. Bolus intraperitoneal injections of 40 microgram leptin/day did not effect glucose in either strain of male db/db mice, whereas chronic intraperitoneal infusion of 20 microgram leptin/day significantly reduced fasting blood glucose in male mice from both strains, especially C57BL/6J mice. Food intake, body weight, rectal temperature, and body fat did not change. Chronic intraperitoneal infusion of 10 microgram leptin/day significantly reduced body fat in lean db/+ C57BL/6J but not in C57BL/Ks mice. Thus peripherally administered leptin is active in mice that have only short-form leptin receptors, and the response is dependent on the method of leptin administration and the background strain.
Stroke pathways are task-orientated structured multidisciplinary care plans which detail essential steps and interventions during the period of care of a &quot;typical&quot; stroke patient. Pathway development and implementation are best achieved by an appointed champion leading a multidisciplinary team of health care workers and administrators, who will also be the end users of the pathway. Pathway development involves reviews of existing clinical practice guidelines and pathways, followed by documentation, interdigitation and prioritization of care requirements at different time points in the various spheres, taking into consideration local philosophies and practices. These spheres could include investigations, pharmacologic treatment, rehabilitative therapy, nursing measures, and patient education. This would result in evidence-based holistic quality care, wide support base, efficient service provision, reduced costs and length of stay, less practice variation, improved communication among disciplines, enhanced patient-staff relationship, ease of audit and research opportunities. Components of the pathway could include a patient summary sheet, multidisciplinary record of the various activities structured on a day-to-day basis, sign-off columns for staff responsible for performing those activity, variance sheet, and separate protocols for specific issues. Implementation requires training of users, pilot runs, feedback, regular revisions, monitoring of compliance, and analysis of variances. Widespread implementation of pathways may be hindered by lack of support, and concerns about increased time requirements and costs, stifling of innovation, restriction of application of clinical judgement, lack of applicability to all patients, misuse and legal issues. However, a well-designed pathway will ensure quality care in a cost-efficient manner, benefiting the patient, carer and the health care service.
Limbic encephalitis (LE) is often associated with lung, thymic, or testicular tumours and antibodies to Hu, CV2, or Ma2 (Ta) antigens. In these cases, it generally has a poor prognosis. Here we describe two patients with symptoms of LE, negative for typical paraneoplastic antibodies, in whom antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels (VGKC) were detected retrospectively in serial serum samples. Patient 1 had a thymoma recurrence, but in patient 2 no tumour has been detected in the years following presentation. Plasma exchange was effective in reducing VGKC antibody levels, with substantial improvement in mental symptoms in patient 1. In patient 2, the VGKC antibodies fell spontaneously over two years, with almost complete recovery of mental function. Although neither patient had obvious neuromyotonia at presentation, both showed excessive secretions. We suggest that patients with limbic symptoms and excessive secretions should be tested for VGKC antibodies, and, if they are present, prompt and effective immunosuppressive treatment should be considered.
Antibodies to muscle acetylcholine receptors, to other muscle antigens, and to some cytokines are found in the majority of patients with thymic tumors (thymomas) and myasthenia gravis (MG). The role of the tumor in initiating autoimmunity, however, is unclear; in particular, it is not known whether the thymoma exports mature and long-lived T cells, which could provide help for antibody production in the periphery. Here, we quantified recently exported thymic T cells using the approach of measuring episomal DNA fragments [T-cell receptor excision circles (TRECs)], generated by T-cell receptor gene rearrangement. Compared to values in healthy individuals (n = 10) or in patients with late-onset MG (n = 8), TREC levels were significantly raised in both the CD4+ and CD8+ peripheral blood compartments of patients with thymoma and MG (n = 14, p = 0.002 and p = 0.0004 compared to healthy controls) but only in the CD8+ compartment of the three patients with thymoma without MG (p = 0.4 and p = 0.01 for CD4+ and CD8+). TREC levels decreased following thymectomy to values similar to controls but were substantially raised in patients who had developed tumor recurrence (n = 6, p = 0.04 and p = 0.02 for CD4+ and CD8+); this was associated with increased antibodies to interferon-alpha and interleukin-12 in the one case studied serially. Collectively, these results support the hypothesis that the neoplastic thymoma tissue itself can generate and export mature, long-lived T cells and that these T cells reflect the thymic pathology and are likely to be related to the associated autoimmune diseases. The results also provide a new approach for early diagnosis of thymoma recurrence.
By the time a clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is made, a significant loss of dopaminergic neurons has already occurred. Identifying patients in the period between the presumed onset of dopaminergic cell loss and the appearance of clinical parkinsonism may be of major importance in the development of effective neuroprotective treatment strategies. In an effort to develop a feasible strategy to detect preclinical PD, a combination of olfactory processing tasks, including odor detection, odor identification, and odor discrimination was used to select groups of hyposmic and normosmic individuals from a total of 250 relatives (parents, siblings, or children) of subjects with PD. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with [123I]beta-CIT as a dopamine transporter ligand was used to assess nigrostriatal dopaminergic function in 25 hyposmic and 23 normosmic relatives of PD patients. An abnormal reduction in striatal dopamine transporter binding was found in 4 out of 25 hyposmic relatives of PD patients, two of whom subsequently developed clinical parkinsonism, and in none of the 23 normosmic relatives. These observations demonstrate that subclinical reductions in dopamine transporter binding can be detected in asymptomatic relatives of sporadic PD patients by means of [123I]beta-CIT and SPECT. The results further indicate that olfactory deficits may precede clinical motor signs in PD.
In brain tumors, the prognostic value of apoptosis is still debated, even though recent observations are rather negative. In 50 astrocytic gliomas, apoptotic nuclei were recognized by TUNEL technique and morphology and apoptotic index (AI), mitotic index (MI) and the MI/AI ratio were calculated in proliferative areas and in areas containing perinecrotic palisadings and hypercellular centres. In proliferative areas, a positive linear correlation between MI and AI and a MI/AI ratio &gt; I were found. The latter was &lt; I in perinecrotic palisadings and hypercellular centres. This suggests the possibility that apoptosis is triggered respectively by cell proliferation and hypoxia. A small number of apoptotic nuclei was positive for c-Jun and JNKI, suggesting the involvement of this pathway in apoptosis as well as that of sphingomyelinase/ceramide. No relationship was found between AI and labeling indices of Bcl-2, Bcl-x, Bax, p53, APO.I/Fas. The rationale for a prognostic value of apoptosis in gliomas is thus poor.

Human listeners can often improve their ability to discriminate sounds with practice. We have been using behavioral techniques to examine the patterns of learning and generalization on basic auditory tasks, such as the discrimination of the time interval between two sounds. Here we briefly state our motivations for examining learning on these basic tasks, describe our experimental paradigm, and provide an example of our results.
Cortical responses are adjusted and optimized throughout life to meet changing behavioral demands and to compensate for peripheral damage. The cholinergic nucleus basalis (NB) gates cortical plasticity and focuses learning on behaviorally meaningful stimuli. By systematically varying the acoustic parameters of the sound paired with NB activation, we have previously shown that tone frequency and amplitude modulation rate alter the topography and selectivity of frequency tuning in primary auditory cortex. This result suggests that network-level rules operate in the cortex to guide reorganization based on specific features of the sensory input associated with NB activity. This report summarizes recent evidence that temporal response properties of cortical neurons are influenced by the spectral characteristics of sounds associated with cholinergic modulation. For example, repeated pairing of a spectrally complex (ripple) stimulus decreased the minimum response latency for the ripple, but lengthened the minimum latency for tones. Pairing a rapid train of tones with NB activation only increased the maximum following rate of cortical neurons when the carrier frequency of each train was randomly varied. These results suggest that spectral and temporal parameters of acoustic experiences interact to shape spectrotemporal selectivity in the cortex. Additional experiments with more complex stimuli are needed to clarify how the cortex learns natural sounds such as speech.
Spatial localization of auditory stimuli is dependent on the cerebral cortex, yet it remains unclear how cortical activity gives rise to spatial percepts. It has recently been proposed that spatial information is processed serially within the primate auditory cortex, initially in the primary auditory cortex (AI) through the auditory areas caudal to AI, particularly the caudomedial (CM) and caudolateral fields, and onward to the parietal lobe. The activity of single neurons in AI and CM supports this hypothesis, where a greater percentage of CM neurons are sensitive to the spatial location of acoustic stimuli than AI neurons, and the spatial sensitivity of CM neurons extends across a broader range of the stimulus spectrum compared to AI neurons. Further, populations of CM neurons are better able to predict sound localization ability than are populations of AI neurons. We have recently explored the effects of stimulus intensity on both sound localization performance and the spatial sensitivity of auditory cortical neurons. The preliminary results of these experiments again indicate that spatial information is serially processed between AI and the caudal fields. The effects of visual stimulation on auditory localization have also been investigated. Under the appropriate circumstances, visual stimuli can &quot;capture&quot; the spatial location of auditory stimuli in both humans and monkeys. This perceptual illusion suggests that there is a plastic shift in auditory spatial perception. Where the representation of this shift resides is unknown, although two likely candidates are the multimodal regions of the parietal lobe and the superior temporal sulcus.
The effect of hormone withdrawal following hormone-simulated &quot;pregnancy&quot; on &quot;depressive-like behavior&quot; in the Forced Swim Test (FST) was investigated in female Long-Evans rats. Females were randomly assigned to &quot;pregnant&quot;, &quot;pregnant&quot;+estradiol benzoate (EB), and control groups. Both the &quot;pregnant&quot; and &quot;pregnant&quot;+EB groups received daily injections of the hormones estradiol and progesterone to simulate the 23-day gestational period in the rat. However, the &quot;pregnant&quot;+EB group continued to receive daily estradiol injections after &quot;pregnancy&quot;. All groups were tested 48 h after the last injection of the pregnancy period in the FST and subsequently in the Open Field Test (OFT). Results revealed that the &quot;pregnant&quot; rats exhibited significantly increased immobility and decreased struggling and swimming behaviors as compared to the &quot;pregnant&quot;+EB and control groups. These findings could not be explained by an overall depression in general locomotor activity among &quot;pregnant&quot; rats, as the &quot;pregnant&quot; rats made more area crossings in the OFT. Thus &quot;pregnant&quot; rats exhibited behaviors consistent with &quot;depressive-like&quot; symptoms &quot;post-partum&quot; (after their hormone regime was discontinued). Continual treatment with high levels of estradiol in the &quot;pregnant&quot;+EB group, however, reversed the exhibition of these behaviors. These results imply that withdrawal from chronic high levels of pregnancy-associated hormones (estradiol and progesterone) can produce depressed symptomology in rodents, which can be prevented by prolonging exposure to high levels of estradiol through the post-partum period. These findings are the first demonstration of &quot;depressive-like&quot; symptoms in a rodent model of post-partum pregnancy and the ability of high levels of estradiol to attenuate these &quot;depressive-like&quot; symptoms.
Stereotyped behaviors (e.g., body rocking) occur at high rates in individuals with mental retardation (e.g., Down syndrome). To determine if spontaneous stereotypy occurs in a murine model of Down syndrome, the home cage behavior of Ts65Dn and control mice was monitored during the dark cycle. Motor activity was further assessed in novel automated test chambers, with acoustic startle and rotor rod paradigms providing additional environmental challenges. Spontaneous stereotypy (repetitive jumping and cage top twirling) was observed in the home cage in approximately half of the Ts65Dn mice, compared with approximately 10% of diploid controls. Repetitive jumping was observed exclusively in the Ts65Dn mice. In the open field, although no differences were found between Ts65Dn and control mice, stereotypic Ts65Dn mice exhibited significantly less locomotor activity and rearing relative to control and nonstereotypic Ts65Dn mice. Ts65Dn mice attained significantly lower rotor rod speeds but did not differ from controls in the amplitude of the acoustic startle response. These environmental challenges did not increase stereotypy over home cage rates but induced stereotypy in two additional animals. The Ts65Dn model may aid in identifying genes associated with the development and expression of stereotypy.
Although benzodiazepines are frequently abused by humans, they usually maintain lower rates of self-administration behavior in laboratory animals than other drugs of abuse such as psychomotor stimulants or barbiturates. In the present study, intravenous (i.v.) self-administration of the short-acting benzodiazepine midazolam was evaluated in squirrel monkeys. Monkeys (n = 3) initially self-administered the short-acting barbiturate methohexital (100 microg/kg/injection) during daily 1-hour sessions under a fixed-ratio 10, 60 s time-out, schedule of i.v. drug injection. This dose of methohexital maintained high rates of responding averaging 0.9 responses per second. Midazolam was then substituted for methohexital, and midazolam dose was subsequently varied from 0.3 to 3 microg/kg/injection. Each dose of midazolam was tested for five consecutive sessions and each unit dose condition was separated by five sessions of vehicle extinction. The midazolam dose-response function was an inverted U-shaped curve, with maximal rates of self-administration responding averaging 1.01 responses/second at a dose of 1 microg/kg/injection (an average of 48 injections per 1-hour session). The rates and fixed-ratio patterns of responding maintained by self-administration of midazolam in the present study were comparable to the rates and patterns of responding maintained in squirrel monkeys by self-administration of other drugs of abuse, including cocaine, amphetamine, nicotine and tetrahydrocannabinol, under similar experimental conditions.
Regulated neurotransmitter release depends on a precise sequence of events that lead to repeated cycles of exocytosis and endocytosis. These events are mediated by a series of molecular interactions among vesicular, plasma membrane, and cytosolic proteins. An emerging theme has been that molecular chaperones may guide the sequential restructuring of stable or transient protein complexes to promote a temporal and spatial regulation of the endo- and exocytotic machinery and to ensure a vectorial passage through the vesicle cycle. Chaperones, specialized for a few substrates, are ideally suited to participate in regulatory processes that require some molecular dexterity to rearrange conformational or oligomeric protein structures. This article emphasizes the significance of three molecular chaperone systems in regulated neurotransmitter release: the regulation of soluble NSF attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complexes by N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) and the soluble NSF attachment protein (SNAP), the uncoating of clathrin-coated vesicles by the 70 kDa heat-shock cognate protein (Hsc70), and the regulation of SNARE complex-associated protein interactions by cysteine-string protein and Hsc70.
We view schizophrenia as producing a failure of attentional modulation that leads to a breakdown in the selective enhancement or inhibition of semantic/lexical representations whose biological substrata are widely distributed across left (dominant) temporal and frontal lobes. Supporting behavioral evidence includes word recall studies that have pointed to a disturbance in connectivity (associative strength) but not network size (number of associates) in patients with schizophrenia. Paralleling these findings are recent neural network simulation studies of the abnormal connectivity effect in schizophrenia through 'lesioning' network connection weights while holding constant network size. Supporting evidence at the level of biology are in vitro studies examining N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists on recurrent inhibition; simulations in neural populations with realistically modeled biophysical properties show NMDA antagonists produce a schizophrenia-like disturbance in pattern association. We propose a similar failure of NMDA-mediated recurrent inhibition as a candidate biological substrate for attention and semantic anomalies of schizophrenia.
We used cell lines expressing wild-type connexin43 (Cx43) and Cx43 fused with enhanced green fluorescent protein (Cx43-EGFP) to examine mechanisms of gap junction channel gating. Previously it was suggested that each hemichannel in a cell-cell channel possesses two gates, a fast gate that closes channels to a nonzero conductance or residual state via fast (&lt; approximately 2 ms) transitions and a slow gate that fully closes channels via slow transitions (&gt; approximately 10 ms). Here we demonstrate that transjunctional voltage (V(j)) regulates both gates and that they are operating in series and in a contingent manner in which the state of one gate affects gating of the other. Cx43-EGFP channels lack fast V(j) gating to a residual state but show slow V(j) gating. Both Cx43 and Cx43-EGFP channels exhibit slow gating by chemical uncouplers such as CO(2) and alkanols. Chemical uncouplers do not induce obvious changes in Cx43-EGFP junctional plaques, indicating that uncoupling is not caused by dispersion or internalization of junctional plaques. Similarity of gating transitions during chemical gating and slow V(j) gating suggests that both gating mechanisms share common structural elements. Cx43/Cx43-EGFP heterotypic channels showed asymmetrical V(j) gating with fast transitions between open and residual states only when the Cx43 side was relatively negative. This result indicates that the fast V(j) gate of Cx43 hemichannels closes for relative negativity at its cytoplasmic end.
Errors and ambiguities in the nomenclature of dyes and fluorescent probes are surveyed and illustrated by case examples. The unfortunate practical consequences of such mistakes are summarized. Origins and causes of such errors are discussed. Recommendations are appended for end-users, vendors, and editors of learned journals, and those who referee their manuscripts.
Migraine headache is thought to be caused by a distension of meningeal blood vessels, the activation of trigeminal sensory neurones and the the development of a central sensitization within the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (TNC). It has been proposed that clinically effective 5-HT(1B/1D) agonists act peripherally to inhibit the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and neurogenic dural vasodilation, and to attenuate nociceptive neurotransmission within the TNC. Since opioids are also effective anti-migraine agents the present studies investigated the role of opioids within the trigemino-vascular system in anaesthetised rats. Electrical stimulation of the dura mater evoked neurogenic dural vasodilation which was significantly inhibited by morphine (1 mg kg(-1)) the selective mu-opioid agonist DAGO (10 microg kg(-1)) and the mixed agonist/antagonist butorphanol (1 mg kg(-1)) but not by the kappa- and delta-opioid agonists (+/-) U50488H (100 microg kg(-1)) and DPDPE (1 mg kg(-1)). Morphine had no effect on CGRP-evoked dural vasodilation. In electrophysiological studies morphine (1 - 10 mg kg(-1)) significantly attenuated brainstem neuronal activity in response to electrical stimulation of the dura by 65% at 10 mg kg(-1). Morphine (3 mg kg(-1)) also inhibited the TNC neuronal sensitization following CGRP-evoked dilation. The present studies have demonstrated that opioids block the nociceptive neurotransmission within the trigeminal nucleus caudalis and in addition inhibit neurogenic dural vasodilation via an action on mu-opioid receptors located on trigeminal sensory fibres innervating dural blood vessels. These peripheral and central actions are similar to those of the 'triptan' 5-HT(1B/1D) agonists and could account for the anti-migraine actions of opioids.
A novel compound, SB-272183 (5-Chloro-2, 3-dihydro-6-[4-methylpiperazin-1-yl]-1[4-pyridin-4-yl]napth-1-ylaminocarbonyl]-1H-indole), has been shown to have high affinity for human 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptors with pK(i) values of 8.0, 8.1 and 8.7 respectively and is at least 30 fold selective over a range of other receptors. [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding studies showed that SB-272183 acts as a partial agonist at human recombinant 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptors with intrinsic activities of 0.4, 0.4 and 0.8 respectively, compared to 5-HT. SB-272183 inhibited 5-HT-induced stimulation of [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding at human 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) receptors to give pA(2) values of 8.2 and 8.5 respectively. However, from [(35)S]-GTPgammaS autoradiographic studies in rat and human dorsal raphe nucleus, SB-272183 did not display intrinsic activity up to 10 microM but did block 5-HT-induced stimulation of [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding. From electrophysiological studies in rat raphe slices in vitro, SB-272183 did not effect cell firing rate up to 1 microM but was able to attenuate (+)8-OH-DPAT-induced inhibition of cell firing to give an apparent pK(b) of 7.1. SB-272183 potentiated electrically-stimulated [(3)H]-5-HT release from rat and guinea-pig cortical slices at 100 and 1000 nM, similar to results previously obtained with the 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptor antagonist, GR127935. Fast cyclic voltammetry studies in rat dorsal raphe nucleus showed that SB-272183 could block sumatriptan-induced inhibition of 5-HT efflux, with an apparent pK(b) of 7.2, but did not effect basal efflux up to 1 microM. These studies show that, in vitro, SB-272183 acts as an antagonist at native tissue 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptors.
Mutations in CuZn-superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD) have been linked to familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and motor neurone death is caused by the gain of a toxic property of the mutant protein. Here we determined amounts, activity and molecular forms of CuZn-SOD in CSF from ALS patients carrying the D90A and other CuZn-SOD mutations and patients without such mutations. There were no differences in amount of protein and enzymic activities of CuZn-SOD between 37 neurological controls, 54 sporadic and 12 familial ALS cases, and 10 cases homozygous for the D90A mutation. Three cases heterozygous for the A89V, S105L and G114A CuZn-SOD mutations showed low amounts of CuZn-SOD. There was no evidence for accumulation of inactive protein in any of the groups. Immunoblots showed no evidence for the presence of any precipitates or other molecular forms of CuZn-SOD with higher molecular weight in the groups. About 25% of the CuZn-SOD subunits in CSF from controls shows an N-terminal truncation. This truncated portion does not differ between controls and ALS groups not carrying CuZn-SOD mutations, but is 70% larger in samples from D90A homozygous ALS patients. The findings suggest an essentially normal amount and activity of D90A mutant CuZn-SOD in CNS tissues of ALS cases. The increased occurrence of N-terminally truncated mutant subunits may indicate a difference in degradation routes compared with the wild-type enzyme, resistance against subsequent proteolytic steps and/or a compromised downstream proteolytic machinery. Molecular fragments accumulated to a greater extent from the D90A mutant enzyme might contribute to the motor neurone degeneration. We also determined the other SOD isoenzymes: in the controls, CuZn-SOD contributed 75%, extracellular SOD 25% and Mn-SOD &lt;5% of the total SOD activity. There was no difference in the amount of extracellular SOD between any of the groups.
Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) deficiency is the most common of the congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS). Typically, the number of AChRs, measured by alpha-bungarotoxin binding, is reduced to 10-30% of normal levels, the miniature end-plate potentials are correspondingly reduced, and there are morphological changes at the motor end-plates. The majority of these syndromes are due to either missense or frameshift mutations within the gene encoding the adult-specific epsilon-subunit. These are often null mutations, but some mutant epsilon-subunits can be incorporated, at low levels, into functional AChRs in transfected cell lines. It is not clear, therefore, whether upregulation of the mutant epsilon-subunit mRNA could generate sufficient AChR to support neuromuscular transmission, albeit at a reduced level. Conversely, it might be that the mutant epsilon-subunit transcripts are subject to mRNA surveillance and 'nonsense-mediated' loss, leading to reduced epsilon-subunit mRNA expression. In either case, it is thought that neuromuscular transmission may be provided partly or entirely by incorporation of the foetal-specific gamma-subunit into end-plate AChR. gamma-Subunit mRNA is expressed at low levels in normal human muscle, but might be upregulated in CMS. The study of mRNA levels for AChR subunits should improve our understanding of genotype-phenotype relationships in CMS. Here we have defined homozygous epsilon-subunit mutations in four unrelated families with AChR deficiency and studied the steady-state levels of mRNA for AChR subunits at the motor end-plates by in situ hybridization. Although we demonstrated that each mutation would lead to almost complete absence of surface adult AChR expression, we detected similar robust expression of alpha- and epsilon-subunit mRNAs at end-plates of patient and control muscles, suggesting that mRNA transcripts for the epsilon-subunit are neither upregulated nor degraded preferentially. Interestingly, we were unable to detect any increase in gamma-subunit mRNA expression at CMS end-plates. Transgenic mice lacking the epsilon-subunit die 2-3 months after birth, suggesting that alpha(2)betadelta(2) pentamers cannot sustain neuromuscular transmission. Therefore, we tentatively conclude that the persistent low level expression of the gamma-subunit, which is present in normal human muscles as well as in AChR deficiency syndromes, is sufficient to enable patients with epsilon-subunit null alleles to survive.
Consciousness is topical, for reasons including its renewed respectability among psychologists, rapid progress in the neuroscience of perception, memory and action, advances in artificial intelligence and dissatisfaction with the dualistic separation of mind and body. Consciousness is an ambiguous term. It can refer to (i) the waking state; (ii) experience; and (iii) the possession of any mental state. Self-consciousness is equally ambiguous, with senses including (i) proneness to embarrassment in social settings; (ii) the ability to detect our own sensations and recall our recent actions; (iii) self-recognition; (iv) the awareness of awareness; and (v) self-knowledge in the broadest sense. The understanding of states of consciousness has been transformed by the delineation of their electrical correlates, of structures in brainstem and diencephalon which regulate the sleep-wake cycle, and of these structures' cellular physiology and regional pharmacology. Clinical studies have defined pathologies of wakefulness: coma, the persistent vegetative state, the 'locked-in' syndrome, akinetic mutism and brain death. Interest in the neural basis of perceptual awareness has focused on vision. Increasingly detailed neuronal correlates of real and illusory visual experience are being defined. Experiments exploiting circumstances in which visual experience changes while external stimulation is held constant are tightening the experimental link between consciousness and its neural correlates. Work on unconscious neural processes provides a complementary approach. 'Unperceived' stimuli have detectable effects on neural events and subsequent action in a range of circumstances: blindsight provides the classical example. Other areas of cognitive neuroscience also promise experimental insights into consciousness, in particular the distinctions between implicit and explicit memory and deliberate and automatic action. Overarching scientific theories of consciousness include neurobiological accounts which specify anatomical or physiological mechanisms for awareness, theories focusing on the role played by conscious processes in information processing and theories envisaging the functions of consciousness in a social context. Whether scientific observation and theory will yield a complete account of consciousness remains a live issue. Physicalism, functionalism, property dualism and dual aspect theories attempt to do justice to three central, but controversial, intuitions about experience: that it is a robust phenomenon which calls for explanation, that it is intimately related to the activity of the brain and that it has an important influence on behaviour.
During the progression of AIDS, a majority of patients develop cognitive disorders such as HIV encephalitis (HIVE) and AIDS dementia complex (ADC), which correlate closely with macrophage infiltration into the brain and microglial activation. Microglial activation occurs in response to infection, inflammation and neurological disorders including HIVE, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis. Microglia can be activated by immunoreactive cells independent of, but enhanced by HIV infection, from at least two routes. Activation may occur from signals originating from activated monocytes and lymphocytes in the blood stream, which initiate a cascade of stimuli that ultimately reach microglia in the brain or from activated macrophages/microglia/astrocytes within the brain. Effects of microglial activation stemming from both systemic and CNS HIV infection act together to commence signaling feedback, leading to HIVE and increased neurodegeneration. Most recent data indicate that in AIDS patients, microglial activation in the brain with subsequent release of excitotoxins, cytokines and chemokines leads to neurodegeneration and cognitive impairment. Since the presence of HIV in the brain results from migration of infected monocytes and lymphocytes across the vascular boundary, the development of novel therapies aimed at protecting the integrity of the blood brain barrier (BBB) upon systemic HIV infection is critical for controlling CNS infection.
A patient who had experienced an attack of transient global amnesia (TGA) was examined using neurophysiological methods. Magnetoencephalography (MEG) was performed and the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R) test was administered at 5 days and at more than a month after the TGA episode. MEG data on neuronal activity obtained while the patient was undertaking a working memory task and during rest were analyzed using the wavelet-crosscorrelation method, which reveals time-lag and information flow between related sites in the brain. The WMS-R memory scores showed dramatic improvement when the test was administered a month following the attack, although no significant changes were observed in EEG, MRI and SPECT data. The MEG study revealed that under a working memory load how the neuron works functionally and the information propagates assembly within the right hemisphere, and that these brain functions were not performed adequately shortly after the TGA attack.
The present article is the adapted version of an electronic symposium organized by the Brazilian Society of Neuroscience and Behavior (SBNeC) which took place on June 14, 2000. The text is divided into three sections: I. The main issues, II. Chronodrugs, and III. Methods. The first section is dedicated to the perspectives of chronobiology for the next decade, with opinions about the trends of future research being emitted and discussed. The second section deals mostly with drugs acting or potentially acting on the organism's timing systems. In the third section there are considerations about relevant methodological issues concerning data analysis.
Advances in developmental cognitive neuroscience have generated important and interesting data that are relevant to infants' perception of contingencies. The author discusses concepts of &quot;binding&quot; (i.e., the binding of stimulus properties across space, and binding of events across time) within the context of the cognitive-neuroscience approach to learning. Issues relevant to infant contingency perception are also addressed. Previously published data on infant contingency perception and discrimination learning from the author's laboratory are reinterpreted in terms of these binding concepts, as well as the development of the neural substrates that presumably underlie the perception of stimulus attributes and temporal redundancy.
This is a review which is written on the basis of a cell calcium lecture delivered on 22 July 2000 at the European Research Meeting 'Calcium as a molecule of cellular integration'.
Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) protects cells from apoptosis primarily through the action of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase and the downstream serine/threonine kinase Akt. The PTEN gene product, a protein which dephosphorylates phosphatidylinositol lipids, prevents activation of Akt and regulates several cellular functions, including cell cycle progression, cell migration, and survival from apoptosis. In this study, PTEN overexpression decreases IGF-I-induced Akt activity, enhances serum withdrawal-induced apoptosis, and decreases IGF-I protection and cell growth in SHEP cells. The PTEN lipid phosphatase mutant G129E fails to inhibit IGF-I-stimulated Akt activity and protection from apoptosis. The C124S mutation, which abolishes both lipid and protein phosphatase activity, fails to inhibit Akt activity and IGF-I protection against hyperosmotic-induced apoptosis but still inhibits growth and IGF-I protection against serum withdrawal-induced apoptosis. These data suggest a role for PTEN in modulating the effect of IGF-I on Akt activity, neuroblastoma cell growth, and protection against apoptotic stimuli.
The central nervous system requires the proper formation of exquisitely precise circuits to function properly. These neuronal circuits are assembled during development by the formation of synaptic connections between hundreds of thousands of differentiating neurons. For these circuits to form correctly, neurons must elaborate precisely patterned axonal and dendritic arbors. Although the cellular and molecular mechanisms that guide neuronal differentiation and formation of connections remain mostly unknown, the neurotrophins have emerged recently as attractive candidates for regulating neuronal differentiation in the developing brain. The experiments reviewed here provide strong support for a bifunctional role for the neurotrophins in axonal and dendritic growth and are consistent with the exciting possibility that the neurotrophins might mediate activity-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Neurotrophic factors, such as nerve growth factor (NGF), have been shown to promote the differentiation of neural crest neuroblasts into sympathetic neurons, whereas glucocorticoids promote the endocrine phenotype of adrenal medullary chromaffin cells. This pluripotency is preserved to some extent in adult chromaffin cells, with NGF and other neurotrophic factors influencing the differentiation of these cells. In this study, the effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on explanted chromaffin tissue have been investigated. The localization of mRNAs corresponding to the two components of the GDNF receptor, GDNF family receptor alpha 1 (GFRalpha1) and Ret, were demonstrated in adult adrenal medullary ganglion cells. GFRalpha1 mRNA was expressed in explanted chromaffin tissue at levels dependent on the presence of serum in the medium but decreased on the addition of blocking antibodies against transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta). However, TGFbeta1 (1 ng/ml) did not upregulate GFRalpha1 mRNA expression when added to serum-free medium. GDNF induced neurite formation from chromaffin cells, as measured by the ratio of neurite-bearing versus total number of chromaffin cells in primary cultures of adult adrenal medulla. The most potent dose inducing neurites from chromaffin cells was 100 ng/ml GDNF. However, this dose was not as efficient as that seen when chromaffin cells were stimulated with NGF (100 ng/ml). Thus, adrenal medullary cells express mRNAs for the GDNF receptor components Ret and GFRalpha1, increase their expression upon being cultured in serum-containing medium and respond to GDNF treatment with an increase in the number of cells that develop nerve processes.
Previous neuropharmacological studies have described the presence of a nitric oxide-cGMP signalling pathway in the crayfish abdominal nervous system. In this study we have analysed the distribution of putative nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-containing ascending interneurones in the crayfish terminal abdominal ganglion using NADPH-diaphorase (NADPHd) histochemistry. Ascending intersegmental interneurones were stained intracellularly using the fluorescent dye Lucifer yellow and the ganglia containing the stained interneurones subsequently processed for NADPHd activity. Fluorescence persisted throughout histochemical processing. These double-labelling experiments showed that 12 of 18 identified ascending interneurones were NADPHd positive. Thus many ascending interneurones that process mechanosensory signals in the terminal ganglion may contain NOS, and are themselves likely sources of NO which is known to modulate their synaptic inputs. Three clear relationships emerged from our analysis between the effects of NO on the synaptic inputs of interneurones, their output properties and their staining for NADPH-diaphorase. First were class 1 interneurones with no local outputs in the terminal ganglion, the NE type interneurones, which had sensory inputs that were enhanced by NO and were NADPHd positive. Second were class 1 interneurones with local and intersegmental output effects that had sensory inputs that were also enhanced by NO but were NADPHd negative. Third were class 2 interneurones with local and intersegmental outputs that had synaptic inputs that were depressed by the action of NO but were NADPHd positive. These results suggest that NO could selectively enhance specific synaptic connections and sensory processing pathways in local circuits.
Infusing glyceryl trinitrate as a donor molecule, we have used electrophysiological and c-fos immunostaining techniques to study the effects of nitric oxide on neurones in the nucleus trigeminalis caudalis. Following infusion of glyceryl trinitrate, responses of neurones to electrical stimulation of periorbital cutaneous afferents were potentiated and threshold for activation of neurones by stimulation of dural afferents was reduced. Expression of c-fos was unchanged by glyceryl trinitrate compared to saline controls. Intradermal injection of capsaicin in the periorbital area increased c-fos expression in nucleus trigeminalis caudalis; this was significantly potentiated by glyceryl trinitrate. These results suggest that, in the anaesthetized rat, glyceryl trinitrate alone may not acutely activate the trigeminovascular system to a significant degree at doses that cause headache and later trigger migraine headache in migraineurs. Nevertheless, it is susceptible to exogenous nitric oxide in that activation of trigeminal neurones through cutaneous or dural pathways is potentiated. This may in some measure underlie the pathogenesis of migraine headache.
The neocortical neuropil has a strong vertical (orthogonal to pia) orientation, constraining the intracortical flow of information and forming the basis for the functional parcellation of the cortex into semi-independent vertical columns or 'modules'. Apical dendrites of excitatory pyramidal neurons are a major component of this vertical neuropil, but the extent to which inhibitory, GABAergic neurons conform to this structural and functional design is less well documented. We used a gene gun to transfect organotypic slice cultures of mouse and rat neocortex with the enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) gene driven by the promoter for glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67), an enzyme expressed exclusively in GABAergic cells. Many GAD67-GFP expressing cells were highly fluorescent, and their dendritic morphologies and axonal patterns, revealed in minute detail, were characteristic of GABAergic neurons. We traced 150 GFP-expressing neurons from confocal image stacks, and estimated the degree of vertical bias in their dendritic trees using a novel computational metric. Over 70% of the neurons in our sample had dendritic trees with a highly significant vertical bias. We conclude that GABAergic neurons make an important contribution to the vertical neocortical neuropil, and are likely to integrate synaptic inputs from axons terminating within their own module.
Electroencephalographical (EEG) recording studies have shown that odorants produce olfactory evoked potentials (OEPs) on the scalp surface. However, EEGs can only provide limited information about the intracerebral sources from where the OEPs are generated. By contrast, intracerebral EEG recordings enable direct examination of the electrophysiological activity from a given cerebral area. In the present study, neural activity was recorded from the amygdala of seven epileptic patients undergoing intracerebral EEG recordings prior to surgical treatment for relief of intractable seizures. Two olfactory tests were used: a passive-stimulation test consisting of the successive presentation of 12 common odorants and a suprathreshold detection test including both odorant and non-odorant stimulations. Recordings from the amygdala revealed that all odorant stimulations induced large and reproducible OEPs, whereas the non-odorant stimulations did not. It was also found that repetition of the same odorant stimulation led to a decrease in the latency of the first OEP component. This modulation, which corresponds to a faster olfactory processing, strongly suggests that the amygdala is involved in early olfactory attentional processes. In conclusion, it appears that the human amygdala discriminates the incoming information from the nasal airflow as being odorant or not and, additionally, that its speed of processing is sensitive to recent experience with an odor.
Reading readiness varies as a function of family and environmental variables. This study of 11-year-old children (N = 39) was designed to determine if there was an additional or interactive contribution of brain structure. Evidence is presented that both environmental and biological variables predict phonological development. Temporal lobe (planar) asymmetry, hand preference, family history of reading disability, and SES explained over half of the variance in phonological and verbal performance. The results demonstrate a linear association between cerebral organization and phonological skill within socioeconomic groups. These data provide concrete evidence to support the commonly held assumption that both environmental and biological factors are independent determinants of a child's ability to process linguistic information.



Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have been reported to be useful in the treatment of depression in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). However, a few reports have suggested that SSRIs may worsen parkinsonian motor symptomatology and extrapyramidal side effects have been reported in depressed patients treated with SSRIs. So far, no prospective trial comparing the effects of different SSRIs in depressed patients with PD has been performed. The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of four SSRIs (citalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, and sertraline) on motor performance and their efficacy on depression in a group of patients with PD. Sixty-two consecutive nondemented, nonfluctuating, depressed patients with PD were included in four treatment groups (15 patiens received citalopram, 16 fluoxetine, 16 fluvoxamine, and 15 sertraline). The evaluation of extrapyramidal and depressive symptomatology was performed with use of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Beck Depression Inventory, and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale at baseline and after 1, 3, and 6 months. Fifty-two patients completed the study. UPDRS scores were not significantly modified by the add-on therapy with each of the SSRIs studied. A significant improvement in depressive symptoms from baseline to the end of the trial was obtained with all SSRIs (Beck and Hamilton scores improving; p &lt; 0.05 according to an analysis of variance). Our findings suggest that SSRIs do not significantly worsen extrapyramidal symptomatology and may ameliorate depression in patients with PD.
The efficacy and safety of two dosages of tolcapone were compared in a 12-week crossover trial involving 118 nonfluctuating patients with PD on a stable dose of levodopa (L-Dopa). At trial onset, all patients received open-label tolcapone 100 mg three times daily for 4 weeks. At week 4, 116 eligible patients entered an 8-week double-blind treatment period and were randomized to receive tolcapone three times daily at either 100 mg (group 1; n = 58) or 200 mg (group 2; n = 58) until week 8, followed by the alternative tolcapone dosage until week 12. Ratings included Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Schwab &amp; England, and patient diaries, assessed at baseline and at 4, 8, and 12 weeks. At week 4, the investigator's global assessment (IGA) of efficacy showed improvement in 76% of patients. The mean total daily L-Dopa dose and mean UPDRS scores for subscales II and III decreased significantly (p &lt; 0.001). During the double-blind treatment period, IGA showed improvements at either or both dosages in 61% of patients; further changes in other efficacy variables were minimal and were similar with both tolcapone dosages. The most frequent adverse events were dopaminergic (nausea and dyskinesia); the most frequent nondopaminergic adverse event was diarrhea. The incidence of adverse events during double-blind treatment was slightly higher with tolcapone 200 mg three times daily (33%) than with tolcapone 100 mg three times daily (24%). The authors conclude that tolcapone dosages of 100 mg three times daily and 200 mg three times daily are well tolerated and equally effective in improving function in L-Dopa-treated nonfluctuating patients with PD.
The assessment of carotid atherosclerotic disease is an essential pre-requisite for determining a patients suitability for carotid endarterectomy to prevent ischaemic stroke. Catheter angiography is regarded as the most accurate investigative tool for this purpose. However, with its finite morbidity and invasiveness, there is an increasing reliance upon non-invasive methods to accurately assess carotid disease. We present a review of the technique and applications of computed tomography angiography.

It is presumed that GlaxoSmithKline has taken over from SmithKline Beecham in investigating the highly selective dopamine D3 antagonist SB-277011 and its analogs for the potential treatment of schizophrenia [284490] following the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in December 2000 [394715]. In June 2000, it was reported that novel 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-benzazepines and 2,3-dihydro-1H-isoindoles, including SB-277011, had shown high affinity and selectivity for the dopamine D3 receptor. All compounds were suggested to have further potential roles in the treatment of drug abuse and psychosis [372205]. In November 2000, data presented at the 30th Neuroscience meeting in New Orleans, LA, demonstrated that D3 receptor blockade with SB-277011 specifically altered neurochemical effects in the nucleus accumbens without the non-selective effects, such as catalepsy, seen with some other antagonists [390460].
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of tau (total tau), growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43), soluble amyloid precursor protein (sAPP; i.e. total sAPP), and beta-amyloid(42) (Abeta(42)) were studied in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD; n = 14), Alzheimer's disease (AD; n = 47) and vascular dementia (VAD; n = 16), and in age-matched controls (n = 12). CSF-tau was increased in AD compared to controls and FTD (p &lt; 0.001 for both). CSF-GAP-43 was increased in AD compared to controls (p &lt; 0.05), and both CSF-GAP-43 and CSF-sAPP were increased in AD compared to FTD (p &lt; 0.01). Positive and highly significant correlations were found between CSF-tau and CSF-GAP-43 in all groups and between CSF-tau, CSF-GAP-43 and CSF-sAPP in AD. The correlations found may reflect a common pathophysiologic process such as axonal degeneration.
To study the role of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the level of APP was analysed by quantitative immunoblotting in 6 AD patients and 6 age-matched controls in 9 brain regions. These were associative cortices (orbital frontal cortex, inferior temporal cortex, inferior parietal cortex), primary cortex (occipital cortex), limbic structures (anterior cingulate gyrus, hippocampus), subcortical structures (putamen, thalamus) and cerebellum. To assess a potential relationship between APP and presenilin-1 (PS-1) and/or synaptic proteins, the levels of PS-1 and rab3a, a specific synaptic vesicle protein, were also determined in the same tissue samples. The level of APP was almost the same in the association cortical regions, primary cortex, and limbic structures and in the subcortical structures, while the lowest level was found in the cerebellum. There were more marked differences in the level of PS-1 and rab3a between different brain regions. The highest levels of PS-1 and rab3a were found in the association cortical areas, while intermediate levels were found in primary cortex, limbic structures and subcortical structures. As for APP, the lowest level was found in cerebellum. We found significantly reduced levels of all three proteins in the association cortices and in hippocampus in AD. Our data show that the protein levels are reduced in specific areas, restricted to neuronal populations that are known to degenerate in AD. Due to the similarity of the expression of APP, PS-1 and rab3a, it is tempting to speculate whether there is a functional relationship between these proteins.
We compared the expression level of C1q mRNA and the number of C1q-positive plaques in adjacent or nearby brain sections from Alzheimer disease (AD) and control cases. Small blocks of temporal cortex were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde for 2 days at 4 degrees C. After cryoprotection with solutions containing 10-20% glycerol and 2% dimethylsulfoxide, 40-microm sections were cut from the tissue blocks. A section from each case was stained by immunohistochemistry using a C1q antibody, while RNA was purified from adjacent or nearby sections using a combination of proteinase K pretreatment followed by extraction using Trizol reagent. The expression of C1q B chain mRNA was analyzed in these samples by the reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The intensities of the PCR products were measured by an image analyzer. The expression of C1q B chain mRNA was significantly more abundant in AD than in control cases (p &lt; 0.05). Immunohistochemical analysis showed that C1q protein was localized in senile plaques in the AD brain. The number of C1q-positive plaques correlated with the expression level of C1q gene (p &lt; 0.05). The present results suggest that C1q protein in senile plaques originates is endogenously produced in the AD brain.
During metamorphosis of the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons undergo a segment-specific pattern of programmed cell death (PCD): e.g., APRs from abdominal segment six [APR(6)s] die at pupation in direct response to the prepupal rise in 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E), whereas APR(4)s survive through the pupal stage and die at eclosion (adult emergence). The hypothesis that the death of APR(4)s is triggered by the decline in 20E at eclosion was supported by findings that injection of 20E into developing pupae to delay the fall in 20E delayed APR(4) death. Furthermore, abdomen isolation to advance the fall in 20E caused precocious APR(4) death. In other experiments, APR(4)s were placed in primary cell culture 4 days before eclosion in medium containing 1 microg/ml 20E. A switch to hormone-free medium induced PCD in a significant proportion of APR(4)s, compared to APR(4)s that remained in 20E. Process fragmentation was a reliable early indicator of PCD. These results show that a decline in 20E triggers cell-autonomous PCD of APR(4)s, in contrast to the rise in 20E that triggers cell-autonomous PCD of APR(6)s. Thus, the PCD of homologous motoneurons in different body segments at different developmental times is triggered by different steroid hormone signals.
In this study, we investigated the expression of the P2X receptor subtypes (P2X(1-7)) during the development of skeletal muscle and in relation to acetylcholine receptors in the rat embryo and pup. By using immunohistochemistry, we showed that three receptor subtypes, P2X(2), P2X(5), and P2X(6), were expressed in developing skeletal muscle. The timing and pattern of receptor expression seemed to be precisely regulated. P2X(2), P2X(5), and P2X(6) were expressed in a sequential manner, which was consistent for all regional muscles tested (intercostal, paravertebral, and lower limb): P2X(5) expression appeared first (E15-E18) followed by P2X(6) (E16-E18), and finally P2X(2) (E18-adult). At no developmental stage did we observe colocalization of P2X(2) and acetylcholine receptors. In the case of P2X(2) and P2X(6), immunoreactivity was found to be widespread, immunopositive cells being apparent throughout the muscle. However, staining for P2X(5), both at the beginning and end of expression, was restricted to regions of muscle close to the myotendinous junctions. Because the timing of receptor expression is closely related to key events in skeletal muscle development, notably the generation of secondary myotubes and the redistribution of acetylcholine receptors, it is possible that ATP-signaling by means of P2X receptors could be involved in these processes.

Protein kinase inhibitor (PKI) is an endogenous inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA). We have found that the alpha-isoform of PKI (PKIalpha) is asymmetrically expressed along the left-right (L-R) axis in chick embryos. At stage 6, PKIalpha is expressed on the right side of the node, and this asymmetric expression continues until stage 7+. After stage 8, PKIalpha expression returns symmetric. Treatment of embryos with antisense PKIalpha oligonucleotides increased the incidence of reversed heart looping. Antisense oligonucleotides also induced ectopic expression of the left-specific genes Nodal and Pitx2, and suppressed the expression of the right-specific gene SnR in the right lateral plate mesoderm. Similarly, treatment with PKA activators forskolin and Sp-cAMPs resulted in both reversed heart looping and bilateral expression of NODAL: Ectopic activin induced PKIalpha on the left side of the node, while ectopic Shh and anti-Shh antibody had no effect on PKIalpha expression. Taken together, these data suggest that PKIalpha induced by an activin-like molecule, through the inhibition of PKA activity, suppresses the Nodal-Pitx2 pathway on the right side of the body.
The POU domain transcription factors Brn3a, Brn3b and Brn3c are required for the proper development of sensory ganglia, retinal ganglion cells, and inner ear hair cells, respectively. We have investigated the roles of Brn3a in neuronal differentiation and target innervation in the facial-stato-acoustic ganglion. We show that absence of Brn3a results in a substantial reduction in neuronal size, abnormal neuronal migration and downregulation of gene expression, including that of the neurotrophin receptor TrkC, parvalbumin and Brn3b. Selective loss of TrkC neurons in the spiral ganglion of Brn3a(-/-) cochlea leads to an innervation defect similar to that of TrkC(-/-) mice. Most remarkably, our results uncover a novel role for Brn3a in regulating axon pathfinding and target field innervation by spiral and vestibular ganglion neurons. Loss of Brn3a results in severe retardation in development of the axon projections to the cochlea and the posterior vertical canal as early as E13.5. In addition, efferent axons that use the afferent fibers as a scaffold during pathfinding also show severe misrouting. Interestingly, despite the well-established roles of ephrins and EphB receptors in axon pathfinding, expression of these molecules does not appear to be affected in Brn3a(-/-) mice. Thus, Brn3a must control additional downstream genes that are required for axon pathfinding.
Epidemiological evidence suggests that isoflavone phytoestrogens may reduce the risk of cancer, osteoporosis, and heart disease, effects at least partially mediated by estrogen receptors alpha and beta (ERalpha and ERbeta). Because isoflavone dietary supplements are becoming increasingly popular and are frequently advertised as natural alternatives to estrogen replacement therapy, we have examined the effects of one of these supplements on estrogen-dependent behavior and ERalpha- and ERbeta-dependent gene expression in the brain. In the adult female rat brain, 17beta-estradiol treatment decreased ERbeta messenger RNA signal in the paraventricular nucleus by 41%, but supplement treatment resulted in a 27% increase. The regulation of ERbeta in the paraventricular nucleus is probably via an ERbeta-dependent mechanism. Similarly, in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, supplement treatment diminished the estrogen-dependent up-regulation of oxytocin receptor by 10.5%. The regulation of oxytocin receptor expression in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus is via an ERalpha-dependent mechanism. Supplement treatment also resulted in a significant decrease in receptive behavior in estrogen- and progesterone-primed females. The observed disruption of sexual receptivity by the isoflavone supplement is probably due to antiestrogenic effects observed in the brain. These results suggest that isoflavone phytoestrogens are antiestrogenic on both ERalpha- and ERbeta-dependent gene expression in the brain and estrogen-dependent behavior.
Pubertal development in female rats is characterized by increased LH levels and the appearance of estrogen-dependent afternoon LH mini-surges. In these studies we performed the first analysis of GnRH patterns in peripubertal rats to determine whether there are similar changes in pulsatile GnRH release. Microdialysis samples were collected at 5-min intervals throughout a 5-h afternoon period from 22 rats sampled on a single day between 30-47 days of age. Adult female rats were sampled on proestrus for comparison. In 30- to 33-day-old rats, GnRH release was infrequent (2.7 pulses/5 h; n = 3), whereas intermediate pulse frequencies were observed in 34- to 37-day-old rats (6.4 pulses/5 h; n = 9) and 38- to 42-day-old (5.0 pulses/5 h; n = 5) rats. The highest GnRH pulse frequencies were observed in 43- to 47-day-old rats (9.4 pulses/5 h; n = 5). Mean GnRH pulse amplitude did not vary significantly with age. Animals sampled before vaginal opening (VO) exhibited significantly slower GnRH pulse frequencies than those sampled after vaginal opening (1.3 pulses/5 h pre-VO vs. 7.6 pulses/5 h post-VO; P = 0.01). An afternoon increase in GnRH secretion, defined operationally as a greater than 25% increase in mean GnRH levels in the last half of the sampling period and tentatively termed a mini-surge, was observed in 0%, 33%, 40%, and 60% of 30- to 33-, 34- to 37-, 38- to 42-, and 43- to 47-day-old rats, respectively. An overall increase in GnRH pulse frequency was observed in females displaying a mini-surge (9.0 pulses/5 h with mini-surge compared with 4.7 pulses/5 h with no mini-surge). The mini-surge itself, however, was associated with a late afternoon increase in GnRH pulse amplitude and not in pulse frequency. In adult proestrous rats, peak levels during the GnRH surge were an order of magnitude greater than those reached in pubertal animals. Our findings demonstrate that pubertal maturation in the female rat is associated with an acceleration of GnRH pulse generator activity and that later stages of pubertal maturation are characterized by the appearance of afternoon increases in GnRH release that may underlie previously reported mini-surges in LH.
The study of dynamical changes in the neural activity preceding an epileptic seizure allows the characterization of a pre-ictal state several minutes prior to seizure onset. This opens new perspectives for studying the mechanisms of epileptogenesis as well as for possible therapeutic interventions which represent a major breakthrough. In this review we present and discuss the results from our group in this domain using nonlinear analysis of brain signals, as well as the limitations of this method and the remaining questions.
Functional mapping of the human brain has made tremendous progress in the past years thanks to new technical developments. Imaging methods are now available; they allow to study brain functions with high spatial and temporal resolution. Single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET), functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and high resolution electro- and magnetoencephalography (EEG and MEG) are currently intensively applied techniques to functional studies, each one having specific properties concerning spatial and temporal resolution. The success of these methods in basic neuroscience research has led to the demand for applying them to clinical questions. Diseases of the central nervous system that lead to brain dysfunction can be ideally explored using these techniques. Of particular importance are those diseases in which a focal neuronal dysfunction is the primary cause and where surgical resection of this focus might be the cure. This is often the case for epilepsy, where a discrete primary focus might exist from which pathological rhythms evolve and propagate throughout the brain, leading to seizures that severely handicap the patient. Surgical resection of the primary focus is only possible if the focus can be exactly localized and adequately separated from functionally important areas. This is where these new functional imaging tools become important. The use of SPECT and PET for focus localization has been most extensively studied and their specificity and sensitivity are intensively discussed. In the last few years functional MRI has evolved as a new interesting tool in epileptic focus localization. The most important limitation of these techniques, however, is the temporal resolution. Since epileptic activity can propagate very fast, several hyper- or hypoactive regions are seen in the images and primary areas cannot be distinguished from regions of propagation. The only methods that have sufficient temporal resolution to follow neuronal activity in real time are the electrophysiological measures, i.e. the EEG and the MEG. Localization of the sources in the brain that produced a given surface electromagnetic field has become possible through algorithms that solve the so-called &quot;inverse problem&quot;. Several different algorithms exist and many groups begun to apply them to epileptic data with the aim to localize the focus of the pathological electrical discharges. This review article discusses the use of distributed EEG source localization procedures in the presurgical evaluation of patients with intractable focal epilepsy. In contrast to equivalent dipole models, distributed localization methods do not localize one active point in the brain but rather assume extended active areas, which is generally the case in epileptic activity. The methods shown here are based on linear numerical methods and are therefore less prone to errors when working with scattered solution spaces such as the one defined by anatomical constraints. Solutions constraint to the gray matter determined in the individual MRI are shown here. We illustrate three methods to increase the spatial resolution of the source localization procedures: One is to increase the number of recording channels to more than 100, the second to use linear methods of high precision to detect focal sources (EPIFOCUS), and the third to combine EEG source localization with EEG-triggered functional magnetic resonance imaging. The importance of EEG source localization for the interpretation of fMRI data will be particularly discussed in view of the important difference of the temporal resolution by the two methods. The localization methods can be applied to interictal as well as to ictal activity. In case of analysis of ictal EEG we propose to use full scalp frequency analysis to determine the time period of seizure onset and to localize the sources of the initial dominant frequency.

Central nervous system (CNS) infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae still have a disastrous outcome. Underlying immunological and CNS cellular events are largely enigmatic. We used pneumococcal cells walls (PCW) to investigate microglial responses as these cells are prominent sensors and effectors during neuropathological changes. PCW stimulation of mouse microglia in vitro evoked the release of the cyto- and chemokines, TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-12, KC, MCP-1, MIP-1alpha, MIP-2 and RANTES as well as soluble TNF receptor II, a potential TNF-alpha antagonist. The release induction followed extremely steep dose-response relations, and short exposure periods (15 min) were already sufficient to trigger substantial responses. PCW signaling controlling the release depended on both p38 and p42/p44 (ERK2/ERK1) MAP kinase activities. The kinase inhibitor, tyrphostin AG126 prevented the PCW-inducible phosphorylation of p42/p44(MAPK), potently blocked cytokine release and drastically reduced the bioavailable TNF-alpha, since it only marginally affected the release of soluble TNF receptors. Moreover, in an in vivo model of pneumococcal meningitis, AG126 significantly attenuated the PCW-induced leukocyte influx to the cerebrospinal fluid. The findings imply that pneumococcal CNS infection can cause a rapid and massive microglial activation and that ERK/MAPK pathway(s) are potential targets for pharmacological interventions.
The influence of depression on the long-term outcome of stroke patients was examined among 390 of 486 consecutive patients aged 55-85 years. They completed, at 3 months after ischaemic stroke, a detailed medical, neurological, and radiological stroke evaluation, structured measures of emotion (Beck's Depression Inventory, BDI), handicap (Rankin scale, RS), and assessment of activities of daily living (Barthel Index, BI). Further RS and BI was evaluated at 15-month follow-up from these 390 patients and BDI in 276 patients. A group of 256 patients completed, in addition to the 15-month follow-up, a comprehensive psychiatric evaluation, including the Present State Examination 3 months after stroke. The DSM-III-R criteria were used for diagnosis of the depressive disorders. BDI identified depression (cut-off point &gt; or = 10 for depression) in 171 (43.9%) of 390 and in 123 (44.6%) of 276 patients at 3- and 15-month follow-up. DSM-III-R major depression was diagnosed in 66 (25.8%), and minor depression in 32 (12.5%), of 256 patients 3 months after stroke. Patients with BDI &gt; or = 10, or major, but not minor, depression more often had poor functional outcome (RS &gt; II and BI &lt; 17) at 15 months. Poor functional outcome at 3 months also correlated with depression at 15 months. In logistic regression analysis, depression at 3 months (Beck &gt; or = 10) correlated with poor functional outcome at 15 months (RS &gt; II) (OR 2.5, 95% CI 1.6-3.8). More careful examination and treatment of depression in stroke patients is emphasized.
In patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has markedly improved our ability to detect the macroscopic abnormalities of the brain and spinal cord. New quantitative magnetic resonance (MR) approaches with increased sensitivity to subtle normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) and grey matter changes and increased specificity to the heterogeneous pathological substrates of MS may give information complementary to conventional MRI. Magnetization transfer imaging (MTI) and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) have the potential to provide important information on the structural changes occurring within and outside T2-visible lesions. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) adds information on the biochemical nature of such changes. Functional MRI might quantify the efficiency of brain plasticity in response to MS injury and improve our understanding of the link between structural damage and clinical manifestations. The present review summarizes how the application of these MR techniques to the study of MS is dramatically changing our understanding of how MS causes irreversible neurological deficits.
Behavioural testing can reveal effects in scrapie-infected mice long before overt clinical signs appear (Betmouni et al., 1999, Psychobiology, 27, 63-71). These effects may be partly attributable to an early, atypical inflammatory response in the brain (Betmouni et al., 1996, Neuroscience, 74, 1-5). The present study replicated and extended these findings, and examined the effect of chronic treatment with dapsone. This anti-inflammatory compound has been reported to delay disease onset in a rat model of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (Manuelidis et al., 1998, Lancet, 352, 456). Although the doses used in the present study were higher than those of Manuelidis et al. (1998), no attenuation of the disease was seen in either behavioural or subsequent histological tests. Burrowing, i.e. displacing food pellets from a tube in the home cage, decreased from around week 12 in scrapie-infected mice, as did consumption of palatable glucose solution. Concurrently, ambulation in an open field increased, as did rearing at around week 17. Spontaneous alternation was impaired around this time. Around 18 weeks, motor performance on an inverted screen, horizontal bar, rotating rod and static rods decreased. Nest construction was impaired at 20 weeks. Overt clinical signs (reduction in mobility, hunched posture, poor coat condition, bladder enlargement) only occurred after week 20, when the mice were prepared for histology. The ME7 scrapie-infected mice thus showed a characteristic complex of neurological and behavioural changes during the course of the disease that were not ameliorated by dapsone. These changes appeared well before clinical signs were prominent.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder of the basal ganglia, associated with the inappropriate death of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Here, we show that adenovirally mediated expression of neuronal apoptosis inhibitor protein (NAIP) ameliorates the loss of nigrostriatal function following intrastriatal 6-OHDA administration by attenuating the death of dopamine neurons and dopaminergic fibres in the striatum. In addition, we also addressed the role of the cysteine protease caspase-3 activity in this adult 6-OHDA model, because a role for caspases has been implicated in the loss of dopamine neurons in PD, and because NAIP is also a reputed inhibitor of caspase-3. Although caspase-3-like proteolysis was induced in the SNc dopamine neurons of juvenile rats lesioned with 6-OHDA and in adult rats following axotomy of the medial forebrain bundle, caspase-3 is not induced in the dopamine neurons of adult 6-OHDA-lesioned animals. Taken together, these results suggest that therapeutic strategies based on NAIP may have potential value for the treatment of PD.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) receives dopamine inputs from the substantia nigra but their implication in the pathophysiology of parkinsonism is still debated. Extracellular microrecordings were used to study the effect of microiontophoretic injection of dopamine and the D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393 on the activity of STN neurons in normal and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats under urethane anaesthesia. Dopamine and SKF induced an increase in the firing rate of the majority of STN neurons in both normal and 6-OHDA rats. In rats with 6-OHDA lesions, the percentage of firing rate increase did not differ from that of controls. When GABA, glutamate and dopamine were all applied to the same individual STN neurons, GABA induced an inhibitory effect and glutamate and dopamine caused an excitatory effect in both groups. This excitatory response was suppressed by the application of GABA. Systemic administration of apomorphine provoked a decrease in the firing rate of STN neurons in rats with 6-OHDA lesions. These results show that dopamine exerts an excitatory influence on STN neurons, suggesting that the inhibitory effect induced by the systemic injection of apomorphine is due to the GABAergic inputs from the globus pallidus as predicted by the current model of basal ganglia organization. In addition, we show that dopamine, GABA and glutamate can act on the same STN neuron and that GABA can reverse the excitatory effect of dopamine and glutamate, suggesting the predominant influence of GABAergic inputs to the subthalamic nucleus.
The cloned vanilloid receptor VR1 can be activated by capsaicin and by thermal stimuli. The pattern of nerve terminals that contain VR1 in adult rat spinal cord does not correspond to axons that arise from a single subset of dorsal root ganglion neurons. Thus, we postulated that the basis underlying this complexity might be better understood from a developmental perspective. First, using capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia as a measure of VR1 function, we found that vanilloid receptors were functional as early as postnatal day 10 (P10), although hyperalgesia was of longer duration in adult. Interestingly, the appearance of VR1 protein in terminals of dorsal root ganglion neurons shifts over this postnatal period. From embryonic day 16 to P20, the majority of VR1 protein in the spinal cord was observed in lamina I. As animals matured, VR1 protein became more abundant in lamina II, particularly in the inner portion. Consistent with these observations, the number of dorsal root ganglion neurons coexpressing VR1 and isolectin B4 binding sites doubled while the number of neurons that had both VR1 and substance P remained relatively constant from P2 to P10. In peripheral processes, the number of VR1-positive nerve fibres and terminals in cutaneous structures in postnatal day 10 was half of that in adults. We also show that the association of VR1 with Ret is the reciprocal of the association of VR1 with Trk A. These results suggest that neurotrophins may regulate the extent to which populations of dorsal root ganglion neurons express VR1.
Amino acid transmitters play a key role in regulating the activity of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus. We investigated the anatomical substrate for this regulation by quantifying immunoreactivity for GABA, glutamate and glycine in terminals that contacted the dendrites of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive principal neurons in rat locus coeruleus. Pre-embedding peroxidase immunocytochemistry was used to detect tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity in Vibratome sections of tissue perfused with 2.5% glutaraldehyde. GABA, glutamate and glycine were localized with postembedding immunogold labelling. Gold particle densities over terminals were measured in three semiserial ultrathin sections, each reacted for a different amino acid. More than 90% (range among rats, 89%-95%) of the terminals analyzed (n = 288) were immunoreactive for at least one amino acid. A high proportion (39%-49%) were positive for two or three amino acids. About two-thirds (60%-69%) of the boutons contained GABA, of which more than half (51%-55%) also contained glycine. More than one-third (36%-38%) of the terminals were positive for glycine. Terminals immunoreactive for glycine alone were rare (0%-2%). About one-third of the terminals showed glutamate-immunoreactivity (32%-37%). GABA and/or glycine occurred in one-fifth to one-third of these. These results show that amino acid-immunoreactivity is present in almost all of the terminals that synapse on tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dendrites in locus coeruleus. Glutamate provides a major excitatory input. The almost complete colocalization of glycine with GABA suggests that the inhibitory input to locus coeruleus is predominantly GABAergic with a contribution from glycine in about half of the GABAergic boutons.
Cannabinoids activate the firing of mesoprefrontocortical dopamine neurons and release dopamine in the prefrontal cortex. This study was undertaken with the aim of clarifying the interaction between cannabinoids and mesocortical system in the prefrontal cortex. The effect of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC) and the synthetic CB1 agonist WIN55,212-2 (WIN) was studied by extracellular single unit recordings, in chloral hydrate anaesthetised rats, on the spontaneous activity of pyramidal neurons and on the inhibition produced on these neurons by the electrical stimulation of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Intravenously administered Delta9-THC and WIN (1.0 and 0.5 mg/kg, respectively), increased the firing rate of pyramidal neurons projecting to the VTA. VTA stimulation produced a phasic inhibition (167 +/- 6 ms) in 79% of prefrontal cortex pyramidal neurons. Delta9-THC and WIN reverted this inhibition in 73% and 100% of the neurons tested, respectively. The subsequent administration of the selective CB1 antagonist SR141716A (1 mg/kg) readily suppressed the effects of both cannabinoids and restored the inhibitory response to VTA stimulation. Moreover, when administered alone, SR141716A prolonged the inhibition in 55.6% of the neurons tested. The results indicate that stimulation of CB1 receptors by cannabinoids results in an enhanced excitability of prefrontal cortex pyramidal neurons as indexed by the suppression of the inhibitory effect of VTA stimulation and by the increase in firing rate of antidromically identified neurons projecting to the VTA. Furthermore, our results support the view that endogenous cannabinoids exert a negative control on dopamine activity in the prefrontal cortex. This study may be relevant in helping to understand the influence of cannabinoids on cognitive processes mediated by the prefrontal cortex.
L-dopa therapy reverses some but not all of the motor deficits in human Parkinson patients. Although a number rat analogues of human Parkinson's disease have been developed for evaluating the efficacy of drug therapies, it is not known whether L-dopa has a similar selective action on the motor symptoms in the rat models. To examine the effectiveness of L-dopa in reversing the motor deficits in rats, we administered 6-OHDA unilaterally to produce hemi-Parkinson rats, which were then trained to reach for food using either their impaired (contralateral to the lesion) limb or their good (ipsilateral to the lesion) limb. To assess the skill, accuracy and range of limb movement, rats reached for pasta from a horizontal array of 260 vertically orientated pieces of pasta. The number and location of pasta pieces taken from this matrix was calculated and the qualitative aspects of the reaching movements were rated. The quantitative data on pasta sticks retrieved indicated that forelimb extension and movement radius around the shoulder joint was reduced by 6-OHDA treatment and did not improve after chronic L-dopa treatment. The qualitative analysis showed that grasping patterns, paw movements and body movements impaired by the lesion were also not improved by L-dopa treatment. These findings are the first in the rat to suggest that whereas L-dopa has a general activating effect on the rat's whole-body movements, as displayed in contralateral rotation, its effectiveness does not extend to skilled forelimb movements. The results are discussed in relationship to the idea that the restoration of some skilled movements may require normal synaptic function.
Neurogenesis in the adult rat dentate gyrus was studied following focal ischemic insults produced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Animals were subjected to either 30 min of MCAO, which causes damage confined to the striatum, or 2 h of MCAO, which leads to both striatal and cortical infarction. When compared to sham-operated rats, MCAO-rats showed a marked increase of the number of cells double-labelled for 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-5'-monophosphate (BrdU; injected during 4-6 days postischemia) and neuronal-specific antigen (NeuN; a marker of postmitotic neurons) in the ipsilateral dentate granule cell layer and subgranular zone at 5 weeks following the 2 h insult. Only a modest and variable increase of BrdU-labelled cells was found after 30 min of MCAO. The enhanced neurogenesis was not dependent on cell death in the hippocampus, and its magnitude was not correlated to the degree of cortical damage. Systemic administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) completely suppressed the elevated neurogenesis following 2 h of MCAO. Our findings indicate that stroke leads to increased neurogenesis in the adult rat dentate gyrus through glutamatergic mechanisms acting on NMDA receptors. This modulatory effect may be mediated through changes in the levels of several growth factors, which occur after stroke, and could influence various regulatory steps of neurogenesis.
If effective anti-aging interventions are to be identified for human application, then the development of reliable and valid biomarkers of aging are essential for this progress. Despite the apparent demand for such gerotechnology, biomarker research has become a controversial pursuit. Much of the controversy has emerged from a lack of consensus on terminology and standards for evaluating the reliability and validity of candidate biomarkers. The initiation of longitudinal studies of aging in long-lived non-human primates has provided an opportunity for establishing the reliability and validity of biomarkers of aging potentially suitable for human studies. From the primate study initiated in 1987 at the National Institute on Aging (NIA), the following criteria for defining a biomarker of aging have been offered: (1) significant cross-sectional correlation with age; (2) significant longitudinal change in the same direction as the cross-sectional correlation; (3) significant stability of individual differences over time. These criteria relate to both reliability and validity. However, the process of validating a candidate biomarker requires a greater standard of proof. Ideally, the rate of change in a biomarker of aging should be predictive of lifespan. In short-lived species, such as rodents, populations differing in lifespan can be identified, such as different strains of rodents or groups on different diets, such as those subjected to calorie restriction (CR), which live markedly longer. However, in the NIA primate study, the objective is to demonstrate that CR retards the rate of aging and increases lifespan. In the absence of lifespan data associated with CR in primates, validation of biomarkers of aging must rely on other strategies of proof. With this challenge, we have offered the following strategy: If a candidate biomarker is a valid measure of the rate of aging, then the rate of age-related change in the biomarker should be proportional to differences in lifespan among related species. Thus, for example, the rate of change in a candidate biomarker of aging in chimpanzees should be twice that of humans (60 vs 120 years maximum lifespan); in rhesus monkeys three times that of humans (40 vs 120 years maximum lifespan). The realization of this strategy will be aided by developing a primate aging database, a project that was recently launched in cooperation with the NIA, the National Center for Research Resources, and the University of Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center.
Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is widely used in neuroscience research as a solvent for various pharmacological agents in both cell culture and in vivo studies and is also used in humans to treat musculoskeletal problems and pain. We now report that concentrations of DMSO to which neurons are typically exposed in experimental studies and in human patients (0.5-1.5%) inhibit glutamate responses in hippocampal neurons. DMSO suppresses, in a rapidly reversible manner, electrophysiological responses and calcium influx induced by glutamate, N-methyl-d-aspartate, and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate. Moreover, DMSO can prevent excitotoxic death of the neurons. These findings have important implications for the use of DMSO as a solvent in studies that involve glutamatergic neurotransmission. Our data also identify a mechanism that might explain clinical effects of DMSO on both peripheral and CNS neurons and suggest a potential use for DMSO in the treatment of excitotoxic neurodegenerative conditions.
The physiological interrelationships between cognitive impairments, neurotransmitter loss, amyloid processing and energy metabolism changes in AD, cholinergic dementia and Down's syndrome are largely unknown to date. This report contains novel studies into the association between cognitive function and cerebral metabolism after long-term selective CNS cholinergic neuronal and synaptic loss in a rodent model. We measured local cerebral rates of glucose utilization ((14)C-2-deoxyglucose) throughout the brains of awake rats 4.5 months after bilateral intraventricular injections of a cholinotoxic antibody directed against the low-affinity NGF receptor (p75 NGF) associated with cholinergic neurons (192 IgG-saporin). Permanent cholinergic synapse loss was demonstrated by [(3)H]-vesamicol in vitro autoradiography defining presynaptic vesicular acetylcholine (ACh) transport sites. While other metabolic studies have defined acute and transient glucose use changes after relatively nonspecific lesions of anatomical regions containing cholinergic neurons, our results show sustained reductions in glucose utilization in brain regions impacted by cholinergic synapse loss, including frontal cortical and hippocampal regions, relative to glucose use levels in control rats. In the same animals, impaired cognitive spatial performance in a Morris water maze was correlated with reduced glucose use rates in the cortex and hippocampus at this time point, which is consistent with increased postmortem cortical and hippocampal amyloid precursor protein (APP) levels (45, 46). These results are consistent with the view of cholinergic influence over metabolism, APP processing, and cognition in the cortex and hippocampus.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is known to bind to at least five receptors, including the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor-related protein (LRP), very low density LDL receptor (VLDL-R), LDL-R, apoE receptor 2 (apoER2), and megalin/gp330. In this context, the main objective of the present study was to better understand the contributions of LRP and LDL-R to the in vivo neurotrophic effects of apoE. For this purpose, apoE-deficient and receptor-associated protein (RAP)-deficient mice were infused with recombinant apoE3, RAP, or saline. Infusion of apoE3 into apoE-deficient mice resulted in amelioration of degenerative alterations of pyramidal neurons, but had no effect on somatostatin-producing interneurons. In contrast, infusion of apoE3 into RAP-deficient mice resulted in amelioration of degenerative alterations of somatostatin-producing interneurons. LRP and LDL-R levels were significantly reduced in RAP-deficient mice, but significantly increased in the apoE-deficient mice. In contrast, levels of apoE were reduced in the RAP-deficient mice compared to wildtype controls, suggesting that neurotrophic effects of apoE3 in the RAP-deficient mice were related to a combined deficit in endogenous apoE and selected apoE receptors. Furthermore, in apoE-deficient mice, infusion of apoE3 had a neurotrophic effect on somatostatin-producing interneurons only when combined with RAP, suggesting that increased expression of apoE receptors in apoE-deficient mice prevented apoE from rescuing somatostatin-producing neurons. This study supports the contention that some of the in vivo neurotrophic effects of apoE are mediated by LRP and LDL-R and that a critical balance between levels of apoE and its receptors is necessary for the differential neurotrophic effects to appear.
Chemokines are a family of proteins associated with the trafficking of leukocytes in physiological immune surveillance and inflammatory cell recruitment in host defence. They are classified into four classes based on the positions of key cystiene residues: C, CC, CXC, and CX3C. Chemokines act through both specific and shared receptors that all belong to the superfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors. Besides their well-established role in the immune system, several recent reports have demonstrated that these proteins also play a role in the central nervous system (CNS). In the CNS, chemokines are constitutively expressed by microglial cells, astrocytes, and neurons, and their expression can be increased after induction with inflammatory mediators. Constitutive expression of chemokines and chemokine receptors has been observed in both developing and adult brains, and the role played by these proteins in the normal brain is the object of intense study by many research groups. Chemokines are involved in brain development and in the maintenance of normal brain homeostasis; these proteins play a role in the migration, differentiation, and proliferation of glial and neuronal cells. The chemokine stromal cell-derived factor 1 and its receptor, CXCR4, are essential for life during development, and this ligand-receptor pair has been shown to have a fundamental role in neuron migration during cerebellar formation. Chemokine and chemokine receptor expression can be increased by inflammatory mediators, and this has in turn been associated with several acute and chronic inflammatory conditions. In the CNS, chemokines play an essential role in neuroinflammation as mediators of leukocyte infiltration. Their overexpression has been implicated in different neurological disorders, such as multiple sclerosis, trauma, stroke, Alzheimer's disease, tumor progression, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated dementia. An emerging area of interest for chemokine action is represented by the communication between the neuroendocrine and the immune system. Chemokines have hormone-like actions, specifically regulating the key host physiopathological responses of fever and appetite. It is now evident that chemokines and their receptors represent a plurifunctional family of proteins whose actions on the CNS are not restricted to neuroinflammation. These molecules constitute crucial regulators of cellular communication in physiological and developmental processes.



The gene plp on the X chromosome encodes the isoforms proteolipid protein (PLP) and DM(20), two dominant integral membrane proteins of central nervous system (CNS) myelin. DM(20) results from the activation of the cryptic splice site in exon III of the PLP gene. We inserted a sense-orientated loxP flanked neomycin-gene into intron III of the plp sequence, using homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells and generated the homozygous neoS mouse line. Unlike the previously described complete PLP/DM(20) ablation (plp(-/-)), which has been obtained by introducing a neo-gene in antisense-orientation in the same position of intron III, the plp expression surprisingly revealed reduced mRNA levels. The PLP isoform was reduced to 50%, but DM(20) expression was unaffected. This protein pattern resembles the expression profile of the PLP isoforms in the natural occurring rumpshaker mutant. Electron microscopic examination revealed a normal compaction of CNS-myelin and maintenance of axon integrity. PLP expression levels of the wt control were recovered by Cre excision of the neo-selection gene after intercrossing neoS mice and oligodendrocyte-specific Cre-mice. These data strongly hint at different functions of intron III in PLP/DM(20)-specific splicing and mRNA stability. Furthermore evidence is provided for functionally affected translation products of the PLP gene in the rumpshaker mutant, whereas no PLP-isoform occur in plp(-/-) mice generated by introducing a selectable marker into intron III in antisense orientation.
We observed highly aggressively proliferating immortalized (HAPI) cells growing in cultures that had been enriched for microglia. The cells were initially obtained from mixed glial cultures prepared from 3-day-old rat brains. HAPI cells are typically round with few or no processes when cultured in 10% serum containing medium. As the percentage of serum in the medium is decreased, the HAPI cells have more processes. HAPI cells stain for the isolectin B4, OX-42, and GLUT5, which are markers for microglial cells, but the cells do not immunolabel with A2B5, a marker of cells in the oligodendroglial cell lineage, or with the astrocyte-specific marker, glial fibrillary aciidic protein (GFAP). In addition, HAPI cells are capable of phagocytosis. We conclude that HAPI cells are of microglia/macrophage lineage. Exposing HAPI cells to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces the mRNAs for tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). LPS exposure also induces secretion of TNF-alpha and production of nitric oxide (NO) in HAPI cells. Because activation of microglia is associated with an increase in iron accumulation and ferritin expression, we tested the hypothesis that iron status affects the production of TNF-alpha and NO. Our studies demonstrate that both iron chelation and iron loading diminished the LPS-induced effect of TNF-alpha and NO. The results of this study indicate that HAPI cells possess the characteristics of microglia/brain macrophages, providing an alternative cell culture model for the study of microglia. In addition, we demonstrate that the activation of microglial cells could be modified by iron.
Assembly of the extracellular matrix (ECM) has been tightly linked to compact myelin formation in the peripheral nervous system. We recently demonstrated that myelination of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) axons by Schwann cells may occur in the absence of basal lamina. We have now determined whether laminin deposition occurs around myelinating SC, even though basal lamina has not been assembled. DRG/SC co-cultures were prepared from E15 rat embryos and incubated in fully defined medium (B27) with and without ascorbic acid for 21-24 days. Cultures were stained with a rabbit anti-laminin antibody and examined by laser confocal fluorescence microscopy. Myelination occurred in both groups. In the presence of ascorbic acid, there was dense even laminin staining around myelinating SC. In the absence of ascorbic acid, laminin staining was also present but was irregular and less dense. DRG and SC were co-cultured without ascorbic acid in the presence or absence of a function blocking anti-beta(1) integrin receptor antibody. The antibody completely inhibited myelination. Finally, DRG/SC co-cultures were prepared both with and without ascorbic acid and incubated under control conditions or in the presence of continual, gentle motion. Movement in the absence of ECM significantly inhibited myelination. This demonstrates that laminin deposition on the surface of SC but not ECM assembly is required for formation of compact myelin. ECM is required to provide mechanical stability during the process of myelination.
The strength of electrical coupling between retinal glial cells was quantified with simultaneous whole-cell current-clamp recordings from astrocyte-astrocyte, astrocyte-Mller cell, and Mller cell-Mller cell pairs in the acutely isolated rat retina. Experimental results were fit and space constants determined using a resistive model of the glial cell network that assumed a homogeneous two-dimensional glial syncytium. The effective space constant (the distance from the point of stimulation to where the voltage falls to 1/e) equaled 12.9, 6.2, and 3.7 microm, respectively for astrocyte-astrocyte, astrocyte-Mller cell, and Mller cell-Mller cell coupling. The addition of 1 mM Ba(2+) had little effect on network space constants, while 0.5 mM octanol shortened the space constants to 4.7, 4.4, and 2.6 microm for the three types of coupling. For a given distance separating cell pairs, the strength of coupling showed considerable variability. This variability in coupling strength was reproduced accurately by a second resistive model of the glial cell network (incorporating discrete astrocytes spaced at varying distances from each other), demonstrating that the variability was an intrinsic property of the glial cell network. Coupling between glial cells in the retina may permit the intercellular spread of ions and small molecules, including messengers mediating Ca(2+) wave propagation, but it is too weak to carry significant K(+) spatial buffer currents.

This review investigates the roles of representation, transformation and coding as part of a hierarchical process between sound and perception. This is followed by a survey of how speech sounds and elements thereof are represented in the activity patterns along the auditory pathway. Then the evidence for a place representation of texture features of sound, comprising frequency, periodicity pitch, harmonicity in vowels, and direction and speed of frequency modulation, and for a temporal and synchrony representation of sound contours, comprising onsets, offsets, voice onset time, and low rate amplitude modulation, in auditory cortex is reviewed. Contours mark changes and transitions in sound and auditory cortex appears particularly sensitive to these dynamic aspects of sound. Texture determines which neurons, both cortical and subcortical, are activated by the sound whereas the contours modulate the activity of those neurons. Because contours are temporally represented in the majority of neurons activated by the texture aspects of sound, each of these neurons is part of an ensemble formed by the combination of contour and texture sensitivity. A multiplexed coding of complex sound is proposed whereby the contours set up widespread synchrony across those neurons in all auditory cortical areas that are activated by the texture of sound.
Genetic etiologies of at least 20% of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCAs) have yet to be clarified. We identified a novel spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) form in four Japanese pedigrees which is caused by an abnormal CAG expansion in the TATA-binding protein (TBP) gene, a general transcription initiation factor. Consequently, it has been added to the group of polyglutamine diseases. This abnormal expansion of glutamine tracts in TBP bears 47--55 repeats, whereas the normal repeat number ranges from 29 to 42. Immunocytochemical examination of a postmortem brain which carried 48 CAG repeats detected neuronal intranuclear inclusion bodies that stained with anti-ubiquitin antibody, anti-TBP antibody and with the 1C2 antibody that recognizes specifically expanded pathological polyglutamine tracts. We therefore propose that this new disease be called SCA17 (TBP disease).

This paper describes a region-growing algorithm for the segmentation of large lesions in T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images of the head. The algorithm involves a gray level similarity criterion to expand the region and a size criterion to prevent from over-growing outside the lesion. The performance of the algorithm is evaluated and validated on a series of pathologic three-dimensional MR images of the head.
The relationship between psychiatric morbidity in 30 leprosy patients under treatment as assessed by the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12) and certain variables of their illness and psychosocial factors is examined in this paper. Physical disability and duration of illness were the illness variables considered; knowledge and adjustment were the psychosocial variables included. Bell's Adjustment Inventory (BAI) measured the latter, psychiatric morbidity was positively correlated with physical disability (p &lt; 0.05), knowledge about the disease (p &lt; 0.01) and social, emotional and health maladjustment (p &lt; 0.01), but not with duration of illness (p &gt; 0.05). The importance of appropriate knowledge, social stigma and physical disability in leprosy is discussed in addressing the psychiatric morbidity of leprosy patients.
In this study, we have developed and evaluated a simple indirect immunofluorescence test (IIFT) to detect rabies antibodies in a two-step immunofluorescence assay. One hundred and eighty five serum samples from people who had taken different rabies vaccines and 8 pairs of serum and CSF samples from confirmed paralytic rabies cases were tested by IIFT and results evaluated in comparison to standard mouse neutralization test (MNT). Though the titres of rabies antibodies obtained with IIFT were 2-4 times lesser in comparison to MNT, a significant correlation was seen between the two tests (R = 0.883). The specificity of this IIFT was found to be 97.9% and the sensitivity was 97.2%. These results indicate that this simple and rapid IIFT can be used to screen large number of serum samples to monitor sero-conversion after pre or post exposure vaccination and may also assist in rapid ante-mortem diagnosis of atypical human rabies.
Glatiramer acetate (Copaxone) is a novel preparation of synthetic peptides composed of four amino acids. Laboratory studies have shown that it prevents, or modifies, experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, the animal model for multiple sclerosis (MS), in several mammalian species. Its mode of action has not been fully elucidated but it is known to induce suppresser T-cells, known to be deficient in MS, and competitively inhibits the effect of CNS myelin antigens, thought to be important in the pathogenesis of MS, through MHC blockade. Controlled clinical trials have shown it to improve the natural history of MS by reducing both the relapse rate and the resultant disability. GA shows similar efficacy to interferon-beta (IFN-beta) but with fewer systemic side-effects and appears to be better tolerated by patients. It has thus justified its place in the new era of disease-modifying treatments for MS. While the evidence suggests GA should be considered as first-line therapy in selected patients, its differing mechanism of action also gives patients and doctors the option of an alternative agent when the efficacy of IFN-beta is waning or side-effects predominate.
A cognitive test battery sensitive to processes important for speech understanding was developed and investigated. Test stimuli are presented as text or in an auditory or audiovisual modality. The tests investigate phonologic processing and verbal information processing. Four subject groups, young/elderly with normal-hearing and young/elderly with hearing impairment, each including 12 subjects, participated in the study. The only significant effect in the text modality was an age effect in the speed of performance, seen also in the auditory and audiovisual modalities. In the auditory and audiovisual modalities, the effects of hearing status and modality were seen in accuracy parameters. Interactions between hearing status and modality, both in accuracy and in reaction times, show that hearing-impaired subjects have difficulties without visual cues. Performing the test battery in noise made the tasks more difficult, especially in the auditory modality and for the elderly, affecting both accuracy and speed. Test-retest measurements showed learning effects and a modality-dependent variability. The test battery has proven useful in assessing the relative contribution of different input signals and the effects of age, hearing impairment, and visual contribution on functions important for speech processing.
Here we present ideas connecting the behaviour of the cranial neural crest during development with the venerable, perhaps incorrect, view that gill-supporting cartilages of an ancient agnathan evolved into the skeleton of an early gnathostome's jaw. We discuss the pattern of migration of the cranial neural crest ectomesenchyme in zebrafish, along with the subsequent arrangement of postmigratory crest and head mesoderm in the nascent pharyngeal segments (branchiomeres), in diverse gnathostomes and in lampreys. These characteristics provide for a plausible von Baerian explanation for the problematic inside-outside change in topology of the gills and their supports between these 2 major groups of vertebrates. We consider it likely that the jaw supports did indeed arise from branchiomeric cartilages.
Understanding dopamine signaling in human behavior requires knowledge of the distribution of all molecular components involved in dopamine pathways throughout the human brain. In the present study, the relative distributions of D1 and D2 dopamine receptor mRNAs were determined by in situ hybridization histochemistry in whole hemisphere sections from normal human post mortem brains. The findings confirmed information documented from single structure examination that the highest expression of both the D1 and D2 mRNAs were localized to the striatum. The cerebral cortex expressed moderate D1 mRNA in all regions with the highest signal in the medial orbital frontal area (Brodmann areas 11, 14), the paraterminal gyrus (Brodmann area 32) and the insular cortex (Brodmann areas 13-16), whereas the D2 mRNA expression had very low cortical expression. The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and islands of Calleja had high expression of the D1 mRNA and moderate D2 mRNA levels. Moderate to high expression of the D2 mRNA was evident in the hippocampal formation, parafascicular and paraventricular thalamic nuclei, geniculate bodies, subthalamic nucleus, and pineal gland, all of which were devoid of, or showed only faint, D1 mRNA expression. Brainstem regions, e.g. substantia nigra, red nucleus, inferior colliculus, medial lemniscus, and pontine nuclei expressed D2, but not D1, mRNA. These results emphasize the differential anatomical localization of D1 and D2 dopamine receptor mRNA neuronal populations in the human brain. The restricted expression of the D1 mRNA to the cortical mantle and to a few forebrain structures indicates a strong involvement of the D1 system in cognitive function.
The laminar cortical distribution of the [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin, [3H]cytisine and [3H]epibatidine nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ligands was investigated by quantitative autoradiography in autopsy tissue from the cingulate, orbitofrontal and temporal cortices of control and schizophrenia subjects matched for age and smoking history. Different laminar binding patterns were observed for the various nicotinic ligands both in schizophrenic and control brains. [125I]alpha-Bungarotoxin binding was distributed homogeneously across all cortical layers in all three brain regions, with highest binding densities in the cingulate cortex. [3H]Cytisine and [3H]epibatidine binding varied across the cortical ribbon, with high binding in layers I, III, V and VI, within the three cortical regions. A significantly reduced [125I] alpha-bungarotoxin binding (-54%) was observed in the cingulate cortex of schizophrenia subjects, in comparison with normal individuals who smoked tobacco. In the same brain region also a significantly higher [3H]cytisine binding (48-77%) was observed in nearly all layers, except for layer I of the schizophrenia subjects, when compared to normal individuals with a history of tobacco use. No significant changes in [3H]epibatidine binding was observed within the individual cortical layers between control subjects and patients with schizophrenia, but when calculated as a whole region (i.e. measurements performed across the whole cortical ribbon), the temporal cortex showed a significant increase in [3H]epibatidine binding in schizophrenia subjects compared to control subjects. The results suggest opposite changes of the alpha4beta2 and alpha7 nicotinic receptor subtypes in the cingulate cortex of patients with schizophrenia which might reflect involvement of two different nicotinic receptor mechanisms in schizophrenia brain.
Neurofibrillary pathology is a characteristic hallmark of Alzheimer's disease that is closely correlated with cognitive decline. We have analysed the density and distribution of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) that are immunoreactive with the monoclonal antibody (mAb) 423 in a prospectively analysed population of Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases and age-matched controls. NFTs were examined in allocortical and isocortical areas and correlated with Braak pathological stage and clinical severity of dementia. The mAb 423 was used as it recognises a C-terminally truncated tau fragment that is a major constituent of NFTs. Our results show that extracellular NFTs and, to a lesser extent, intracellular NFTs, correlated significantly with both Braak stages and the clinical index of severity. Furthermore, a differential distribution of the two types of tangles indicates that layer II of the entorhinal cortex and the transentorhinal area are particularly vulnerable to neurofibrillary degeneration. These areas serve as a point of connection between isocortex and hippocampus. Our findings, therefore, suggest that the perforant pathway may be substantially affected by the accumulation of truncated tau protein in AD and that this represents a neuropathological predictor for the clinical severity of dementia. When neurofibrillary pathology was examined by combined labelling with mAbs 423 and Alz-50 and the dye thiazin red, we were able to demonstrate various stages of tau aggregation. The different stages may represent a sequence of conformational changes that tau proteins undergo during tangle formation in the allocortex during the early development of dementia in AD.
The functions of glutamate and GABA in the CNS are mediated by ionotropic and metabotropic, G protein-coupled, receptors. Both receptor families are widely expressed in basal ganglia structures in primates and nonprimates. The recent development of highly specific antibodies and/or cDNA probes allowed the better characterization of the cellular localization of various GABA and glutamate receptor subtypes in the primate basal ganglia. Furthermore, the use of high resolution immunogold techniques at the electron microscopic level led to major breakthroughs in our understanding of the subsynaptic and subcellular localization of these receptors in primates. In this review, we will provide a detailed account of the current knowledge of the localization of these receptors in the basal ganglia of humans and monkeys.
An increased frequency of reproductive endocrine disorders has been reported in women with epilepsy. A possible role of the seizure disorder or, alternatively, of the use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) has been suggested as the pathogenic mechanism. The aim of the present study was to assess the frequency of reproductive endocrine disorders in a series of women with epilepsy, examining the possible relationships of these disturbances with different epilepsy syndromes and AED treatment. Fifty epileptic women, all of reproductive age and none pubertal, pregnant, or lactating, were submitted to clinical endocrinological evaluation, hormonal assessment, and ovarian ultrasonography. Subjects with abnormal findings in this preliminary study underwent additional evaluations. Reproductive endocrine disorders were diagnosed in 16 (32%), consisting of polycystic ovary syndrome in 13, hypothalamic amenorrhea in 2, and luteal phase deficiency in 1. There was no significant association of these disturbances with epilepsy type or AED treatment. Patients with reproductive endocrine disorders often showed delayed ovulation with shortened luteal phase. The results of this study suggest that the prevalence of disordered ovulation, in particular polycystic ovary syndrome, is increased in epilepsy, independent of antiepileptic medications or type of seizure disorder.
Limitation of movement during fetal development may lead to multiple joint contractures in the neonate, termed arthrogryposis multiplex congenita. Neuromuscular disorders are among the many different causes of reduced fetal movement. Many congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMSs) are due to mutations of the adult-specific epsilon subunit of the acetylcholine receptor (AChR), and, thus, functional deficits do not arise until late in gestation. However, an earlier effect on the fetus might be predicted with some defects of other AChR subunits. We studied a child who presented at birth with joint contractures and was subsequently found to have a CMS. Mutational screening revealed heteroallelic mutation within the AChR delta subunit gene, delta 756ins2 and delta E59K. Expression studies demonstrate that delta 756ins2 is a null mutation. By contrast, both fetal and adult AChR containing delta E59K have shorter than normal channel activations that predict fast decay of endplate currents. Thus, delta E59K causes dysfunction of fetal as well as the adult AChR and would explain the presence of joint contractures on the basis of reduced fetal movement. This is the first report of the association of AChR gene mutations with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita. It is probable that mutations that severely disrupt function of fetal AChR will underlie additional cases.
This investigation sought the optimal (highest amplitude) derivation for monitoring the posterior tibial P37 for each side in each individual, and determined whether this may change intraoperatively. Fifty monitored patients were studied using a partial P37 map consisting of FPz, Fz, Cz, Cz', Pz, POz, C4', and C3' to a noncephalic reference. From this, the highest amplitude scalp derivation was determined for each side. Of 100 tibial nerves, the initial optimal input 1 was Cz' in 52%, Pz in 28%, and Cz or iC' in 10%, and optimal input 2 was cC' in 69% and FPz in 31%. The optimal derivation was the same for each side in 34% of patients and different in 66%. Of 31 patients with at least one subsequent trial later during surgery, P37 topography changed in 14 and affected optimal inputs in 12. This occurred regularly during sitting-position posterior fossa surgery because of intracranial air, but sometimes occurred during other surgeries as well. The most common change consisted of FPz replacing cC' as optimal input 2. Input 1 changes were predominantly in an anterior or posterior sagittal direction. The results demonstrate great inter- and intraindividual P37 variability, and document intraoperative topographic changes. Both phenomena can be addressed by a practical method to refine intraoperative monitoring by individually optimizing scalp derivations and identifying topographic P37 changes during surgery.



The question of how emotions influence recognition memory is of interest not only within basic cognitive neuroscience but from clinical and forensic perspectives as well. Emotional stimuli can induce a &quot;recognition bias&quot; such that individuals are more likely to respond &quot;old&quot; to a negative item than to an emotionally neutral item, whether the item is actually old or new. We investigated this bias using event-related brain potential (ERP) measures by comparing the processing of words given &quot;old&quot; responses with accurate recognition of old/new differences. For correctly recognized items, the ERP difference between old items (hits) and new items (correct rejections, CR) was largely unaffected by emotional valence. That is, regardless of emotional valence, the ERP associated with hits was characterized by a widespread positivity between 300 and 700 msec relative to that for CRs. By contrast, the analysis of ERPs to old and new items that were judged &quot;old&quot; (hits and false alarms [FAs], respectively) revealed a differential effect of valence by 300 msec: Neutral items showed a large old/new difference over prefrontal sites, whereas negative items did not. These results are the first clear demonstration of response bias effects on ERPs linked to recognition memory. They are consistent with the idea that frontal cortex areas may be responsible for relaxing the retrieval criterion for negative stimuli so as to ensure that emotional events are not as easily &quot;missed&quot; or forgotten as neutral events.
Odorants evoke an outward current in cultured lobster olfactory receptor neurons voltage clamped at -60 mV. The reversal potential of the outward current is independent of the reversal potential of potassium, but shifts with imposed changes in the reversal potential of chloride. The slope of the current-voltage relationship is negative, suggesting that the current is mediated by the odorant suppressing a steady-state conductance. Anthracene-9-carboxylic acid, a specific chloride channel blocker, reversibly inhibits the steady-state conductance. Local application of odorants to the outer dendrites evokes a hyperpolarizing receptor potential in lobster olfactory receptor neurons current-clamped at -70 mV in situ. Consistent with the current characterized in the cultured cells, hyperpolarizing receptor potentials in some cells are voltage sensitive, blocked by anthracene-9-carboxylic acid and associated with a decrease in membrane conductance. These results support the hypothesis that odorants suppress a steady-state chloride conductance in lobster olfactory receptor neurons. Evidence that the chloride conductance can coexist with a 4-aminopyridine-blockable potassium conductance reported earlier in these cells suggests that two distinct mechanisms can mediate odorant-evoked inhibition in lobster olfactory receptor neurons.
Recordings from cerebellar Purkinje cell dendrites have revealed that in response to sustained current injection, the cell firing pattern can move from tonic firing of Ca(2+) spikes to doublet firing and even to quadruplet firing or more complex firing. These firing patterns are not modified substantially if Na(+) currents are blocked. We show that the experimental results can be viewed as a slow transition of the neuronal dynamics through a period-doubling bifurcation. To further support this conclusion and to understand the underlying mechanism that leads to doublet firing, we develop and study a simple, one-compartment model of Purkinje cell dendrite. The neuron can also exhibit quadruplet and chaotic firing patterns that are similar to the firing patterns that some of the Purkinje cells exhibit experimentally. The effects of parameters such as temperature, applied current, and potassium reversal potential in the model resemble their effects in experiments. The model dynamics involve three time scales. Ca(2+)- dependent K(+) currents, with intermediate time scales, are responsible for the appearance of doublet firing, whereas a very slow hyperpolarizing current transfers the neuron from tonic to doublet firing. We use the fast-slow analysis to separate the effects of the three time scales. Fast-slow analysis of the neuronal dynamics, with the activation variable of the very slow, hyperpolarizing current considered as a parameter, reveals that the transitions occurs via a cascade of period-doubling bifurcations of the fast and intermediate subsystem as this slow variable increases. We carry out another analysis, with the Ca(2+) concentration considered as a parameter, to investigate the conditions for the generation of doublet firing in systems with one effective variable with intermediate time scale, in which the rest state of the fast subsystem is terminated by a saddle-node bifurcation. We find that the scenario of period doubling in these systems can occur only if (1) the time scale of the intermediate variable (here, the decay rate of the calcium concentration) is slow enough in comparison with the interspike interval of the tonic firing at the transition but is not too slow and (2) there is a biostability of the fast subsystem of the spike-generating variables.
Neocortical pyramidal neurons in vivo are subject to an intense synaptic background activity that has a significant impact on various electrophysiological properties and dendritic integration. Using detailed biophysical models of a morphologically reconstructed neocortical pyramidal neuron, in which synaptic background activity was simulated according to recent measurements in cat parietal cortex in vivo, we show that the responsiveness of the cell to additional periodic subthreshold stimuli can be significantly enhanced through mechanisms similar to stochastic resonance. We compare several paradigms leading to stochastic resonance-like behavior, such as varying the strength or the correlation in the background activity. A new type of resonance-like behavior was obtained when the correlation was varied, in which case the responsiveness is sensitive to the statistics rather than the strength of the noise. We suggest that this type of resonance may be relevant to information processing in the cerebral cortex.
Modulation of extracellular potassium concentration ([K](o)) has a profound impact on the excitability of neurons and neuronal networks. In the CA3 region of the rat hippocampus synchronized epileptiform bursts occur in conditions of increased [K](o). The dynamic nature of spontaneous neuronal firing in high [K](o) is therefore of interest. One particular interest is the potential presence of bistable behaviors such as the coexistence of stable repetitive firing and fixed rest potential states generated in individual cells by the elevation of [K](o). The dynamics of repetitive activity generated by increased [K](o) is investigated in a 19-compartment hippocampal pyramidal cell (HPC) model and a related two-compartment reduced HPC model. Results are compared with those for the Hodgkin-Huxley equations in similar conditions. For neural models, [K](o) changes are simulated as a shift in the potassium reversal potential (E(K)). Using phase resetting and bifurcation analysis techniques, all three models are shown to have specific regions of E(K) that result in bistability. For activity in bistable parameter regions, stimulus parameters are identified that switch high-potassium model behavior from repetitive firing to a quiescent state. Bistability in the HPC models is limited to a very small parameter region. Consequently, our results suggest that it is likely some HPCs in networks exposed to high [K](o) continue to burst such that a stable, quiescent network state does not exist. In [K](o) ranges where HPCs are not bistable, the population may still exhibit bistable behaviors where synchronous population events are reversibly annihilated by phase resetting pulses, suggesting the existence of a nonsynchronous network attractor.
Rats (Rattus norvegicus) have two classes of cone, one containing an ultraviolet (UV)-sensitive photopigment and the other housing a pigment maximally sensitive in the middle (M) wavelengths of the visible spectrum. The manner in which signals from these two cone types contribute to rat vision was investigated through recordings of a gross electrical potential (the electroretinogram, ERG) and behavioral discrimination tests. Spectral sensitivity functions obtained from both types of measurement indicate clear contributions from each of the cone classes, but there is a marked enhancement of the relative sensitivity to UV light in the behavioral index; for instance, under some photopic test conditions, rats are approximately equally sensitive to middle-wavelength and UV lights. In adaptation tests, thresholds for UV and M lights were found to be differentially elevated in the presence of chromatic adapting backgrounds, thus providing the possibility that signals from the two cones could be used by the rat visual system to support color discriminations. Evidence of dichromatic color vision in the rat was subsequently obtained from tests of wavelength discrimination.
Many cells express ryanodine receptors (RyRs) whose activation is thought to amplify depolarization-evoked elevations in cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration [Ca2+](i) through a process of Ca2+ -induced Ca2+ release (CICR). In neurons, it is usually assumed that CICR triggers net Ca2+ release from an ER Ca2+ store. However, since net ER Ca 2+ transport depends on the relative rates of Ca2+ uptake and release via distinct pathways, weak activation of a CICR pathway during periods of ER Ca accumulation would have a totally different effect: attenuation of Ca2+ accumulation. Stronger CICR activation at higher [Ca2+](i) could further attenuate Ca2+ accumulation or trigger net Ca2+ release, depending on the quantitative properties of the underlying Ca2+ transporters. This and the companion study (Hongpaisan, J., N.B. Pivovarova, S.L. Colgrove, R.D. Leapman, and D.D. Friel, and S.B. Andrews. 2001. J. Gen. Physiol. 118:101-112) investigate which of these CICR &quot;modes&quot; operate during depolarization-induced Ca2+ entry in sympathetic neurons. The present study focuses on small [Ca2+](i) elevations (less than approximately 350 nM) evoked by weak depolarization. The following two approaches were used: (1) Ca2+ fluxes were estimated from simultaneous measurements of [Ca2+](i) and I(Ca) in fura-2-loaded cells (perforated patch conditions), and (2) total ER Ca concentrations ([Ca](ER)) were measured using X-ray microanalysis. Flux analysis revealed triggered net Ca2+ release during depolarization in the presence but not the absence of caffeine, and [Ca2+](i) responses were accelerated by SERCA inhibitors, implicating ER Ca2+ accumulation, which was confirmed by direct [Ca](ER) measurements. Ryanodine abolished caffeine-induced CICR and enhanced depolarization-induced ER Ca2+ accumulation, indicating that activation of the CICR pathway normally attenuates ER Ca2+ accumulation, which is a novel mechanism for accelerating evoked [Ca2+](i) responses. Theory shows how such a low gain mode of CICR can operate during weak stimulation and switch to net Ca2+ release at high [Ca2+](i), a transition demonstrated in the companion study. These results emphasize the importance of the relative rates of Ca2+ uptake and release in defining ER contributions to depolarization-induced Ca2+ signals.

The fast gate of the muscle-type ClC channels (ClC-0 and ClC-1) opens in response to the change of membrane potential (V). This gating process is intimately associated with the binding of external Cl(-) to the channel pore in a way that the occupancy of Cl(-) on the binding site increases the channel's open probability (P(o)). External H(+) also enhances the fast-gate opening in these channels, prompting a hypothesis that protonation of the binding site may increase the Cl(-) binding affinity, and this is possibly the underlying mechanism for the H(+) modulation. However, Cl(-) and H(+), modulate the fast-gate P(o)-V curve in different ways. Varying the external Cl(-) concentrations ([Cl(-)](o)) shifts the P(o)-V curve in parallel along the voltage axis, whereas reducing external pH mainly increases the minimal P(o) of the curve. Furthermore, H(+) modulations at saturating and nonsaturating [Cl(-)](o) are similar. Thus, the H(+) effect on the fast gating appears not to be a consequence of an increase in the Cl(-) binding affinity. We previously found that a hyperpolarization-favored opening process is important to determine the fast-gate P(o) of ClC-0 at very negative voltages. This [Cl(-)](o)-independent mechanism attracted little attention, but it appears to be the opening process that is modulated by external H(+).
Voltage-gated ion channels respond to changes in the transmembrane voltage by opening or closing their ion conducting pore. The positively charged fourth transmembrane segment (S4) has been identified as the main voltage sensor, but the mechanisms of coupling between the voltage sensor and the gates are still unknown. Obtaining information about the location and the exact motion of S4 is an important step toward an understanding of these coupling mechanisms. In previous studies we have shown that the extracellular end of S4 is located close to segment 5 (S5). The purpose of the present study is to estimate the location of S4 charges in both resting and activated states. We measured the modification rates by differently charged methanethiosulfonate regents of two residues in the extracellular end of S5 in the Shaker K channel (418C and 419C). When S4 moves to its activated state, the modification rate by the negatively charged sodium (2-sulfonatoethyl) methanethiosulfonate (MTSES(-)) increases significantly more than the modification rate by the positively charged [2-(trimethylammonium)ethyl] methanethiosulfonate, bromide (MTSET(+)). This indicates that the positive S4 charges are moving close to 418C and 419C in S5 during activation. Neutralization of the most external charge of S4 (R362), shows that R362 in its activated state electrostatically affects the environment at 418C by 19 mV. In contrast, R362 in its resting state has no effect on 418C. This suggests that, during activation of the channel, R362 moves from a position far away (&gt;20 A) to a position close (8 A) to 418C. Despite its close approach to E418, a residue shown to be important in slow inactivation, R362 has no effect on slow inactivation or the recovery from slow inactivation. This refutes previous models for slow inactivation with an electrostatic S4-to-gate coupling. Instead, we propose a model with an allosteric mechanism for the S4-to-gate coupling.
The kinetics of formation and accumulation of statoconia are different for Aplysia californica and Biomphalaria glabrata. In Aplysia californica, the fast growth of statoconia number occurs after the critical size (approximately 45 micrometers) of statocyst is reached; then the increase of statoconia number is proceeding with the nonmonotonic rate during the life of an animal. In Biomphalaria the growth of statoconia number occurs only in the initial phase. Then long-term evolution of statoconia in the absence of their generation is the result of their growth in the cyst lumen. In the case of Aplysia californica it is not clear whether a temporal change of the statoconia size distribution (SSD) is caused by statoconia growth in the cyst lumen similar to that in Biomphalaria (Model 1) or statoconia growth takes place in supporting cells until their release into the cyst lumen occurs. (Model 2). This problem is of practical importance because the majority of experiments related to the development of molluscan gravireceptors in altered gravity dealt with an initial phase of statoconia evolution in Aplysia californica and Biomphalaria glabrata. The purpose of the present work is the application of mathematical modeling to the analysis of mechanisms of statoconia formation by supporting cells.
The benefits of lower body positive pressure (LBPP) are generally accepted for clinical treatment in medical emergencies caused by massive bleeding to maintain the systemic blood pressure. They are also used by NASA post spaceflight for preventing orthostatic hypotension in the astronauts. However, controversy still exists concerning the mechanisms underlying LBPP benefits. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that the baroreflex-mediated enhancement in sympathetic activity would be attenuated by LBPP during an orthostatic challenge in humans. Specifically, we studied 1) the sympathetic activity responses by the microneurographic technique, using direct intraneural measurement of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA); and 2) the contributions of preload and afterload to the chances in MSNA response during orthostasis on application of LBPP. To accomplish these issues, MSNA was recorded microneurographically along with noninvasive measurement of the cardiovascular variables in all the subjects during exposure to a 70 degrees HUT with 30-mm Hg LBPP.
Kalirin, a homologue of trio and UNC-73, has been previously demonstrated to cause cytoskeletal rearrangements, enhanced outgrowth of neuritic processes, and altered secretion. In the adult rat, kalirin is specifically localized to the central nervous system, with the main adult isoform, kalirin-7, concentrated in neuronal postsynaptic densities. In this study we examined the expression of kalirin in rat tissue from embryonic Day 10 (E10) through E18, using an antibody that detects all known kalirin isoforms. Kalirin expression in the embryo was more widespread than in the adult, with localization of kalirin protein to both neuronal and non-neuronal tissue, such as muscle, lung, intestinal epithelium, and pancreas. In neurons, kalirin was localized both in cell bodies and axon processes; in muscle tissue, kalirin was highly localized to migrating myogenic cells and at muscle attachment sites. Western blotting analysis indicated that kalirin-7, the major adult isoform, was a minor component of embryonic kalirin; the main isoform expressed in the embryo was kalirin-9. This is the first identification of kalirin expression in embryonic tissue and the first demonstration of non-neuronal expression of kalirin. (J Histochem Cytochem 49:833-844, 2001)
The relative insensitivity of traditional IQ tests to mild cognitive deficits has led investigators to develop a version of the widely used Wechsler intelligence scales that allows quantitative analysis of underlying qualitative responses. This instrument, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised as a Neuropsychological Instrument (WAIS-R NI) was administered to 16 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and 30 normal controls (NC). The 2 groups did not differ significantly in mean age or education, or on their mean Mattis Dementia Rating Scale score. Relative to NC participants, PD patients showed decreased visual attention span, longer response latencies, slower visuomotor processing, and more stimulus-bound errors. Many of the WAIS-R NI measures were able to detect cognitive impairment in a greater percentage of patients than the traditional WAIS-R measures, making it easier to identify deficits that could affect quality of life early in the course of the disease.
Although hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major cause of non-A non-B hepatitis, its pathogenic role in fulminant hepatitis remains controversial. A 32-year-old man contracted hepatitis. Serum ALT concentration was reached to 6,970 IU/L, the lowest prothrombin time value was 16% and jaundice and stage II encephalopathy were developed. HCV RNA was detected in this patient by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction in sera at the acute phase, and it was undetectable during the remission phase when anti-HCV was found. The entire genome of infected HCV was recovered, cloned, and sequenced from this patient, and compared with the clones of six other chronic hepatitis patients. Phylogenetic analysis revealed a clustering around genotype 2a and a deviation from the other 2a chronic hepatitis strains. Calculating the genetic distance in each subgenomic region revealed that the 5'untranslated region (5'UTR), core, nonstructural (NS) 3, and NS5A were severely deviated. Of 20 clones of the hypervariable region (HVR), 17 showed an identical sequence with the others showing a difference of only one amino acid. HCV was isolated from a fulminant hepatitis patient and its entire genome was recovered; a clustering around genotype 2a was observed, but the sequence deviated especially in 5'UTR, core, NS3, and NS5A; and monoclonality of the HVR sequence was found not only in the fulminant hepatitis patient but in a certain percentage of chronic hepatitis patients.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary neurodegenerative condition caused by a characteristic mutation in the huntingtin (htt) gene. This gene was identified in 1993. Both the mitochondria and the nucleus play an important role in HD pathology. However, the precise molecular mechanisms remain unclear. A key strategy for understanding HD pathology is to identify signaling cascades initiated by mutant Htt that lead to neuronal cell death and dysfunction. Apoptotic stress induces greater mitochondrial depolarization in HD lymphoblasts than in control subjects. This leads to overactivation of caspase-3, which is capable of cleaving htt. Truncated forms of Htt, which are similar to the caspase-cleaved products in size, exist in the nucleus of HD patient and animal model brains. We hypothesize that caspases, which are activated by mitochondrial depolarization, play a role in producing truncated forms of Htt, which accumulate in the nucleus. Truncated forms of mutant Htt that accumulate in the nucleus are toxic to cells. There is growing evidence that truncated forms of mutant Htt in the nucleus influence gene transcription by binding to proteins such as CREB binding protein (CBP) response element binding protein binding protein, N-COR, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and p53. p53 regulates the transcription of various mitochondrial proteins which may underlie the mitochondrial abnormalities, especially the vulnerability to mitochondrial depolarization, seen in HD tissues. Taken together, we hypothesize a noxious signaling cascade between the mitochondria and the nucleus, initiated by mutant Htt, which may underlie HD pathology.

Sustained alteration in [Ca(2+)]i triggers neuronal death. We examined morphological and signaling events of Ca(2+)-deficiency-induced neuronal death. Cortical cell cultures exposed to 20 microM 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA-AM), an intracellular calcium chelator, underwent neuronal apoptosis within 12 h that was evident by shriveled cell bodies, aggregated and condensed nuclear chromatin, and disrupted nuclear membrane. Thereafter, surviving neurons revealed typical necrosis, accompanied by swelling of cell body and mitochondria, over 24 h. Both apoptosis and necrosis were prevented by inclusion of 1 microg/mL cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor. Treatment with BAPTA-AM induced translocation of Bax into mitochondria within 4 h and release of cytochrome c from mitochondria over 4-12 h. An active fragment of caspase-3, a downstream mediator of cytochrome c, was observed within 8 h and cleaved PHF-1-positive tau. Administration of zVAD-fmk, a broad inhibitor of caspases, or DEVD-amc, a selective inhibitor of caspase-3, selectively prevented the apoptosis component of BAPTA-AM neurotoxicity. In contrast, BAPTA-AM-induced necrosis was propagated through sequential production of superoxide, mitochondrial and cytoplasmic reactive oxygen species. Combined treatment with caspase inhibitors and antioxidants blocked BAPTA-AM neurotoxicity. The present study suggests that neurons deficient in [Ca(2+)]i undergo caspase-3-mediated apoptosis and reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated necrosis.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a trophic factor with an established role in sensory neuron development. More recently it has also been shown to support adult sensory neuron survival and exert a neuroprotective effect on damaged sensory neurons. Some adult small-sized dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells that are GDNF-sensitive sensory neurons express the inhibitory peptide somatostatin (SOM). Thus, we tested the hypothesis that prolonged GDNF administration would regulate SOM expression in sensory neuron cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and activity-induced release of SOM from axon terminals in the dorsal horn. Continuous intrathecal delivery of GDNF for 11-13 days significantly increased the number of small DRG cells that expressed SOM. Furthermore, GDNF treatment evoked SOM release in the isolated dorsal horn following electrical stimulation of the dorsal roots that was otherwise undetectable in control rats. Conversely capsaicin-induced release of SOM (EC(50) 50 nM) was not modified by GDNF treatment. These results show that GDNF can regulate central synaptic function in SOM-containing sensory neurons.
Adenosine and caffeine modulate locomotor activity and striatal gene expression, partially through the activation and blockade of striatal A(2A) receptors, respectively. The elucidation of the roles of these receptors benefits from the construction of A(2A) receptor-deficient mice (A(2A)-R(-/-)). These mice presented alterations in locomotor behaviour and striatal expression of genes studied so far, which are unexpected regarding the specific expression of A(2A) receptor by striatopallidal neurones. To clarify the functions of A(2A) receptors in the striatum and to identify the mechanisms leading to these unexpected modifications, we studied the basal expression of immediate early and constitutive genes as well as dopamine and glutamate neurotransmission in the striatum. Basal zif268 and arc mRNAs expression was reduced in mutant mice by 60-80%, not only in the striatum but also widespread in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Striatal expression of substance P and enkephalin mRNAs was reduced by about 50% and 30%, respectively, whereas the expression of GAD67 and GAD65 mRNAs was slightly increased and unaltered, respectively. In vivo microdialysis in the striatum revealed a 45% decrease in the extracellular dopamine concentration and three-fold increase in extracellular glutamate concentration. This was associated with an up-regulation of D(1) and D(2) dopamine receptors expression but not with changes in ionotropic glutamate receptors. The levels of tyrosine hydroxylase and of striatal and cortical glial glutamate transporters as well as adenosine A(1) receptors expression were indistinguishable between A(2A)-R(-/-) and wild-type mice. Altogether these results pointed out that the lack of A(2A) receptors leads to a functional hypodopaminergic state and demonstrated that A(2A) receptors are necessary to maintain a basal level in immediate early and constitutive genes expression in the striatum and cerebral cortex, possibly via their control of dopamine pathways.
DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) is a DNA repair enzyme composed of a DNA-binding component called Ku70/80 and a catalytic subunit called DNA-PKcs. Many investigators have utilized DNA-PKcs-deficient cells and cell lines derived from severe combined immunodeficiency (scid) mice to study DNA repair and apoptosis. However, little is known about the CNS of these mice. This study was carried out using primary neuronal cultures derived from the cerebral hemispheres of new-born wild-type and scid mice to investigate the effects of loss of DNA-PK function on neuronal maturation and survival. Purified neuronal cultures developed comparably in terms of neurite formation and expression of neuronal markers, but scid cultures showed a significant increase in the percentage of dying cells. Furthermore, when apoptosis was induced by staurosporine, scid neurons died more rapidly and in higher numbers. Apoptotic scid neurons exhibited nuclear condensation, DNA fragmentation and caspase-3 activation, but treatment with the general caspase inhibitor, N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-(O-methyl) fluoromethyl ketone did not prevent staurosporine-induced apoptosis. We conclude that a DNA-PK deficiency in cultured scid neurons may cause an accumulation of DNA damage and increased susceptibility to caspase-independent forms of programmed cell death.
The authors report a patient with postpartum intracerebral hemorrhage associated with cerebral vasculitis. Cerebral circulation was assessed with transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography, magnetic resonance angiography, and conventional cerebral angiography. Initial TCD studies demonstrated bilateral patchy increased cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) in the anterior circulation with complete normalization during remission. This case report provides evidence that cerebral vasculitis leads to relevant CBFV changes and that the TCD technique may assist in diagnosis and follow-up of these patients.
The value of chemotherapy in patients with malignant astrocytoma remains controversial. In our laboratories in vitro experiments with organotypic spheroid cultures showed superior effectiveness of anthracyclines. Systemic administration did not provide in therapeutic concentrations so far. Because recent studies on Daunorubicin in liposomes in the treatment of Kaposi sarcoma have shown effectiveness with diminished systemic toxicity, we administered intravenously a single dose of Daunorubicin in liposomes in eight patients at different intervals prior to surgery (12-50 h). In samples taken from tumor, tumor-edge and where possible from adjacent brain, the levels of Daunorubicin and its active metabolite Daunorubicinol were assessed with high performance liquid chromatography. Here we report that high concentrations of Daunorubicin and Daunorubicinol were found in malignant gliomas after systemic administration of liposomal Daunorubicin.
Dual whole-cell patch clamp recordings from the soma and dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons located in hippocampal slices of adult rats were used to examine the potential mechanisms of phase precession. To mimic phasic synaptic input, 5-Hz sine wave current injections were simultaneously delivered both to the soma and apical dendrites (dendritic current was 180 degrees out-of-phase with soma). Increasing the amplitude of the dendritic current injection caused somatic action potential initiation to advance in time (move forward up to 180 degrees). The exact pattern of phase advancement is dependent on the dendritic location of input, with more distal input causing a more gradual temporal shift in spike initiation and a smaller increase in spike number. Patterned stimulation of Schaffer collateral/perforant path synaptic input can produce phase precession that is very similar to that observed with sine wave current injections. Finally, the exact amount of synaptic input required to produce phase advancement was found to be regulated by dendritic voltage-gated ion channels. Together, these data demonstrate that the summation of primarily proximal inhibition with an increasing amount of out-of-phase, primarily distal excitation can result in a form of phase advancement similar to that seen during theta activity in the intact hippocampus.
The role of glycinergic and GABAergic systems in mediating spontaneous synaptic transmission in newly formed neural networks was examined in motoneurons in the developing rat spinal cord. Properties of action potential-independent miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) mediated by glycine and GABA(A) receptors (GlyR and GABA(A)R) were studied in spinal cord slices of 17- to 18-day-old embryos (E17-18) and 1- to 3-day-old postnatal rats (P1-3). mIPSC frequency and amplitude significantly increased after birth, while their decay time decreased. To determine the contribution of glycinergic and GABAergic synapses to those changes, GlyR- and GABA(A)R-mediated mIPSCs were isolated based on their pharmacological properties. Two populations of pharmacologically distinct mIPSCs were recorded in the presence of glycine or GABA(A) receptors antagonists: bicuculline-resistant, fast-decaying GlyR-mediated mIPSCs, and strychnine-resistant, slow-decaying GABA(A)R-mediated mIPSCs. The frequency of GABA(A)R-mediated mIPSCs was fourfold higher than that of GlyR-mediated mIPSCs at E17-18, indicating that GABAergic synaptic sites were functionally dominant at early stages of neural network formation. Properties of GABA(A)R-mediated mIPSC amplitude fluctuations changed from primarily unimodal skewed distribution at E17-18 to Gaussian mixtures with two to three discrete components at P1-3. A developmental shift from primarily long-duration GABAergic mIPSCs to short-duration glycinergic mIPSCs was evident after birth, when the frequency of GlyR-mediated mIPSCs increased 10-fold. This finding suggested that either the number of glycinergic synapses or the probability of vesicular glycine release increased during the period studied. The increased frequency of GlyR-mediated mIPSCs was associated with more than a twofold increase in their mean amplitude, and in the number of motoneurons in which mIPSC amplitude fluctuations were best fitted by multi-component Gaussian curves. A third subpopulation of mIPSCs was apparent in the absence of glycine and GABA(A) receptor antagonists: mIPSCs with both fast and slow decaying components. Based on their dual-component decay time and their suppression by either strychnine or bicuculline, we assumed that these were generated by the activation of co-localized postsynaptic glycine and GABA(A) receptors. The contribution of mixed glycine-GABA synaptic sites to the generation of mIPSCs did not change after birth. The developmental switch from predominantly long-duration GABAergic inhibitory synaptic currents to short-duration glycinergic currents might serve as a mechanism regulating neuronal excitation in the developing spinal networks.
The excitatory and inhibitory frequency/intensity response areas (FRAs) and spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) of posterior auditory cortical field (PAF) single neurons were investigated in barbiturate anesthetized cats. PAF neurons' pure-tone excitatory FRAs (eFRAs) exhibited a diversity of shapes, including some with very broad frequency tuning and some with multiple distinct excitatory frequency ranges (i.e., multipeaked eFRAs). Excitatory FRAs were analyzed after selectively excluding spikes on the basis of spike response times relative to stimulus onset. This analysis indicated that spikes with shorter response times were confined to narrow regions of the eFRAs, while spikes with longer response times were more broadly distributed over the eFRA. First-spike latencies in higher threshold response peaks of multipeaked eFRAs were approximately 10 ms longer, on average, than latencies in lower threshold response peaks. STRFs were constructed to examine the dynamic frequency tuning of neurons. More than half of the neurons (51%) had STRFs with &quot;sloped&quot; response maxima, indicating that the excitatory frequency range shifted with time. A population analysis demonstrated that the median first-spike latency varied systematically as a function of frequency with a median slope of approximately 12 ms per octave. Inhibitory frequency response areas were determined by simultaneous two-tone stimulation. As in primary auditory cortex (A1), a diversity of inhibitory band structures was observed. The largest class of neurons (25%) had an inhibitory band flanking each eFRA edge, i.e., one lower and one upper inhibitory band in a &quot;center-surround&quot; organization. However, in comparison to a previous report of inhibitory structure in A1 neurons, PAF exhibited a higher incidence of neurons with more complex inhibitory band structure (for example, &gt;2 inhibitory bands). As was the case with eFRAs, spikes with longer response times contributed to the complexity of inhibitory FRAs. These data indicate that PAF neurons integrate temporally varying excitatory and inhibitory inputs from a broad spectral extent and, compared with A1, may be suited to analyzing acoustic signals of greater spectrotemporal complexity than was previously thought.
The involvement of acetylcholine (ACh) in the induction of neuronal sensory plasticity is well documented. Recently we demonstrated in the somatosensory cortex of the anesthetized rat that ACh is also involved in the expression of neuronal plasticity. Pairing stimulation of the principal whisker at a fixed temporal frequency with ACh iontophoresis induced potentiations of response that required re-application of ACh to be expressed. Here we fully characterize this phenomenon and extend it to stimulation of adjacent whiskers. We show that these ACh-dependent potentiations are cumulative and reversible. When several sensori-cholinergic pairings were applied consecutively with stimulation of the principal whisker, the response at the paired frequency was further increased, demonstrating a cumulative process that could reach saturation levels. The potentiations were specific to the stimulus frequency: if the successive pairings were done at different frequencies, then the potentiation caused by the first pairing was depotentiated, whereas the response to the newly paired frequency was potentiated. During testing, the potentiation of response did not develop immediately on the presentation of the paired frequency during application of ACh: the analysis of the kinetics of the effect indicates that this process requires the sequential presentation of several trains of stimulation at the paired frequency to be expressed. We present evidence that a plasticity with similar characteristics can be induced for responses to stimulation of an adjacent whisker, suggesting that this potentiation could participate in receptive field spatial reorganizations. The spatial and temporal properties of the ACh-dependent plasticity presented here impose specific constraints on the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms.
Under conditions of increased excitability, such as application of the K(+) channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 100 microM), interneurons in the hippocampal slice show an additional form of synchronized activity that is distinct from the ictal and interictal epileptiform activity induced by these manipulations. In principal neurons, i.e., pyramidal and granule cells, this synchronized interneuron activity (SIA) generates large, multi-component synaptic potentials, which have been termed long-lasting depolarizations (LLDs). These LLDs are dependent on GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission but not on excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors. Intracellular recordings from hilar interneurons have shown that depolarizing GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic potentials are also largely responsible for the synchronization of interneurons. The spatiotemporal characteristics of this interneuron activity have not been investigated previously. Using a voltage-sensitive dye and optical techniques that are capable of recording spontaneous synchronized activity, we have characterized the spatiotemporal pattern of SIA (in the presence of 4-AP + EAA receptor antagonists) and compared it with interictal epileptiform activity (in 4-AP only). Like interictal activity, SIA could be observed throughout the hippocampal slice. Unlike interictal activity, which originated in area CA2/CA3 and spread from there, SIA was most prominent in area CA1 and originated either there or in the subiculum. In CA1, interictal activity was largest in and near stratum pyramidale, while SIA was mainly located in s. lacunosum moleculare. Furthermore SIA was equally likely to propagate in either direction, and multiple patterns of propagation could be observed within a single brain slice. These studies suggest that hippocampal area CA1 has the highest propensity for SIA, that multiple locations can serve as the site of origin, and that interneurons located in s. lacunosum moleculare or interneurons that specifically project to this region may be particularly important for synchronized interneuron activity.
The cortical representation of the sensory environment is continuously modified by experience. Changes in spatial (receptive field) and temporal response properties of cortical neurons underlie many forms of natural learning. The scale and direction of these changes appear to be determined by specific features of the behavioral tasks that evoke cortical plasticity. The neural mechanisms responsible for this differential plasticity remain unclear partly because important sensory and cognitive parameters differ among these tasks. In this report, we demonstrate that differential sensory experience directs differential plasticity using a single paradigm that eliminates the task-specific variables that have confounded direct comparison of previous studies. Electrical activation of the basal forebrain (BF) was used to gate cortical plasticity mechanisms. The auditory stimulus paired with BF stimulation was systematically varied to determine how several basic features of the sensory input direct plasticity in primary auditory cortex (A1) of adult rats. The distributed cortical response was reconstructed from a dense sampling of A1 neurons after 4 wk of BF-sound pairing. We have previously used this method to show that when a tone is paired with BF activation, the region of the cortical map responding to that tone frequency is specifically expanded. In this report, we demonstrate that receptive-field size is determined by features of the stimulus paired with BF activation. Specifically, receptive fields were narrowed or broadened as a systematic function of both carrier-frequency variability and the temporal modulation rate of paired acoustic stimuli. For example, the mean bandwidth of A1 neurons was increased (+60%) after pairing BF stimulation with a rapid train of tones and decreased (-25%) after pairing unmodulated tones of different frequencies. These effects are consistent with previous reports of receptive-field plasticity evoked by natural learning. The maximum cortical following rate and minimum response latency were also modified as a function of stimulus modulation rate and carrier-frequency variability. The cortical response to a rapid train of tones was nearly doubled if BF stimulation was paired with rapid trains of random carrier frequency, while no following rate plasticity was observed if a single carrier frequency was used. Finally, we observed significant increases in response strength and total area of functionally defined A1 following BF activation paired with certain classes of stimuli and not others. These results indicate that the degree and direction of cortical plasticity of temporal and receptive-field selectivity are specified by the structure and schedule of inputs that co-occur with basal forebrain activation and suggest that the rules of cortical plasticity do not operate on each elemental stimulus feature independently of others.
Recent work has demonstrated that specific patterns of synaptic stimulation can induce long-term depression (LTD) in area CA1 that depends on activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and rapid protein synthesis. Here we show that the same form of synaptic modification can be induced by brief application of the selective mGluR agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). DHPG-LTD 1) is a saturable form of synaptic plasticity, 2) requires mGluR5, 3) is mechanistically distinct from N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)--dependent LTD, and 4) shares a common expression mechanism with protein synthesis-dependent LTD evoked using synaptic stimulation. DHPG-LTD should be useful for biochemical analysis of mGluR5- and protein synthesis-dependent synaptic modification.
The development of swimming behavior and the correlated activity patterns recorded in motoneurons during fictive swimming in paralyzed zebrafish larvae were examined and compared. Larvae were studied from when they hatch (after 2 days) and are first capable of locomotion to when they are active swimmers capable of capturing prey (after 4 days). High-speed (500 Hz) video imaging was used to make a basic behavioral characterization of swimming. At hatching and up to day 3, the larvae swam infrequently and in an undirected fashion. They displayed sustained bursts of contractions ('burst swimming') at an average frequency of 60-70 Hz that lasted from several seconds to a minute in duration. By day 4 the swimming had matured to a more frequent and less erratic &quot;beat-and-glide&quot; mode, with slower (approximately 35 Hz) beats of contractions for approximately 200 ms alternating with glides that were twice as long, lasting from just a few cycles to several minutes overall. In whole cell current-clamp recordings, motoneurons displayed similar excitatory synaptic activity and firing patterns, corresponding to either fictive burst swimming (day 2-3) or beat-and-glide swimming (day 4). The resting potentials were similar at all stages (about -70 mV) and the motoneurons were depolarized (to about -40 mV) with generally non-overshooting action potentials during fictive swimming. The frequency of sustained inputs during fictive burst swimming and of repetitive inputs during fictive beat-and glide swimming corresponded to the behavioral contraction patterns. Fictive swimming activity patterns were eliminated by application of glutamate antagonists (kynurenic acid or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxalene-2,3-dione and DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid) and were modified but maintained in the presence of the glycinergic antagonist strychnine. The corresponding synaptic currents underlying the synaptic drive to motoneurons during fictive swimming could be isolated under voltage clamp and consisted of cationic [glutamatergic postsynaptic currents (PSCs)] and anionic inputs (glycinergic PSCs). Either sustained or interrupted patterns of PSCs were observed during fictive burst or beat-and-glide swimming, respectively. During beat-and-glide swimming, a tonic inward current and rhythmic glutamatergic PSCs (approximately 35 Hz) were observed. In contrast, bursts of glycinergic PSCs occurred at a higher frequency, resulting in a more tonic pattern with little evidence for synchronized activity. We conclude that a rhythmic glutamatergic synaptic drive underlies swimming and that a tonic, shunting glycinergic input acts to more closely match the membrane time constant to the fast synaptic drive.
We report the cloning of human KT3.2 and KT3.3 new members of the two-pore K(+) channel (KT) family. Based on amino acid sequence and phylogenetic analysis, KT3.2, KT3.3, and TASK-1 constitute a subfamily within the KT channel mammalian family. When Xenopus oocytes were injected with KT3.2 cRNA, the resting membrane potential was brought close to the potassium equilibrium potential. At low extracellular K(+) concentrations, two-electrode voltage-clamp recordings revealed the expression of predominantly outward currents. With high extracellular K(+) (98 mM), the current-voltage relationship exhibited weak outward rectification. Measurement of reversal potentials at different [K(+)](o) revealed a slope of 48 mV per 10-fold change in K(+) concentration as expected for a K(+)-selective channel. Unlike TASK-1, which is highly sensitive to changes of pH in the physiological range, KT3.2 currents were relatively insensitive to changes in intracellular or extracellular pH within this range due to a shift in the pH dependency of KT3.2 of 1 pH unit in the acidic direction. On the other hand, the phorbol ester phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), which does not affect TASK-1, produces strong inhibition of KT3.2 currents. Human KT3.2 mRNA expression was most prevalent in the cerebellum. In rat, KT3.2 is exclusively expressed in the brain, but it has a wide distribution within this organ. High levels of expression were found in the cerebellum, medulla, and thalamic nuclei. The hippocampus has a nonhomogeneous distribution, expressing at highest levels in the lateral posterior and inferior portions. Medium expression levels were found in neocortex. The KT3.2 gene is located at chromosome 8q24 1-3, and the KT3.3 gene maps to chromosome 20q13.1.
Among brain regions affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the posterior cingulate shows the earliest and largest decrement in energy metabolism. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies have shown that these decrements appear before the onset of memory deficits or other symptoms in persons at genetic risk for AD. This study compares in vivo imaging results and in situ postmortem analyses by examining the posterior cingulate (area 23) in 15 AD patients and 13 age-matched nondemented controls using quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry as an intracellular measure of oxidative energy metabolic capacity. Each of the six layers of the posterior cingulate demonstrated a decline in cytochrome oxidase activity in AD relative to controls, whereas adjacent motor cortex showed no significant differences. This decrement did not appear to be mainly secondary to nonspecific decrement in mitochondrial enzymes, oxidative stress, cell loss, or histopathology. The cytochrome oxidase decrement was most severe in the superficial layer I (-39%), which demonstrated a correlation to disease duration. Covariance analyses suggest that superficial laminas undergo a functional uncoupling from the deeper layers of posterior cingulate cortex in AD, whereas no such effects are found in motor cortex or controls. These findings expand on previous results from PET studies by illuminating the layer-specific cytochrome oxidase contributions to energy hypometabolism. The findings suggest a decrement of cytochrome oxidase in posterior cingulate cortex, with progressive reduction within the superficial laminas linked to disease duration. Such decrement could contribute to some of the behavioral symptoms displayed by AD patients. This decrement appeared greater in women.
Several studies have shown that the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system is strongly influenced by the ventral subiculum (vSub) of the hippocampus. To examine whether this occurs by activation of DA neuron firing, the effects of chemical stimulation of the vSub on ventral tegmental area (VTA) DA neuron activity were examined using extracellular single-unit recordings. Infusions of NMDA into the vSub increased the number of spontaneously firing DA cells recorded per electrode track, while having no effect on firing rate or burst firing. This response was abolished by intranucleus accumbens (NAc) infusions of the glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenic acid. This effect did not involve the prefrontal cortex, because infusions of tetrodotoxin into the prefrontal cortex did not affect the increase in spontaneously active DA cells. Infusions of either kynurenic acid into the NAc or tetrodotoxin into the vSub decreased the firing rate and burst firing of DA neurons without altering the number of spontaneously active DA neurons. These data show that glutamatergic afferents from the vSub to the NAc exert a potent excitatory effect on VTA DA neurons, influencing both DA neuron population activity and the regulation of the firing properties of these neurons. As a result, dysfunctions in hippocampal circuitries may contribute to the hyperexcitable state of the DA system that is present in schizophrenia.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are two major members of the neurotrophin family. Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry, we examined the effect of L5 spinal nerve ligation (SPNL), a neuropathic pain model, on the expression of BDNF in the uninjured L4 dorsal root ganglion (DRG). After L5 SPNL, both immunoreactivity for BDNF and the hybridization intensity for BDNF mRNA increased mainly in the small- and medium-sized neurons. The percentage of BDNF mRNA-expressing neurons increased in the ipsilateral L4 DRG compared with the contralateral DRG from the third to 28th day after ligation. A significantly greater number of BDNF-immunoreactive neurons were observed in the ipsilateral L4 DRG than contralateral side 14 d after ligation. To test the contribution of BDNF to the thermal hyperalgesia produced in this model, we intrathecally injected anti-BDNF antibody at third day after ligation. This treatment clearly attenuated thermal hyperalgesia for a few hours. Almost all BDNF mRNA-expressing neurons coexpressed trkA, a high-affinity NGF receptor, mRNA. The percentage of BDNF mRNA-expressing cells of trkA cells significantly increased in the ipsilateral L4 DRG 14 d after ligation. Furthermore, we examined the contribution of NGF on this phenotypic change using ELISA, Northern blot analysis, and anti-NGF antibody. NGF content in the ipsilateral L4 DRG linearly increased and reached a statistical significant level 14 d after L5 SPNL. Moreover, at this time point, the increase in NGF mRNA was observed in the ipsilateral L5 DRG and sciatic nerve, but not in the ipsilateral L4 DRG or L4 spinal nerve. Local application of anti-NGF antibody to the L4 spinal nerve beside the L5 spinal nerve-ligation site prevented the development of thermal hyperalgesia for 5 d after ligation. Our data suggest that BDNF, which increased in the uninjured L4 DRG neurons, acts as a sensory neuromodulator in the dorsal horn and contributes to thermal hyperalgesia in this neuropathic pain model. The contribution of locally synthesized NGF to thermal hyperalgesia was also demonstrated. These dynamic alterations in the expression and content of BDNF and NGF in the uninjured DRG neurons might be involved in the pathomechanisms of neuropathic pain.
The noradrenergic system is involved in the regulation of many physiological and psychological processes, including the modulation of mood. The alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors (alpha(2)-ARs) modulate norepinephrine release, as well as the release of serotonin and other neurotransmitters, and are therefore potential targets for antidepressant and anxiolytic drug development. The current studies were undertaken to examine the role of the alpha(2A) subtype of alpha(2)-AR in mouse behavioral models of depression and anxiety. We have observed that the genetic knock-out of the alpha(2A)-AR makes mice less active in a modified version of Porsolt's forced swim test and insensitive to the antidepressant effects of the tricyclic drug imipramine in this paradigm. Furthermore, alpha(2A)-AR knock-out mice appear more anxious than wild-type C57 Bl/6 mice in the rearing and light-dark models of anxiety after injection stress. These findings suggest that the alpha(2A)-AR may play a protective role in some forms of depression and anxiety and that the antidepressant effects of imipramine may be mediated by the alpha(2A)-AR.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the circadian pacemaker for the brain, provides a massive projection to the subparaventricular zone (SPZ), but the role of the SPZ in circadian processes has received little attention. We examined the effects on circadian rhythms of sleep, body temperature, and activity in rats of restricted ibotenic acid lesions of the ventral or dorsal SPZ that spared the immediately adjacent paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) and the SCN. Ventral SPZ lesions caused profound reduction of measures of circadian index of sleep (by 90%) and locomotor activity (75% reduction) but had less effect on body temperature (50% reduction); dorsal SPZ lesions caused greater reduction of circadian index of body temperature (by 70%) but had less effect on circadian index of locomotor activity (45% reduction) or sleep (&lt;5% reduction). The loss of circadian regulation of body temperature or sleep was replaced by a strong ultradian rhythm (period approximately 3 hr). Lesions of the PVH, immediately dorsal to the SPZ, had no significant effect on any circadian rhythms that we measured, nor did the lesions affect the baseline body temperature. However, the fever response after intravenous injection of lipopolysaccharide (5 microg/kg) was markedly decreased in the rats with PVH lesions (66.6%) but not dorsal SPZ lesions. These results indicate that circadian rhythms of sleep and body temperatures are regulated by separate neuronal populations in the SPZ, and different aspects of thermoregulation (circadian rhythm and fever response) are controlled by distinct anatomical substrates.
Interaural time differences (ITDs) are an important cue for azimuthal sound localization. Sensitivity to this cue depends on temporal synchrony to the waveform (i.e., phase locking) that begins in the hair cells and is relayed to the neural comparators. The synchrony function is low-pass. Therefore, it is expected that neural tuning to ITDs will become narrower with frequency according to a 1/frequency function. To test this, we measured ITD tuning across frequency in neurons from the superior olivary complex, the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, the inferior colliculus, the auditory thalamus, and the auditory cortex. For some neurons in each nucleus, the ITD tuning width did become systematically narrower by the expected 1/frequency relationship. However, in other neurons the ITD tuning width was nearly constant across frequency. Constant ITD tuning width was infrequently observed in neurons of the superior olivary complex but was common in neurons in structures above the superior olivary complex. The nearly constant ITD tuning was caused both by sharper ITD tuning at low frequencies and broader tuning at higher frequencies within the low-frequency band. Neurons with nearly constant tuning to ITDs may be the mechanism underlying the perception of ITDs in humans in which just-noticeable differences to changes in ITD decrease by less than the 1/frequency prediction.
Aggrecan is a large proteoglycan (PG) that has been grouped with different PG families on the basis of its physical characteristics. These families include the chondroitin sulfate PGs, which appear to inhibit the migration of cells and axons during development. Although aggrecan has been studied primarily in cartilage, in the present study, tissue samples from developing, mature, and injured-adult rat spinal cords were used to determine whether aggrecan is present in the mammalian spinal cord. By the use of Western blot analysis, tissues were probed with aggrecan-specific antibodies (ATEGQV, TYKHRL, and LEC-7) and aggrecan-specific neoepitope antibodies (NITEGE, FVDIPEN, and TFKEEE) to identify full-length aggrecan and several fragments. Unlike many other aggrecan gene family members, aggrecan species were similar in embryonic day 14, postnatal day 1, and adult spinal cords. Spinal cord injury caused significant decreases in aggrecan. Partial recovery in some aggrecan species was evident by 2 weeks after injury. The presence of specific aggrecan neoepitopes suggested that aggrecan is cleaved in the spinal cord by both a disintegrin and metalloproteinase thrombospondin (also known as aggrecanase) and metalloproteinase-like activities. Many aggrecan species found in the spinal cord were similar to species in cartilage. Additional antibodies were used to identify two other aggrecan gene family members, neurocan and brevican, in the adult spinal cord. These studies present novel information on the aggrecan core protein species and enzymes involved in aggrecan cleavage in vivo in the rat spinal cord throughout development and after injury. They also provide the basis for investigating the function of aggrecan in the spinal cord.
An analysis of programmed cell death of several populations of developing postmitotic neurons after genetic deletion of two key members of the caspase family of pro-apoptotic proteases, caspase-3 and caspase-9, indicates that normal neuronal loss occurs. Although the amount of cell death is not altered, the death process may be delayed, and the cells appear to use a nonapoptotic pathway of degeneration. The neuronal populations examined include spinal interneurons and motor, sensory, and autonomic neurons. When examined at both the light and electron microscopic levels, the caspase-deficient neurons exhibit a nonapoptotic morphology in which nuclear changes such as chromatin condensation are absent or reduced; in addition, this morphology is characterized by extensive cytoplasmic vacuolization that is rarely observed in degenerating control neurons. There is also reduced terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling in dying caspase-deficient neurons. Despite the altered morphology and apparent temporal delay in cell death, the number of neurons that are ultimately lost is indistinguishable from that seen in control animals. In contrast to the striking perturbations in the morphology of the forebrain of caspase-deficient embryos, the spinal cord and brainstem appear normal. These results are consistent with the growing idea that the involvement of specific caspases and the occurrence of caspase-independent programmed cell death may be dependent on brain region, cell type, age, and species or may be the result of specific perturbations or pathology.
The slow immune response in the adult mammalian CNS results in slow myelin phagocytosis along degenerating white matter after injury. This has important consequences for axon regeneration because of the presence of axon growth inhibitors in myelin. In addition, abnormal immune cell responses in the CNS lead to demyelinating disease. Lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) can induce an inflammatory response in the CNS, producing rapid demyelination without much damage to adjacent cells. In this study, we searched for the molecular switches that turn on this immune cell response. Using reverse transcription PCR analysis, we show that mRNA expression of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha), macrophage chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in the spinal cord is rapidly and transiently upregulated after intraspinal injection of LPC. Neutralizing these signaling molecules with function-blocking antibodies suppresses recruitment of T-cells, neutrophils, and monocytes into the spinal cord, as well as significantly reduces the number of phagocytic macrophages and the demyelination induced by LPC. These findings will have important implications for CNS regeneration and demyelinating disease.
We investigated the role of amidated neuropeptides, and specifically pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), in olfactory neurogenesis and olfactory receptor neuronal survival. Using both immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we find that both peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), the enzyme responsible for amidation and therefore activation of all amidated neuropeptides, and amidated PACAP are expressed in developing and adult olfactory epithelium. Amidated PACAP is highly expressed in proliferative basal cells and in immature olfactory neurons. The PACAP-specific receptor PAC(1) receptor is also expressed in this population, establishing that these cells can be PACAP responsive. Experiments were conducted to determine whether amidated neuropeptides, such as PACAP38, might function in olfactory neurogenesis and neuronal survival. Addition of PACAP38 to olfactory cultures increased the number of neurons to &gt;250% of control and stimulated neuronal proliferation and survival. In primary olfactory cultures, pharmacologically decreased PAM activity, as well as neutralization of PACAP38, caused neuron-specific loss that was reversed by PACAP38. Mottled (Brindled) mice, which lack a functional ATP7A copper transporter and serve as a model for Menkes disease, provided an in vivo partial loss-of-function PAM knock-out. These mice had decreased amidated PACAP production and concomitant decreased numbers of olfactory receptor neurons. These data establish amidated peptides and specifically PACAP as having important roles in proliferation in the olfactory system and suggest that a similar function exists in vivo.
The members of the three subfamilies (eag, erg, and elk) of the ether-a-go-go (EAG) family of potassium channel pore-forming subunits express currents that, like the M-current (I(M)), could have considerable influence on the subthreshold properties of neuronal membranes, and hence the control of excitability. A nonradioactive in situ hybridization (NR-ISH) study of the distribution of the transcripts encoding the eight known EAG family subunits in rat brain was performed to identify neuronal populations in which the physiological roles of EAG channels could be studied. These distributions were compared with those of the mRNAs encoding the components of the classical M-current (Kcnq2 and Kcnq3). NR-ISH was combined with immunohistochemistry to specific neuronal markers to help identify expressing neurons. The results show that each EAG subunit has a specific pattern of expression in rat brain. EAG and Kcnq transcripts are prominent in several types of excitatory neurons in the cortex and hippocampus; however, only one of these channel components (erg1) was consistently expressed in inhibitory interneurons in these areas. Some neuronal populations express more than one product of the same subfamily, suggesting that the subunits may form heteromeric channels in these neurons. Many neurons expressed multiple EAG family and Kcnq transcripts, such as CA1 pyramidal neurons, which contained Kcnq2, Kcnq3, eag1, erg1, erg3, elk2, and elk3. This indicates that the subthreshold current in many neurons may be complex, containing different components mediated by a number of channels with distinct properties and neuromodulatory responses.
Tolerance against ischemic insults can be elicited in the CA1 region of rat hippocampus by inducing a short ischemic period 2-3 days prior to the ischemic insult. To detect genes whose expression changes following induction of ischemic tolerance (IT), we applied a differential display technique called restriction fragment differential display-PCR (RFDD-PCR). RFDD-PCR displays the coding region of mRNA and allows detection of differentially expressed mRNA. Double-stranded cDNA generated using a T25V primer is digested by the endonuclease TaqI, and adapters are ligated onto the cDNA fragments. When amplifying the adapter-containing cDNA fragments under high-stringency conditions, reproducible PCR profiles are obtained. By comparing these profiles from nave and ischemia-tolerant rat brains statistically, significant expression changes of 20 fragments were identified. To verify the observed changes, quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization were performed for three fragments representing proteins with quite different functions (GluR2-flop, SC1, and p68 RNA helicase). Quantitative PCR displayed the same degree of regulation as RFDD-PCR, but in situ hybridization did not display any regulation. As the applied PCR-based techniques detect only polyadenylated mRNA, whereas in situ hybridization detects both nonadenylated and adenylated mRNA, changes in the polyadenylation state of the mRNA, rather than inconsistent changes in the total amount of mRNA, probably explain this discrepancy. Thus, our results show that the expression of genes hitherto not related to IT changes with the induction of IT and that the degree of regulation displayed by RFDD-PCR can be verified by quantitative PCR.
The present study traces the development of a voltage-dependent potassium channel protein (Kv3.1) in the avian homologue of the cochlear nucleus, in the cochleovestibular ganglion, and in the otic epithelium from early developmental stages until near hatching. Immunohistochemistry with antibodies to the carboxy terminus (recognizing the Kv3.1b splice variant) and to the amino terminus (recognizing either form of Kv3.1) was used on Hamburger-Hamilton-staged chicken embryos. There were three periods in the relative levels of immunostaining in these regions. Early (E2-6), when precursor cells proliferate, migrate, and form axons, there was staining when using either antibody. In the middle period (E6-11), marked by hair cell differentiation, dendritic growth, and early synapse formation, staining levels decreased. In the late period (E11-19), when auditory function begins, staining increased rapidly, especially for Kv3.1b. Early Kv3.1 expression occurs in neuronal and hair cell precursors before they differentiate or function. Later, in the otic epithelium, a high level of Kv3.1 in cilia may precede or coincide with the onset of hair cell function. In neurons, some features of its localization correlate with axon outgrowth and synapse formation, others with the onset of neural activity and function.
The authors describe the case of a 12-year-old girl in whom a pseudomalignant osseous tumor of the soft tissue was diagnosed. The lesion was resected, and at 3-year postresection follow-up examination, neuroradiological studies demonstrated no recurrence of the tumor.

Cerebrovascular reactivity to CO2 in clinical and experimental studies has been found to be impaired during increased intracranial pressure (ICP). However, from previous study results it has not been possible to estimate whether the impairment was caused by elevated ICP, or caused by decreased cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). The current study was carried out in a group of unmanipulated control rats and in six investigation groups of six rats each: two groups with elevated ICP (30 and 50 mm Hg) and spontaneous arterial blood pressure (MABP), two groups with spontaneous ICP and arterial hypotension (77 and 64 mm Hg), and two groups with elevated ICP (30 and 50 mm Hg) and arterial hypertension (124 mm Hg). Intracranial hypertension was induced by continuous infusion of lactated Ringer's solution into the cisterna magna, arterial hypotension by controlled bleeding, and arterial hypertension by continuous administration of norepinephrine intravenously. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured repetitively by the intraarterial 133Xe method at different levels of arterial PCO2. In each individual animal, CO2 reactivity was calculated from an exponential regression line obtained from the corresponding CBF/PaCO2 values. By plotting each individual value of CO2 reactivity against the corresponding CPP value from the seven investigation groups, CPP was significantly and directly related to CO2 reactivity of CBF (P &lt; .001). No correlation was found by plotting CO2 reactivity values against the corresponding MABP values or the corresponding ICP values. Thus, the results show that CO2 reactivity is at least partially determined by CPP and that the impaired CO2 reactivity observed at intracranial hypertension and arterial hypotension may be caused by reduced CPP.
Compounds acting in the ventral tegmental area to increase motor activity are thought to do so by activating mesolimbic dopamine transmission. The present report demonstrates that the microinjection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists into the ventral tegmental area produces a dose-dependent increase in motor activity. This effect was not mimicked by antagonizing either alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate or metabotropic glutamate receptors in the ventral tegmental area. Three experiments were conducted that indicated that the capacity of NMDA receptor antagonists to elevate motor activity did not involve increased dopamine transmission. 1) The systemic administration of a D1 dopamine receptor antagonist did not inhibit the motor stimulant response to NMDA antagonist injection into the ventral tegmental area except at doses that also inhibited motor activity after an injection of saline into the ventral tegmental area. 2) Stimulating orphanin receptors in the ventral tegmental area selectively inhibits dopamine cells, and this did not alter NMDA antagonist-induced motor activity. Whereas, stimulating gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(B) receptors hyperpolarizes both dopamine and GABA cells in the ventral tegmental area, and this abolished NMDA antagonist-induced motor activity. 3) The microinjection of an NMDA antagonist into the ventral tegmental area did not increase dopamine metabolism in dopamine terminal fields, including the accumbens, striatum, or prefrontal cortex. Also consistent with a lack of dopamine involvement, repeated administration of NMDA antagonist into the ventral tegmental area did not produce behavioral sensitization. These data identify a mechanism to elicit a motor stimulant response from the ventral tegmental area that does not involve activating dopamine transmission.

1. Distension-sensitive vagal afferent fibres from the cardiac region of the guinea-pig stomach were recorded extracellularly, then filled with biotinamide, using an anterograde tracing technique. 2. Most of the stretch-sensitive units of the guinea-pig stomach (41 out of 47; number of animals N = 26) had low thresholds (less than 1 mm) to circumferential stretch and showed slow adaptation. Twenty of these units fired spontaneously under resting conditions (mean: 1.9 +/- 0.3 Hz, n = 20, N = 14). 3. Adaptation of firing during slow or maintained stretch correlated closely with accommodation of intramural tension, but tension-independent adaptation was also present. 4. Nicardipine (3 microM) with hyoscine (3 microM) reduced stretch-evoked firing of gastric vagal afferents, by inhibiting smooth muscle contraction. Gadolinium (1 mM) blocked distension-evoked firing. 5. Focal stimulation of the stomach muscle wall with a von Frey hair (0.4 mN) identified one to six punctate receptive fields in each low threshold vagal distension-sensitive afferent. These were marked on the serosal surface of the stomach wall. 6. Anterograde filling of recorded nerve trunks revealed intraganglionic laminar endings (IGLEs) within 142 +/- 34 microm (n = 38; N = 10) of marked receptive fields. The mean distance from randomly generated sites to the nearest IGLE was significantly greater (1500 +/- 48 microm, n = 380, N = 10, P &lt; 0.0001). Viscerofugal nerve cell bodies, intramuscular arrays and varicose axons were not associated with receptive fields. The results indicate that IGLEs are the mechanotransduction sites of low threshold, slowly adapting vagal tension receptors in the guinea-pig upper stomach.
Psychotherapy for comorbid attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and psychoactive substance use disorder (PSUD) is described. The authors suggest that relapse prevention is an appropriate initial treatment because it is well suited to manage both substance abuse and comorbid symptomatology such as impulsivity, distractibility, and avoidance associated with ADHD. Clinical vignettes describe typical interactions between patients and their therapists, highlighting opportunities for therapists to focus on overlapping symptoms. ADHD is one of the most common comorbid diagnoses with PSUD, and it is important that efficacious psychotherapies be developed to complement psychopharmacological approaches. Clinicians should consider psychotherapy as part of a multimodal treatment approach that includes medication and perhaps family therapy. Additional contributions from clinicians who have experience conducting psychotherapy with this population are needed in order to develop effective treatments.
Facial paralysis (FP) remains today one of the most disturbing cranial nerve disorders. The present study utilized the rat model of FP and examined a dual approach of combining the current microsurgical treatment of cross-facial nerve graft (CFNG) with local administration of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I). The efficacy of this combined treatment approach was assessed by motor end-plate analysis of the reinnervated orbicularis oculi muscle (OOM). Local administration of IGF-I (50 microg/ml) to the CFNG demonstrated a 61 percent increase in the number of end-plates in the reinnervated OOMs, compared to the OOMs reinnervated with CFNG plus vehicle. These results indicate that the local therapeutic augmentation of IGF-I levels at the coaptation site(s) of the CFNG may, in fact, enhance reinnervation of muscle and recovery of function in general.
Proper assessment of disabilities is essential for rehabilitation of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The aim of this study was to identify and quantify the disabilities in children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy and correlate them with impairment. Thirty-one patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy of age four years and above were studied. The motor functions were evaluated using total motor score, upper and lower extremity function grades and timed function tests. Disability was quantified with Barthel index. The mean scores of motor scales were: total motor score -52 +/- 7.8, total functional grade -4.4 +/- 1.9 and timed function score -12.5 +/- 5.8. Barthel index scores ranged from 45-95 with a mean of 70.8 +/- 12.7. Motor scales correlated with each other and with Barthel index. Thirty children had disabilities in multiple spheres of life, which were significantly influenced by the motor power. Barthel index was useful in identifying and quantifying specific areas of disabilities in these children. Evaluation of disabilities using specific measures may be crucial for planning comprehensive management.


Biexponential T(2) relaxation of the localized water signal can be used for segmentation of spectroscopic volumes. To assess the specificity of the components an iterative relaxation measurement of the localized water signal (STEAM, 12 echo times, geometric spacing from 30 ms to 2000 ms) was combined with magnetization transfer (MT) saturation (40 single lobe pulses, 12 ms duration, 1440 degrees nominal flip angle, 1 kHz offset, repeated every 30 ms). Voxels including CSF were examined in parietal cortex and periventricular parietal white matter (10 each), as well as 13 voxels in central white matter and 16 T(1)-hypointense non-enhancing multiple sclerosis lesions without CSF inclusion. Biexponential models (excluding myelin water) were fitted to the relaxation data. In periventricular VOIs the component of long T(2) (1736 +/- 168 ms) that is attributed to CSF was not affected by MT. In cortical VOIs this component had markedly shorter T(2)'s (961 +/- 239 ms) and showed both attenuation and prolongation with MT, indicating contributions from tissue. MS lesions and central WM showed a second tissue component of intermediate T(2) (160-410 ms). In white matter similar MT attenuation indicated strong exchange between the two tissue components, prohibiting segmentation. In MS lesions, however, markedly less MT of the intermediate component was found, which is consistent with decreased cellularity and exchange in a region that is large compared to diffusion motion.
Analgesia (pain reduction, or antinociception) is a classical and clinically important effect of morphine administration, and in rodent models sensitivity to morphine has been shown to be strongly influenced by genotype. For example, several studies have reported marked differences in morphine antinociception between the insensitive C57BL/6 (B6) and sensitive DBA/2 (D2) inbred mouse strains on the hot-plate assay. This prompted the present genome-wide search for quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that are chromosomal sites influencing the magnitude of antinociception, by using four mapping populations derived from the B6 and D2 progenitor inbred strains. These four were the BXD recombinant inbred (RI) strain set, an F2 (B6D2F2) population, short-term selective breeding for antinociception from a B6D2F2 founding population, and incipient or completed congenic strains. In the BXD RI set and in the B6D2F2, a genome-wide search identified 10-12 provisional QTLs at a nominal p &lt;.05. The other populations were subsequently used as confirmation steps to test each of the provisional QTL regions. Based on all available mapping populations, four QTLs emerged as significant (p &lt;.00005) on proximal Chromosome (Chr) 1 (females only), proximal Chr 9 (females only), mid Chr 9, and proximal Chr 10. The Chr 10 QTL comaps to the same region as the micro-opioid receptor gene (Oprm); this receptor is a known mediator of morphine's antinociceptive effects. The Chr 1 QTL was evident only in females and comapped with the kappa-opioid receptor gene, Oprk.

Microglia has the potential to produce and release a range of factors that directly and/or indirectly promote regeneration in the injured nervous system. The overwhelming evidence indicates, however, that this potential is generally not expressed in vivo. Activated microglia may enhance neuronal degeneration following axotomy, thereby counteracting functional recovery. Microglia does not seem to contribute significantly to axonal outgrowth after peripheral nerve injury, since this process proceeds uneventful even if perineuronal microglia is eliminated. The phagocytic phenotype of microglia is highly suppressed during Wallerian degeneration in the central nervous system. Therefore, microglia is incapable of rapid and efficient removal of myelin debris and its putative growth inhibitory components. In this way, microglia may contribute to regeneration failure in the central nervous system. Structural and temporal correlations are compatible with participation by perineuronal microglia in axotomy-induced shedding of presynaptic terminals, but direct evidence for such participation is lacking. Currently, the most promising case for a promoting effect on neural repair by activated microglia appears to be as a mediator of collateral sprouting, at least in certain brain areas. However, final proof for a critical role of microglia in these instances is still lacking. Results from in vitro studies demonstrate that microglia can develop a regeneration supportive phenotype. Altering the microglial involvement following neural injury from a typically passive or even counterproductive state and into a condition where these cells are actively supporting regeneration and plasticity is, therefore, an exciting challenge and probably a realistic goal.
Cell cultures have become an integral part of the daily routine in most biological research laboratories. Because they are very dynamic and highly accessible, cell cultures permit direct experimental manipulations where cause-effect relations can be more definitely assayed. We have developed cultures of microglial cells from rapid autopsies (range 3-10 hours) of nondemented elderly patients and Alzheimer's disease patients. Cultures were derived from the subcortical white matter, corpus callosum, and frontal, temporal, and occipital cortex. The adherent microglial cells were immunoreactive for CD68, CD45, CD11c, and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II markers, and were not immunoreactive for astrocyte or oligodendrocyte markers. In addition, some functional characteristics of the isolated microglial cells were also studied. Upon stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), microglial cells secreted pro- and antiinflammatory mediators, i.e., interleukin- (IL)-6, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and IL-10, indicating the functional capacity of cultured microglia.
Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) support survival of dopaminergic midbrain neurons. Neurons are coupled by gap junctions, propagating metabolites and intracellular second messengers possibly mediating growth factor effects. We asked, therefore, whether gap junctions influence the survival-promoting effects of FGF-2 and GDNF. RT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunocytochemistry demonstrate that FGF-2 but not GDNF upregulates cx43 mRNA and immunoreactivity in rat embryonic day 14 midbrain cultures, whereas cx26, cx32, and cx45 were unchanged. In addition, functional coupling as assayed by the spread of neurobiotin was increased by FGF-2. Furthermore, the gap junction blocker oleamide abolished survival-promoting effects of FGF-2 on dopaminergic midbrain neurons. Together, these results support a direct role of gap junction communication for survival-promoting effects of FGF-2 on dopaminergic midbrain neurons, making gap junction communication a substantial parameter for neuron survival.
Ribonucleases H (RNases H) recognize and specifically degrade RNA that is bound to complementary DNA and are thought to be involved in DNA replication and transcriptional regulation. Though it was previously shown that bacterial RNases H participate in DNA synthesis, none of the known mutations in RNase H genes in either prokaryotes or lower eukaryotes is lethal. Here, we report the characterization of the first loss-of-function mutation in an RNase H1 gene in a metazoan organism, Drosophila melanogaster. Genetic studies of this mutant showed that this gene is essential for metamorphosis in Drosophila. However, disruption of the RNase H1 gene does not affect proliferation, but probably alters the regulation of gene expression. The lethal phenotype of this mutant also demonstrates that RNase H1 activity in Drosophila cannot be provided by other cellular RNase H activities. Analysis of the developmental and spatial expression profiles of a reporter gene placed under the control of the RNase H1 promoter revealed increased expression in several larval tissues. In salivary glands this increase was shown to be inducible by treatment with ecdysone.
Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express two types of K(+)-selective ion channels including a rapidly inactivating bKv1.4 current (I(A)) and an ATP-dependent noninactivating background current (I(AC)) that sets the resting membrane potential. Whole-cell, patch-clamp recording from cultured AZF cells was used to demonstrate a novel reciprocal modulation of these two K(+) channels by intracellular nucleotides and corticotropin. Specifically, increases in I(AC) activity induced by intracellular ATP, as well as GTP and 5'-adenylyl-imidodiphosphate (AMP-PNP), were accompanied by a corresponding decrease in the amplitude of the voltage-gated I(A) current. The reduction in I(A) current was observed only when patch pipettes contained ATP or other nucleotides at concentrations sufficient to support activation of I(AC). Conversely, the nearly complete inhibition of I(AC) by corticotropin was accompanied by the coincident reappearance of functional I(A) channels. In the absence of I(AC) current, corticotropin failed to alter I(A). The reciprocal modulation of AZF cell K(+) channels by nucleotides and corticotropin was independent of membrane voltage. These results demonstrate a new form of channel modulation in which the activity of two different K(+) channels is reciprocally modulated in tandem through hormonal and metabolic signaling pathways. They further suggest that I(A) and I(AC) K(+) channels may be functionally coupled in a dynamic equilibrium driven by intracellular ATP and G-protein-coupled receptors. This may represent a unique mechanism for transducing biochemical signals to ionic events involved in cortisol secretion.
Experiments were designed to examine the visual contributions to performance of back aerial double somersaults by collegiate acrobats. Somersaults were performed on a trampoline under three visual conditions: (a) NORMAL acuity; (b) REDUCED acuity (subjects wore special contacts that blocked light reflected onto the central retina); and (c) NO VISION. Videotaped skill performances were rated by two NCAA judges and digitized for kinematic analyses. Subjects' performance scores were similar in NORMAL and REDUCED conditions and lowest in the NO VISION condition. Control of body movement, indicated by time-to-contact, was most variable in the NO VISION condition. Profiles of angular head and neck velocity revealed that when subjects could see, they slowed their heads prior to touchdown in time to process optical flow information and prepare for landing. There was not always enough time to process vision associated with object identification and prepare for touchdown. It was concluded that collegiate acrobats do not need to identify objects for their best back aerial double somersault performance.
We describe a 21-year-old man with essential palatal tremor. The patient had rhythmic contractions not only of tensor veli palatini but also of facial, lingual, temporalis, pharyngeal, and neck muscles. He had some voluntary control of palatal tremor and ear clicks. He was treated with 5 units of botulinum toxin-A (BOTOX) injected into each tensor veli palatini, and had complete resolution of all the symptoms.

How does the brain order successive events? Here we studied whether temporal order of two stimuli delivered in rapid succession, one to each hand, is determined before or after the stimuli are localized in space. When their arms were crossed, subjects could accurately report the temporal order, even when the interval between stimuli was as short as 70 ms. In most trials, subjects could also judge temporal order when their arms were crossed, but only if given adequate time (&gt;1 s). At moderately short intervals (&lt;300 ms), crossing the arms caused misreporting (that is, inverting) of the temporal order. Thus, at these intervals, the determining factor of temporal order was the spatial location of the hands. We suggest that it is not until the spatial locations of the hands are taken into account that the cutaneous signals from the respective hands are ordered in time.
Visual analyses of form and motion proceed along parallel streams. Unified perception of moving forms requires interactions between these streams, although whether the interactions occur early or late in cortical processing remains unresolved. Using rotating outlined shapes sampled through apertures, we showed that binding local motions into global object motion depends strongly on spatial configuration. Identical local motion components are perceived coherently when they define closed configurations, but usually not when they define open configurations. Our experiments show this influence arises in early cortical levels and operates as a form-based veto of motion integration in the absence of closure.




There are conflicting reports in the literature as to whether palmitoylethanolamide affects the function of mast cell-related cell lines in vitro, in contrast to the well-documented effects of this compound upon mast cell function in vivo. In the present study, we have reinvestigated the effects of palmitoylethanolamide upon antigen-induced release of [3H]serotonin and beta-hexosaminidase from rat basophilic leukemia RBL-2H3 cells and compared these effects with those of 2-arachidonoylglycerol, anandamide and R1-methanandamide. RBL-2H3 cells were sensitized with a monoclonal anti-DNP IgE, after which they were stimulated with antigen (DNP-HSA). Palmitoylethanolamide produced a small, but significant reduction in antigen-stimulated [3H]serotonin release at high concentrations, whereas anandamide was without effect. In contrast, 2-arachidonoylglycerol and methanandamide increased the antigen-stimulated release of both [3H]serotonin and beta-hexosaminidase. It is concluded that in RBL-2H3 cells, these cannabimimetic fatty acid derivatives do not have potent stabilizing effects upon antigen-induced degranulation.
We suggest a simple spiking model-resonate-and-fire neuron, which is similar to the integrate-and-fire neuron except that the state variable is complex. The model provides geometric illustrations to many interesting phenomena occurring in biological neurons having subthreshold damped oscillations of membrane potential. For example, such neurons prefer a certain resonant frequency of the input that is nearly equal to their eigenfrequency, they can be excited or inhibited by a doublet (two pulses) depending on its interspike interval, and they can fire in response to an inhibitory input. All these properties could be observed in Hodgkin-Huxley-type models. We use the resonate-and-fire model to illustrate possible sensitivity of biological neurons to the fine temporal structure of the input spike train. Being an analogue of the integrate-and-fire model, the resonate-and-fire model is computationally efficient and suitable for simulations of large networks of spiking neurons.
We define a measure for evaluating the quality of a predictive model of the behavior of a spiking neuron. This measure, information gain per spike (Is), indicates how much more information is provided by the model than if the prediction were made by specifying the neuron's average firing rate over the same time period. We apply a maximum Is criterion to optimize the performance of Gaussian smoothing filters for estimating neural firing rates. With data from bullfrog vestibular semicircular canal neurons and data from simulated integrate-and-fire neurons, the optimal bandwidth for firing rate estimation is typically similar to the average firing rate. Precise timing and average rate models are limiting cases that perform poorly. We estimate that bullfrog semicircular canal sensory neurons transmit in the order of 1 bit of stimulus-related information per spike.
Here, we develop and investigate a computational model of a network of cortical neurons on the base of biophysically well constrained and tested two-compartmental neurons developed by Pinsky and Rinzel [Pinsky, P. F., &amp; Rinzel, J. (1994). Intrinsic and network rhythmogenesis in a reduced Traub model for CA3 neurons. Journal of Computational Neuroscience, 1, 39-60]. To study associative memory, we connect a pool of cells by a structured connectivity matrix. The connection weights are shaped by simple Hebbian coincidence learning using a set of spatially sparse patterns. We study the neuronal activity processes following an external stimulation of a stored memory. In two series of simulation experiments, we explore the effect of different classes of external input, tonic and flashed stimulation. With tonic stimulation, the addressed memory is an attractor of the network dynamics. The memory is displayed rhythmically, coded by phase-locked bursts or regular spikes. The participating neurons have rhythmic activity in the gamma-frequency range (30-80 Hz). If the input is switched from one memory to another, the network activity can follow this change within one or two gamma cycles. Unlike similar models in the literature, we studied the range of high memory capacity (in the order of 0.1 bit/synapse), comparable to optimally tuned formal associative networks. We explored the robustness of efficient retrieval varying the memory load, the excitation/inhibition parameters, and background activity. A stimulation pulse applied to the identical simulation network can push away ongoing network activity and trigger a phase-locked association event within one gamma period. Unlike as under tonic stimulation, the memories are not attractors. After one association process, the network activity moves to other states. Applying in close succession pulses addressing different memories, one can switch through the space of memory patterns. The readout speed can be increased up to the point where in every gamma cycle another pattern is displayed. With pulsed stimulation. bursts become relevant for coding, their occurrence can be used to discriminate relevant processes from background activity.
Cerebral cortex has a range of interconnected functional architectures. Some appear random and without structure, while others are geometrical. Although the biological details certainly constrain spatial temporal patterns in neural networks, the influence that the laws of deterministic dynamics bring to bear on even isolated simple geometries are unknown. Layer II/III of primary visual cortex has long range horizontal connections with projections to and from other layers. The long range excitatory connections were modeled in isolation as an isolated laterally connected functional architecture. The Hodgkin-Huxley or Pinsky-Rinzel equations were used to simulate the neuronal elements. Waves of activity could propagate through the functional architecture; depending on the synaptic kinetics, the system could settle down into quiescence, oscillations, or seemingly random behavior. Order could be found in random-looking behavior by the application of techniques from chaos theory. Furthermore, the range and transitions of the temporal patterns in the modeled collection of neurons are similar to those found in other non-linear systems. The possibility that the temporal patterns of neurons in situ are also constrained by these mathematical laws is discussed.
What is the 'meaning' of a single spike? Spike-triggered averaging ('reverse correlations') yields the typical input just before a spike. Similarly, cross-correlations describe the probability of firing an output spike given (one additional) presynaptic input spike. In this paper, we analytically calculate reverse and cross-correlations for a spiking neuron model with escape noise. The influence of neuronal parameters (such as the membrane time constant, the noise level, and the mean firing rate) on the form of the correlation function is illustrated. The calculation is done in the framework of a population theory that is reviewed. The relation of the population activity equations to population density methods is discussed. Finally, we indicate the role of cross-correlations in spike-time dependent Hebbian plasticity.
Neurons often work together to compute and process information, and neural assemblies arise from synaptic interactions and neural circuits. One way to study neural assemblies is to simultaneously record from several or many neurons and study the statistical relations among their spike trains. From this analysis researchers can try to understand the nature of the assemblies, which can also lead to attempts at modeling the underlying mechanisms. In this review we discuss three important parts of this process: (1) technical issues related to simultaneously recording more than one single unit, (2) ways of analyzing the data and (3) recent models offering hypothetical mechanisms of neural assemblies, especially models which incorporate feedback.
The purpose of this study was to assess changes in cerebral activity in middle-aged adults (MA: 50 years) compared to young adults (YA: 20 years). Subjects had to compare the duration or the intensity of a visual stimulus with a previously memorized standard. Evoked potentials were recorded, and a dipole model (obtained from PET data on young adults) was applied for fitting late-latency components. MA performance was poorer than YA performance. Task-specific ERP late components were found (P3 in intensity, CNV in duration), but P3 had a lower amplitude and CNV was less frontal in MAs compared to YAs. The activity of the dipoles that generate late components - cuneus in the intensity task, right frontal in the duration task, and anterior cingulate in both tasks-was less ample or less peaked in MAs than in YAs. This study characterizes neurobiological effects of aging that may already be visible during midlife.
This study was designed to determine if changes related to aging and diet in the mRNA expression of subunits of the NMDA receptor were associated with changes in binding to NMDA receptors and learning ability in C57Bl/6 mice. Three age groups (3, 15, and 26-27 months old) and 2 diet groups (ad libitum-fed and diet restricted) were used. The old ad libitum-fed mice had significantly poorer performance in a spatial reference memory task than all other groups. Diet restriction slightly spared glutamate binding to NMDA sites and improved zeta1, but not epsilon2, mRNA expression. Significant correlations were found between NMDA-displaceable [(3)H]glutamate binding and both learning ability and epsilon2 and epsilon1 mRNA density in several brain regions. Learning ability in the old mice also correlated with the ratios of mRNA expression for epsilon1 and epsilon2 and/or zeta1 subunits in the parietal cortex and CA1 region of the hippocampus. This suggests that it is the relationship between subunit expression levels that is important for maintaining memory functions in older animals.
Intradentate injection of colchicine is one of the techniques used to destroy granule cells. This study compared the behavioral effects of various amounts of colchicine (1.0, 3.0, and 6.0 microg; Col 1, Col 3, and Col 6, respectively) injected into the dentate gyrus of adult Long-Evans male rats. Starting 10 days after lesion surgery, behavioral testing assessed home-cage and open-field locomotion, alternation in a T-maze, water-maze, and radial-maze learning according to protocols placing emphasis on reference, and working memory. All of these tasks are sensitive to hippocampal disruption. Histological verifications showed that the extent of the lesions depends on the dose of colchicine (index of dentate gyrus shrinkage: -33% in Col 1, -54% in Col 3, and -67% in Col 6 rats). Colchicine dose-dependently increased nocturnal home cage activity (an effect found 10 days but not 5 months after surgery), but had no significant effect on open-field locomotion or T-maze alternation. A dose-dependent reference memory impairment was found during the acquisition of spatial navigation in the water maze; Col 3 and Col 6 rats were more impaired than Col 1 rats. During the probe trial (platform removed), control rats spent a longer distance swimming over the platform area than all rats with colchicine lesions. In the working memory version of the test, all rats with colchicine lesions showed significant deficits. The deficits were larger in Col 3 and Col 6 rats compared to Col 1 rats. The lesions had no effect on swimming speed. In the radial-maze test, there was also a dose-dependent working memory impairment. However, reference memory was disrupted in a manner that did not differ among the three groups of lesioned rats. Our data are in line with the view that the dentate gyrus plays an important role in the acquisition of new information and is an integral neural substrate for spatial reference and spatial working memory. They also suggest that damage to granule cells might have more pronounced effects on reference than on working memory in the radial maze. Finally, they demonstrate that part of the variability in the conclusions from previous experiments concerning the role of granule cells in cognitive processes, particularly in spatial learning and memory, may be due to the type of tests used and/or the extent of the damage produced.
Larvae of the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, exhibit a defensive proleg withdrawal reflex in which deflection of mechanosensory hairs on the proleg tip (the planta) evokes retraction of the proleg. A previous behavioral study showed that this reflex habituates in response to repeated planta hair deflection and exhibits several other defining features of habituation. In a semi-intact preparation consisting of a proleg and its associated segmental ganglion, repeated deflection of a planta hair or electrical stimulation of its sensory neuron causes a neural correlate of habituation, manifested as a decrease in the number of action potentials evoked in the proleg motor nerve. Monosynaptic connections from planta hair sensory neurons to the principal planta retractor motoneuron exhibit several forms of activity-dependent plasticity. In the present study we recorded intracellularly from this motoneuron during repetitive electrical stimulation of a planta hair sensory neuron. The number of action potentials evoked in the motoneuron decreased significantly, representing a neural correlate of habituation. The motoneuron's resting membrane potential, input resistance. and spike threshold measured before and after repetitive stimulation did not differ between the stimulated group and a control group. Furthermore, the amplitude of the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential, as well as the magnitude of paired-pulse facilitation, evoked in the motoneuron by the sensory neuron did not change after repetitive stimulation. These results suggest that depression at the sensorimotor synapse does not contribute to reflex habituation. Rather, other mechanisms in the ganglion of the stimulated segment, such as changes in polysynaptic reflex pathways, appear to be responsible.
This study examined whether preaccumulated D,L-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartate (tHA), a competitive substrate for the high-affinity excitatory amino acid (EAA) transporter, is released as a false transmitter from EAA-releasing nerve terminals. Potassium-stimulation (50 mM for 1 min) evoked significant release of the endogenous EAAs (aspartate and glutamate) from superfused neocortical minislices. Endogenous EAA release was largely calcium-dependent and was inhibited by tetanus toxin, a neurotoxin which specifically blocks vesicular exocytosis. In parallel experiments, minislices were pre-incubated with 500 microM tHA. Potassium (50 mM) evoked significant release of tHA and this release was also calcium-dependent and reduced by tetanus toxin. Pre-accumulation of tHA did not affect the release of endogenous glutamate whereas the release of endogenous aspartate was significantly attenuated. These data suggest that tHA selectively accumulates in a vesicular aspartate pool and is released upon depolarization as a false transmitter from EAA nerve terminals.
GABAA receptor activation augments electrically-stimulated release of norepinephrine (NE) from rat brain slices. Because this effect is not observed in synaptoneurosomes, GABA probably acts on inhibitory interneurons to disinhibit NE release. To determine whether opioids or adenosine influence GABA-augmented NE release, hypothalamic and cortical slices from female rats were superfused with GABA or vehicle in the presence and absence of 10 microM morphine or 100 microM adenosine. GABA augments [3H]NE release in the cortex and hypothalamus. Morphine alone has no effect on [3H]NE release, but attenuates GABA augmentation of [3H]NE release in both brain regions. Adenosine alone modestly inhibits [3H]NE release in the cortex, but not in the hypothalamus. Adenosine inhibits GABA-augmented [3H]NE release in both brain regions. The general protein kinase inhibitor H-7, augments [3H]NE release in both brain regions and may have additive effects with GABA in cortical slices. These results implicate opioid and adenosine interneurons and possibly protein kinases in regulating GABAergic influences on NE transmission.
Photoperiod has profound effects upon the neuroendocrine axis underlying reproductive physiology in seasonally breeding mammals. For long-day (LD) breeders, such as the Siberian hamster, exposure to a short-day (SD) photoperiod results in declines in circulating levels of gonadal steroids, luteinizing hormone (LH), and prolactin (PRL). The current study sought to investigate the effects of photoperiod and steroid levels on norepinephrine (NE), one of the major neurochemical regulators of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) function. Since NE release within the medial preoptic area (mPOA) has been shown to stimulate the activity of GnRH cells, it was hypothesized that exposure to a short photoperiod would decrease NE levels. Furthermore, since gonadal steroids show negative feedback on GnRH function, it was hypothesized that gonadectomy would result in increased levels of NE. Adult male and female Siberian hamsters were gonadectomized and implanted with silastic capsules containing either cholesterol (C) or a mixture of estradiol (E) or testosterone (T). Microdialysis sampling within the mPOA was conducted after 8 weeks of exposure to either an LD or an SD photoperiod. Blood samples were analyzed for LH and PRL, while dialysis samples were analyzed for NE and its major metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG). The results revealed significant suppression of LH and PRL by exposure to the SD photoperiod in both males and females. For LH, the steroid implants suppressed circulating hormone levels under both photoperiods, whereas for PRL, steroid treatment facilitated circulating levels. In contrast, there were no significant effects of photoperiod on NE or MHPG release for either males or females, but there was a significant decrease in extracellular levels of these neurochemicals in steroid-treated animals. These data suggest that photoperiodic modulation of GnRH neuronal function by NE is achieved largely through the indirect effects of photoperiod on circulating gonadal steroids.
Chronic alcoholism is associated with impairment in sustained attention and visual working memory. Thus, alcoholics have reduced ability, but not necessarily inability, to perform these executive tasks, assumed to be subserved by regions of prefrontal cortex. To identify neural substrates associated with this impairment, we used functional MRI (fMRI) to determine whether alcoholics invoke the same or different brain systems as controls when engaged in working memory tasks that the two groups were able to perform at equivalent levels. The fMRI spatial working memory paradigm instructed subjects to respond with a button press when a target position was either in the center of the field (match to center) or matched the spatial position of one presented two items previously (match 2-back) or to rest. Using whole-brain fMRI, alcoholics showed diminished activation frontal cortical systems compared to controls (bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) when responding 2-back vs rest. In the center vs rest contrast, the control group compared with the alcoholic group activated a large expanse of prefrontal cortex (including Brodmann areas 9, 10, and 45), whereas there was significantly greater activation by the alcoholic group relative to the control group localized more posteriorly and inferiorly in the frontal cortex (area 47). Examination of within group activation patterns revealed two different patterns of activation: the control group exhibited activation of the dorsal (&quot;Where?&quot;) stream for visual spatial working memory processing, whereas the alcoholic group exhibited activation of the ventral (&quot;What?&quot;) stream and declarative memory systems to accomplish the spatial working memory task. The differences in the pattern of brain activations exhibited by the alcoholic and control groups, despite equivalence in behavioral performance, is consistent with a functional reorganization of the brain systems invoked by alcoholic individuals or invocation of an inappropriate brain system when engaged in a visual spatial task requiring working memory.
Acupuncture is largely used for pain control in several pathological conditions. Its effects on the central nervous system are not well defined. We investigated the effect of the application of acupuncture to 13 normal subjects (males, 21-32 years). H2(15)O bolus PET scans were read before the application of the needles (Rest, R) and after 25 min of needle insertion. Data were acquired by scanning in 3-D mode. The acupuncture application, true acupuncture (TA), was alternated to a placebo needle application (PA) in two different sequences (seven and six subjects, respectively), either R,PA,R, TA or R,TA,R,PA, a period of 15 min being left after every first TA or PA to allow for the recovery of basal conditions. Here we show that classic acupuncture activates the left Anterior Cingulus, the Insulae bilaterally, the Cerebellum bilaterally, the left Superior Frontal Gyrus, and the right Medial and Inferior Frontal Gyri. Most of the activated areas are shared with areas activated in acute and chronic pain states as described in the literature. Thus acupuncture appears to act by activating areas also involved in pain. This indicates that acupuncture could relief pain by unbalancing the equilibrium of distributed pain-related central networks.

We review event-related fMRI data regarding the role of the left lateral frontopolar cortex (LFPC) in attentional switching processes. We found LFPC activation when subjects had to reallocate attentional resources, either between visual dimensions (color and motion) or between locations. However, LFPC activation during these dimension or location switches was observed only when subjects had to counteract stimulus-driven attention to an invalid dimension or location. LFPC was not activated following changes of stimulus-response associations. Further experiments will have to show whether LFPC is actively involved in the reallocation of attentional resources or whether it rather has a monitoring function.
This paper addresses the functional anatomy of movement representation. We have used associative visuomotor tasks with instructed delays to elicit motor preparatory activity. We regard such activity, when independent from transient stimulus-locked responses, as a likely candidate for the neural basis of movement representation (M. Jeannerod, The Cognitive Neuroscience of Action. Blackwell, Oxford, 1997). In a first event-related fMRI experiment, we found that preparing to move according to arbitrary visuomotor associations relies not only on parietofrontal circuitry, but also on portions of the posterior superior temporal sulcus. In a separate behavioral experiment, we discarded the hypothesis that such activities were confounded by working memory processes. In a second imaging experiment, we have further defined the relative contributions of these parietal, premotor, and temporal areas to the preparatory process and their involvement in motor representations. We conclude that posterior parietal cortex is interested in evaluating the potential motor significance of sensory stimuli, irrespectively of the likelihood of providing a response (&quot;motor intention&quot;). Conversely, preparatory activity in frontal premotor regions appears to be a function of the probability of a subsequent movement. Finally, on the basis of the present and published data, we suggest that posterior temporal cortex might be involved in the extraction of contextual and intentional cues during goal-oriented behavior.
We describe recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and event-related potential (ERP) studies of visual extinction in patients with right parietal damage who can detect isolated visual stimuli on either side, yet often miss contralesional (left) stimuli during bilateral stimulation. We consider the neural fate of such extinguished visual stimuli and how neural responses differ for consciously detected versus extinguished stimuli. fMRI findings indicate that extinguished stimuli evoke activity in striate and ventral extrastriate visual cortex, despite escaping awareness. Activations for extinguished stimuli can be found even in category-specific (face-responsive) areas of the fusiform gyrus. On the other hand, activations in visual cortex are stronger for consciously detected versus extinguished stimuli, with parietal and frontal areas of the intact left hemisphere also implicated in this comparison. Recent ERP data likewise suggest differential neural responses for consciously detected versus extinguished stimuli. We discuss these findings in relation to current speculations about the neural basis of conscious and unconscious perception.
One challenging issue in cognitive neuroscience has been to dissociate a variety of mental processes from one another in order to elucidate brain functions. Attention, in particular, has been a recurrent issue because of its strong links with perceptual, cognitive, and motor performances. This paper reviews data from neurophysiological experiments designed to dissociate neuronal activity related to visuo-spatial attention from preparatory activity in the monkey brain. Cell activity was recorded from the dorsal premotor area (PMd) and compared to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPf), from which it receives inputs. PMd has been implicated in the planing and execution of voluntary movements (PMd), and the majority of its cells are active during tasks with instructed delay time. However, the activity of many PMd cells is not specifically correlated with movement preparation, as is observed when the animal is attending to a visual stimulus, although the proportion of attention-related cells is much lower than in the DLPf. The distribution of attention-related and intention-related neurons within PMd tends to vary along the rostrocaudal axis, with the former more frequent rostrally (PMdr) and the latter more predominant caudally (PMdc). In a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study in humans, we compared the premotor activation in two tasks: a spatial attention/memory task and a motor preparation task. The results suggest a rostrocaudal specialization within PMd of the human brain, with attention-related activation rostrally and medially and intention-related activation caudally. These studies indicate strong similarities in the functional organization of dorsal premotor cortex of human and monkey.
Artificial neural networks can be exploited to solve inverse problems arising from the estimation of neural activities in the brain. In this paper, we review the network inversion techniques for solving inverse problems with special attention directed towards electroencephalographic dipole localization and the improvement of positron emission tomography. In our regularized network inversion technique, for stabilizing the solution, we explicitly include the a priori knowledge by adding penalty terms to the energy function and/or build this knowledge into the architecture of the multi-layered neural networks that are used as an inverse problem solver. In the electroencephalogram analysis, the consensus term added to the energy function facilitated 3-dipole localization for visually evoked potentials. Effectiveness of our regularization is shown in improving the positron emission tomographic images and for generating metabolic images of the brain, under the constraints given by the a priori knowledge inherent to the measurement systems and physiological rules.
Whole-nerve cuff electrodes can be used to record electrical nerve activity in peripheral nerves and are suitable for chronic implantation in animals or humans. If the whole nerve innervates multiple target organs or muscles then the recorded activity will be the superposition of the activity of different nerve fibers innervating these organs. In certain cases it is desirable to monitor mixed nerve activity and to determine the origin (modality) of the recorded activity. A method using the autocorrelation function of recorded nerve activity and an artificial neural network was developed to classify the modality of nerve signals. The method works in cases where different end organs are innervated by nerve fibers having different diameter distributions. The electrical activity in the cat S1 sacral spinal root was recorded using a cuff electrode during the activation of cutaneous, bladder, and rectal mechanoreceptors. Using the classification method, 87.5% of nerve signals were correctly classified. This result demonstrates the effectiveness of the neural network classification method to determine the modality of the nerve activity arising from activation of different receptors.
The involvement of the basolateral amygdala in mediating the inhibition of neonatal vocalisation by substance P (NK(1) receptor) antagonists was examined. These studies determined whether the time course for separation-induced vocalisations in guinea-pig pups coincided with NK(1) receptor internalisation (a marker of substance P release) in the amygdala, and whether vocalisations could be blocked by focal injection of the NK(1) receptor antagonist L-760735 into this brain region. The peak period for neonatal vocalisations occurred 5-10 min following maternal separation. This coincided with the peak increase in the number of cells in the basolateral amygdala exhibiting NK(1) receptor endocytosis, consistent with the proposal that substance P is released in the amygdala as a result of isolation stress. Focal injection of L-760735 (15 nmol per side) but not L-770765 (an analogue of L-760735 which has low NK(1) receptor affinity) into the basolateral amygdala attenuated separation-induced vocalisations. In contrast, injection of L-760735 (15 nmol per side) into the dorsal ventricular nucleus of the thalamus, a region with relatively low density of NK(1) receptors, had no effect on neonatal vocalisations. These findings are consistent with other evidence that the amygdala is one possible site of action for the inhibition of neonatal vocalisations by substance P antagonists.
Identification of synthetic agonists and antagonists at orphan receptors represents an important step for understanding their physiological function and therapeutic potential. Accordingly, we have recently described a non-peptide agonist at the opioid receptor like (ORL1) receptor (1S,3aS)-8-(2,3,3a,4,5,6-hexahydro-1H-phenalen-1-yl)-1-phenyl-1,3,8-triazaspiro[4.5]decan-4-one (Ro64-6198; Jenck et al., PNAS 94 (2000) 4938; Wichmann et al., Eur. J. Med. Chem. 35 (2000) 839). We have investigated the effects of this compound in various tests of rodent neurological function, utilising ORL1 knockout mice to examine the pharmacological specificity of Ro64-6198. In male C57BL/6J mice, effects on balance and motor co-ordination were detected following low doses (0.3-1mg/kg IP) of Ro64-6198. At higher doses (1-3mg/kg IP), effects on swim behaviour and hypothermia was observed. At 10mg/kg, each effect became more profound and a severe neurological disturbance appeared, including loss of righting reflex. These effects of Ro64-6198 (10mg/kg IP) were absent in ORL1 receptor knockout mice. In male, hooded Lister rats, Ro64-6198 (6-10mg/kg IP), produced some disturbance of neurological function, including hypoactivity, rotarod performance, grip strength and mild hypothermia. An impairment of food responding under a variable interval (VI) 20s schedule of reinforcement was noted at 3mg/kg. These results confirm Ro64-6198 to be a highly selective pharmacological tool to investigate ORL1 receptor function in vivo and, furthermore, that activation of this receptor is accompanied by a variety of effects on neurological function.
Two distinct types of glycine transporter, GlyT-1 and GlyT-2, have been characterised. GlyT-1 and GlyT-2 are known to be differentially expressed amongst CNS areas, but direct functional evidence for their relative contributions to high-affinity glycine uptake by brain tissues is lacking. In the present study, we have used the selective GlyT-1 inhibitor N[3-(4&quot;-fluorophenyl)-3-(4&quot;-phenylphenoxy)propyl]sarcosine (NFPS) to investigate the role of GlyT-1 in mediating glycine uptake. HEK293 cells expressing human GlyT-1c or GlyT-2 showed high levels of Na(+)-dependent glycine uptake, with K(m) values of 117+/-13 and 200+/-22 microM, respectively. NFPS potently inhibited uptake in GlyT-1c cells (IC(50) value 0.22+/-0.03 microM), being around 500-fold more potent than glycine or sarcosine, but had no effect on uptake in GlyT-2 cells (IC(50) &gt;10 microM). Efflux of pre-loaded [3H]-glycine from GlyT-1c cells was increased by glycine or sarcosine, whereas NFPS had no effect on its own but blocked the effects of glycine or sarcosine. These results confirm that NFPS is a potent, selective and non-transportable GlyT-1 inhibitor. Rat cortex and cerebellum synaptosomes also showed a high-affinity Na(+)-dependent component of glycine uptake, with affinities similar to those observed for uptake in GlyT-1c or GlyT-2 cells. In cortex synaptosomes, NFPS and sarcosine produced the same maximal inhibition of uptake as glycine itself. However, in cerebellum synaptosomes, the maximal inhibition produced by NFPS and sarcosine was only half that produced by glycine. In both tissues NFPS was around 1000-fold more potent than glycine or sarcosine. Overall, our findings indicate that high-affinity glycine uptake in cerebral cortex occurs predominantly via GlyT-1. However, in cerebellum, only a part of the high-affinity uptake is mediated by GlyT-1, with the remaining NFPS-insensitive component most likely mediated by GlyT-2.
The modulation of GABA release within the globus pallidus (GP) by dopamine was studied using whole-cell patch clamp recordings from visually identified neurones. In sagittal slices, single shock electrical stimulation in the striatum evoked GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs), which were inhibited by dopamine in a dose-dependent manner (0.3-30 microM) with an IC(50) value of 0.7 microM. The inhibition was accompanied by an increase in paired pulse facilitation, indicative of a presynaptic effect. In coronal slices, stimulation within the GP adjacent to the recording site evoked GABA(A) IPSCs which were relatively unaffected by dopamine indicating the lack of modulation of GABA release from terminals of local GP axon collaterals. No consistent changes in holding current, membrane potential, firing rate or the frequency of spontaneous IPSCs was observed.Tetrodotoxin-resistant miniature (m)IPSCs were recorded in chloride-loaded cells. Dopamine (3-30 microM) reduced the frequency of mIPSCs, but was without effect on mIPSC amplitude, confirming a presynaptic effect. The addition of the &quot;D2 like&quot; agonist quinpirole (3 microM), but not the &quot;D1 like&quot; agonist SKF 38393 (10 microM), mimicked these effects. The &quot;D2 like&quot; antagonist sulpiride (10 microM), while having no effect alone, blocked the action of dopamine. In contrast the dopamine D4 selective antagonist L745, 870 (1 microM) or D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (10 microM) were without effect. These results indicate that dopamine acts on presynaptic D2 receptors on striatopallidal terminals to reduce the release of GABA in the GP. Attenuation of this mechanism following the depletion of dopamine may contribute to the changes in GP neuronal activity observed in animal models of Parkinson's disease.
This research examined 2 components of visual orienting in medicated schizophrenia patients: the validity effect and the inhibition of return (IOR). In the 1st experiment, patients showed the expected asymmetry in orienting attention, that is, larger validity effect in the right visual field than in the left. However, this asymmetry was due to a deficit in facilitatory processes rather than a disengagement deficit. In addition, patients showed a deficit in IOR. In the 2nd experiment, a 2nd central cue for summoning attention, explicitly, back to the center was used. In this experiment, normal IOR in schizophrenia patients was found. Because it was shown that schizophrenia patients do not have a disengagement deficit, IOR possibly could not be observed because of the increased facilitation in that location. It was proposed that the abnormality in visual attention in schizophrenia is due to a deficit in inhibitory processes.
It has been hypothesized that the neuropeptide Y (NPY) system is involved in the pathogenesis of mood disorder. In this study, Y(1) and Y(2) receptor mRNA expression levels were analyzed in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of subjects affected with major depression, bipolar disorder, or schizophrenia and compared to normal controls. No significant alterations in Y(1) or Y(2) mRNA expression levels were observed between the groups. However, the Y(2) mRNA expression was elevated in layer IV in subjects with suicide as a cause of death. For the Y(1) mRNA expression, there was a negative correlation with increasing subject age in the prefrontal cortex. Analysis of covariance revealed a significant elevation of the Y(1) mRNA expression levels in individuals with a current history of marijuana use but no other drug. In summary, the current results suggest distinct alterations of the prefrontal Y(1) and Y(2) neuronal populations in aging and suicide.
A core component to corticolimbic circuitry is the GABAergic interneuron. Neuroanatomic studies conducted over the past century have demonstrated several subtypes of interneuron defined by characteristic morphological appearances in Golgi-stained preparations. More recently, both cytochemical and electrophysiological techniques have defined various subtypes of GABA neuron according to synaptic connections, electrophysiological properties and neuropeptide content. These cells provide both inhibitory and disinhibitory modulation of cortical and hippocampal circuits and contribute to the generation of oscillatory rhythms, discriminative information processing and gating of sensory information within the corticolimbic system. All of these functions are abnormal in schizophrenia. Recent postmortem studies have provided consistent evidence that a defect of GABAergic neurotransmission probably plays a role in both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Many now believe that such a disturbance may be related to a perturbation of early development, one that may result in a disturbance of cell migration and the formation of normal lamination. The ingrowth of extrinsic afferents, such as the mesocortical dopamine projections, may &quot;trigger&quot; the appearance of a defective GABA system, particularly under stressful conditions when the modulation of the dopamine system is likely to be altered. Based on the regional and subregional distribution of changes in GABA cells in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, it has been postulated that the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala may contribute to these abnormalities through an increased flow of excitatory activity. By using &quot;partial&quot; modeling, changes in the GABA system remarkably similar to those seen in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder have been induced in rat hippocampus. In the years to come, continued investigations of the GABA system in rodent, primate and human brain and the characterization of changes in specific phenotypic subclasses of interneurons in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder will undoubtedly provide important new insights into how the integration of this transmitter system may be altered in neuropsychiatric disease.
A 28-year-old woman presented with generalised livedo reticularis, dementia, epilepsy, and pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs. Multiple focal infarcts were seen on MRI. Angiography demonstrated widespread cerebromeningeal angiomatosis with multiple small and medium size arterial occlusions. A lifelong personal and family history of mental handicap in the absence of anticardiolipin antibodies suggests Divry-Van Bogaert syndrome, not previously been reported in a female. Similarities to Sneddon's syndrome are discussed.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), expressed in widely distributed regions of the central nervous system (CNS), mediates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and autonomic components of responses to stressors. Sleep, a fundamental CNS process, is altered in response to a variety of stressors. Although there is an extensive literature on the role of CRH in responses to stressors, there is relatively little information on the role of CRH in normal, spontaneous behavior. We hypothesize that CRH is involved in the regulation of waking in the absence of overt stressors. Some of the early evidence supporting this hypothesis was indirect. We summarize in this review studies from our laboratory and others that provide direct evidence that CRH is involved in the regulation of spontaneous waking. We also suggest on the basis of recent studies that some effects of CRH on waking and sleep may be mediated by actions within the CNS of the immunomodulatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1. Collectively, these observations suggest that CRH contributes to the regulation of spontaneous waking in the absence of stressors, and also indicate a potential mechanism mediating complex alterations in sleep that occur in response to immune challenge.
This article presents a translation into English from an autobiographical document written in French by Jacques Le Magnen. The text contains a full translation of Le Magnen's account of the progression of scientific studies in his laboratory, as well as selected biographical data illustrated by quotes from Le Magnen's text. A complete scientific bibliography is included.
Problems of Parkinson`s Disease within the Arab world are discussed and a number of solutions are presented that will help in the management of Idiopathic Parkinson`s Disease. The problems discussed are problems related to the diagnosis whereby no individual clinical feature has sufficient sensitivity and specificity to serve as the sole basis for distinguishing Parkinson`s disease from other diseases with Parkinsonian features. Problems related to the Unified Parkinson`s Disease Rating Scale are also discussed and convey a multitude of problems culturally distinct to the Arab world. Problems related to the medical treatment, selection of patients for surgery, the surgery itself and the surgeon, programming and rehabilitation are discussed in detail.










Evidence-based medicine is one of the recently born explosively growing important issues, whose philosophical origins extend back to mid-19th century and remains a hot topic for clinicians, public health practioners, purchasers, planners, and the public. Evidence-based health care has extended the application of the prinicples of evidence-based medicine to all professions associated with health care, including purchasing and management. So it is important for the up and coming young doctors and clinicians, and even other health care professions, to gain knowledge of critical appraisal and experience in the practice of evidence-based health care. This article gives a brief description of what evidence-based medicine is and how to practice evidence-based medicine and enlists some useful Internet sites that can provide assistance in understanding the subject in even greater detail.

In the present study, we analyzed how aluminium and oxidative stress induced by ascorbate/Fe(2+) affect the mechanisms related with the cholinergic system in a crude synaptosomal fraction isolated from rat brain. [(3)H]Choline uptake, [(3)H]acetylcholine release, membrane potential and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity were determined in the presence or in the absence of aluminium in control conditions and in the presence of ascorbate (0.8 mM)/Fe(2+) (2.5 micro M). The extent of lipid peroxidation was measured by quantifying thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). Under oxidizing conditions aluminium increased the formation of TBARS by about 30%, but was without effect when the synaptosomal preparation was incubated in the absence of oxidants. Additionally, aluminium potentiated the inhibition of the high-affinity [(3)H]choline uptake observed following lipid peroxidation and had the same effect on the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity. [(3)H]Acetylcholine release induced by 4-aminopyridine, and membrane potential were not significantly affected under oxidizing conditions, either in the absence or in the presence of aluminium. We can conclude that aluminium, by potentiating lipid peroxidation, affects the uptake of choline in nerve endings. This effect, occurring during brain oxidative injury, might contribute to the cholinergic dysfunction and neuronal cell degeneration known to occur in Alzheimer's disease.
Age-related changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) were examined with [99Tc(m)]-d,l-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO), using a single photon emission tomography (SPET) gamma camera system equipped with a high resolution collimator, in 33 normal individuals in three age groups: 40 years old (n = 11), 75 years old (n = 9) and 88 years old (n = 13). A standard activity of 1000 MBq [99Tc(m)]-d,l-HMPAO was administered. Regional CBF (rCBF) (relative to cerebellar counts) was quantified in 28 grey and white matter regions. The mean rCBF of all the regions was 0.80 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.77-0.83) in 40 year olds, 0.77 (0.74-0.80) in 75 year olds and 0.76 (0.73-0.78) in 88 year olds. rCBF in the hippocampus, angular and cingular gyri, and frontal association and motor cortices was 5-10% lower in the 75 and 88 year olds than in the middle-aged subjects (P &lt; 0.05). The annual reduction in rCBF was 0.10% between the ages of 40 and 75 years and 0.13% between the ages of 75 and 88 years. The reduction in rCBF in the hippocampus rose from 0.14% between the ages of 40 and 75 years to 0.33% between the ages of 75 and 88 years. The mean rCBF in all 33 individuals showed no sex-related differences.
The tangible benefits of continued professional education (CPE) continues to be widely debated within nursing. Whilst there is a plethora of literature relating to CPE, there is an absence of empirical evidence confirming the value of educational activities. Using a case study approach, this study sought to examine the relationship between undertaking a named course (Children's Neuroscience Course) and the perceived benefits to practitioners. Nursing students who had successfully undertaken the course (n = 14) were invited to participate. Self-report evaluations (completed at induction, mid point and exit), academic performance, and data collected from a questionnaire were analyzed using non-parametric measures. In addition, semi-structured interviews (n = 9) were undertaken and analyzed using a thematic content approach. Second level analysis involved triangulating the various data sets using coding frames and three themes were identified: improved knowledge, improved care delivery and professional development, which were judged as benefits to the practitioners who had undertaken the course. Further, there was a significant relationship between undertaking the course and participant's perception of their increased abilities in delivering care to the child with a neurological problem and their families. This paper will illustrate the benefits of a multi-method case study approach for evaluating the 'value added' impact of educational provision.
The heritability of the before and after meal self-ratings of palatability and their relationship to food intake was investigated with 86 identical and 78 fraternal same-sex and 51 fraternal mixed gender adult twin pairs who were paid to maintain 7-day food intake diaries. From the diary reports, the total and meal intakes of food energy and the amounts of the macronutrients ingested were estimated. Participants rated the meals for palatability on a 7-point (Bad - Good) scale both before and after eating. Linear structural modeling was applied to investigate the nature and degree of genetic and environmental influences and revealed significant genetic influences on subjective palatability both before and after the meals. In addition, the relationship between palatability and intake was influenced by the genes. Significant dominance genetic effects were found for the change in meal size between low-moderate and high palatability meals, indicating that palatability and it's relationship with intake are to some extent heritable. This suggests that the level of subjective experience and the individuals responses to them are influenced by the genes and become part of the total package of genetically determined physiological, socio/cultural, and psychological processes that regulate energy balance.
Preterm birth is currently the most important problem in maternal-child health in the United States. Epidemiological studies have suggested that two factors, maternal stress and maternal urogenital tract infection, are significantly and independently associated with an increased risk of spontaneous preterm birth. These factors are also more prevalent in the population of sociodemographically disadvantaged women who are at increased risk for preterm birth. Studies of the physiology of parturition suggest that neuroendocrine and immune processes play important roles in the physiology and pathophysiology of normal and preterm parturition. However, not all women with high levels of stress and/or infection deliver preterm, and little is understood about factors that modulate susceptibility to pathophysiological events of the endocrine and immune systems in pregnancy. We present here a comprehensive, biobehavioural model of maternal stress and spontaneous preterm delivery. According to this model, chronic maternal stress is a significant and independent risk factor for preterm birth. The effects of maternal stress on preterm birth may be mediated through biological and/or behavioural mechanisms. We propose that maternal stress may act via one or both of two physiological pathways: (a) a neuroendocrine pathway, wherein maternal stress may ultimately result in premature and/or greater degree of activation of the maternal-placental-fetal endocrine systems that promote parturition; and (b) an immune/inflammatory pathway, wherein maternal stress may modulate characteristics of systemic and local (placental-decidual) immunity to increase susceptibility to intrauterine and fetal infectious-inflammatory processes and thereby promote parturition through pro-inflammatory mechanisms. We suggest that placental corticotropin-releasing hormone may play a key role in orchestrating the effects of endocrine and inflammatory/immune processes on preterm birth. Moreover, because neuroendocrine and immune processes extensively cross-regulate one another, we further posit that exposure to both high levels of chronic stress and infectious pathogens in pregnancy may produce an interaction and multiplicative effect in terms of their combined risk for preterm birth. Finally, we hypothesise that the effects of maternal stress are modulated by the nature, duration and timing of occurrence of stress during gestation. A discussion of the components of this model, including a theoretical rationale and review of the available empirical evidence, is presented. A major strength of this biobehavioural perspective is the ability to explore new questions and to do so in a manner that is more comprehensive than has been previously attempted. We expect findings from this line of proposed research to improve our present state of knowledge about obstetric risk assessment for preterm birth by determining the characteristics of pregnant women who are especially susceptible to stress and/or infection, and to broaden our understanding of biological (endocrine, immune, and endocrine-immune interactions) mechanisms that may translate social adversity during pregnancy into pathophysiology, thereby suggesting intervention strategies.
Response expectancies have been proposed as the major determinant of placebo effects. Here we report that different expectations produce different analgesic effects which in turn can be harnessed in clinical practice. Thoracotomized patients were treated with buprenorphine on request for 3 consecutive days, together with a basal intravenous infusion of saline solution. However, the symbolic meaning of this basal infusion was changed in three different groups of patients. The first group was told nothing about any analgesic effect (natural history). The second group was told that the basal infusion was either a powerful painkiller or a placebo (classic double-blind administration). The third group was told that the basal infusion was a potent painkiller (deceptive administration). Therefore, whereas the analgesic treatment was exactly the same in the three groups, the verbal instructions about the basal infusion differed. The placebo effect of the saline basal infusion was measured by recording the doses of buprenorphine requested over the three-days treatment. We found that the double-blind group showed a reduction of buprenorphine requests compared to the natural history group. However, this reduction was even larger in the deceptive administration group. Overall, after 3 days of placebo infusion, the first group received 11.55 mg of buprenorphine, the second group 9.15 mg, and the third group 7.65 mg. Despite these dose differences, analgesia was the same in the three groups. These results indicate that different verbal instructions about certain and uncertain expectations of analgesia produce different placebo analgesic effects, which in turn trigger a dramatic change of behaviour leading to a significant reduction of opioid intake.
Spinal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are thought to be important in states of central hyperexcitability induced by e.g. inflammation or painful neuropathies. The carrageenan model of inflammatory pain has been and still is widely used as is the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5) to investigate NMDA receptor function. Here we present two novel findings using electrophysiological technique: the NMDA receptor function in the spinal cord is increased following 20 h of carrageenan-induced inflammation and further that only the D-isomer of AP5 is active in the spinal cord. Exogenous NMDA (0.5 and 5 nmol) applied onto the dorsal spinal cord produced a significantly greater facilitation and D-AP5 (1.25 micromol) a significantly greater inhibition of the C-fibre evoked response of the wide dynamic range (WDR) neurones studied in carrageenan (20 h after injection) compared to control rats. The present and two recent studies suggest central changes are different and possibly greater in the later (20 h) compared to the earlier (2-6 h) phase of carrageenan-induced inflammation. In conclusion, 20 h of carrageenan-induced inflammation increases the function of spinal NMDA receptor involved in nociceptive transmission and in addition the D-isomer of AP5 should be used when NMDA receptor antagonism is wanted in the spinal cord.

Ziprasidone, an antipsychotic with efficacy against core symptoms of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, has a low incidence of extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS). Because of its high 5-HT(2A)/D(2) binding-affinity ratio and low EPS liability, ziprasidone is considered to belong to the newer class of &quot;novel&quot; antipsychotics typified by clozapine. Its unique pharmacological profile, however, distinguishes it from other novel agents. We evaluated ziprasidone in the prepulse inhibition (PPI) model, which is sensitive to clinically active antipsychotics. Male Wistar rats were tested in acoustic startle sessions in which some startle-eliciting stimuli were presented alone, and others were preceded by a weak prepulse. Administration of the dopamine agonist apomorphine (1 mg/kg) or the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist ketamine (10 mg/kg) significantly disrupted PPI. When coadministered with either of these compounds, clozapine (1-5.6 mg/kg sc) and ziprasidone (5.6-17.8 mg/kg po) significantly attenuated the declines in PPI. Haloperidol (0.03-0.56 mg/kg) also attenuated drug-induced deficits in PPI but to a lesser extent (and at higher doses) with ketamine than with apomorphine. Together, these data confirm that ziprasidone shares common effects in PPI models with other novel antipsychotics. Ziprasidone's affinity for non-D(2) receptors in the central nervous system may partly account for its attenuation of ketamine's effect.
This study investigated the effects of pretreatment with the putative antiaddictive compound, ibogaine (IBO), and its synthetic derivative, 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), on the changes in behaviour in an elevated plus maze and the changes in corticosterone (CORT) produced by a low dose of methamphetamine (METH). In the elevated plus maze, the acute administration of METH (0.1 mg/kg ip, -20 min) produced an increase in both the number and the duration of open arm entries relative to saline (SAL)-treated controls. No effect of METH administration was observed on the total number of arm entries. These data indicated that METH alone produced either anxiolysis or behavioural disinhibition in this paradigm. More consistent with the latter possibility, the open arm behaviour of METH controls was associated with an increase in plasma levels of CORT, supporting a facilitatory role for CORT in this METH-induced effect. Pretreatment with both IBO and 18-MC (40 mg/kg ip, 19 h earlier) antagonized the behavioural disinhibiting effects of acute METH without altering locomotor activity. In addition, both iboga agents antagonized the increase in CORT produced by METH. These data provide insight into yet another potential mechanism through which iboga compounds may exert their antiaddictive effects, a reversal of the behavioural disinhibiting properties of stimulant drugs. Furthermore, these data indicate that this reversal is related to effects of iboga compounds on the stimulation of neuroendocrine systems by stimulant drugs.
In the past few years, a number of laboratories have used gene targeting via homologous recombination to generate mice deficient for key molecules involved in dopaminergic (DAergic) transmission. This tremendous effort has resulted in the successful generation and characterization of mice deficient for the neurotransmitter DA, the main terminator of DAergic neurotransmission (the DA transporter), and all five subtypes of DA receptors. This review summarizes the results from studies of the various DA receptor knockout mice and of mice deficient in proteins that mediate DA receptor signaling. It focuses on a comparison of the locomotor phenotypes and responses to drugs of abuse (psychostimulants), and reviews the results of anatomic studies examining the morphological and neurochemical differentiation of the striatum in these mutants. Moreover, an overview of recently published results highlighting the physiological relevance of the interaction between different DA receptors and between DA receptors and other neurotransmitter receptors in the modulation of behavioral and molecular responses to DAergic stimulation is presented. Finally, in view of the recently discovered heteroligomeric assemblies of neurotransmitter receptors that involve DA receptor subtypes, the potential value of knockout mice as a tool for testing the in vivo significance of these heteroligomeric receptors is discussed.
Along with traditional pharmacotherapies, extracts of Hypericum perforatum L. (St. John's wort) are used in the treatment of mild to moderately severe depression. Hypericum is a nonspecific inhibitor of the neuronal uptake of monoamines (serotonin, 5-HT; noradrenaline, NA; dopamine, DA) as well as GABA and glutamate. Hypericum extracts have been shown to be active in several different &quot;animal models for antidepressant drugs&quot;. As one of a large number of chemical constituents, the phoroglucinol derivative hyperforin might be an important &quot;antidepressant component&quot; of hypericum. However, the exact role of neurochemical mechanisms underlying in vivo actions of hypericum and hyperforin are not well defined. In the present study, we compared the effects of hypericum, hyperforin and hyperforin-free hypericum and the three conventional antidepressants paroxetine, imipramine and desipramine using the passive avoidance (PA) task in the rat. The 5-HT-releasing compound p-chloroamphetamine (PCA), which operates through the 5-HT neuronal transporter, was used to reveal the potential in vivo effects on 5-HT uptake mechanisms. To examine the ability of the test-compounds to enhance noradrenaline (NA) transmission in vivo, subeffective doses of scopolamine were used. Taken together, our results suggest that (1) hypericum given at high doses can probably affect the neuronal 5-HT uptake mechanisms in a manner more reminiscent of TCAs than SSRIs; (2) similar to TCAs and SSRIs, hypericum and hyperforin are active in the scopolamine test. Hyperforin appears to play a major role in the action of hypericum in this model. Both 5-HT and NA might concomitantly contribute to the effects of different antidepressants in the &quot;low-dose scopolamine&quot; model; (3) hypericum might enhance both 5-HT and NA transmission in forebrain limbic brain circuits important for mood control, which could underly its antidepressant effects. However, the relative contribution of different constituents and exact mechanisms of action require further evaluation.
The treatment of non-selected depressed patients with a hydro-alcoholic extract of Hypericum perforatum has been reported to have an efficacy similar to that of classical antidepressants. The effects of H. perforatum on three animal depression models have been studied: (a) an acute form of escape deficit (ED) induced by unavoidable stress; (b) a chronic model of ED, which can be maintained by the administration of mild stressors on alternate days; (c) a model of anhedonia based on the finding that repeated stressors prevent the development of appetitive behavior induced by vanilla sugar in satiated rats fed ad libitum. H. perforatum: (i) acutely protects animals from the sequelae of unavoidable stress; (ii) reverts the chronic escape deficit state maintained by repeated stressors and (iii) preserves the animal's capacity to acquire motivated appetitive behavior. Exposure to chronic stress not only induces escape deficit, but also decreases extraneuronal levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell; both behavioral and neurochemical effects are reverted by long-term treatment with antidepressants. Three-week treatment with H. perforatum reverted the chronic stress effect on extraneuronal dopamine in the nucleus accumbens. A consistent body of data in the literature suggests that, among the components of H. perforatum extract, hyperforin is the compound (or one of the compounds) responsible for the antidepressant activity. We compared the efficacy of the total extract with the efficacy of hyperforin after p.o. administration. In the acute-escape deficit model, hyperforin showed a potency of about ten times that of the total extract in protecting rats from the sequelae of unavoidable stress. Thus, hyperforin appears to be the most likely active component responsible for the antidepressant activity of H. perforatum.
Nerve cells in the brain generate all-or-none electric events-spikes-that are transmitted to other nerve cells via chemical synapses. An important issue in neuroscience is how neurons encode and transmit information using spike trains. Recently, signal transduction through two neurons connected by an excitatory chemical synapse was studied by Eguia et al. [Phys. Rev. E 62, 7111 (2000)]. They reported an apparent violation of the data processing inequality: The mutual information between the input signal and the output of the first neuron can be lower than the mutual information between the input signal and the output of the second neuron, that only receives input from the first neuron. We investigate whether it is possible, using a different method, to retrieve, from the first neuron's spike train, all the information about the input that is present in the second neuron's output. We find that single interspike intervals (ISI's) from the first neuron, at a resolution of 0.5 time units, contain more information about the input signal than those of the second neuron. Using a classification procedure based on the ISI return map, we recover 71% of the input entropy using the first neuron's spike train, and only 42% using the second neuron's spike train. Hence for these spike-train observables the data processing inequality is not violated.
The effects of postoperative visual and auditory training on a brightness discrimination task were examined after lesions of various structures in the visual system. In Experiment 1, rats were trained to avoid shock with visual intensity cues. Twenty-four hours later, each rat received bilateral lesions in one of the following areas of the visual system: (1) sham, (2) visual cortex (VC), (3) pretectal (PT) area, (4) combined PT/VC, (5) superior colliculus (SC), or (6) combined SC/VC. Six days later, each rat received either training with visual or auditory intensity cues, or no training. The next day all rats were retrained on the preoperative visual avoidance task. All lesions except those in the SC condition produced relearning deficits. Auditory training reduced these deficits significantly more than visual training, except in rats with combined SC/VC lesions. In Experiment 2, sham and combined PT/VC lesion rats were given either direct or reversal intensity training using visual or auditory cues before relearning the visual discrimination. Rats given auditory direct training relearned the task faster than rats given reversal training or visual direct training. Postinjury training with an intact sensory system can enhance functional recovery more effectively than training with the damaged system. The differential effects of direct and reversal training suggest that cross-modal training involves both specific and nonspecific transfer that may be mediated through the VC or the SC.
Previous research has identified that glucose administration can enhance cognitive performance, especially during more intense cognitive processing. There appears to be a reciprocal relationship between falling glucose levels and cognitive performance, particularly under conditions of cognitive demand. The present placebo-controlled, double-blind, balanced, crossover study examined the possibility that a high cognitive load may produce changes in blood glucose levels. A secondary aim was to examine the effects of glucose on tasks of varying cognitive demand load. The effects of a glucose drink on participants' performance of a serial subtraction task (computerised Serial Sevens), a somatically matched control task (key-pressing), a short interval Word Memory task and a Word Retrieval (Verbal Fluency) task were assessed. The change in blood glucose during the demanding computerised Serial Sevens was compared to the change occurring during the key-pressing control. Glucose consumption significantly improved performance on Serial Sevens, with a trend for improved performance on Word Retrieval and no effect on the Word Memory task. Compared with the control task, Serial Sevens resulted in a significant reduction in blood glucose in both drink conditions. This accelerated decay was significantly greater following glucose than placebo. It is suggested that the amount of cognitive load associated with task performance is an index of its sensitivity to enhancement by glucose. Furthermore, a period of intense cognitive processing leads to a measurable decrease in levels of peripherally measured blood glucose, which may be linked to increased neural energy expenditure. However, the relative contribution of central and peripheral (e.g. cardiac) activity to this effect has yet to be determined.
The effect of an androgenic metabolite of testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), on reproductive behavior and brain androgen receptor (AR) immunoreactivity was compared in juvenile and adult male Syrian hamsters. Prepubertal and adult animals were castrated and treated with 0, 500, or 1000 microg of DHT daily for 1 week and then tested for their ability to engage in mating behavior. The 1000-microg dose of DHT activated intromissions in adult but not prepubertal males. Brains were collected immediately after the behavioral test to investigate whether the lack of a behavioral response to DHT prior to puberty is associated with fewer AR-immunoreactive (AR-ir) cells in the forebrain nuclei that mediate male sexual behavior. In four of the five nuclei within the behavioral circuit that were examined, the number of AR-containing cells was similar in prepubertal and adult males treated with 1000 microg of DHT. Only in the anterior medial amygdala (MeA) was there a greater number of AR-ir cells in adults. These data indicate that (1) DHT does not activate components of male reproductive behavior prior to puberty and (2) the lack of behavioral responsiveness to DHT in prepubertal males is most likely not related to an overall reduction in ARs within the forebrain circuit that mediates mating behavior.
Cocaine abuse during adolescence represents a significant health risk due to the potential for both acute and long-term negative physical and psychological sequelae, including increased aggressive behavior. This study examined the effect of adolescent cocaine treatment on flank marking (i.e., a stereotypic motor behavior that is part of the response pattern of offensive aggression) in female and male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Adolescent cocaine treatment activated flank marking in female hamsters when animals were measured upon return to their home cage immediately following drug treatment. Sex differences were observed in cocaine-induced flank marking, as males failed to flank mark when returned to the home cage. In females, the behavioral response was most marked on Day 11 of cocaine treatment in all doses tested. Yet, animals treated with low-dose cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/day) showed the most significant increase in flank marking on and from Day 11 forward as compared to medium- and high-dose cocaine-treated animals and controls. In addition, the response of cocaine-treated animals was vigorous and nearly immediate, as &gt;75% of the flank marks scored were performed within the first 2 min of the behavioral test in &gt;85% of animals examined. Measures of locomotion showed that cocaine had stimulatory effects on motor activity in adolescent female hamsters at all doses tested. Cocaine-treated animals did not differ in body weight gain from controls, suggesting no dramatic physiological effects of adolescent cocaine exposure on body growth at the doses tested.
It has long been known that severe food deprivation disrupts the estrous cycle. One of the main problems with behavioral tasks that use food for reinforcement is the requirement that the animal be food deprived. This manipulation could be problematic in studies using female animals, since it may interfere with the estrous cycle of the animals. The purpose of the present study was to investigate: (1) the effect of mild food deprivation on four different strains of rats, (2) factors in the food deprivation procedure that could affect the estrous cycle, and (3) the possible effect of enriched diets during food deprivation on the estrous cycle. A comparison of the estrous cycle in four different rat strains revealed differences in the reliability of the estrous cycle even before the onset of food deprivation. Fischer, Long-Evans, and Sprague-Dawley rats all showed reliable cycle patterns. This was not the case for Brown Norway rats. During food deprivation, the cycle of the Fischer rats was disrupted, whereas the Long-Evans and Sprague-Dawley animals continued to cycle. Both the rate of weight loss and the percent of ad libitum body weight were related to cessation of the estrous cycle. However, enriching an animal's diet with sugar or oil additives delayed the disruption of the estrous cycle. Additionally, animals resumed cycling when returned to ad libitum weight levels. The present findings suggest that when animals need to be food deprived, preference should be given to using Long-Evans or Sprague-Dawley rats. If Fischer rats must be used, they should not be deprived below 90-95% of their ad libitum body weight. Strategies for future food deprivation studies are discussed, as well as a comparison of the effects of mild and severe food deprivation.
In mice, the neuropeptide arginine-8-vasopressin (AVP) induces excessive grooming, scratching, and hyperactivity when administered intracerebroventricularly. In hamsters, AVP infusion into the medial preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus (MPOA/AH) increases flank marking and flank mark grooming. We measured the behavioral effects of administration of AVP (0, 1, and 10 ng/250 nl) into the preoptic area (POA) of male C57BL/6 mice. Administration of AVP into the POA induced robust effects on grooming, including increased hindleg scratching and face washing. Rearing and olfactory investigation were inhibited by AVP into the POA. These findings indicate that the POA is one site in which AVP induces grooming behavior in mice.
The hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system (HNS) is the major peptidergic neurosecretory system through which the brain controls peripheral physiology. The hormones vasopressin and oxytocin released from the HNS at the neurohypophysis serve homeostatic functions of water balance and reproduction. From a physiological viewpoint, the core question on the HNS has always been, &quot;How is the rate of hormone production controlled?&quot; Despite a clear description of the physiology, anatomy, cell biology, and biochemistry of the HNS gained over the last 100 years, this question has remained largely unanswered. However, recently, significant progress has been made through studies of gene identity and gene expression in the magnocellular neurons (MCNs) that constitute the HNS. These are keys to mechanisms and events that exist in the HNS. This review is an inventory of what we know about genes expressed in the HNS, about the regulation of their expression in response to physiological stimuli, and about their function. Genes relevant to the central question include receptors and signal transduction components that receive and process the message that the organism is in demand of a neurohypophysial hormone. The key players in gene regulatory events, the transcription factors, deserve special attention. They do not only control rates of hormone production at the level of the gene, but also determine the molecular make-up of the cell essential for appropriate development and physiological functioning. Finally, the HNS neurons are equipped with a machinery to produce and secrete hormones in a regulated manner. With the availability of several gene transfer approaches applicable to the HNS, it is anticipated that new insights will be obtained on how the HNS is able to respond to the physiological demands for its hormones.
An evolved module for fear elicitation and fear learning with 4 characteristics is proposed. (a) The fear module is preferentially activated in aversive contexts by stimuli that are fear relevant in an evolutionary perspective. (b) Its activation to such stimuli is automatic. (c) It is relatively impenetrable to cognitive control. (d) It originates in a dedicated neural circuitry, centered on the amygdala. Evidence supporting these propositions is reviewed from conditioning studies, both in humans and in monkeys; illusory correlation studies; studies using unreportable stimuli; and studies from animal neuroscience. The fear module is assumed to mediate an emotional level of fear learning that is relatively independent and dissociable from cognitive learning of stimulus relationships.


This review of the background and present state of knowledge of the interactions of inositol metabolism and lithium commemorates the 150th anniversaries of the discovery of inositol and, independently, of first attempts to use lithium as a therapeutic agent. We review the inositol depletion hypothesis, which proposes that lithium's beneficial action in the treatment of bipolar disorder is attributable to its inhibition of the enzymatic breakdown of inositol phosphates to free inositol. A resulting reduction in free intracellular inositol is proposed to slow the recycling of inositol-containing metabolites required for signal transduction. We offer an alternative hypothesis, which is also based on lithium's blockade of inositol phosphatase, but proposes that neural signal transduction is suppressed as a consequence of lithium-induced inositol phosphate accumulation rather than of inositol depletion.




IgG anti-ganglioside antibodies are present in a proportion of patients with the Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). To determine if antibodies to gangliosides are restricted in IgG subclass distribution, we evaluated IgG subclass antibody responses to gangliosides in sera of patients with GBS. Sera from GBS patients with IgG activity against gangliosides were analyzed for IgG subclass distribution using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The anti-LM1 antibodies in sera from GBS patients were predominantly of the IgG3 subclass while anti-GM1 and anti-GT1a antibodies were predominantly of the IgG1 and IgG3 subclasses. The results indicate a Th2-dependent antibody response.
