A straightforward approach to novel (5-nitropyridin-2-yl)alkyl and (5-nitropyridin-3-yl)alkyl carbamate building blocks is presented in this study. Their construction is achieved by condensation of N-carbamate alpha- and beta-amino carbonyl derivatives with 1-methyl-3,5-dinitro-2-pyridone 1 under microwave irradiation. Judiciously chosen modifications in the nature of the parent carbonyl starting material has influenced the regiochemical outcome of the reaction and allowed an efficient access to novel nitrogen-containing scaffolds. Compounds sharing morphological similarities have been gathered in three libraries differing from each other in a single structural parameter.
The mammalian inner ear uses its sensory hair cells to detect and amplify incoming sound. It is unclear whether cochlear amplification arises uniquely from a voltage-dependent mechanism (electromotility) associated with outer hair cells (OHCs) or whether other mechanisms are necessary, for the voltage response of OHCs is apparently attenuated excessively by the membrane electrical filter. The cochlea contains many thousands of hair cells organized in extensive arrays, embedded in an electrically coupled system of supporting cells. We have therefore constructed a multi-element, large-scale computational model of cochlear sound transduction to study the underlying potassium (K+) recirculation. We have included experimentally determined parameters of cochlear macromechanics, which govern sound transduction, and data on hair cells' electrical parameters including tonotopical variation in the membrane conductance of OHCs. In agreement with the experiment, the model predicts an exponential decay of extracellular longitudinal K+ current spread. In contrast to the predictions from isolated cells, it also predicts low attenuation of the OHC transmembrane receptor potential (-5 dB per decade) in the 0.2-30 kHz range. This suggests that OHC electromotility could be driven by the transmembrane potential. Furthermore, the OHC electromotility could serve as a single amplification mechanism over the entire hearing range.



Ischemic and excitotoxic events within the brain result in rapid and often unfavorable depletions in neuronal energy levels. Here, we investigated the signaling pathways activated in response to the energetic stress created by transient glutamate excitation in cerebellar granule neurons. We characterized a glucose dependent hyperpolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential (Delta psi(m)) in the majority of neurons after transient glutamate excitation. Expression levels of the primary neuronal glucose transporters (GLUTs) isoforms 1, 3, 4, and 8 were found to be unaltered within a 24 h period after excitation. However, a significant increase only in GLUT3 surface expression was identified 30 min after excitation, with this high surface expression remaining significantly above control levels in many neurons for up to 4 h. Glutamate excitation induced a rapid alteration in the AMP:ATP ratio that was associated with the activation of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Interestingly, pharmacological activation of AMPK with AICAR (5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide riboside) alone also increased GLUT3 surface expression, with a hyperpolarization of Delta psi(m) evident in many neurons. Notably, inhibition of the CaMKK (calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase) had little affect on GLUT translocation, whereas the inhibition or knockdown of AMPK (compound C, siRNA) activity prevented GLUT3 translocation to the cell surface after glutamate excitation. Furthermore, gene silencing of GLUT3 eradicated the increase in Delta psi(m) associated with transient glutamate excitation and potently sensitized neurons to excitotoxicity. In summary, our data suggest that the activation of AMPK and its regulation of cell surface GLUT3 expression is critical in mediating neuronal tolerance to excitotoxicity.
Chronic cocaine treatment is associated with changes in dendritic spines in the nucleus accumbens, but it is unknown whether this neuroplasticity alters the effect of a subsequent cocaine injection on spine morphology and protein content. Three weeks after daily cocaine or saline administration, neurons in the accumbens were filled with the lipophilic dye, DiI. Although daily cocaine pretreatment did not alter spine density compared with daily saline, there was a shift from smaller to larger diameter spines. During the first 2 h after an acute cocaine challenge, a bidirectional change in spine head diameter and increase in spine density was measured in daily cocaine-pretreated animals. In contrast, no change in spine diameter or density was elicited by a cocaine challenge in daily saline animals during the first 2 h after injection. However, spine density was elevated at 6 h after a cocaine challenge in daily saline-pretreated animals. The time-dependent profile of proteins in the postsynaptic density subfraction elicited by a cocaine challenge in daily cocaine-pretreated subjects indicated that the changes in spine diameter and density were associated with a deteriorating actin cytoskeleton and a reduction in glutamate signaling-related proteins. Correspondingly, the amplitude of field potentials in accumbens evoked by stimulating prefrontal cortex was reduced for up to 6 h after acute cocaine in daily cocaine-withdrawn animals. These data indicate that daily cocaine pretreatment dysregulates dendritic spine plasticity elicited by a subsequent cocaine injection.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) mediate interneuronal communication and are broadly involved in nervous system physiology and pathology (Dingledine et al., 1999). Memantine, a drug that blocks the ion channel formed by NMDARs, is a widely prescribed treatment of Alzheimer's disease (Schmitt, 2005; Lipton, 2006; Parsons et al., 2007). Research on memantine's mechanism of action has focused on the NMDAR subtypes most highly expressed in adult cerebral cortex, NR1/2A and NR1/2B receptors (Cull-Candy and Leszkiewicz, 2004), and has largely ignored interactions with extracellular Mg(2+) (Mg(2+)(o)). Mg(2+)(o) is an endogenous NMDAR channel blocker that binds near memantine's binding site (Kashiwagi et al., 2002; Chen and Lipton, 2005). We report that a physiological concentration (1 mM) of Mg(2+)(o) decreased memantine inhibition of NR1/2A and NR1/2B receptors nearly 20-fold at a membrane voltage near rest. In contrast, memantine inhibition of the other principal NMDAR subtypes, NR1/2C and NR1/2D receptors, was decreased only approximately 3-fold. As a result, therapeutic memantine concentrations should have negligible effects on NR1/2A or NR1/2B receptor activity but pronounced effects on NR1/2C and NR1/2D receptors. Quantitative modeling showed that the voltage dependence of memantine inhibition also is altered by 1 mM Mg(2+)(o). We report similar results with the NMDAR channel blocker ketamine, a drug used to model schizophrenia (Krystal et al., 2003). These results suggest that currently hypothesized mechanisms of memantine and ketamine action should be reconsidered and that NR1/2C and/or NR1/2D receptors play a more important role in cortical physiology and pathology than previously appreciated.
Most mammals are dichromats, having short-wavelength-sensitive (S) and middle-wavelength-sensitive (M) cones. Smaller terrestrial species commonly express a dual gradient in opsins, with M opsin concentrated superiorly and declining inferiorly, and vice-versa for S opsin. Some ganglion cells in these retinas combine S- and M-cone inputs antagonistically, but no direct evidence links this physiological opponency with morphology; nor is it known whether opponency varies with the opsin gradients. By recording from &gt;3000 ganglion cells in guinea pig, we identified small numbers of color-opponent cells. Chromatic properties were characterized by responses to monochromatic spots and/or spots produced by mixtures of two primary lights. Superior retina contained cells with strong S+/M- and M+/S- opponency, whereas inferior retina contained cells with weak opponency. In superior retina, the opponent cells had well-balanced M and S weights, while in inferior retina the weights were unbalanced, with the M weights being much weaker. The M and S components of opponent cell receptive fields had approximately the same diameter. Opponent cells injected with Lucifer yellow restricted their dendrites to the ON stratum of the inner plexiform layer and provided sufficient membrane area (approximately 2.1 x 10(4) microm(2)) to collect approximately 3.9 x 10(3) bipolar synapses. Two bistratified cells studied were nonopponent. The apparent decline in S/M opponency from superior to inferior retina is consistent with the dual gradient and a model where photoreceptor signals in both superior and inferior retina are processed by the same postreceptoral circuitry.
The early posterior negativity (EPN) reflects early selective visual processing of emotionally significant information. This study explored the association between fear of spiders and the EPN for spider pictures. Fifty women completed a Spider Phobia Questionnaire and watched the random rapid serial presentation of 600 neutral, 600 negatively valenced emotional, and 600 spider pictures (three pictures per second). The EPN was scored as the mean activity in the 225-300-ms time window at lateral occipital electrodes. Participants with higher scores on the phobia questionnaire showed larger (i.e. more negative) EPN amplitudes in response to spider pictures. The results suggest that the attentional capture of spider-related stimuli is an automatic response, which is modulated by the extent of spider fear.
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a common and highly heritable neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorder. Here, we critically review four major psychological theories of ADHD - the Executive Dysfunction, the State Regulation, the Delay Aversion and the Dynamic Developmental - on their abilities to explain all the symptoms of ADHD, their testability and their openness to falsification. We conclude that theoreticians should focus, to a greater extent than currently practiced, on developing refutable theories of ADHD.

Adenosine, increasing after sleep deprivation and acting via the A(1) adenosine receptor (A(1)AR), is likely a key factor in the homeostatic control of sleep. This study examines the impact of sleep deprivation on A(1)AR density in different parts of the rat brain with [(3)H]CPFPX autoradiography. Binding of [(3)H]CPFPX was significantly increased in parietal cortex (PAR) (7%), thalamus (11%) and caudate-putamen (9%) after 24 h of sleep deprivation compared to a control group with an undisturbed circadian sleep-wake rhythm. Sleep deprivation of 12 h changed receptor density regionally between -5% and +9% (motor cortex (M1), statistically significant) compared to the circadian control group. These results suggest cerebral A(1)ARs are involved in effects of sleep deprivation and the regulation of sleep. The increase of A(1)AR density could serve the purpose of not only maintaining the responsiveness to increased adenosine levels but also amplifying the effect of sleep deprivation and is in line with a sleep-induced homoeostatic reorganization at the synaptic level.
The standard neurologic examination of the newborn and infant includes the elicitation of the tonic neck reflex. Normally present, its persistence is suggestive of neurologic dysfunction and a prognostic marker highly suggestive of an adverse outcome. Working in different fields, with different approaches and largely independently, three leaders of early 20th century neurosciences (Rudolf Magnus, Josef Gerstmann, and Arnold Gesell) elaborated different aspects of this primitive reflex. Magnus provided the first description in an animal model utilizing a meticulously prepared decerebrate cat correctly identifying the reflex's reliance on proprioceptors in the neck and processing in the upper cervical segment. Gerstmann first described its occurrence in the setting of neurologic disease, providing a meticulous written description in an early description of the index case of what would later be eponymously designated Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome. Gesell initially described the reflex's fundamental occurrence in normal young infants, highlighting its adaptive role in early development and its persistence as a hallmark of neurologic pathology.
Recently it has been shown that effects of aging and pathologically induced changes of basal ganglia structures may have quite similar effects on cognitive functions mediated by the medial prefrontal cortex. The question appears, if this pattern may be assignable to other cognitive functions that are mediated via the basal ganglia and medial prefrontal brain areas. Error processing is a component of executive functions that also depends on these areas and especially on the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). Hence we ask, if error processing functions are differentially modulated by normal aging and basal ganglia diseases. Error processing mechanisms in these groups were investigated using a cognitive event-related potential (ERP), the error negativity. Enrolling an extended sample of young and elderly controls, as well as patients with Parkinson's and Huntington's disease, we show that modulations of error processing differ between aging, different basal ganglia diseases. Despite that the examined basal ganglia disorder groups (Parkinson's and Huntington's disease) differ in their age they show similar modulations in error processing, suggesting that aging effects are overridden by pathogenic effects. The study shows that it may be valuable to compare aging not only to different forms of basal ganglia disorders in order to gain knowledge about age- and disease-related mechanisms and the effects of these on cognitive functions. Diseases of the basal ganglia may impact error processing above and beyond the effects of normal aging. Although many aging, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease studies on error processing functions have already been published, this study ties together several related observations across all of these groups in one experiment.
Experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) is a well-known animal model of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) characterized by inflammation and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) together with their co-receptors form the first line of the self-defense, and play important roles in innate immune responses and inflammation. TLRs can be activated by endogenous ligands, like heat shock protein 70 (HSP70). In this study, we examined the spatiotemporal expressions of TLR2, CD14 and Hsp70 in EAN rats using immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR. A significant up-regulation of TLR2, CD14 and Hsp70 was seen in sciatic nerves of EAN rats and correlated with disease severity. Furthermore, activated macrophages were the main cellular resource of TLR2, CD14 and Hsp70 in EAN. Our results suggest that TLR2-, CD14- or Hsp70-based immunomodulation might have potential in the control of unwanted innate immune system activation in inflammatory neuropathies.
Negative symptoms of schizophrenia, such as social withdrawal and blunted affect, usually persist for a long period, making rehabilitation difficult. Many studies have demonstrated a close relationship between function of the amygdala and social behavior. Normal social behavior is disturbed in animals administered phencyclidine (PCP), which is now considered a reliable pharmacological model of schizophrenia. Recent studies have reported that disruption of social behavior in PCP-treated rats involved dysfunction of the amygdala. Disturbance of function of the amygdala has also been reported in schizophrenic patients. However, no study has yet examined the effects of PCP on the firing activity of amygdala neurons. In the present study, we recorded the unit activity of basolateral amygdala neurons while rats engaged in socially interactive behavior. After identifying the response properties of recorded neurons, we then recorded the same neurons with systemic PCP administration. Approximately half of the neurons recorded from exhibited an increase in spontaneous discharge rate during social interaction. Only a few neurons exhibited suppression of discharge rate during social interaction. Systemic administration of PCP induced long-lasting activation in half of the neurons that exhibited an increase in firing rate during social interaction. PCP activated half of basolateral amygdala neurons related to socially interactive behavior, and might in this fashion produce dysfunction of social behavior.
Choline acetyltransferase is the enzyme that catalyzes the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Seven types of mRNA for choline acetyltransferase that differ in the 5'-noncoding region are transcribed from the cholinergic gene locus from different promoter regions and produced by alternative splicing in the mouse. Digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes and in situ hybridization histochemistry were used to investigate the expression of N1, R1, R2, R3, R4 and total choline acetyltransferase mRNA in the mouse CNS. The relative levels of choline acetyltransferase transcripts differed dramatically in distinct subdivisions of the mature cholinergic nervous system. Neurons hybridizing with antisense riboprobes for all of the five investigated splice variants (R1, R2, R3, R4 and N1) as well as those hybridizing with riboprobe for the common protein-coding region were found in a number of expected regions in the CNS. They include the basal forebrain, striatum, pontomesencephalic tegmentum, motor and autonomic nuclei of the brainstem, and spinal cord. Neurons with a moderate to very high level of expression of R1 and R2 splice variants were distributed in both the forebrain and brainstem nuclei. On the other hand, R3, R4 and N1 splice variants revealed a moderate to high level of expression in the brainstem motor and autonomic nuclei and ventral and lateral horns of the spinal cord compared to a low expression level in forebrain cholinergic structures. No expression of the N1, R1, R2, R3 and R4 splice variants was detectable in the neurons of the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and medial habenular nucleus. With the riboprobe for the common protein-coding region, the neurons of the medial habenular nucleus could be labeled at high level, while intrinsic cortical neurons were labeled at low level. Hippocampus revealed no significant hybridization for total choline acetyltransferase mRNA. These findings strongly suggested that: (1) R1 and R2 were the major splice variants expressed in the neurons of forebrain nuclei; (2) R1, R2, R3, R4 and N1 splice variants were almost equally expressed in the brainstem motor and autonomic nuclei and ventral and lateral horns of the spinal cord; (3) inferring from a paucity of other isoforms, M type choline acetyltransferase mRNA is a splice variant predominantly expressed in the cerebral cortex and medial habenular nucleus.
Prenatal and neonatal exposure to relatively low-dose bisphenol-A (BPA, 20 microg/kg/day) causes hyper-locomotion of male rat offspring. This research investigated the developmental pattern of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in dorsolateral (DL) striatum, a cellular basis for motor controlling, in male rat offspring with hyper-locomotion. High frequency stimulation (four-pulse bursts at 100 Hz) was undertaken to induce long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in corticostriatal synapse during postnatal day (PD) 10-32. Herein, we show that in control rats HFS induces LTP during PD12-14 and LTD during PD24-32. Strikingly, the prenatal and neonatal exposure to low-dose BPA resulted in delay of LTP induction during PD21-32, showing a reversal of LTD induction. In addition, in PD28 BPA-rats basal population spike amplitude was increased with reduction of paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) compared to the same age control rats. Acute application of the dopamine 1 receptor (D1R) antagonist SCH23390 in slices obtained from PD28 BPA-rats inhibited not only the PS-potentiation and PPF-induction but also the induction of LTP. Furthermore, the dopamine 2 receptor (D2R) agonist quinpirole recovered the LTD induction in PD28 BPA-rats, which was D1R-dependent and metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent. In PD28 control rats, the blockade of D2R by l-sulpiride reversed the D1R- and mGluR-dependent LTD to short-term potentiation. Therefore, the findings provide functional evidence that prenatal and neonatal exposure to low-dose BPA causes deficits in development of LTP and LTD at DL-striatum via altering the function of dopaminergic receptors.
The difference in visual object recognition by males and females suggests a sex-specific function in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In the present study, we performed an in vivo microdialysis study in three groups of rats (males, diestrous females, and proestrous females) to examine the potential sex difference in acetylcholine (ACh) release in the mPFC. The dialysate was automatically collected from the mPFC every 20 min for 24 h under freely moving conditions and the spontaneous locomotor activity was simultaneously monitored. Although ACh release in the mPFC during the dark phase was significantly greater than during the light phase in both sexes, the female rats consistently exhibited a significantly greater mean ACh release than the males. Spontaneous locomotor activity during the dark phase was also significantly greater than during the light phase in both sexes, but the females exhibited significantly greater spontaneous locomotor activity than the males. In addition, both sexes of rats were found to have significant positive correlations between ACh release and spontaneous locomotor activity, but females were found to have significantly greater correlation coefficients than males. Stereological methods were used to examine the number of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive cells in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and the horizontal diagonal band of Broca. The number of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive cells in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis was also greater in females than males, suggesting a contribution to the higher ACh release in females. In contrast, no sex difference in the choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive cells was observed in the horizontal diagonal band of Broca. This is the first report to show a sex difference in the 24-h ACh release profile in the mPFC of behaving rats.
The seizure-induced molecular and functional alterations of glutamatergic transmission in the hippocampus have been investigated. Daily repeated epileptic seizures were induced for 12 days by intraperitoneal administration of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP; 4.5 mg/kg) in adult Wistar rats. The seizure symptoms were evaluated on the Racine's scale. One day after the last injection, the brains were removed for in vitro electrophysiological experiments and immunohistochemical analysis. The glutamate receptor subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B, GluR1, GluR1(flop), GluR2, and KA-2 were studied using the histoblotting method. The semi-quantitative analysis of subunit immunoreactivities in hippocampal layers was performed with densitometry. In the hippocampus, increase of GluR1, GluR1(flop) and NR2B immunostaining was observed in most of the areas and layers. The significant decrease of GluR2 staining intensity was observed in the CA1 and dentate gyrus. Calcium permeability of hippocampal neurons was tested by a cobalt uptake assay in hippocampal slices. The uptake of cobalt increased in the CA1 area and dentate gyrus, but not in the CA3 region following 4-AP treatment. Effects of AMPA and NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate) glutamate receptor antagonists (1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine hydrochloride (GYKI 52466) and D-APV respectively) were measured in hippocampal slices using extracellular recording. Analysis of the population spikes revealed the reduced effectiveness of the AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI 52466, while the effect of the NMDA receptor antagonist d-(2R)-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid was similar to controls. The results demonstrated that repeated convulsions induced structural and functional changes in AMPA receptor-mediated transmission, while NMDA and kainate receptor systems displayed only alterations in receptor subunit composition.
Cortical evoked response potentials (ERPs) display a rich set of waveforms that are both context and state dependent. However, the mechanisms that underlie state dependent ERP patterns are unclear. Determining those mechanisms through analysis of single trial ERP waveform signatures may provide insight into the regulation of cortical column state and the roles that sleep plays in cortical function. We implanted rats with electroencephalogram (EEG) and electromyogram (EMG) electrodes to record ERPs and to assess sleep/wake states continuously during 1-2 s random auditory clicks. Individual cortical auditory ERPs were sorted into one of eight behavioral states, and fell into three categories based on amplitude and latency characteristics. ERPs within waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep were predominantly low amplitude and short latency. Approximately 50% of ERPs during light quiet sleep (quiet sleep 1 and quiet sleep 2) exhibited low amplitude, short latency responses, and the remaining ERPs had high amplitude, long latency responses. This distribution was characteristic of EEG fluctuations during low frequency delta waves. Significantly more individual ERPs showed very low amplitudes during deep quiet sleep (quiet sleep 3 and quiet sleep 4), resulting in a lower average ERP. These results support the hypothesis that evoked response amplitudes and waveform patterns follow specific EEG patterns. Since evoked response characteristics distribute differently across states, they could aid our understanding of sleep mechanisms through state-related and local neural signaling.
High doses of salicylate, the anti-inflammatory component of aspirin, induce transient tinnitus and hearing loss. Systemic injection of 250 mg/kg of salicylate, a dose that reliably induces tinnitus in rats, significantly reduced the sound evoked output of the rat cochlea. Paradoxically, salicylate significantly increased the amplitude of the sound-evoked field potential from the auditory cortex (AC) of conscious rats, but not the inferior colliculus (IC). When rats were anesthetized with isoflurane, which increases GABA-mediated inhibition, the salicylate-induced AC amplitude enhancement was abolished, whereas ketamine, which blocks N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, further increased the salicylate-induced AC amplitude enhancement. Direct application of salicylate to the cochlea, however, reduced the response amplitude of the cochlea, IC and AC, suggesting the AC amplitude enhancement induced by systemic injection of salicylate does not originate from the cochlea. To identify a behavioral correlate of the salicylate-induced AC enhancement, the acoustic startle response was measured before and after salicylate treatment. Salicylate significantly increased the amplitude of the startle response. Collectively, these results suggest that high doses of salicylate increase the gain of the central auditory system, presumably by down-regulating GABA-mediated inhibition, leading to an exaggerated acoustic startle response. The enhanced startle response may be the behavioral correlate of hyperacusis that often accompanies tinnitus and hearing loss.
The hippocampal formation (HF) is involved in modulating learning related to drug abuse. While HF-dependent learning is regulated by both endogenous opioids and estrogen, the interaction between these two systems is not well understood. The mossy fiber (MF) pathway formed by dentate gyrus (DG) granule cell axons is involved in some aspects of learning and contains abundant amounts of the endogenous opioid peptide dynorphin (DYN). To examine the influence of ovarian steroids on DYN expression, we used quantitative light microscopic immunocytochemistry to measure DYN levels in normal cycling rats as well as in two established models of hormone-treated ovariectomized (OVX) rats. Rats in estrus had increased levels of DYN-immunoreactivity (ir) in the DG and certain CA3 lamina compared with rats in proestrus or diestrus. OVX rats exposed to estradiol for 24 h showed increased DYN-ir in the DG and CA3, while those with 72 h estradiol exposure showed increases only in the DG. Six hours of estradiol exposure produced no change in DYN-ir. OVX rats chronically implanted with medroxyprogesterone also showed increased DYN-ir in the DG and CA3. Next, dual-labeling electron microscopy (EM) was used to evaluate the subcellular relationships of estrogen receptor (ER) alpha-, ERbeta and progestin receptor (PR) with DYN-labeled MFs. ERbeta-ir was in some DYN-labeled MF terminals and smaller terminals, and had a subcellular association with the plasmalemma and small synaptic vesicles. In contrast, ERalpha-ir was not in DYN-labeled terminals, although some DYN-labeled small terminals synapsed on ERalpha-labeled dendritic spines. PR labeling was mostly in CA3 axons, some of which were continuous with DYN-labeled terminals. These studies indicate that ovarian hormones can modulate DYN in the MF pathway in a time-dependent manner, and suggest that hormonal effects on the DYN-containing MF pathway may be directly mediated by ERbeta and/or PR activation.
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia is known as involuntary debilitating movement, which limits quality of life in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease. The present study focuses on the role of the neurotransmitter noradrenaline (NA) on dyskinetic movements in comparison to the effect of l-DOPA. Rats were unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine and treated with l-DOPA/benserazide (6/15 mg/kg, p.o.) to induce stable dyskinetic movements. On the day of the experiment, NA (0.04 nmol/min, 0.4 nmol/min) and l-DOPA (0.04 nmol/min, 0.4 nmol/min) were perfused into the lesioned and non-lesioned striatum of dyskinetic rats using the reverse in vivo microdialysis technique. Neither NA nor l-DOPA treatment of the non-lesioned striatum produced any dyskinetic behavior. In contrast, administration of l-DOPA 0.4 nmol/min into the lesioned striatum led to a significant increase in dyskinesia indicated by abnormal axial, limb and orolingual movements. Notably, perfusion with NA 0.4 nmol/min into the lesioned striatum revealed a highly significant induction of dyskinetic movements, which are similar to the dyskinesia subtype profile of l-DOPA. In conclusion, NA is as potent as l-DOPA to express dyskinetic movements in l-DOPA-primed rats.
Autonomic dysreflexia is a potentially life-threatening hypertensive syndrome following high thoracic (T) spinal cord injury (SCI). It is commonly triggered by noxious pelvic stimuli below the injury site that correlates with increased sprouting of primary afferent C-fibers into the lumbosacral (L/S) spinal cord. We have recently demonstrated that injury-induced plasticity of (L/S) propriospinal neurons, which relay pelvic visceral sensations to thoracolumbar sympathetic preganglionic neurons, is also correlated with the development of this syndrome. To determine the phenotype of pelvic afferent fiber sprouts after SCI, cholera toxin subunit beta (CTb) was injected into the distal colon 2 weeks post-T4 transection/sham to label colonic visceral afferents. After 1 week of transport, the (L/S) spinal cords were cryosectioned and immunohistochemically stained for CTb, the nociceptive-specific marker calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and the myelinated fiber marker RT97. Quantitative analysis showed that the density of CGRP(+) afferent fibers was significantly increased in the L/S dorsal horns of T4-transected versus sham rats, whereas RT97(+) afferent fiber density showed no change. Importantly, CTb-labeled pelvic afferent fibers were co-localized with CGRP(+) fibers, but not with RT97(+) fibers. These results suggest that the sprouting of unmyelinated nociceptive pelvic afferents following high thoracic SCI, but not myelinated fibers, contributes to hypertensive autonomic dysreflexia induced by pelvic visceral pain.
While the development of cerebellar granule and Purkinje neurons has been extensively studied, little is known about the developmental mechanisms that lead to the generation and diversification of inhibitory GABAergic interneurons of the cerebellar cortex. To address this issue, we compared gene expression in complete, early postnatal murine cerebella to that in cerebella from which immature inhibitory interneurons and their precursors had been stripped based on their expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) from the Pax2 locus. We identified some 300 candidate genes selectively enriched within immature cerebellar cortical inhibitory interneurons and/or their precursors, many of which were also expressed in their adult descendants and/or the embryonic cerebellar ventricular epithelium that gives rise to these cells. None of the genes identified, among them Tcfap2alpha, Tcfap2beta, Lbxcor1 and Lbx1, was cell-type specific. Rather, gene expression, and also splicing, changed dynamically during development and rather reflects stage of differentiation than lineage. Consistently, cluster analysis of transcriptional regulators and genes specific for adult cerebellar GABAergic cells does not suggest a hierarchical lineage relationship or an early commitment of subtypes of cerebellar cortical inhibitory interneurons. Together, these data support the notion that diversification of cerebellar inhibitory interneurons is highly regulative and subject to local signaling to postmigratory precursors.
Rearing rats in social isolation from weaning induces robust behavioral and neurobiological alterations resembling some of the core symptoms of schizophrenia, such as reduction in prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle (PPI) and locomotor hyperactivity in a novel arena. The aim of this study was to investigate whether social isolation rearing induces volumetric remodeling of the limbic system, and to probe for anatomical structure-behavioral interrelations. Isolation- (n=8) and group-reared (n=8) rats were examined by magnetic resonance (MR) volumetry using high-resolution T2-weighted imaging at 7 T. Volumes of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), retrosplenial cortex (RSC) and hippocampal formation were compared between groups and with behavioral measures, i.e. PPI and locomotor activity in a novel arena. Isolation rearing induced locomotor hyperactivity and impaired PPI compared with group-housed rats. The right mPFC was significantly reduced (5.4%) in isolation-reared compared with group-reared rats, with a similar trend on the left side (5.2%). mPFC volumes changes were unrelated to behavioral abnormalities. No significant volume changes were observed in ACC, RSC or hippocampal formation. Hippocampal volumes were associated with the magnitude of PPI response in control but not in isolation-reared rats. Rearing rats in social isolation induced remodeling of the limbic brain with selective prefrontal cortex volume loss. In addition, a dissociation of the interrelation between hippocampal volume and PPI was noted in the isolation-reared rats. Taken together, limbic morphometry is sensitive to the effects of social isolation rearing but did not reveal direct brain-behavior interrelations, calling for more detailed circuitry analysis.
Recent demonstrations that positive modulators of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (ampakines) increase neuronal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression have suggested a novel strategy for treating neurodegenerative diseases. However, reports that AMPA and BDNF receptors are down-regulated by prolonged activation raise concerns about the extent to which activity-induced increases in BDNF levels can be sustained without compromising glutamate receptor function. The present study constitutes an initial test of whether ampakines can cause enduring increases in BDNF content and signaling without affecting AMPA receptor (AMPAR) expression. Prolonged (12-24 h) treatment with the ampakine CX614 reduced AMPAR subunit (glutamate receptor subunit (GluR) 1-3) mRNA and protein levels in cultured rat hippocampal slices whereas treatment with AMPAR antagonists had the opposite effects. The cholinergic agonist carbachol also depressed GluR1-3 mRNA levels, suggesting that AMPAR down-regulation is a global response to extended periods of elevated neuronal activity. Analyses of time courses and thresholds indicated that BDNF expression is influenced by lower doses of, and shorter treatments with, the ampakine than is AMPAR expression. Accordingly, daily 3 h infusions of CX614 chronically elevated BDNF content with no effect on GluR1-3 concentrations. Restorative deconvolution microscopy provided the first evidence that chronic up-regulation of BDNF is accompanied by increased activation of the neurotrophin's TrkB-Fc receptor at spine synapses. These results show that changes in BDNF and AMPAR expression are dissociable and that up-regulation of the former leads to enhanced trophic signaling at excitatory synapses. These findings are encouraging with regard to the feasibility of using ampakines to tonically enhance BDNF-dependent functions in adult brain.
Bath application of 5-HT (1-1000 muM) induced a tetrodotoxin (TTX)-resistant outward current at the holding membrane potential (V(H)) of -50 mV in 104/162 (64.2%) of substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurons from the rat spinal cord in vitro. The 5-HT-induced outward current was suppressed by an external solution containing Ba(2+), or a pipette solution containing Cs(2)SO(4) and tetraethylammonium. It was reversed near the equilibrium potential of the K(+) channel. The response to 5-HT was abolished 30 min after patch formation with a pipette solution containing guanosine-5-O-(2-thiodiphosphate)-S. The 5-HT-induced outward current was mimicked by a 5-HT(1A) agonist, (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin hydrobromide, and suppressed by a 5-HT(1A) antagonist, WAY100635, suggesting the 5HT(1A) receptor-mediated activation of K(+) channels in the outward current. In 11/162 (6.8%) SG neurons, 5-HT produced an inward current, which was mimicked by a 5-HT(3) agonist, 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide (mCPBG). The 5-HT-induced outward currents were observed in vertical cells (21/34) and small islet cells (11/34), while inward currents were induced in islet cells (1/5) and small islet (4/5) cells, but not in vertical cells. It is known that most vertical cells and islet cells in the SG are excitatory (glutamatergic) and inhibitory interneurons, respectively, while small islet cells consist of both excitatory and inhibitory neurons. Bath application of 5-HT or mCPBG increased the amplitude and the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs), but no neurons showed a decrease in sIPSC. Furthermore, frequency, but not amplitude, of miniature IPSCs increased with perfusion with 5-HT in the presence of TTX. These findings, taken together, suggest that 5-HT induces outward currents through 5-HT(1A) receptors in excitatory SG neurons. These findings also suggest that the inward currents are post- and presynaptically evoked through 5-HT(3) receptors, probably in inhibitory neurons.
Aging is thought to be a risk factor to develop vulnerability of the neuroendocrine system, including the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and dysregulation of this axis characterized by dexamethasone (DEX)-mediated negative feedback resistance is sometimes observed in elderly humans and animals. However, the influence of aging on the feedback system including an involvement of the brain is not fully understood. In the present study, we examined the suppressive effects of DEX by the systemic injection or the intracranial infusion into the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, and hypothalamus on circulating corticosterone levels, and compared between young (3-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) rats. Moreover, we examined expression levels of glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) and their translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus using immunohistochemical and Western immunoblot techniques in the pituitary in addition to three brain regions. When DEX was injected systemically, the suppressive response was significantly enhanced in aged rats, compared with young rats. When DEX was infused into three brain regions, the suppressive response to DEX was abolished in aged rats. The immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the number of GR positive cells in the PFC, hippocampus, and hypothalamus was decreased, but that in the pituitary was increased, in aged rats, compared with young rats. The Western immunoblot analysis confirmed these results. Thus, basal expression levels of GRs in three brain regions were decreased, but those in the pituitary were increased, in aged rats. After the injection or infusion of DEX, the translocation of GRs in three brain regions was reduced, but that in the pituitary was enhanced, in aged rats. These results suggest that aging in rats enhances the feedback ability at the systemic level, which mainly involves the pituitary, but it attenuates the ability in the brain. These mechanisms may underlie the vulnerable neuroendocrine systems associated with aging.
Early-life environmental events, such as the handling procedure, can induce long-lasting alterations upon several behavioral and neuroendocrine systems. However, the changes within the pups that could be causally related to the effects in adulthood are still poorly understood. In the present study, we analyzed the effects of neonatal handling on behavioral (maternal odor preference) and biochemical (cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation, noradrenaline (NA), and serotonin (5-HT) levels in the olfactory bulb (OB)) parameters in 7-day-old male and female rat pups. Repeated handling (RH) abolished preference for the maternal odor in female pups compared with nonhandled (NH) and the single-handled (SH) ones, while in RH males the preference was not different than NH and SH groups. In both male and female pups, RH decreased NA activity in the OB, but 5-HT activity increased only in males. Since preference for the maternal odor involves the synergic action of NA and 5-HT in the OB, the maintenance of the behavior in RH males could be related to the increased 5-HT activity, in spite of reduction in the NA activity in the OB. RH did not alter CREB phosphorylation in the OB of both male and females compared with NH pups. The repeated handling procedure can affect the behavior of rat pups in response to the maternal odor and biochemical parameters related to the olfactory learning mechanism. Sex differences were already detected in 7-day-old pups. Although the responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to stressors is reduced in the neonatal period, environmental interventions may impact behavioral and biochemical mechanisms relevant to the animal at that early age.
Fluctuations in the endogenous levels of kynurenic acid (KYNA), a potent alpha7 nicotinic and NMDA receptor antagonist, affect extracellular dopamine (DA) concentrations in the rat brain. Moreover, reductions in KYNA levels increase the vulnerability of striatal neurons to NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxic insults. We now assessed the role of a key KYNA-synthesizing enzyme, kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), in these processes in the rodent striatum, using KAT II KO mice-which have reduced KYNA levels-and the selective KAT II inhibitor (S)-4-(ethylsulfonyl)benzoylalanine (S-ESBA) as tools. S-ESBA (applied by reverse dialysis) raised extracellular DA levels in the striatum of KYNA-deficient mice threefold and caused a much larger, 15-fold increase in wild-type mice. In the rat striatum, S-ESBA produced a 35% reduction in extracellular KYNA, which was accompanied by a 270% increase in extracellular DA. The latter effect was abolished by co-infusion of 100 nM KYNA. Intrastriatal S-ESBA pre-treatment augmented the size of a striatal quinolinate lesion by 370%, and this potentiation was prevented by co-infusion of KYNA. In separate animals, acute inhibition of KAT II reduced the de novo synthesis of KYNA during an early excitotoxic insult without enhancing the formation of the related neurotoxic metabolites 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinate. Taken together, these results provide further support for the concept that KAT II is a critical determinant of functionally relevant KYNA fluctuations in the rodent striatum.
Although it has been shown that an alternative dominant percept induced by an ambiguous visual scene has neural correlates in various cortical areas, it is not known how such a dominant percept is maintained until it switches to another. We measured the primary visual response to the two-frame bistable apparent motion stimulus (stroboscopic alternative motion) when observers continuously perceived one motion and compared this with the response for another motion using magnetoencephalography. We observed a response component at around 160 ms after the frame change, the amplitude of which depended on the perceived motion. In contrast, brain responses to less ambiguous and physically unambiguous motions in both the horizontal and vertical directions did not evoke such a component. The differential response evoked by the bistable apparent motion is therefore distinct from directionally-selective visual responses. The results indicate the existence of neural activity related to establish and maintain one dominant percept, the magnitude of which is related to the ambiguity of the stimulus. This is in the line with the currently proposed idea that dominant percept is established in the distributed cortical areas including the early visual areas. Further, the existence of the neural activity induced only by the ambiguous image suggests that the competitive neural activities for the two possible percepts exist even when one dominant image is continuously perceived.
Neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus has been implicated in neural plasticity and cognition but the specific functions contributed by adult-born neurons remain controversial. Here, we have explored the relationship between adult hippocampal neurogenesis and memory function using tasks which specifically require the participation of the DG. In two separate experiments several groups of rats were exposed to fractionated ionizing radiation (two sessions of 7 Gy each on consecutive days) applied either to the whole brain or focally, aiming at a region overlying the hippocampus. The immunocytochemical assays showed that the radiation significantly reduced the expression of doublecortin (DCX), a marker for immature neurons, in the dorsal DG. Ultrastructural examination of the DG region revealed disruption of progenitor cell niches several weeks after the radiation. In the first experiment, whole-brain and focal irradiation reduced DCX expression by 68% and 43%, respectively. Whole-brain and focally-irradiated rats were unimpaired compared with control rats in a matching-to-place (MTP) working memory task performed in the T-maze and in the long-term retention of the no-alternation rule. In the second experiment, focal irradiation reduced DCX expression by 36% but did not impair performance on (1) a standard non-matching-to-place (NMTP) task, (2) a more demanding NMTP task with increasingly longer within-trial delays, (3) a long-term retention test of the alternation rule and (4) a spatial reversal task. However, rats irradiated focally showed clear deficits in a &quot;purely&quot; contextual fear-conditioning task at short and long retention intervals. These data demonstrate that reduced adult hippocampal neurogenesis produces marked deficits in the rapid acquisition of emotionally relevant contextual information but spares spatial working memory function, the long-term retention of acquired spatial rules and the ability to flexibly modify learned spatial strategies.
Prenatal morphine treatment and emotional stress both have been shown to increase sensitivity to reward-related behaviors. It has been postulated that this increased sensitivity to rewarding stimuli may be the result of an enhanced release of endogenous opioids. In the present study, in vivo autoradiography was employed to investigate the endogenous opioid release in specific brain areas in rats. Pregnant animals were exposed to morphine or saline from day 8 of gestation till birth. Development of pups was monitored and play behavior was tested on postnatal day 21. Adult rats were exposed to repeated emotional stress or control treatment for five consecutive days and tested in a small open field 5 days later. [(3)H]-Diprenorphine was injected following this test to investigate endogenous opioid release. Prenatal morphine treatment increased play behavior and endogenous opioid release in a number of cortical and subcortical brain areas after being subjected to an open field challenge later in life. Emotional stress exposure increased locomotor activity in the open field irrespective of the type of prenatal treatment and increased endogenous opioid release in some specific brain areas. It is suggested that the increased release of endogenous opioids in the substantia nigra, the piriform cortex and the septum observed after both types of treatments is related to the increased sensitivity to reward.
The prefrontal cortices mediate cognitive functions that critically depend on local dopamine levels. In male rats, many prefrontal tasks where performance is disrupted by changes in dopamine signaling are also impaired by gonadectomy, a manipulation that increases cortical dopamine concentration, prefrontal dopamine axon density and possibly extracellular prefrontal dopamine levels as well. Because these actions could be responsible for the impairing effects of gonadectomy on prefrontal function, the question of how they might arise comes to the fore. Accordingly, the present studies asked whether dopamine levels might be increased via a hormone sensitivity of transporter-mediated dopamine uptake. Specifically, (3)H WIN 35,428 and (3)H nisoxetine, ligands selective for the dopamine (DAT)- and norepinephrine transporter (NET) respectively, were used in in vitro binding assays to ask whether gonadectomy altered transporter affinity (Kd) and/or binding site number (Bmax) in prefrontal cortex, sensorimotor cortex and/or caudate. Assays performed on tissues dissected from sham-operated, gonadectomized and gonadectomized rats supplemented with testosterone propionate or estradiol for 4 or 28 days revealed no significant group differences or obvious trends in Kd or Bmax for DAT binding or in measures of Bmax for NET binding. However, affinity constants for (3)H nisoxetine were found to be significantly higher in sensorimotor and/or prefrontal cortex of rats gonadectomized and gonadectomized and supplemented with estradiol for 4 or 28 days but similar to control in gonadectomized rats given testosterone. Because the NET contributes substantially to extracellular prefrontal dopamine clearance, these androgen-mediated effects could influence prefrontal dopamine levels and might thus be relevant for observed effects of gonadectomy on dopamine-dependent prefrontal behaviors. A hormone sensitivity of the NET could also have bearing on the prefrontal dopamine dysfunction seen in disorders like schizophrenia that disproportionately affect males, whose severity correlates with abnormal testosterone levels, and for which the NET is among suspected sites of pathology.
Exposure to organophosphorus nerve agents induces brain seizures, which can cause profound brain damage resulting in death or long-term cognitive deficits. The amygdala and the hippocampus are two of the most seizure-prone brain structures, but their relative contribution to the generation of seizures after nerve agent exposure is unclear. Here, we report that application of 1 muM soman for 30 min, in rat coronal brain slices containing both the hippocampus and the amygdala, produces prolonged synchronous neuronal discharges (10-40 s duration, 1.5-5 min interval of occurrence) resembling ictal activity in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA), but only interictal-like activity (&quot;spikes&quot; of 100-250 ms duration; 2-5 s interval) in the pyramidal cell layer of the CA1 hippocampal area. BLA ictal- and CA1 interictal-like activity were synaptically driven, as they were blocked by the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. As the expression of the GluR5 subunit of kainate receptors is high in the amygdala, and kainate receptors containing this subunit (GluR5KRs) play an important role in the regulation of neuronal excitability in both the amygdala and the hippocampus, we tested the efficacy of a GluR5KR antagonist against the epileptiform activity induced by soman. The GluR5KR antagonist UBP302 reduced the amplitude of the hippocampal interictal-like spikes, and eliminated the seizure-like discharges in the BLA, or reduced their duration and frequency, with no significant effect on the evoked field potentials. This is the first study reporting in vitro ictal-like activity in response to a nerve agent. Our findings, along with previous literature, suggest that the amygdala may play a more important role than the hippocampus in the generation of seizures following soman exposure, and provide the first evidence that GluR5KR antagonists may be an effective treatment against nerve agent-induced seizures.

The function of local networks in the CNS depends upon both the connectivity between neurons and their intrinsic properties. An intrinsic property of spinal motoneurons is the presence of persistent inward currents (PICs), which are mediated by non-inactivating calcium (mainly Ca(V)1.3) and/or sodium channels and serve to amplify neuronal input signals. It is of fundamental importance for the prediction of network function to determine the distribution of neurons possessing the ion channels that produce PICs. Although the distribution pattern of Ca(V)1.3 immunoreactivity (Ca(V)1.3-IR) has been studied in some specific central nervous regions in some species, so far no systematic investigations have been performed in both the rat spinal cord and brain stem. In the present study this issue was investigated by immunohistochemistry. The results indicated that the Ca(V)1.3-IR neurons were widely distributed across different parts of the spinal cord and the brain stem although with variable labeling intensities. In the spinal gray matter large neurons in the ventral horn (presumably motoneurons) tended to display higher levels of immunoreactivity than smaller neurons in the dorsal horn. In the white matter, a subset of glial cells labeled by an oligodendrocyte marker was also Ca(V)1.3-positive. In the brain stem, neurons in the motor nuclei appeared to have higher levels of immunoreactivity than those in the sensory nuclei. Moreover, a number of nuclei containing monoaminergic cells, for example the locus coeruleus, were also strongly immunoreactive. Ca(V)1.3-IR was consistently detected in the neuronal perikarya regardless of the neuronal type. However, in the large neurons in the spinal ventral horn and the cranial motor nuclei the Ca(V)1.3-IR was clearly detectable in first and second order dendrites. These results indicate that in the rat spinal cord and brain stem Ca(V)1.3 is probably a common calcium channel used by many kinds of neurons to facilitate the neuronal information processing via certain intracellular mechanisms, for instance, PICs.
The aim of this study was to investigate the correlations between body segment movements and center of mass (COM) velocity during pathological balance corrections of spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) patients compared with controls, and to relate correlations indicating instability to EMG activity differences. Eighteen SCA patients and 21 age-matched controls were tested. Upright standing was perturbed using rotations of the support surface. We recorded body motion and surface EMG. For lateral perturbations peaks in COM lateral velocity were larger in SCA patients than controls. These peaks were correlated with increased (&quot;hypermetric&quot;) trunk roll downhill and reduced uphill knee flexion velocity. Subsequent arm abduction partially corrected the lateral instability. Early balance correcting responses in knee and paraspinal muscles showed reduced amplitudes compared with normal responses. Later responses were consistent with compensation mechanisms for the lateral instability created by the stiffened knee and pelvis. We conclude that truncal hypermetria coupled with insufficient uphill knee flexion is the primary cause of lateral instability in SCA patients. Holding the knees and pelvis more rigid possibly permits a reduction in the controlled degrees of freedom and concentration on arm abduction to improve lateral instability. For backwards perturbations excessive posterior COM velocity coincided with marked trunk hypermetric flexion forwards. We concluded that this flexion and the ensuing backwards shift of the pelvis result from rigidity which jeopardizes posterior stability. Timing considerations and the lack of confirmatory changes in amplitudes of EMG activity suggest that lateral and posterior instability in SCA is primarily a biomechanical response to pelvis and knee rigidity resulting from increased muscle background activity rather than changed evoked responses.
Dietary consumption of trans fatty acids (TFA) has increased during the 20th century and is a suspected risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. More recently, high TFA intake has been associated with a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). To investigate the impact of TFA on an animal model genetically programmed to express amyloid-beta (Abeta) and tau pathological markers of AD, we have fed 3xTg-AD mice with either control (0% TFA/total fatty acid), high TFA (16% TFA) or very high TFA (43% TFA) isocaloric diets from 2 to 16 months of age. Effects of TFA on plasma hepatic enzymes, glucose and lipid profile were minimal but very high TFA intake decreased visceral fat of non-transgenic mice. Importantly, dietary TFA increased brain TFA concentrations in a dose-related manner. Very high TFA consumption substantially modified the brain fatty acid profile by increasing mono-unsaturated fatty acids and decreasing polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). Very high TFA intake induced a shift from docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3) toward n-6 docosapentaenoic acid (DPA, 22:5n-6) without altering the n-3:n-6 PUFA ratio in the cortex of both control and 3xTg-AD mice. Changes in levels of Abeta(40), Abeta(42), tau protein, phosphorylated tau protein and synaptic markers were not statistically significant in the three groups of 3xTg-AD mice, despite a trend toward decreased insoluble tau in very high TFA-fed 3xTg-AD animals. In summary, TFA intake modulated brain fatty acid profiles but had no significant effect on major brain neuropathological hallmarks of AD in an animal model.
Sustained intracellular Ca(2+) elevation is a well-established contributor to neuronal injury following excessive activation of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors. Zn(2+) can also be involved in excitotoxic degeneration, but the relative contributions of these two cations to the initiation and progression of excitotoxic injury is not yet known. We previously concluded that extended NMDA exposure led to sustained Ca(2+) increases that originated in apical dendrites of CA1 neurons and then propagated slowly throughout neurons and caused rapid necrotic injury. However the fluorescent indicator used in those studies (Fura-6F) may also respond to Zn(2+), and in the present work we examine possible contributions of Zn(2+) to indicator signals and to the progression of degenerative signaling along murine CA1 dendrites. Selective chelation of Zn(2+) with N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine (TPEN) significantly delayed, but did not prevent the development and progression of sustained high-level Fura-6F signals from dendrites to somata. Rapid indicator loss during the Ca(2+) overload response, which corresponds to rapid neuronal injury, was also not prevented by TPEN. The relationship between cytosolic Zn(2+) and Ca(2+) levels was assessed in single CA1 neurons co-loaded with Fura-6F and the Zn(2+)-selective indicator FluoZin-3. NMDA exposure resulted in significant initial increases in FluoZin-3 increases that were prevented by TPEN, but not by extracellular Zn(2+) chelation with Ca-EDTA. Consistent with this result, Ca-EDTA did not delay the progression of Fura-6F signals during NMDA. Removal of extracellular Ca(2+) reduced, but did not prevent FluoZin-3 increases. These results suggest that sustained Ca(2+) increases indeed underlie Fura-6F signals that slowly propagate throughout neurons, and that Ca(2+) (rather than Zn(2+)) increases are ultimately responsible for neuronal injury during NMDA. However, mobilization of Zn(2+) from endogenous sources leads to significant neuronal Zn(2+) increases, that in turn contribute to mechanisms of initiation and progression of progressive Ca(2+) deregulation.
Age-related loss of melanized nigral neurons reported in the British Caucasians is not observed in Asian Indian, American and French adults. In the Americans, loss of dopaminergic phenotype occurs from midlife, without frank neurodegeneration. Here, we investigated whether nigral dopaminergic neurons in Asian Indians are lost with age or undergo morphological or biochemical dysfunction. Using unbiased stereology we estimated volume, number of melanized, borderline/non-melanized (n=34, 28 gestational weeks to 80 years) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-Nurr1 co-labeled neurons (n=32, 28 gestational weeks to 80 years) in substantia nigra pars compacta. We quantified Nurr1 and TH proteins by immunoblotting (n=18, 28 gestational weeks to 69 years) and apoptotic neurons by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. Nuclear and soma size was estimated by morphometry. There was no age-related decline in volume, neuronal density, neuronal numbers and TH-Nurr1 co-labeled neurons. TH and Nurr1 protein expression remained stable. Lack of TUNEL-TH co-labeled cells confirmed absence of neuronal apoptosis. The neuronal size remained unaltered. Our findings of preserved nigral dopaminergic neurons suggest no age-related loss of nigral function in Asian Indians, unlike the Americans. This may explain the lower incidence of Parkinson's disease in Asian Indians.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activated by stress-signals and involved in many different diseases. Previous results proved the powerful effect of the cell permeable peptide inhibitor d-JNKI1 (d-retro-inverso form of c-Jun N-terminal kinase-inhibitor) against neuronal death in CNS diseases, but the precise features of this neuroprotection remain unclear. We here performed cell-free and in vitro experiments for a deeper characterization of d-JNKI1 features in physiological conditions. This peptide works by preventing JNK interaction with its c-Jun N-terminal kinase-binding domain (JBD) dependent targets. We here focused on the two JNK upstream MAPKKs, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4 (MKK4) and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 7 (MKK7), because they contain a JBD homology domain. We proved that d-JNKI1 prevents MKK4 and MKK7 activity in cell-free and in vitro experiments: these MAPKK could be considered not only activators but also substrates of JNK. This means that d-JNKI1 can interrupt downstream but also upstream events along the JNK cascade, highlighting a new remarkable feature of this peptide. We also showed the lack of any direct effect of the peptide on p38, MEK1, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in cell free, while in rat primary cortical neurons JNK inhibition activates the MEK1-ERK-Ets1/c-Fos cascade. JNK inhibition induces a compensatory effect and leads to ERK activation via MEK1, resulting in an activation of the survival pathway-(MEK1/ERK) as a consequence of the death pathway-(JNK) inhibition. This study should hold as an important step to clarify the strong neuroprotective effect of d-JNKI1.
Multiple theories have been proposed for sensation seeking and vulnerability to impulse-control disorders [Zuckerman M, Kuhlman DM (2000) Personality and risk-taking: Common biosocial factors. J Pers 68:999-1029], and many of these rely on a dopamine system deficit. Available animal models reproduce only some behavioral symptoms and seem devoid of construct validity. We used lentivirus tools for over-expressing or silencing the dopamine transporter (DAT) and we evaluated the resulting behavioral profiles in terms of motivation and self-control. Wistar adult rats received stereotaxic inoculation of a lentivirus that allowed localized intra-accumbens delivery of a DAT gene enhancer/silencer, or the green fluorescent protein, GFP. These animals were studied for intolerance to delay, risk proneness and novelty seeking. As expected, controls shifted their demanding from a large reward toward a small one when the delivery of the former was increasingly delayed (or uncertain). Interestingly, in the absence of general locomotor effects, DAT over-expressing rats showed increased impulsivity (i.e. a more marked shift of demanding from the large/delayed toward the small/soon reward), and increased risk proneness (i.e. a less marked shift from the large/uncertain toward the small/sure reward), compared with controls. Rats with enhanced or silenced DAT expression did not show any significant preference for a novel environment. In summary, consistent with literature on comorbidity between attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and pathological gambling, we demonstrate that DAT over-expression in rats' nucleus accumbens leads to impulsive and risk prone phenotype. Thus, a reduced dopaminergic tone following altered accumbal DAT function may subserve a sensation-seeker phenotype and the vulnerability to impulse-control disorders.
A number of anti-obesity agents have been developed that enhance hypothalamic 5-HT transmission. Various studies have demonstrated that arcuate neurons, which express proopiomelanocortin peptides (POMC neurons), and neuropeptide Y with agouti-related protein (NPY/AgRP) neurons, are components of the hypothalamic circuits responsible for energy homeostasis. An additional arcuate neuron population, rat insulin 2 promoter Cre recombinase transgene (RIPCre) neurons, has recently been implicated in hypothalamic melanocortin circuits involved in energy balance. It is currently unclear how 5-HT modifies neuron excitability in these local arcuate neuronal circuits. We show that 5-HT alters the excitability of the majority of mouse arcuate RIPCre neurons, by either hyperpolarization and inhibition or depolarization and excitation. RIPCre neurons sensitive to 5-HT, predominantly exhibit hyperpolarization and pharmacological studies indicate that inhibition of neuronal firing is likely to be through 5-HT(1F) receptors increasing current through a voltage-dependent potassium conductance. Indeed, 5-HT(1F) receptor immunoreactivity co-localizes with RIPCre green fluorescent protein expression. A minority population of POMC neurons also respond to 5-HT by hyperpolarization, and this appears to be mediated by the same receptor-channel mechanism. As neither POMC nor RIPCre neuronal populations display a common electrical response to 5-HT, this may indicate that sub-divisions of POMC and RIPCre neurons exist, perhaps serving different outputs.
Declining cognitive performance is associated with increasing age, even in the absence of overt pathological processes. We and others have reported that declining cognitive performance is associated with age-related changes in brain glucose utilization, long-term potentiation and paired-pulse facilitation, protein expression, neurotransmitter levels, and trophic factors. However, it is unclear whether these changes are causes or symptoms of the underlying alterations in dendritic and synaptic morphology that occur with age. In this study, we examined the hippocampal proteome for age- and cognition-associated changes in behaviorally stratified young and old rats, using two-dimensional in-gel electrophoresis and MS/MS. Comparison of old cognitively intact with old cognitively impaired animals revealed additional changes that would not have been detected otherwise. Interestingly, not all age-related changes in protein expression were associated with cognitive decline, and distinct differences in protein expression were found when comparing old cognitively intact with old cognitively impaired rats. A large number of protein changes with age were related to the glycolysis/gluconeogenesis pathway. In total, the proteomic changes suggest that age-related alterations act synergistically with other perturbations to result in cognitive decline. This study also demonstrates the importance of examining behaviorally-defined animals in proteomic studies, as comparison of young to old animals regardless of behavioral performance would have failed to detect many cognitive impairment-specific protein expression changes evident when behavioral stratification data were used.
Within neurons of several regions of the CNS, mature dendrite architecture is attained via extensive reorganization of arbor during the developmental period. Since dendrite morphology determines the firing patterns of the neuron, morphological refinement of dendritic arbor may have important implications for mature network activity. In the neocortex, a region of brain that is sensitive to activity-dependent structural rearrangement of dendritic arbor, the proportion of AMPA receptors increases over the developmental period. However, it is unclear whether changes in AMPA receptor expression contribute to maturation of dendritic architecture. To determine the effects of increasing AMPA receptor expression on dendrite morphology and connectivity within the neocortex, and to determine whether these effects are dependent on specific AMPA receptor subunits, we overexpressed the AMPA glutamate receptor subunit 1 (GluR1) and glutamate receptor subunit 2 (GluR2) in cultured rat neocortical neurons at the time that AMPA receptors would normally be incorporated into synapses. Following expression of GluR1 or GluR2 we observed increases in the length and complexity of dendritic arbor of cortical neurons, and a concurrent reduction in motility of spines. In addition, expression of either subunit was associated with an increased density of excitatory postsynaptic puncta. These results suggest that AMPA receptor expression is an important determinant of dendrite morphology and connectivity in neocortical neurons, and further, that contrary to other regions of the CNS, the effects of AMPA receptors on dendrite morphology are not subunit-specific.
Glutamatergic signaling plays an important role in the behavioral and molecular plasticity observed in behavioral sensitization to cocaine. Redistribution of the glutamate receptors in the synaptosomal membrane fraction was investigated in the nucleus accumbens, dorsolateral striatum, and ventral tegmental area at 1 or 21 days of withdrawal in behaviorally sensitized rats. At 1 day of withdrawal, there were no changes in either tissue level or redistribution of glutamate receptors in nucleus accumbens core and shell and ventral tegmental area. At 21 days of withdrawal, there was a decrease in the expression of mGluR2/3 protein in core and shell, an increase in GluR1 and a decrease in Homer1b/c proteins in the nucleus accumbens core tissue. In dorsolateral striatum, the tissue level of NMDAR2B protein was increased. Moreover, there was an augmented presence of AMPA (GluR1, GluR2), NMDA (NMDAR1, 2A, 2B), and group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR5) proteins in the synaptosomal fraction in core and shell of the nucleus accumbens. There was also an increase in synaptosomal mGluR2/3 protein in nucleus accumbens core. The redistribution of glutamate receptors was selective for nucleus accumbens since no changes were observed in the dorsolateral striatum and ventral tegmental area. While the tissue level of the Homer1b/c protein was selectively reduced in nucleus accumbens core, that of PSD95, PICK1, and actin was not changed in any of the brain regions examined. However, the synaptosomal membrane fraction level of Homer1b/c and PSD95 was increased in nucleus accumbens core and shell, with no changes in PICK1, and a decrease in actin protein. These observations suggest that significant redistribution of glutamate receptors and postsynaptic scaffolding proteins into synaptosomal membrane fraction is associated with withdrawal from behavioral sensitization to cocaine.
A large injection of a retrograde tracer into the inferior colliculus of guinea pigs labeled two bands of cells in the ipsilateral auditory cortex: a dense band of cells in layer V and a second band of cells in layer VI. On the contralateral side, labeled cells were restricted to layer V. The ipsilateral layer VI cells were distributed throughout temporal cortex, suggesting projections from multiple auditory areas. The layer VI cells included pyramidal cells as well as several varieties of non-pyramidal cells. Small tracer injections restricted to the dorsal cortex or external cortex of the inferior colliculus consistently labeled cells in layer VI. Injections restricted to the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus labeled layer VI cells only rarely. Overall, 10% of the cells in temporal cortex that project to the ipsilateral inferior colliculus were located in layer VI, suggesting that layer VI cells make a significant contribution to the corticocollicular pathway.
The effect of endogenous dopamine on the activity of target neurons recorded with patch clamp or Ca2+ imaging techniques in slices has been studied to date with intra-striatal stimuli. Yet, this approach is severely handicapped by the nonphysiological and nonspecific stimulation of local neurons and fibers within the striatum. We now report a new juvenile and adult mouse slice preparation in which a component of the nigro-striatal dopaminergic pathway is preserved in its entirety, from cell bodies to axon terminals. This tilted parasagittal slice (380-400 microm) just medial to the subthalamic nucleus contains functional nigro-striatal neurons as assessed by morphological examination of tyrosine hydroxylase positive cell bodies and axons, combined with electrochemical assays of dopamine release in the striatum in response to stimulation of the substantia nigra pars compacta. The nigro-striatal slice constitutes a suitable in vitro preparation to determine the impact of endogenously released dopamine on target neurons of the striatum.
Activation of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) glutamate receptors (NMDARs) is required for long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory synaptic transmission at hippocampal CA1 synapses, the proposed cellular mechanisms of learning and memory. We demonstrate here that a brief bath co-application of a low concentration of NMDA, an agonist of NMDARs, and the selective antagonist of NR2B-containing NMDARs, (alpha R, beta S)-alpha-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperidinepropanol (Ro25-6981), to hippocampal slices from young adult rats produced a slowly developing LTP persisting at least for 6 h following a transient depression of synaptic transmission in CA1 synapses. The LTP was likely to occur at postsynaptic site and was initiated by activation of NMDARs, and its development was mediated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activation and protein synthesis. This chemically induced LTP and the tetanus-induced late phase of LTP (L-LTP) were mutually occluding, suggesting a common expression mechanism. Thus, we have demonstrated that a brief bath co-application of NMDA with Ro25-6981 to a slice offers an alternative to electrical stimulation as a stimulation method to induce L-LTP. The chemically induced LTP did not require the low-frequency test stimulation typically used to monitor the strength of synapses during and after drug application. Thus, the LTP may occur at a large fraction of synapses in the slice and not to be confined to a small fraction of the synapses where electrical stimulation can reach and induce LTP. Therefore, this chemically induced LTP may be useful for assessing the biochemical and morphological correlates and the molecular aspects of the expression mechanism for L-LTP that has been proven to correlate to hippocampal long-term memory.
Senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) prone/8 (SAMP8) is a good animal model to investigate the fundamental mechanisms of age-related learning and memory deficits such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) at the gene and protein levels, and SAM resistant/1 (SAMR1) is its normal control. Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-alpha (CaMKIIalpha) is one of the most abundant subunits of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II in cerebral cortex and hippocampus, and is closely linked to AD. In this study, we used real time fluorescence quantitative PCR (RT-PCR) and Western blot techniques to examine the expression of CaMKIIalpha mRNA and protein in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of SAMP8 both with aging and following treatment with anti-AD drugs (for example, natural product huperzine A (HupA) and traditional Chinese medicinal prescription Liu-Wei-Di-Huang decoction (LW), Ba-Wei-Di-Huang decoction (BW), Huang-Lian-Jie-Du decoction (HL), Dang-Gui-Shao-Yao-San (DSS) and Tiao-Xin-Fang decoction (TXF)). The results showed that the levels of both CaMKIIalpha mRNA and protein decreased significantly in the cerebral cortex of SAMR1 with aging, but increased significantly in the cerebral cortex of SAMP8. Compared with age-matched SAMR1, the expression of mRNA and protein of CaMKIIalpha significantly increased in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of SAMP8 after 10 months of age. After SAMP8 was treated with the previously mentioned drugs, the abnormally high expression of CaMKIIalpha was relatively down-regulated. These results indicated that the expression of CaMKIIalpha in the brain of SAMP8 was abnormal and that this abnormality could be reversed with anti-AD drugs. These data suggest that CaMKIIalpha may play an important role in the age-related cognitive deterioration in AD, and may be a potential targets for anti-AD drugs.

Protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent signaling cascades play an important role in mediating the effects of dopamine and other neurotransmitters in striatal medium spiny neurons. We have identified a prominent striatal PKA substrate as Rap1-GTPase activating protein (Rap1GAP), a negative regulator of Rap1 signaling. Although present throughout the brain, Rap1GAP is enriched in striatal medium spiny neurons and is phosphorylated by PKA at Ser-441 and Ser-499 in response to activation of D1 dopamine receptors. Phosphorylation of Rap1GAP is associated with inhibition of GAP activity, as demonstrated by increased Rap1 activity in striatal neurons. Phosphorylation of Rap1GAP is also associated with decreased [corrected] dendritic spine head size in cultured neurons. These findings suggest that phosphorylation of Rap1GAP by PKA plays an important role in striatal neurons by modulating Rap1 actions.
Multicellular glial calcium waves may locally regulate neural activity or brain energetics. Here, we report a diffusion-driven astrocytic signal in the normal, intact brain that spans many astrocytic processes in a confined volume without fully encompassing any one cell. By using 2-photon microscopy in rodent cerebellar cortex labeled with fluorescent indicator dyes or the calcium-sensor protein G-CaMP2, we discovered spontaneous calcium waves that filled approximately ellipsoidal domains of Bergmann glia processes. Waves spread in 3 dimensions at a speed of 4-11 microm/s to a diameter of approximately 50 microm, slowed during expansion, and were reversibly blocked by P2 receptor antagonists. Consistent with the hypothesis that ATP acts as a diffusible trigger of calcium release waves, local ejection of ATP triggered P2 receptor-mediated waves that were refractory to repeated activation. Transglial waves represent a means for purinergic signals to act with local specificity to modulate activity or energetics in local neural circuits.
AMPA receptors (AMPA-R) are major mediators of synaptic transmission and plasticity in the developing and adult central nervous system. Activity-dependent structural plasticity mediated by dynamic changes in the morphology of spines and dendrites is also essential for the formation and tuning of neuronal circuits. RhoA and Rac1 are known to play important roles in the regulation of spine and dendrite development in response to neuronal activity. These Rho GTPases are activated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs). In this study, we identified GEF-H1/Lfc as a component of the AMPA-R complex in the brain. GEF-H1 is enriched in the postsynaptic density and is colocalized with GluR1 at spines. GEF-H1 activity negatively regulates spine density and length through a RhoA signaling cascade. In addition, AMPA-R-dependent changes in spine development are eliminated by down-regulation of GEF-H1. Altogether, these results strongly suggest that GEF-H1 is an important mediator of AMPA-R activity-dependent structural plasticity in neurons.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors are regulators of fast neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity in the brain. Disruption of NMDA-mediated glutamate signaling has been linked to behavioral deficits displayed in psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. Recently, noncoding RNA molecules such as microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as critical regulators of neuronal functions. Here we show that pharmacological (dizocilpine) or genetic (NR1 hypomorphism) disruption of NMDA receptor signaling reduces levels of a brain-specific miRNA, miR-219, in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of mice. Consistent with a role for miR-219 in NMDA receptor signaling, we identify calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II gamma subunit (CaMKIIgamma), a component of the NMDA receptor signaling cascade, as a target of miR-219. In vivo inhibition of miR-219 by specific antimiR in the murine brain significantly modulated behavioral responses associated with disrupted NMDA receptor transmission. Furthermore, pretreatment with the antipsychotic drugs haloperidol and clozapine prevented dizocilpine-induced effects on miR-219. Taken together, these data support an integral role for miR-219 in the expression of behavioral aberrations associated with NMDA receptor hypofunction.
Forebrain association areas interweave perceived stimuli with acquired representations of own actions and their outcome. Often, relevant stimuli come in a bewildering variety of shapes and sizes and we slowly have to learn to group them into meaningful categories. Therefore, the aim of the present study was twofold: First, to reveal how single units in the pigeon's nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL), a functional analogue of the mammalian prefrontal cortex (PFC), encode stimuli that differ in visual features but not in behavioral relevance. The second aim was to understand how these categorical representations are established during learning. Recordings were made from NCL neurons while pigeons performed a go-nogo categorization paradigm. Responses during presentation of the two S+ stimuli and non-responding during presentation of the two S- stimuli were followed by reward. We recorded from two pigeons at different learning stages. In the beginning of the learning process, neurons were active during and shortly before reward, but only in go trials. These data suggest that during the early phase of learning avian 'prefrontal' neurons code for rewards associated with the same behavioral demand, while ignoring feature differences of stimuli within one category. When learning progressed, (1) category selectivity became stronger, (2) responses selective for nogo stimuli appeared, and (3) reward-related responses disappeared in favor of category-selective responses during the stimulus phase. This backward shift in time resembles response patterns assumed by the temporal difference (TD) model of reinforcement learning, but goes beyond it, since it reflects the neuronal correlate of functional categories.
The aim of the present study was to further explore the neuronal mechanisms of face processing in healthy subjects which may help to understand the difficulties experienced by prosopagnosia subjects. A further goal was to compare face specific activation patterns in the right and left occipital face area (OFA) and fusiform face area (FFA) for famous faces, non-famous faces and caricatures of famous faces in four individuals suffering from developmental prosopagnosia (DP) and seven healthy controls, using functional magnetic resonance imaging and psychophysiological interaction analysis (PPI). Control subjects showed higher face related activations in the right compared to the left FFA. Caricatures of faces of famous people and photographs of non-famous faces yielded higher percent signal changes in the OFA and FFA compared to photographs of famous faces. These data support the idea that the OFA and FFA discriminate between familiar and new face representations. The activation patterns of DP subjects were heterogeneous, with none of the patients showing bilateral face related activations in both OFA and FFA. There was no evidence of a left hemispheric activation when the right homologue failed to be activated, supporting the view of a right hemispheric dominance in face perception. PPI analysis indicated a link between activation of the right FFA and the other three tested regions, the left FFA and the right and left OFA. In summary, all four face related brain regions appear to be necessary for successful face processing, and disruption of one component may lead to face recognition deficits.
Modern theoretical accounts on reward-based learning are commonly based on reinforcement learning algorithms. Most noted in this context is the temporal-difference (TD) algorithm in which the difference between predicted and obtained reward, the prediction-error, serves as a learning signal. Consequently, larger rewards cause bigger prediction-errors and lead to faster learning than smaller rewards. Therefore, if animals employ a neural implementation of TD learning, reward-magnitude should affect learning in animals accordingly. Here we test this prediction by training pigeons on a simple color-discrimination task with two pairs of colors. In each pair, correct discrimination is rewarded; in pair one with a large-reward, in pair two with a small-reward. Pigeons acquired the 'large-reward' discrimination faster than the 'small-reward' discrimination. Animal behavior and an implementation of the TD-algorithm yielded comparable results with respect to the difference between learning curves in the large-reward and in the small-reward conditions. We conclude that the influence of reward-magnitude on the acquisition of a simple discrimination paradigm is accurately reflected by a TD implementation of reinforcement learning.
The involvement of thalamic midline nuclei (MLN) in early stage of Alzheimer's disease and in diencephalic amnesia has drawn attention to the connectivity between the nucleus reuniens (RE) and structures of medial temporal lobe. RE is major source of thalamic afferents to the hippocampus and has been shown to exert powerful excitatory action on CA1 of hippocampus, which is supposed to be involved in learning and memory processes. However, the role of the RE on spatial memory is a controversial issue. The present study was designed to evaluate the role of the RE in acquisition, consolidation and retrieval of spatial reference memory (RM) and working memory (WM). We assessed the effect of reversible inactivation of RE with tetracaine (0.5 microl, 2%) on different stages of memory. Rats were trained on RM and WM versions of the Morris water maze (MWM) task. RE was inactivated before or immediately after training or before the probe trial of retrieval tests. The data showed that reversible inactivation of the RE significantly impaired both RM and WM versions of MWM. Therefore, it seems that nucleus reuniens of thalamus plays a role in spatial RM and WM version of the MWM task in rats.
Research indicates that dysfunctional food reward processing may contribute to pathological eating behaviour. It is widely recognized that both the amygdala and the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) are essential parts of the brain's reward circuitry. The aims of this fMRI study were (1) to examine the effects of food deprivation and calorie content on reward processing in the amygdala and the OFC, and (2) to examine whether an explicit evaluation of foods is necessary for OFC, but not amygdalar activity. Addressing the first aim, healthy females were presented with high and low calorie food pictures while being either hungry or satiated. For the second aim, attention focus was manipulated by directing participants' attention either to the food or to a neutral aspect. This study shows that hunger interacts with the energy content of foods, modulating activity in the posterior cingulate cortex, medial OFC, insula, caudate putamen and fusiform gyrus. Results show that satiated healthy females show an increased reward processing in response to low calorie foods. Confirming our hypothesis, food deprivation increased activity following the presentation of high calorie foods, which may explain why treatments of obesity energy restricting diets often are unsuccessful. Interestingly, activity in both the amygdala and mOFC was only evident when participants explicitly evaluated foods. However, attention independent activity was found in the mPFC following the high calorie foods cues when participants where hungry. Current findings indicate that research on how attention modulates food reward processing might prove especially insightful in the study of the neural substrates of healthy and pathological eating behaviour.
This study examined the effect of fluoxetine, a selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitor, on isolation-induced changes on sucrose consumption and preference, spontaneous open-field activity, forced swimming behavior, and on tissue levels of 5-HT and dopamine (DA) in hippocampus and ventral striatum (VS). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were reared in social isolation or group housing from postnatal day 28. Thirty-two days later, half of the isolated animals were orally treated with fluoxetine (10mg/kg/day) during the following 34 days. At the end of this period, behavior was assessed and afterward ex-vivo tissue samples were obtained. It was found that fluoxetine restored isolation-increased sucrose consumption and immobility behavior, without affecting locomotor activity, which appeared slightly increased in isolated groups both treated and untreated. In the hippocampus, isolation rearing depleted 5-HT contents and increased 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels, as well as 5-HT and DA turnover. These neurochemical alterations were reversed by fluoxetine. In VS, treated and untreated isolated rats showed higher 5-HT levels than grouped congeners. Although fluoxetine did not affect 5-HT and DA contents in this region, it slightly reversed the alterations in the 5-HT and DA turnover observed in isolated rats. Overall, social isolation impaired incentive and escape motivated behaviors. At the neurochemical level, isolation rearing affected 5-HT rather than DA activity, and this differential effect was more noticeable in hippocampus than in VS. The chronic treatment with fluoxetine during the last month of rearing somewhat prevented these behavioral and neurochemical alterations. Our data suggest that isolation rearing is an appropriate procedure to model some developmental-related alterations underlying depression disorders.
The capacity to seek and obtain rewards is essential for survival. Pavlovian conditioning is one mechanism by which organisms develop predictions about rewards and such anticipatory or expectancy states enable successful behavioral adaptations to environmental demands. Reward expectancies have both affective/motivational and discriminative properties that allow for the modulation of instrumental goal-directed behavior. Recent data provide evidence that different cognitive strategies (cue-outcome associations) and neural systems (amygdala) are used when subjects are trained under conditions that allow Pavlovian-induced reward expectancies to guide instrumental behavioral choices. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that impairments typically observed in a number of brain-damaged models are alleviated or eliminated by embedding unique reward expectancies into learning/memory tasks. These results suggest that Pavlovian-induced reward expectancies can change both behavioral and brain processes.
Studies have shown that disturbed sleep produced by chronic alcohol abuse in humans can predict relapse drinking after periods of abstinence. How alcohol produces disturbed sleep remains unknown. In this study we used a novel analysis of sleep to examine the effects of alcohol on sleep patterns in rats. This analysis separates waking into multiple components and defines a period labeled vigilance cycling (VC) in which the rat rapidly cycles through various vigilance states. These VC episodes are separated by long duration wake (LDW) periods. We find that 6 weeks of alcohol (6% in a liquid diet) caused fragmentation of extended VC episodes that normally occur in the light period. However, total daily amounts of slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid-eye movement sleep (REMS) remained constant. The daily amount of wake, SWS, and REMS remained constant because the alcohol treated rats increased the amount of VC in the dark period, and the sleep nature of VC in the dark period became more intense. In addition, we observed more wake and less REMS early in the light period in alcohol treated rats. All effects completely reversed by day 16 of alcohol withdrawal. Comparison of the effects of chronic alcohol to acute alcohol exposure demonstrated the effects of chronic alcohol are due to adaptation and not the acute presence of alcohol. The effects of chronic alcohol treatment in rats mimic the effects reported in humans (REMS suppression, difficulty falling asleep, and difficulty remaining asleep).
When Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) are defeated by a larger, more aggressive opponent, they subsequently produce more defensive and submissive behaviors and less chemosensory investigation and aggression, even when they are paired with a smaller, non-aggressive intruder. This persistent change in the behavior of defeated animals has been termed conditioned defeat. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is important for the acquisition and expression of conditioned defeat. We found that the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol infused into the BNST immediately prior to initial defeat training failed to disrupt the acquisition of conditioned defeat, while muscimol infused prior to testing caused a significant reduction in submissive/defensive behaviors and an increase in investigatory behaviors of the non-aggressive intruder. These results indicate that (1) the BNST, unlike the amygdala, does not appear to be critically involved in the consolidation process related to the memory of social defeat and (2) the BNST may be an important site for the execution of fear behaviors associated with social defeat. Considering the high degree of connectivity between the BNST and the amygdala, these findings provide further insight into the neural circuitry governing conditioned defeat and support the view of a functional dissociation between the amygdala and the BNST in the modulation of conditioned fear in an ethologically relevant model.
The purinergic P2X(7) receptor is a ligand-gated ion channel found on peripheral macrophages and microglia in the nervous system. Activation of P2X(7) receptors results in the rapid release of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta). Cytokines like IL-1 beta are suggested to be involved in the pathophysiology of depression. The aim of this study was to behaviorally profile P2X(7) receptor knockout (KO) mice in behavioral models of depression- and anxiety-like behaviors. P2X(7) receptor KO and wild type (WT) mice were tested in multiple models including; forced swim test, tail suspension test, elevated plus maze, novelty suppressed feeding, spontaneous locomotor activity, and food intake. P2X(7) receptor KO mice exhibited an antidepressant-like profile in tail suspension test and forced swim test; an effect that was not associated with changes in spontaneous locomotor activity. In addition, P2X(7) receptor KO mice showed higher responsivity to a subefficacious dose of the antidepressant drug imipramine (15 mg/kg) in forced swim test. No significant differences between genotypes were observed in models of anxiety. These data support the relevance of pro-inflammatory cytokines in depressive-like states, and suggest that P2X(7) receptor antagonists could be of potential interest for the treatment of affective disorders.


Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has quickly progressed from a technical curiosity to a bona-fide tool for neurological research. The impetus has been due to the promising results obtained when using TMS to uncover neural processes in normal human subjects, as well as in the treatment of intractable neurological conditions, such as stroke, chronic depression and epilepsy. The basic principle of TMS is that most neuronal axons that fall within the volume of magnetic stimulation become electrically excited, trigger action potentials and release neurotransmitter into the postsynaptic neurons. What happens afterwards remains elusive, especially in the case of repeated stimulation. Here we discuss the likelihood that certain TMS protocols produce long-term changes in cortical synapses akin to long-term potentiation and long-term depression of synaptic transmission. Beyond the synaptic effects, TMS might have consequences on other neuronal processes, such as genetic and protein regulation, and circuit-level patterns, such as network oscillations. Furthermore, TMS might have non-neuronal effects, such as changes in blood flow, which are still poorly understood.


Repeated amphetamine treatment results in behavioral sensitization in a high percentage of rats. Alterations to plasma corticosterone, neural monoamines and stress behavior can accompany amphetamine sensitization. Whether these changes occur following repeated amphetamine treatment in the absence of behavioral sensitization is not known. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline once daily for 6 days. Amphetamine-induced locomotion and stereotypy, open-field anxiety behavior, plasma corticosterone and limbic monoamines were measured during withdrawal. Sixty-two percent of amphetamine-treated rats showed behavioral sensitization over the test periods. Only amphetamine-sensitized rats showed increased latency to enter the center of the open-field, as well as increased plasma corticosterone when compared to saline-treated controls. Amphetamine-sensitized rats showed increased dopamine concentrations in the shell of the nucleus accumbens and increased serotonin concentrations in the dorsal hippocampus, which were not observed in amphetamine-treated non-sensitized rats. These findings suggest that anxiety behavior, plasma corticosterone and limbic monoamines concentrations are altered by repeated amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg) treatment, and that these neuroendocrine and behavioral changes are often associated with sensitization to the psychostimulant effects of amphetamine.
Phencyclidine (PCP) treatment induces social withdrawal in the rat model of schizophrenia but little is known about the qualitative adequacy of behaviors displayed during interactions. Affiliative, avoidance, and aggressive behaviors were examined in rats 20 h after the 1st, the 8th, and the 15th injection of 10 mg/kg of PCP or of a saline vehicle. PCP treatment reduced the initiation of affiliative contacts with a control congener and increased aggressive responses, in the absence of drug outcomes on time spent in social interaction. These results suggest that subchronic PCP administration in rats affects perception and appraisal of social situations as well as motivation to interact. Such pathological behaviors are consistent with the social impairments characteristic of human schizophrenia.
Among neuroscientists, astrocytes have for long played Cinderella to their neuron stepsisters. While the importance of glia in regulating brain activity was predicted by Ramon y Cajal more than a century ago (Garcia-Marin et al., Trends. Neurosci. 30:479-787, 2007), these cells, until recently, have been thought to play mainly a passive part in synaptic signaling. Results obtained over the last decade have begun to suggest otherwise. Experiments carried out in a number of labs have shown that glial cells, especially astrocytes, directly participate in synaptic signaling and potentially regulate synaptic plasticity and network excitability. The presence of signaling pathways on astrocytes that are analogous to those at presynaptic terminals suggests a role for these cells in network plasticity. Findings that the same signaling pathways can be activated by receptors for drugs of abuse present on astrocytes suggest a role for these cells in the addictive process. In this review, we summarize current understanding of astrocytic role in synaptic signaling and suggest that a complete understanding of the process of addiction requires a better understanding of the functional role of these cells.


Although older people contribute more and more to the increasing social burden of stroke, they are often excluded from potentially effective treatments in clinical practice. With the aim to separate myth from reality, we have examined the barriers preventing such therapies (with reference to atrial fibrillation, thrombolysis, carotid stenosis and patent foramen ovale) in the elderly. We conclude that elevated age alone should not be considered an exclusion criterion and both stroke physicians and researchers should make efforts to greatly improve management of these patients.







This study assessed incidental recognition of Alcohol and Neutral words in adolescents who encoded the words under distraction. Participants were 171 (87 male) 10th grade students, ages 14-16 (M=15.1) years. Testing was conducted by telephone: Participants listened to a list containing Alcohol and Neutral (Experimental--Group E, n=92) or only Neutral (Control--Group C, n=79) words, while counting backwards from 200 by two's. Recognition was tested immediately thereafter. Group C exhibited higher false recognition of Neutral than Alcohol items, whereas Group E displayed equivalent false rates for both word types. The reported number of alcohol TV ads seen in the past week predicted higher false recognition of Neutral words in Group C and of Alcohol words in Group E. False memory for Alcohol words in Group E was greater in males and high anxiety sensitive participants. These context-dependent biases may contribute to exaggerations in perceived drinking norms previously found to predict alcohol misuse in young drinkers.

Animal models have been widely used for studying the physiology and pharmacology of psychiatric and neurological diseases. The concepts of face, construct, and predictive validity are used as indicators to estimate the extent to which the animal model mimics the disease. Currently, we used these three concepts to design a theoretical assignment to integrate the teaching of neurophysiology, neuropharmacology, and experimental design. For this purpose, seven case studies were developed in which animal models for several psychiatric and neurological diseases were described and in which neuroactive drugs used to treat or study these diseases were introduced. Groups of undergraduate students were assigned to one of these case studies and asked to give a classroom presentation in which 1) the disease and underlying pathophysiology are described, 2) face and construct validity of the animal model are discussed, and 3) a pharmacological experiment with the associated neuroactive drug to assess predictive validity is presented. After evaluation of the presentations, we found that the students had gained considerable insight into disease phenomenology, its underlying neurophysiology, and the mechanism of action of the neuroactive drug. Moreover, the assignment was very useful in the teaching of experimental design, allowing an in-depth discussion of experimental control groups and the prediction of outcomes in these groups if the animal model were to display predictive validity. Finally, the highly positive responses in the student evaluation forms indicated that the assignment was of great interest to the students. Hence, the currently developed case studies constitute a very useful tool for teaching neurophysiology, neuropharmacology, and experimental design.
A small but significant number of HIV-2 cases have been reported from India. Although all HIV-2 viruses identified belong to subtype A, there are no studies on the diversity of the HIV-2 envelope and other genomic regions from India. Furthermore, HIV-2 envelope quasispecies in infected individuals has not been studied in detail. This study was designed to address these gaps existing in the epidemiology of HIV-2 in the country. Amongst the 4685 HIV-positive samples, 27 (0.57%) were positive for antibodies to HIV-2 by Western blot. Amplification of HIV-2 genomic regions was possible in 10 of these 27 samples. Sequences of the envelope C2V3C3 region (n = 8), partial stretches of LTR (n = 9), and gag-pol (n = 2) were analyzed. Sequences belonged to HIV-2 subtype A clustered together in the phylogenetic tree and were closely related to sequences reported from the neighboring states of Karnataka. The mean quasispecies diversity in a sample was found to be 3.5%.
Volumetric analysis of structural MR images of the brain may provide quantitative evidence of neurodegeneration and help identify patients at risk for rapid clinical deterioration. This note describes tests of a fully automated MR imaging postprocessing system for volumetric analysis of structures (such as the hippocampus) known to be affected in early Alzheimer disease (AD). The system yielded results that correlated highly with independent computer-aided manual segmentation and were sensitive to the anatomic atrophy characteristic of mild AD.






A major barrier to progress in Alzheimer's disease treatment research is the increasingly difficult task of recruiting elderly participants into clinical trials. We conducted an anonymous online survey of 676 adults (average age, 50 years) to examine perceived trust in different components of our healthcare-delivery and clinical-research systems, as well as willingness to participate in clinical trials. Respondents indicated the greatest amount of trust in family members, followed by family physicians. Only 3% of respondents &quot;completely&quot; trusted clinical researchers, whereas 62% of respondents trusted them &quot;somewhat&quot; to care for them during the course of a clinical trial. Trust in clinical researchers was modestly negatively correlated with income (r = -0.165, P &lt; .001), but was not significantly related to sex, race, or education. Respondents indicated the least amount of trust in industry sponsors, followed by regulatory authorities.
Drug abuse among women is a societal health problem which has received greater attention in recent years. Studies examining sex differences in drug abuse have shown consistent differences between males and females. In the current study, we retrospectively examined 75 treatment-seeking females to determine the relationships between intake measurements of psychopathology, intake urinalysis, menstrual cycle phase at admission, and treatment compliance. Our results support a relationship among these variables and a potential relationship between menstrual cycle phase and anxiety level is discussed. These results support the need for the development of individually tailored treatment programs.
The most widely accepted indication for a stat EEG (stEEG) is the suspicion of nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE). NCSE has been reported with surprising frequency in a wide variety of acute structural and metabolic brain injuries and significantly increases the risk of permanent brain damage and death. This risk rises and the effectiveness of treatment decreases with delays in diagnosis and increased duration of NCSE. Recent evidence confirms that more than half of NCSE patients improve with anti-seizure treatment. The emergence of NCSE as a common, dangerous, time-urgent, and treatable problem has positioned it as a target for emergency therapeutic intervention. NCSE can only be diagnosed by EEG testing, and stEEG has demonstrated value in improving NCSE management. As a result, in the near future, EEG laboratories will see increasing demands for stEEG related to NCSE. The two main obstacles to an effective stEEG program are EEG technologist coverage and electroencephalographer availability after work hours. We recommend three simple but fundamental changes in the traditional approach to stEEGs in order to overcome these obstacles: the use of EEG set-up templates by onsite personnel, easy access to EEG instruments after hours, and remote stEEG connectivity for real-time, off-site electroencephalographer interpretation.


Genetic contributions to human cognition and behavior are clear but difficult to define. Williams syndrome (WS) provides a unique model for relating single genes to visual-spatial cognition and social behavior. We defined a approximately 1.5 Mb region of approximately 25 genes deleted in &gt;98% of typical WS and then rare small deletions, showing that visual-spatial construction (VSC) in WS was associated with the genes GTF2IRD1 and GTF2I. To distinguish the roles of GTF2IRD1 and GTF2I in VSC and social behavior, we utilized multiple genomic methods (custom high resolution oligonucleotide microarray, multicolor FISH and somatic cell hybrids analyzed by PCR) to identify individuals deleted for either gene but not both. We analyzed genetic, cognitive and social behavior in a unique individual with WS features (heart defects, small size, facies), but with an atypical deletion of a set of genes that includes GTF2IRD1, but not GTF2I. The centromeric breakpoint localized to the region 72.32-72.38 Mb and the telomeric breakpoint to 72.66 Mb, 10 kb downstream of GTF2IRD1. Cognitive testing (WPPSI-R, K-BIT, and PLS-3) demonstrated striking deficits in VSC (Block Design, Object Assembly) but overall performance 1.5-3 SD above WS means. We have now integrated the genetic, clinical and cognitive data with previous reports of social behavior in this subject. These results combine with previous data from small deletions to suggest the gene GTF2IRD1 is associated with WS facies and VSC, and that GTF2I may contribute to WS social behaviors including increased gaze and attention to strangers.
The E693Delta mutation within the amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been suggested to cause dementia via the enhanced formation of synaptotoxic amyloid beta (Abeta) oligomers. However, this mutation markedly decreases Abeta secretion, implying the existence of an additional mechanism of neuronal dysfunction that is independent of extracellular Abeta. We therefore examined the effects of this mutation on both APP processing to produce Abeta as well as subcellular localization and accumulation of Abeta in transfected HEK293 and COS-7 cells. Both beta- and gamma-cleavage of mutant APP increased, indicating a lack of inhibition in Abeta production. Instead, this mutation promoted Abeta accumulation within cells, including the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi apparatus, early and late endosomes, lysosomes, and autophagosomes, all of which have been proposed as intracellular sites of Abeta generation and/or degradation, suggesting impairment of APP/Abeta trafficking. Notably, the intracellular mutant Abeta was found to predominantly form oligomers. Concomitant with this accumulation, the ER stress markers Grp78 and phosphorylated eIF2alpha were both strongly induced. Furthermore, the activation of caspase-4 and -3 as well as DNA fragmentation were detected in these cells. These results suggest that mutant Abeta induces alteration of Abeta trafficking and subsequent ER stress-induced apoptosis via enhancement of its intracellular oligomerization. Our findings suggest that Abeta oligomers exhibit toxicity in the extracellular space and within the cells themselves.
As in the case of most G protein-coupled receptors, agonist stimulation of human oxytocin receptors (OTRs) leads to desensitization and internalization; however, little is known about the subsequent intracellular OTR trafficking, which is crucial for reestablishing agonist responsiveness. We examined receptor resensitization by first using HEK293T cells stably expressing human OTRs. Upon agonist activation, the receptors were almost completely sequestered inside intracellular compartments that were not labeled by lysosomal markers, thus indicating that the internalized receptors were not sorted to these degrading organelles. Binding and fluorescence assays showed that almost 85% of the receptors had returned to the cell surface after 4 h, by which time cell responsiveness to the agonist was also completely restored, as shown by measuring phospholipase C activation. Similar results were also obtained in the presence of cycloheximide, thus indicating that receptor recycling and not de novo receptor synthesis was responsible for the resensitization. Notably, very similar internalization and recycling kinetics were observed in endogenous OTRs expressed on myometrial cells. We also investigated the role of beta-arrestin2 in OTR recycling as these receptors have been previously classified as slowly or nonrecycling receptors on the basis of their stable association with this interacting protein. Our data suggest that the stable OTR/beta-arrestin2 interaction plays an important role in determining the rate of recycling of human OTRs, but does not determine the fate of endocytosed receptors. Subsequent investigations of receptor recycling pathways showed that OTRs localize in vesicles containing the Rab5 and Rab4 small GTPases (markers of the &quot;short cycle&quot;), whereas there was no colocalization with Rab11 (a marker of the &quot;long cycle&quot;) or Rab7 (a marker of vesicles directed to endosomal/lysosomal compartments). Taken together, these data indicate that OTRs are capable of very efficient and complete resensitization due to receptor recycling via the short cycle.
Epidemiological studies suggest that maternal undernutrition predisposes the offspring to development of energy balance metabolic pathologies in adulthood. Using a model of a prenatal maternal 70% food-restricted diet (FR30) in rats, we evaluated peripheral parameters involved in nutritional regulation, as well as the hypothalamic appetite-regulatory system, in nonfasted and 48-h-fasted adult offspring. Despite comparable glycemia in both groups, mild glucose intolerance, with a defect in glucose-induced insulin secretion, was observed in FR30 animals. They also exhibited hyperleptinemia, despite similar visible fat deposits. Using semiquantitative RT-PCR, we observed no basal difference of hypothalamic proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene expression, but a decrease of the OB-Rb and an increase of insulin receptor mRNA levels, in FR30 animals. These animals also exhibited basal hypercorticosteronemia and a blunted increase of corticosterone in fasted compared with control animals. After fasting, FR30 animals showed no marked reduction of POMC mRNA levels or intensity of beta-endorphin-immunoreactive fiber projections. By contrast, NPY gene expression and immunoreactive fiber intensity increased. FR30 rats also displayed subtle alterations of food intake: body weight-related food intake was higher and light-dark phase rhythm and refeeding time course were modified after fasting. At rest, in the morning, hyperinsulinemia and a striking increase in the number of c-Fos-containing cells in the arcuate nucleus were observed. About 30% of the c-Fos-expressing cells were POMC neurons. Our data suggest that maternal undernutrition differently programs the long-term appetite-regulatory system of offspring, especially the response of POMC neurons to energy status and food intake rhythm.
There is an array of tests available to measure gastric motility. Some tests measure end points, such as gastric emptying, that result from several different functions, whereas other tests are more specific and test only a single parameter, such as contractility. This article reviews the tests most commonly available in practice and research to evaluate in vivo the gastric functions of emptying, accommodation, contractility, and myoelectrical activity. The rationale for testing, the relative strengths and weaknesses of each test, and technical details are summarized. We also briefly indicate the applications and validations of the tests for use in experimental animal studies.
Nerve, muscle, and inflammatory cells involved in gastrointestinal (GI) function have high-energy requirements and are affected in mitochondrial disorders. Familial aggregation of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) frequently involves mothers and their children. Since mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is maternally inherited, mtDNA single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) could confer risk to the development of IBS. The mtDNA SNPs, 16519C&gt;T and 3010G&gt;A, are associated with migraine and childhood cyclic vomiting syndrome. Our hypothesis is that these mtDNA SNPs are associated with functional GI disorders (FGIDs) and GI functions. The mt genome was first tested for the 7028C polymorphism (defining haplogroup H) in 699 patients or controls, and those with 7028C were further genotyped at 16519 and 3010. Phenotypes were based on symptoms (validated questionnaires and criteria) and GI physiology using validated motor and sensory studies. Constipation-predominant IBS and alternating constipation and diarrhea IBS are less prevalent in individuals with the 7028C mtDNA polymorphism than in individuals with 7028T. Conversely, 7028C is associated with higher maximum tolerated volume (lower satiation) compared with 7028T. Among those with 7028C, nonspecific abdominal pain (chronic abdominal pain or dyspepsia) was significantly associated with 3010A compared with 3010G (odds ratio 3.3, P=0.02), and slower gastric emptying was statistically associated with 3010G. There were no significant associations of mtDNA genotypes tested and stomach volumes, small bowel or colonic transit, rectal compliance, and motor or sensory functions. Thus variation in mtDNA may be associated with satiation, gastric emptying, and possibly pain; further studies of mtDNA in appetite regulation and larger numbers of patients with FGIDs are warranted.
The actions of cholecystokinin (CCK) on gastrointestinal functions occur mainly via paracrine effects on peripheral sensory vagal fibers, which engage vago-vagal brain stem circuits to convey effector responses back to the gastrointestinal tract. Recent evidence suggests, however, that CCK also affects brain stem structures directly. Many electrophysiological studies, including our own, have shown that brain stem vagal circuits are excited by sulfated CCK (CCK-8s) directly, and we have further demonstrated that CCK-8s induces a remarkable degree of plasticity in GABAergic brain stem synapses. In the present study, we used fasted, anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats to investigate the effects of brain stem administration of CCK-8s on gastric tone before and after activation of the esophageal-gastric reflex. CCK-8s microinjected in the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) or applied on the floor of the fourth ventricle induced an immediate and transient decrease in gastric tone. Upon recovery of gastric tone to baseline values, the gastric relaxation induced by esophageal distension was attenuated or even reversed. The effects of CCK-8s were antagonized by vagotomy or fourth ventricular, but not intravenous, administration of the CCK-A antagonist lorglumide, suggesting a central, not peripheral, site of action. The gastric relaxation induced by DVC microinjection of CCK-8s was unaffected by pretreatment with systemic bethanecol but was completely blocked by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, suggesting a nitrergic mechanism of action. These data suggest that 1) brain stem application of CCK-8s induces a vagally mediated gastric relaxation; 2) the CCK-8s-induced gastric relaxation is mediated via activation of nonadrenergic, noncholinergic pathways; and 3) CCK-8s reverses the esophageal-gastric reflex transiently.
Close intra-arterial infusion of the appetite regulating peptide orexin-A stimulates bicarbonate secretion from the duodenal mucosa. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the ability of orexin-A to induce intracellular calcium signaling in acutely isolated duodenal enterocytes. Freshly isolated clusters of enterocytes, obtained from rat duodenal mucosa or human duodenal biopsies, were loaded with fura 2-AM and mounted in a perfusion chamber. Cryptlike enterocytes were selected (caged), and changes in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) were evaluated by fluorescence imaging. Total RNA was extracted from pellets of enterocytes and reverse transcribed to cDNA, and expression of orexin receptors 1 and 2 (OX1R and OX2R) was measured by quantitative real-time PCR. Orexin-A at all concentrations tested (1-100 nM) increased [Ca2+]i in enterocytes isolated from continuously fed rats, and the OX1R-antagonist SB-334867 (10 nM) attenuated the response. The primary [Ca2+]i response was a slow increase to a sustained plateau persisting after orexin-A removal, and a similar response was observed in enterocytes from human biopsies. In contrast to orexin-A, the OX2R agonist (Ala11,D-Leu15)-orexin-B (1-10 nM) did not induce calcium signaling. There were no significant [Ca2+]i responses in enterocytes from animals food deprived overnight, and overnight fasting decreased (P&lt;0.01) enterocyte OX1R as well as OX2R mRNA. Induction of intracellular calcium signaling in isolated duodenal enterocytes is thus mediated primarily by OX1R receptors. Short (overnight) food deprivation markedly depresses receptor expression and inhibits orexin-A induced increases in [Ca2+]i. Studies of enterocyte signaling and intestinal secretion requires particular evaluation regarding feeding status.
We studied the CO(2)/H(+)-chemosensitive responses of individual solitary complex (SC) neurons from adult rats by simultaneously measuring the intracellular pH (pH(i)) and electrical responses to hypercapnic acidosis (HA). SC neurons were recorded using the blind whole cell patch-clamp technique and loading the soma with the pH-sensitive dye pyranine through the patch pipette. We found that SC neurons from adult rats have a lower steady-state pH(i) than SC neurons from neonatal rats. In the presence of chemical and electrical synaptic blockade, adult SC neurons have firing rate responses to HA (percentage of neurons activated or inhibited and the magnitude of response as determined by the chemosensitivity index) that are similar to SC neurons from neonatal rats. They also have a typical response to isohydric hypercapnia, including decreased DeltapH(i), followed by pH(i) recovery, and increased firing rate. Thus, the chemosensitive response of SC neurons from adults is similar to the chemosensitive response of SC neurons from neonatal rats. Because our findings for adults are similar to previously reported values for neurons from neonatal rats, we conclude that intrinsic chemosensitivity is established early in development for SC neurons and is maintained throughout adulthood.

During conflicts, animals may perform displays that convey information about their future antagonistic behavior. Although theory once predicted that such signals of &quot;intent&quot; would be utterly susceptible to dishonesty, empirical studies have established that animals sometimes do signal their intentions. It remains unclear, however, what level of honesty exists within such signals. Here I report interactive-model experiments designed to expose instances of falsified intent and to reveal how frequently signalers within an invertebrate population lie about their impending hostile actions. Hermit crabs (Pagurus bernhardus) were given the opportunity to aggressively threaten an approaching model, and their subsequent behavior was then examined after the model fled from them or probed them to the point of imminent collision. Discrepancies between an individual's advertised intention and what it actually did next were infrequent. If the model fled, nearly all crabs remained in place, regardless of whether they had initially threatened. If the model probed, crabs that threatened reliably stood their ground, thus backing up their threat, whereas those that did not threaten tended to back down and retreat. Much of what has been regarded as &quot;lying about intent&quot; in prior nonexperimental studies may actually represent uncontrolled noise, especially recipient-response dynamics.
Administration of mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonists is known to produce adaptive changes within noradrenergic neurons of the rat locus coeruleus (LC). Alterations in the subcellular distribution of MOR have been shown to occur in the LC in response to full agonists and endogenous peptides; however, there is considerable debate in the literature whether trafficking of MOR occurs after chronic exposure to the partial-agonist morphine. In the present study, we examined adaptations in MOR after chronic opioid exposure using immunofluorescence and electron microscopy (EM), using receptor internalization as a functional endpoint. MOR trafficking in LC neurons was characterized in morphine-dependent rats that were given naltrexone at a dose known to precipitate withdrawal. After chronic morphine exposure, a subtle redistribution of MOR immunoreactivity from the membrane to the cytosol was detected within dendrites of LC neurons. Interestingly, an acute injection of naltrexone in rats exposed to chronic morphine produced a robust internalization of MOR, whereas administration of naltrexone failed to do so in nave animals. These findings provide anatomical evidence for modified regulation of MOR trafficking after chronic morphine treatment in brain noradrenergic neurons. Adaptations in the MOR signaling pathways that regulate internalization may occur as a consequence of chronic treatment and precipitation of withdrawal. Mechanisms underlying this effect might include differential MOR regulation in the LC, or downstream effects of withdrawal-induced enkephalin (ENK) release from afferents to the LC.
How nonhuman primates process pictures of natural scenes or objects remains a matter of debates. This issue was addressed in the current research by questioning the processing of the canonical orientation of pictures in baboons. Two adult guinea baboons were trained to use an interactive key (IK) on a touch-screen to change the orientation of target pictures showing humans or quadruped mammals until upright. In experiment 1, both baboons successfully learned to use the IK when that key induced a 90 degrees rightward rotation of the picture, but post-training transfer of performance did not occur to novel pictures of natural scenes due to potential motor biases. In Experiment 2, a touch on IK randomly displayed the pictures in any of the four cardinal orientations. Baboons successfully learned the task, but transfer to novel pictures could only be demonstrated after they had been exposed to 360-480 pictures in that condition. Experiment 3 confirmed positive transfers to novel pictures, and showed that both the figure and background information controlled the behavior. Our research on baboons therefore demonstrates the development and use of an &quot;upright&quot; concept, and indicates that picture processing modes strongly depend on the subject's past experience with naturalistic pictorial stimuli.
Several experiments have been performed to examine the great apes' use of experimenter-given manual and visual cues in object-choice tasks. Considering their use of referential gestures in gaze-following paradigms, great apes perform surprisingly unsuccessfully in object-choice tasks. However, the large majority of object-choice experiments have been conducted with chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) with very few experiments including other great ape species, making it difficult to generalize about the great apes. Interestingly, the only object-choice task conducted with gorillas (Gorilla gorilla) has indicated successful use of both manual and visual cues. It was the aim of the present study to gather more data on gorillas' use of human manual and facial cues on the object-choice task. Gorilla subjects in this study did not show consistent use of three types of referential cues.
This review outlines the scientific rationale supporting the potential use of deep-brain electrical stimulation (DBS) in the central thalamus as a method to improve behavioral responsiveness following severe brain injury. Neurons within the central thalamus are selectively vulnerable to disconnection and dysfunction following severe brain injuries because of their unique geometry of cerebral connections. Because the central thalamus plays a key role in forebrain arousal regulation, impaired function of these cells has a broad impact. Prior clinical investigations, however, have targeted some components of the thalamus and related subcortical structures to improve behavioral responsiveness after severe brain injuries without providing evidence of sustained and clinically meaningful behavioral effects. Here important differences in conceptual framework, consideration of diagnostic categories for patient selection, and anticipated mechanisms of effect that distinguish earlier approaches and current studies are reviewed. As opposed to targeting chronically unresponsive patients, current efforts focus on identification of conscious patients with significant preservation of large-scale integrative cerebral networks. The potential mechanisms and limitations of this evolving strategy are discussed, including the need to develop frameworks to calibrate patient selection to potential clinical benefits, range of potential effect size, and other present unknowns.
The corticothalamic system is organized to play a key role in synchronizing the activities of thalamic and cortical neurons. Its synapses dominate the inputs to relay cells and to the GABAergic cells of the reticular nucleus; its organization in focused and diffuse projections promotes both coherent activity of relay neurons and the spread of activity across the cortex and thalamus. The capacity of relay neurons to operate in voltage-dependent tonic or burst mode permits corticothalamic inputs to directly excite the relay cells or indirectly inhibit them via the reticular nucleus. This enables the corticothalamic projection to synchronize high- or low-frequency oscillatory activity, respectively, in the thalamo-corticothalamic network. Differences in the subunit composition of AMPA receptors at synapses formed by branches of the same corticothalamic axon in the reticular nucleus and dorsal thalamus are an important element in the capacity of the cortex to synchronize low-frequency oscillations in the network. Intrinsic voltage-gated calcium channels of different kinds expressed in the relay neurons form a substrate for corticothalamic interactions with the relay cells that promote high- or low-frequency oscillations. Focused corticothalamic axons arising from layer VI cortical cells and diffuse corticothalamic axons arising from layer V cortical cells, in conjunction with the core and matrix cells of the dorsal thalamus, form a substrate for synchronization of widespread populations of cortical and thalamic cells during high-frequency oscillations that underlie discrete conscious events.
The rapid advancement of neuroimaging methodology and its growing availability has transformed neuroscience research. The answers to many questions that we ask about how the brain is organized depend on the quality of data that we are able to obtain about the locations, dynamics, fluctuations, magnitudes, and types of brain activity and structural changes. In this review an attempt is made to take a snapshot of the cutting edge of a small component of the very rapidly evolving field of neuroimaging. For each area covered, a brief context is provided along with a summary of a few of the current developments and issues. Then, several outstanding papers, published in the past year or so, are described, providing an example of the directions in which each area is progressing. The areas covered include functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), voxel-based morphometry (VBM), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), electroencephalography (EEG), magnetoencephalography (MEG), optical imaging, and positron emission tomography (PET). More detail is included on fMRI; its subsections include fMRI interpretation, new fMRI contrasts, MRI technology, MRI paradigms and processing, and endogenous oscillations in fMRI.
Mathematicians frequently evoke their &quot;intuition&quot; when they are able to quickly and automatically solve a problem, with little introspection into their insight. Cognitive neuroscience research shows that mathematical intuition is a valid concept that can be studied in the laboratory in reduced paradigms, and that relates to the availability of &quot;core knowledge&quot; associated with evolutionarily ancient and specialized cerebral subsystems. As an illustration, I discuss the case of elementary arithmetic. Intuitions of numbers and their elementary transformations by addition and subtraction are present in all human cultures. They relate to a brain system, located in the intraparietal sulcus of both hemispheres, which extracts numerosity of sets and, in educated adults, maps back and forth between numerical symbols and the corresponding quantities. This system is available to animal species and to preverbal human infants. Its neuronal organization is increasingly being uncovered, leading to a precise mathematical theory of how we perform tasks of number comparison or number naming. The next challenge will be to understand how education changes our core intuitions of number.
The study of music perception and cognition is one of the oldest topics in experimental psychology. The last 20 years have seen an increased interest in understanding the functional neuroanatomy of music processing in humans, using a variety of technologies including fMRI, PET, ERP, MEG, and lesion studies. We review current findings in the context of a rich intellectual history of research, organized by the cognitive systems underlying different aspects of human musical behavior. We pay special attention to the perception of components of musical processing, musical structure, laterality effects, cultural issues, links between music and movement, emotional processing, expertise, and the amusias. Current trends are noted, such as the increased interest in evolutionary origins of music and comparisons of music and language. The review serves to demonstrate the important role that music can play in informing broad theories of higher order cognitive processes such as music in humans.
Expectations, positive or negative, are modulating factors influencing behavior. They are also thought to underlie placebo effects, potentially impacting perceptions and biological processes. We used sustained pain as a model to determine the neural mechanisms underlying placebo-induced analgesia and affective changes in healthy humans. Subjects were informed that they could receive either an active agent or an inactive compound, similar to routine clinical trials. Using PET and the mu-opioid selective radiotracer [(11)C]carfentanil we demonstrate placebo-induced activation of opioid neurotransmission in a number of brain regions. These include the rostral anterior cingulate, orbitofrontal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior and posterior insula, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, thalamus, hypothalamus, and periaqueductal grey. Some of these regions overlap with those involved in pain and affective regulation but also motivated behavior. The activation of endogenous opioid neurotransmission was further associated with reductions in pain report and negative affective state. Additional studies with the radiotracer [(11)C]raclopride, studies labeling dopamine D2/3 receptors, also demonstrate the activation of nucleus accumbens dopamine during placebo administration under expectation of analgesia. Both dopamine and opioid neurotransmission were related to expectations of analgesia and deviations from those initial expectations. When the activity of the nucleus accumbens was probed with fMRI using a monetary reward expectation paradigm, its activation was correlated with both dopamine, opioid responses to placebo in this region and the formation of placebo analgesia. These data confirm that specific neural circuits and neurotransmitter systems respond to the expectation of benefit during placebo administration, inducing measurable physiological changes.
As critical as waking brain function is to cognition, an extensive literature now indicates that sleep supports equally important, different yet complementary operations. This review will consider recent and emerging findings implicating sleep and specific sleep-stage physiologies in the modulation, regulation, and even preparation of cognitive and emotional brain processes. First, evidence for the role of sleep in memory processing will be discussed, principally focusing on declarative memory. Second, at a neural level several mechanistic models of sleep-dependent plasticity underlying these effects will be reviewed, with a synthesis of these features offered that may explain the ordered structure of sleep, and the orderly evolution of memory stages. Third, accumulating evidence for the role of sleep in associative memory processing will be discussed, suggesting that the long-term goal of sleep may not be the strengthening of individual memory items, but, instead, their abstracted assimilation into a schema of generalized knowledge. Fourth, the newly emerging benefit of sleep in regulating emotional brain reactivity will be considered. Finally, and building on this latter topic, a novel hypothesis and framework of sleep-dependent affective brain processing will be proposed, culminating in testable predictions and translational implications for mood disorders.
The phenomenon of synesthesia has occupied the thoughts of philosophers and artists for decades. With the advent modern behavioral and brain imaging techniques, scientific research on synesthesia has also moved into the mainstream of thought. Here I provide a cognitive neuroscience perspective on the condition, with a particular emphasis on grapheme-color synesthesia, the most common variant, in which individuals report vivid and consistent experiences of color in association with numerals, letters, and words. Behavioral studies have revealed several fundamental properties of induced synesthetic colors. First, although they seem to arise automatically, without the need for voluntary control, they are strongly modulated by selective attention. Second, they attain salience relatively early in visual processing, and so can influence perceptual judgments and guide focal attention in cluttered, achromatic displays. Third, brain activity during synesthetic color experiences arises from within the ventral temporal lobe, including color-selective area V4. It has been speculated that grapheme-color synesthesia arises from disinhibited feedback or abnormal cross-wiring between brain regions involved in extracting visual form and color.
The phenomenon of empathy entails the ability to share the affective experiences of others. In recent years social neuroscience made considerable progress in revealing the mechanisms that enable a person to feel what another is feeling. The present review provides an in-depth and critical discussion of these findings. Consistent evidence shows that sharing the emotions of others is associated with activation in neural structures that are also active during the first-hand experience of that emotion. Part of the neural activation shared between self- and other-related experiences seems to be rather automatically activated. However, recent studies also show that empathy is a highly flexible phenomenon, and that vicarious responses are malleable with respect to a number of factors--such as contextual appraisal, the interpersonal relationship between empathizer and other, or the perspective adopted during observation of the other. Future investigations are needed to provide more detailed insights into these factors and their neural underpinnings. Questions such as whether individual differences in empathy can be explained by stable personality traits, whether we can train ourselves to be more empathic, and how empathy relates to prosocial behavior are of utmost relevance for both science and society.
The neocortex is the part of the brain that is involved in perception, cognition, and volitional motor control. In mammals it is a highly dynamic structure that has been dramatically altered in different lineages, and these alterations account for the remarkable variations in behavior that species exhibit. When we consider how this structure changes and becomes more complex in some mammals such as humans, we must also consider how the alterations that occur at macro levels of organization, such as the level of the individual and social system, as well as micro levels of organization, such as the level of neurons, synapses and molecules, impact the neocortex. It is also important to consider the constraints imposed on the evolution of the neocortex. Observations of highly conserved features of cortical organization that all mammals share, as well as the convergent evolution of similar features of organization, indicate that the constraints imposed on the neocortex are pervasive and restrict the avenues along which evolution can proceed. Although both genes and the laws of physics place formidable constraints on the evolution of all animals, humans have evolved a number of mechanisms that allow them to loosen these constraints and often alter the course of their own evolution. While this cortical plasticity is a defining feature of mammalian neocortex, it appears to be exaggerated in humans and could be considered a unique derivation of our species.
It is known that unpleasant emotions can modulate the speed of involuntary movements, yet the effects of aversive stimulation on voluntary motor acts have not been systematically investigated. The effects of aversive stimulation on subsequent movement-related cortical activity were examined using a task invalving compatible and incompatible movements. Negative shifts in the timing of two motor event-related potentials were found subsequent to aversive stimulation for compatible movements only. With analogy to the Fear-Potentiated Startle Reflex, a reactive mechanism affecting covert action, these Fear-Potentiated Movement-Related Potentials (FPMPs) reflect preparation for overt actions performed to cope with particular types of danger. Further analysis revealed a positive deflection in the left frontal cortex prior the execution of incompatible movements, which may reflect inhibitory suppression of externally-triggered imitative tendencies.
The &quot;default-mode&quot; network is an ensemble of cortical regions that are typically deactivated during demanding cognitive tasks in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies. Using functional connectivity analysis, this network can be studied as a &quot;stand-alone&quot; brain system whose functional role is supposed to consist in the dynamic control of intrinsic processing activities like attention focusing and task-unrelated thought generation and suppression. Independent component analysis (ICA) is the method of choice for generating a statistical image of the &quot;default-mode&quot; network (DMN) using a task- and seed-independent distributed model of fMRI functional connectivity without prior specification of node region extent and timing of neural activation. We used a standard graded working-memory task (n-back) to induce fMRI changes in the default-mode regions and ICA to evaluate to DMN functional connectivity in nineteen healthy volunteers. Based on the known spatial variability of the ICA-DMN maps with the task difficulty levels, we hypothesized the ICA-DMN may also correlate with the subject performances. We confirmed that the relative extent of the anterior and posterior midline spots within the DMN were oppositely (resp. positively in the anterior and negatively in the posterior cingulate cortex) correlated with the level of task difficulty and found out that the spatial distribution of DMN also correlates with the individual task performances. We conclude that the working-memory function is related to a spatial re-configuration of the DMN functional connectivity, and that the relative involvement of the cingulate regions within the DMN might function as a novel predictor of the working-memory efficiency.



This exploratory study assessed interpersonal sensitivity and dysfunctional cognitions in patients with social phobia and depression. Thirty patients with social phobia/depression were compared with community sample of 30 participants on measures of interpersonal sensitivity and dependency. The clinical sample also responded to measures of dysfunctional cognitions, anxiety and depression. Test retest reliability for the IPSM was established. Results indicated higher interpersonal sensitivity and dependency in clinical sample and positive correlations between interpersonal sensitivity, dependency and dysfunctional attitudes. Anxiety was associated with both interpersonal measures. The paper discusses implications of interpersonal sensitivity for psychological interventions and cultural differences.

The expression of motor activity levels in response to novel situations is under complex genetic and environmental control. Several genetic loci have been implicated in the regulation of this behavioral phenotype, but their relationship to epigenetic and epistatic interactions is relatively unknown. Here, we report on a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on mouse chromosome 1 for novelty-induced motor activity in the open field, using chromosome substitution strains derived from a high active host strain (C57BL/6J) and a low active donor strain (A/J). The QTL for open field (horizontal distance moved) peaked at the location of Kcnj9, however, QTL detection was initially masked by an interplay of both grandparent genetic origin and genetic co-factors influencing behavior on chromosome 1. Our findings indicate that epigenetic interactions can play an important role in the identification of behavioral QTLs and must be taken into consideration when applying behavioral genetic strategies.
Siberian hamsters develop hypophagia and increase catabolism of fat reserves in response to short photoperiods resulting in a natural loss of body weight in winter. We previously found that histamine 3 receptor (H3R) mRNA in the posterior hypothalamus is significantly decreased in short photoperiods. We hypothesized that this lower expression of H3R might contribute to the winter hypophagic state, therefore we examined the effects of the H3R agonist imetit and inverse agonists clobenpropit and thioperamide on food intake. We expressed the Siberian hamster H3R receptor in vitro and confirmed that imetit, clobenpropit and thioperamide are bound specifically, thus validating them as tools to investigate the role of H3R in vivo. Intracerebroventricular administration of histamine decreased food intake in hamsters in the fat summer state. Administration of imetit to hamsters in the lean state increased food intake, whereas administration of inverse agonists decreased food intake, though this was associated with decreased locomotor activity. Both H3R inverse agonists prevented the nocturnal rise in body temperature indicating additional effects on energy expenditure. In summary, our results suggest that increased availability of central histamine or the reduction of H3R activity decrease food intake. These effects are similar to those observed in hamsters in short photoperiods.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a disorder characterized by unwanted and intrusive thoughts, images, or impulses and/or repetitive behavior. OCD is a major cause of disability; however, the genetic factors and pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this complex, heterogeneous disorder remain largely unknown. During the past decade, a number of putative mouse genetic models of OCD have been developed for the purpose of studying the neural mechanisms underlying this disorder and developing novel treatments. This review presents and evaluates these experimental preparations to date. Models using knockout or transgenic approaches, as well as those examining variation in genetically diverse populations, are evaluated and discussed.
Mood and anxiety disorders, and rodent phenotypic measures modeling these disorders, have a strong genetic component. Various assays are used to study the neurobiological basis of fear-related and anxiety-related behaviors, phenotype genetically modified mice, and elucidate pharmacological modulation of these behaviors for medication development. Earlier work, however, suggests that different trait measures are mediated by partly overlapping but ultimately distinct genetic factors. In this study, we assessed a novel panel of 23 C57BL/6JxDBA/2J (BXD) recombinant inbred strains on various trait measures of Pavlovian fear conditioning and anxiety-like behavior (novel open field, elevated plus-maze), as well as sensory (acoustic startle, prepulse inhibition of startle) and motor (baseline coordination and learning on accelerating rotarod) function. Results showed that traits were continuously distributed across strains and had modest to strong R values. Principal components analysis resolved the data into five factors: factor 1 loaded fear-related traits, factor 2 loaded elevated plus-maze measures as well as context fear, factor 3 loaded novel open field measures and plus-maze closed arm entries, factor 4 loaded rotarod motor function, and factor 5 loaded acoustic startle and prepulse inhibition. These data add to evidence that murine measures of fear-like and anxiety-like traits reflect distinct constructs mediated by dissociable gene variants.
Food storing is seasonal in birds like chickadees, nuthatches and jays, occurring at high levels in fall and winter and low levels in spring and summer. Memory for cache sites is hippocampus dependent in chickadees and both the recruitment of new neurons into the hippocampus and the total size of the hippocampus change seasonally. Unlike seasonal change in the vocal control nuclei of songbirds, however, change in the hippocampus appears not to be controlled by photoperiod. The annual timing of hippocampal neuronal recruitment and change in hippocampal size is quite variable, reaching maximum levels at different times of year in different studies. The amount of food-storing activity by chickadees is known to be influenced by flock dominance structure, energy balance, food availability, and other seasonally varying factors. The variable timing of seasonal change in the hippocampus may indicate that the hippocampus of food-storing birds changes annually in response to change in the intensity of food storing behaviour itself.
In &quot;The Snark is a Boojum&quot;, Beach [Beach, F.A., 1950. The snark was a boojum. American Psychologist. 5, 115-124] famously asserted that animal psychology embraced too few species and too few problems to deserve the name comparative. Later in the 20th century, others [e.g. Kamil, A.C., 1988. A synthetic approach to the study of animal intelligence. In: Leger, D.W. (Ed.), Comparative Perspectives in Modern Psychology. Nebraska Symposium on Motivation, vol. 35. University of Nebraska Press, Lincoln, NE, pp. 230-257; Shettleworth, S.J., 1993. Where is the comparison in comparative cognition? Alternative research programs. Psychological Science. 4, 179-184] expressed similar concerns about the new subfield of comparative cognition, suggesting that a more biological approach to choice of species and problems was needed to balance a dominant anthropocentrism. The last 10-15 years have seen many new developments, and a recent survey like Beach's reveals a very different picture. Not only are many more species being studied, contributions by researchers from different backgrounds are increasing, and research on comparative cognition is better connected with developmental psychology, behavioral neuroscience, primatology, behavioral ecology, and other fields. Contemporary research addresses three major aspects of cognition about equally: basic processes, physical cognition, and social cognition. This article describes a selected research program from each area, chosen to exemplify current trends and challenges for the field.
For over 200 years, Western courts have considered pleas of &quot;not guilty by reason of insanity&quot; (NGRI) for defendants in possession of a mental defect rendering them unable to understand the wrongfulness of their act. Until recently, determining the mental state of a defendant has fallen largely upon the shoulders of court psychologists and experts in psychiatry for qualitative assessments related to NGRI pleas and mitigation at sentencing. However, advances in neuroscience--particularly neurological scanning techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), computed tomography scanning (CT), and positron emission tomography scanning (PET)--may provide additional, pertinent biological evidence as to whether an organically based mental defect exists. With increasing frequency, criminal defense attorneys are integrating neuroimaging data into hearings related to determinations of guilt and sentencing mitigation. This is of concern, since not all brain lesions and abnormalities indicate a compromised mental state that is relevant to knowing whether the act was wrong at the time of commission, and juries may be swayed by neuroscientific evidence that is not relevant to the determination of the legal question before them. This review discusses historical and modern cases involving the intersection of brain lesions and criminality, neuroscientific perspectives of how particular types of lesions may contribute to a legally relevant mental defect, and how such evidence might best be integrated into a criminal trial.

This article is a review of psychological and neuroscience research addressing how juror decision making is influenced by emotion elicited from potentially disturbing evidence such as gruesome autopsy photographs, victim impact statements, and information about a defendant's tragic personal history presented as mitigating evidence. We review (a) converging evidence suggesting that the presence versus absence of such evidence results in more punitive juror judgments, (b) social cognition theories that provide potential explanations for these effects, and (c) neuroscience research aimed at understanding the role of emotion in moral judgments by identifying how brain activity is affected by emotion-eliciting stimuli. We argue that neuroimaging evidence showing that emotional stimuli cause heightened emotion and decreased effortful cognitive processing is relevant in understanding jurors' increased punitiveness after being exposed to emotional evidence, and in turn relevant to debates about the admissibility of emotional evidence in courts of law. Ultimately, we argue for more ecologically valid psychological research to clarify these important issues.
Controversies surrounding the value of neuroscience as forensic evidence are explored from the perspective of the philosophy of mind, as well as from a practical analysis of the state of the scientific research literature. At a fundamental philosophical level there are profound differences in how law and neuroscience view the issue of criminal responsibility along the continuum from free will to determinism. At a more practical level, significant limitations in the current state of neuroimaging research constrain its ability to inform legal decision-making. Scientifically supported and unsupported forensic applications for brain imaging are discussed, and recommendations for forensic report writing are offered.
Modern advancements in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) technology have given neuroscientists the opportunity to more fully appreciate the brain's contribution to human behavior and decision making. Morality and moral reasoning are relative newcomers to the growing literature on decision neuroscience. With recent attention given to the salience of moral factors (e.g. moral emotions, moral reasoning) in the process of decision making, neuroscientists have begun to offer helpful frameworks for understanding the interplay between the brain, morality, and human decision making. These frameworks are relatively unfamiliar to the community of forensic psychologists, despite the fact that they offer an improved understanding of judicial decision making from a biological perspective. This article presents a framework reviewing how event-feature-emotion complexes (EFEC) are relevant to jurors and understanding complex criminal behavior. Future directions regarding converging fields of neuroscience and legal decision making are considered.

The ROCO family of multidomain proteins extends across the eukaryotes, and has been implicated in numerous cellular processes. Following the description of mutations causing PD (Parkinson's disease) in a human representative of the ROCO family, LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2), a great deal of research has been carried out into these proteins. This review examines the published data regarding the roles the ROCO proteins are thought to play in cell processes, and how the structure and domain organization of these proteins relates to their function.
Reinforcement learning methods can be used in robotics applications especially for specific target-oriented problems, for example the reward-based recalibration of goal directed actions. To this end still relatively large and continuous state-action spaces need to be efficiently handled. The goal of this paper is, thus, to develop a novel, rather simple method which uses reinforcement learning with function approximation in conjunction with different reward-strategies for solving such problems. For the testing of our method, we use a four degree-of-freedom reaching problem in 3D-space simulated by a two-joint robot arm system with two DOF each. Function approximation is based on 4D, overlapping kernels (receptive fields) and the state-action space contains about 10,000 of these. Different types of reward structures are being compared, for example, reward-on- touching-only against reward-on-approach. Furthermore, forbidden joint configurations are punished. A continuous action space is used. In spite of a rather large number of states and the continuous action space these reward/punishment strategies allow the system to find a good solution usually within about 20 trials. The efficiency of our method demonstrated in this test scenario suggests that it might be possible to use it on a real robot for problems where mixed rewards can be defined in situations where other types of learning might be difficult.
Self-organizing feature maps (SOFMs) represent a dimensionality-reduction algorithm that has been used to replicate feature topographies observed experimentally in primary visual cortex (V1). We used the SOFM algorithm to model possible topographies of generic sensory cortical areas containing up to five arbitrary physiological features. This study explored the conditions under which these multi-feature SOFMs contained two features that were mapped monotonically and aligned orthogonally with one another (i.e., &quot;globally orthogonal&quot;), as well as the conditions under which the map of one feature aligned with the longest anatomical dimension of the modeled cortical area (i.e., &quot;dominant&quot;). In a single SOFM with more than two features, we never observed more than one dominant feature, nor did we observe two globally orthogonal features in the same map in which a dominant feature occurred. Whether dominance or global orthogonality occurred depended upon how heavily weighted the features were relative to one another. The most heavily weighted features are likely to correspond to those physical stimulus properties transduced directly by the sensory epithelium of a particular sensory modality. Our results imply, therefore, that in the primary cortical area of sensory modalities with a two-dimensional sensory epithelium, these two features are likely to be organized globally orthogonally to one another, and neither feature is likely to be dominant. In the primary cortical area of sensory modalities with a one-dimensional sensory epithelium, however, this feature is likely to be dominant, and no two features are likely to be organized globally orthogonally to one another. Because the auditory system transduces a single stimulus feature (i.e., frequency) along the entire length of the cochlea, these findings may have particular relevance for topographic maps of primary auditory cortex.
In this study, we describe a model of motion integration in smooth eye pursuit based on a recursive Bayesian estimation process, which displays a dynamic behaviour qualitatively similar to the dynamics of the motion integration process observed experimentally, both psychophysically in humans and monkeys, and physiologically in monkeys. By formulating the model as an approximate version of a Kalman filter algorithm, we have been able to show that it can be put into a neurally plausible, distributed recurrent form which coarsely corresponds to the recurrent circuitry of visual cortical areas V1 and MT. The model thus provides further support for the notion that the motion integration process is based on a form of Bayesian estimation, as has been suggested by many psychophysical studies, and moreover suggests that the observed dynamic properties of this process are the result of the recursive nature of the motion estimation.
Protection of neurons from neuronal damage and cell death in neurodegenerative disease is a major challenge in neuroscience research. Donepezil, galantamine and tacrine are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, and were believed to be symptomatic drugs whose therapeutic effects are achieved by slowing the hydrolysis of acetylcholine at synaptic termini. However, recent accumulated evidence strongly suggests that these acetylcholinesterase inhibitors also possess neuroprotective properties whose mechanism is independent of acetylcholinesterase inhibition. We have shown that acetylcholinesterase inhibitors protect neurons from glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in the primary culture of rat cortical neurons. It was also found that acetylcholinesterase inhibitor treatment induces up-regulation of nicotinic receptor expression levels, a property which may also have some bearing on their therapeutic effects. We next showed that alpha4 and alpha7-nicotinic receptors play important roles in acetylcholinesterase inhibitor-induced neuroprotection and nicotinic receptor up-regulation. Our results also demonstrate the important roles of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway downstream of nicotinic receptors in protecting neurons from death and up-regulating nicotinic receptors. This review summarizes recent findings on the roles of the nicotinic receptor in acetylcholinesterase inhibitor-induced neuroprotection and nicotinic receptor up-regulation.
Structural simplification of the core moieties of obeline and ergoline somatostatin sst(1) receptor antagonists, followed by systematic optimization, led to the identification of novel, highly potent and selective sst(1) receptor antagonists. These achiral, non-peptidic compounds are easily prepared and show promising PK properties in rodents.
A novel class of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists has been discovered through high-throughput screening. The cis gamma-lactam scaffold has been optimized to reveal highly potent and selective alpha7 nAChR agonists with in vitro activity and selectivity and with good brain penetration in mice.





The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs), the most common neurodegenerative disorders of childhood, are characterized by the accumulation of autofluorescent storage material mainly in neurons. Although clinically rather uniform, variant late-infantile onset NCL (vLINCL) is genetically heterogeneous with four major underlying genes identified so far. We evaluated the genetic background underlying vLINCL in 119 patients, and specifically analysed the recently reported CLN7/MFSD8 gene for mutations in 80 patients. Clinical data were collected from the CLN7/MFSD8 mutation positive patients. Eight novel CLN7/MFSD8 mutations and seven novel mutations in the CLN1/PPT1, CLN2/TPP1, CLN5, CLN6 and CLN8 genes were identified in patients of various ethnic origins. A significant group of Roma patients originating from the former Czechoslovakia was shown to bear the c.881C&gt;A (p.Thr294Lys) mutation in CLN7/MFSD8, possibly due to a founder effect. With one exception, the CLN7/MFSD8 mutation positive patients present a phenotype indistinguishable from the other vLINCL forms. In one patient with an in-frame amino acid substitution mutation in CLN7/MFSD8, the disease onset was later and the disease course less aggressive than in variant late-infantile NCL. Our findings raise the total number of CLN7/MFSD8 mutations to 14 with the majority of families having private mutations. Our study confirms that CLN7/MFSD8 defects are not restricted to the Turkish population, as initially anticipated, but are a relatively common cause of NCL in different populations. CLN7/MFSD8 should be considered a diagnostic alternative not only in variant late-infantile but also later onset NCL forms with a more protracted disease course. A significant number of NCL patients in Turkey exist, in which the underlying genetic defect remains to be determined.
Recent models of human posterior parietal cortex (PPC) have variously emphasized its role in spatial perception, visuomotor control or directing attention. However, neuroimaging and lesion studies also suggest that the right PPC might play a special role in maintaining an alert state. Previously, assessments of right-hemisphere patients with hemispatial neglect have revealed significant overall deficits on vigilance tasks, but to date there has been no demonstration of a deterioration of performance over time--a vigilance decrement--considered by some to be a key index of a deficit in maintaining attention. Moreover, sustained attention deficits in neglect have not specifically been related to PPC lesions, and it remains unclear whether they interact with spatial impairments in this syndrome. Here we examined the ability of right-hemisphere patients with neglect to maintain attention, comparing them to stroke controls and healthy individuals. We found evidence of an overall deficit in sustaining attention associated with PPC lesions, even for a simple detection task with stimuli presented centrally. In a second experiment, we demonstrated a vigilance decrement in neglect patients specifically only when they were required to maintain attention to spatial locations, but not verbal material. Lesioned voxels in the right PPC spanning a region between the intraparietal sulcus and inferior parietal lobe were significantly associated with this deficit. Finally, we compared performance on a task that required attention to be maintained either to visual patterns or spatial locations, matched for task difficulty. Again, we found a vigilance decrement but only when attention had to be maintained on spatial information. We conclude that sustaining attention to spatial locations is a critical function of the human right PPC which needs to be incorporated into models of normal parietal function as well as those of the clinical syndrome of hemispatial neglect.
Mutations in the progranulin gene (GRN) are an important cause of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) with ubiquitin and TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP43)-positive pathology. The clinical presentation associated with GRN mutations is heterogeneous and may include clinical probable Alzheimer's disease. All GRN mutations identified thus far cause disease through a uniform disease mechanism, i.e. the loss of functional GRN or haploinsufficiency. To determine if expression of GRN in plasma could predict GRN mutation status and could be used as a biological marker, we optimized a GRN ELISA and studied plasma samples of a consecutive clinical FTLD series of 219 patients, 70 control individuals, 72 early-onset probable Alzheimer's disease patients and nine symptomatic and 18 asymptomatic relatives of GRN mutation families. All FTLD patients with GRN loss-of-function mutations showed significantly reduced levels of GRN in plasma to about one third of the levels observed in non-GRN carriers and control individuals (P &lt; 0.001). No overlap in distributions of GRN levels was observed between the eight GRN loss-of-function mutation carriers (range: 53-94 ng/ml) and 191 non-GRN mutation carriers (range: 115-386 ng/ml). Similar low levels of GRN were identified in asymptomatic GRN mutation carriers. Importantly, ELISA analyses also identified one probable Alzheimer's disease patient (1.4%) carrying a loss-of-function mutation in GRN. Biochemical analyses further showed that the GRN ELISA only detects full-length GRN, no intermediate granulin fragments. This study demonstrates that using a GRN ELISA in plasma, pathogenic GRN mutations can be accurately detected in symptomatic and asymptomatic carriers. The approximately 75% reduction in full-length GRN, suggests an unbalanced GRN metabolism in loss-of-function mutation carriers whereby more GRN is processed into granulins. We propose that plasma GRN levels could be used as a reliable and inexpensive tool to identify all GRN mutation carriers in early-onset dementia populations and asymptomatic at-risk individuals.
Inappropriate social behaviours are early and distinctive symptoms of the temporal and frontal variants of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Knowledge of social behaviour is essential for appropriate social conduct. It is unknown, however, in what way this knowledge is degraded in FTLD. In a recent functional MRI study, we have identified a right-lateralized superior anterior temporal lobe (aTL) region showing selective activation for 'social concepts' (i.e. concepts describing social behaviour: e.g. 'polite', 'stingy') as compared with concepts describing less socially relevant animal behaviour ('animal function concepts': e.g. 'trainable', 'nutritious'). In a further fMRI study, superior aTL activation was independent of the context of actions and feelings associated with these social concepts. Here, we investigated whether the right superior sector of the aTL is necessary for context-independent knowledge of social concepts. We assessed neuronal glucose uptake using 18-fluoro-deoxy-glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and a novel semantic discrimination task which probed knowledge of social and animal function concepts in patients with FTLD (n = 29) and corticobasal syndrome (n = 18). FTLD and corticobasal syndrome groups performed equally poorly on animal function concepts but FTLD patients showed more pronounced impairments on social concepts than corticobasal syndrome patients. FTLD patients with right superior aTL hypometabolism, as determined on individual ROI analyses, were significantly more impaired on social concepts than on animal function concepts. FTLD patients with selective impairments for social concepts, as determined on individual neuropsychological profiles, showed higher levels of inappropriate social behaviours ('disinhibition') and demonstrated more pronounced hypometabolism in the right superior aTL, the left temporal pole and the right lateral orbitofrontal and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex as compared with FTLD patients showing selective impairments of animal function concepts. Combining both FTLD subgroup analyses, based on anatomical and neuropsychological criteria, by using inclusive masks, revealed the right superior aTL as associated with selective impairments of social concepts in both analyses. These results corroborate the hypothesis that the right aTL is necessary for representing conceptual social knowledge. Further, we provide first evidence for the potential importance of conceptual social knowledge impairments as contributing to behavioural symptoms of FTLD.
Recent studies from our laboratory indicate that psychological stress is a potent inducer of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-10, raising the possibility that the IL-10 family of cytokines may be key mediators of stress-induced immunosuppression. In this study we examined the impact of psychological stress (restraint stress) on expression of IL-10, and the novel IL-10 family members IL-19, IL-20 and IL-24 in mouse spleen following an in vivo challenge with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We found that stressor exposure significantly augmented LPS-induced IL-10 expression. Similarly, IL-19 expression was induced by LPS, and this was significantly enhanced by restraint stress. In contrast, expression of IL-24 was not significantly altered by LPS or stress, and expression of IL-20 was largely not detectable in vivo in either saline or LPS-treated animals. Consistent with a role for sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activation in stress-induced immune regulation, the sympathetic neurotransmitter noradrenaline increased LPS-induced IL-10 and IL-19 expression in splenocytes and dendritic cells, and the ability of noradrenaline to induce expression of these cytokines was blocked by pre-treatment with the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol. Similarly, pre-treatment of mice with the peripherally acting beta-adrenoceptor antagonist nadolol completely blocked the stress-induced increase in IL-10 and IL-19 mRNA expression. Finally, pre-treatment with the benzodiazepine anxiolytic chlordiazepoxide prevented the stress-induced increase in IL-10 and IL-19 expression. Taken together, these data demonstrate that psychological stress induces expression of the IL-10 and its homolog IL-19 via activation of beta-adrenoceptors, and the ability of stress to induce these cytokines is prevented by treatment with the anxiolytic chlordiazepoxide. The findings suggest that stress enhances the production of immunosuppressive cytokines, which may impact on stress-related disease processes.
Neurodegeneration and gliosis are prominent pathological features of subjects with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) dementia complex (HAD). In these patients, neurodegeneration occurs in uninfected neurons. In addition, these patients develop sensory neuropathy despite the antiretroviral therapy. The HIV protein gp120, which mimics some of the pathological alterations seen in HAD, is retrogradely transported in rodent neurons. However, it is still unclear whether gp120 can also be transported anterogradely and whether axonal transport can occur in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). To determine whether gp120 is transported retrogradely and/or anterogradely, we injected gp120IIIB together with the retrograde tracer fluoro-ruby (FR) or the anterograde tracer 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyamine perchlorate (DiI) into the rat superior colliculi. We discovered that gp120 is retrogradely transported with FR along a direct pathway from the superior colliculus to the retina and anterogradely transported with DiI to several areas of the occipital cortex. To determine whether gp120 is also axonally transported in the peripheral nerves, gp120 and FR were injected into the sciatic nerve. No gp120 immunoreactivity was found in the sciatic nerve or dorsal root ganglia, suggesting that gp120 axonal transport does not occur in the PNS. Gp120 axonal transport may play a role in neuronal injury. Therefore, we examined apoptosis at various time points after gp120 injection. Activated caspase-3 was evident within neurons transporting gp120. These results indicate that axonal transport of gp120 might exacerbate the pathogenesis of HIV-1.
Novel deception detection techniques have been in creation for centuries. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a neuroscience technology that non-invasively measures brain activity associated with behavior and cognition. A number of investigators have explored the utilization and efficiency of fMRI in deception detection. In this study, 18 subjects were instructed during an fMRI &quot;line-up&quot; task to either conceal (lie) or reveal (truth) the identities of individuals seen in study sets in order to determine the neural correlates of intentionally misidentifying previously known faces (lying about recognition). A repeated measures ANOVA (lie vs. truth and familiar vs. unfamiliar) and two paired t-tests (familiar vs. unfamiliar and familiar lie vs. familiar truth) revealed areas of activation associated with deception in the right MGF, red nucleus, IFG, SMG, SFG (with ACC), DLPFC, and bilateral precuneus. The areas activated in the present study may be involved in the suppression of truth, working and visuospatial memories, and imagery when providing misleading (deceptive) responses to facial identification prompts in the form of a &quot;line-up&quot;.
We will review converging evidence that language related symptoms of the schizophrenic syndrome such as auditory verbal hallucinations arise at least in part from processing abnormalities in posterior language regions. These language regions are either adjacent to or overlapping with regions in the (posterior) temporal cortex and temporo-parietal occipital junction that are part of a system for processing social cognition, emotion, and self representation or agency. The inferior parietal and posterior superior temporal regions contain multi-modal representational systems that may also provide rapid feedback and feed-forward activation to unimodal regions such as auditory cortex. We propose that the over-activation of these regions could not only result in erroneous activation of semantic and speech (auditory word) representations, resulting in thought disorder and voice hallucinations, but could also result in many of the other symptoms of schizophrenia. These regions are also part of the so-called &quot;default network&quot;, a network of regions that are normally active; and their activity is also correlated with activity within the hippocampal system.

To study the neural bases of semantic composition in language processing without confounds from syntactic composition, recent magnetoencephalography (MEG) studies have investigated the processing of constructions that exhibit some type of syntax-semantics mismatch. The most studied case of such a mismatch is complement coercion; expressions such as the author began the book, where an entity-denoting noun phrase is coerced into an eventive meaning in order to match the semantic properties of the event-selecting verb (e.g., 'the author began reading/writing the book'). These expressions have been found to elicit increased activity in the Anterior Midline Field (AMF), an MEG component elicited at frontomedial sensors at approximately 400 ms after the onset of the coercing noun [Pylkknen, L., &amp; McElree, B. (2007). An MEG study of silent meaning. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 19, 11]. Thus, the AMF constitutes a potential neural correlate of coercion. However, the AMF was generated in ventromedial prefrontal regions, which are heavily associated with decision-making. This raises the possibility that, instead of semantic processing, the AMF effect may have been related to the experimental task, which was a sensicality judgment. We tested this hypothesis by assessing the effect of coercion when subjects were simply reading for comprehension, without a decision-task. Additionally, we investigated coercion in an adjectival rather than a verbal environment to further generalize the findings. Our results show that an AMF effect of coercion is elicited without a decision-task and that the effect also extends to this novel syntactic environment. We conclude that in addition to its role in non-linguistic higher cognition, ventromedial prefrontal regions contribute to the resolution of syntax-semantics mismatches in language processing.
One hundred years ago, a novel kind of reticularism threatened to displace the neuron doctrine as the established model of functional organization of the nervous system. The challenging paradigm, championed by Stephan von Apthy and Albrecht Bethe, held that nerve impulses propagate along neurofibrils connected in a continuous network throughout all nerve cells. Santiago Ramn y Cajal, a leading figure in the conception of the neuron doctrine, headed again the battle against this return of reticularism. Dissatisfied with the available staining techniques, he devised the &quot;reduced silver nitrate method&quot; that even Camillo Golgi recognized as the best at the time for revealing the neurofibrils. In 1904 Cajal already published over a dozen papers in three languages describing neurofibril distributions in the nervous systems of diverse vertebrates and invertebrates, under both normal and experimental conditions. Next he investigated the involvement of neurofibrils in the process of nerve regeneration. This unprecedented survey led him to the conclusion that the neurofibrils are linear &quot;colonies&quot; of particles constituting a semi-solid, dynamic internal skeleton of the nerve cell. Apthy reacted with a long invective paper that Cajal had no choice but acknowledging. His comprehensive reply, published in 1908, meant the effective end of the renewed reticularist campaign against the neuron doctrine. Along the way, a visionary and today almost forgotten chapter in the history of the cytoskeleton had also been written.
The importance of the cerebellum in coordinates of movement has been established by lesion studies. However, there is no clear understanding of whether there is consistent activation in cerebellum across various motor task complexities or how different parts of the cerebellum contribute to finger coordinates in dexterous manipulation. This article reviews imaging studies with data from healthy subjects. A mini meta-analysis using label-based and activation likelihood estimation (ALE) methods reveals that ipsilateral anterior and vermis regions of the cerebellum were consistently activated across various dexterous movement complexities and were associated with finger and hand movement.
The key roles of toll-like receptors (TLRs) as mediators of the detection and responses of immune cells to invading pathogens are well known. There are at least 13 mammalian TLRs which are integral membrane proteins with a leucine-rich extracellular domain and a cytoplasmic domain similar to that of the interleukin-1 receptor which initiates downstream signaling through kinases to activate transcription factors such as AP-1 and NFkappaB. TLRs are activated in glial cells (microglia, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes) and lymphocytes that infiltrate the nervous system in response to inflammation caused by infectious agents, tissue injury or autoimmune conditions. By inducing the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and cell adhesion molecules in immune cells, TLRs may indirectly damage neurons in conditions such as ischemic stroke and multiple sclerosis. Recent findings suggest that neurons also express a subset of TLRs and that their activation promotes neuronal degeneration in experimental models of stroke and Alzheimer's disease. TLRs may also play roles in regulating the processes of neurogenesis and neurite outgrowth, suggesting roles in neuronal plasticity. A better understanding of the molecular and cellular biology of TLRs in the normal and diseased nervous system, may lead to novel approaches for preventing neuronal degeneration and promoting recovery of function in an array of neurodegenerative conditions.
There is controversy about the existence of a predisposition to burn incidents (accident proneness). Our objective was to examine, in a group of burn patients, the conditions or &quot;unconscious&quot; subjective predisposition, the presence of impulsiveness that may have contributed to bringing about the &quot;burn&quot; event, and to assess the presence of psychiatric diagnoses and specific characteristics of temperament. 25 consecutive burn patients were interviewed by using specific psychometric tests. The sample was divided into two groups: &quot;control&quot; group (N=10), composed of subjects who had accidentally been involved in the incident and &quot;case&quot; group (N=15) composed of subjects who had very likely and more or less &quot;knowingly&quot; put themselves at risk of injury. We observed a marked statistically significant difference with case group subjects appearing to be more impulsive than the ones in control group. Higher levels of impulsiveness may predispose case group patients to a greater risk of burn. Our survey also seems to reveal a relationship between impulsiveness and the proneness of some subjects to burns.
Active contingency tasks, such as those used to explore judgments of control, suffer from variability in the actual values of critical variables. The authors debut a new, easily implemented procedure that restores control over these variables to the experimenter simply by telling participants when to respond, and when to withhold responding. This command-performance procedure not only restores control over critical variables such as actual contingency, it also allows response frequency to be manipulated independently of contingency or outcome frequency. This yields the first demonstration, to our knowledge, of the equivalent of a cue density effect in an active contingency task. Judgments of control are biased by response frequency outcome frequency, just as they are also biased by outcome frequency.

Cannabinoids (CBs) have been found to exert antiproliferative effects upon a variety of cancer cells, including colorectal carcinoma cells. However, little is known about the signalling mechanisms behind the antitumoural effect in these cells, whether the effects are shared by endogenous lipids related to endocannabinoids, or whether such effects are synergistic with treatment paradigms currently used in the clinic. The aim of this preclinical study was to investigate the effect of synthetic and endogenous CBs and their related fatty acids on the viability of human colorectal carcinoma Caco-2 cells, and to determine whether CB effects are synergistic with those seen with the pyrimidine antagonist 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The synthetic CB HU 210, the endogenous CB anandamide, the endogenous structural analogue of anandamide, N-arachidonoyl glycine (NAGly), as well as the related polyunsaturated fatty acids arachidonic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid showed antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects in the Caco-2 cells, as measured by using [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation assay, the CyQUANT proliferation assay and calcein-AM fluorescence. HU 210 was the most potent compound examined, followed by anandamide, whereas NAGly showed equal potency and efficacy as the polyunsaturated fatty acids. Furthermore, HU 210 and 5-FU produced synergistic effects in the Caco-2 cells, but not in the human colorectal carcinoma cell lines HCT116 or HT29. The compounds examined produced cytotoxic, rather than antiproliferative effects, by a mechanism not involving CB receptors, since the CB receptor antagonists AM251 and AM630 did not attenuate the effects, nor did pertussis toxin. However, alpha-tocopherol and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME attenuated the CB toxicity, suggesting involvement of oxidative stress. It is concluded that the CB system may provide new targets for the development of drugs to treat colorectal cancer.
The system l-amino acid transporter-1 (LAT-1) imports p-boronophenylalanine (BPA) into cells and may play a major role in the effectiveness of BPA-based boron neutron capture therapy. The functional status of LAT-1 and its relationship to cell proliferation were simultaneously examined in the same section of human tumor material using a dual-labeling technique. The uptake of BPA (boron inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry) was profiled in the presence of agonists and antagonists in fresh tumor explants. The number of LAT-1-expressing cells (mean +/- SD) was three times higher than that of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-expressing cells (71.5 +/- 17.02% versus 23.8 +/- 16.5%; P &lt; 0.0001; n = 38 glioblastoma and metastatic tumors). There was no correlation between PCNA cells and the number of LAT-1/PCNA double-stained cells, and not all PCNA-expressing cells coexpressed LAT-1. Boron uptake reached 30 +/- 15 mug/g of wet weight of tissue by 4 hours both in tumor and brain around tumor tissue containing tumor cells compared with time 0 (P &lt; 0.005; n = 4 glioblastoma tumors). This uptake was inhibited by both phenylalanine and 2-aminobicyclo-(2,2,1)-heptane-2-carboxylic acid. These LAT-1 data indicate that BPA-based boron neutron capture therapy might affect up to 70% of tumor cells, representing a three times higher proportion of tumor cells than their cell cycle status might suggest. Cells expressing PCNA, but not LAT-1, will require a different therapeutic strategy.
Progesterone (P4) is a steroid hormone that plays multiple roles in the central nervous system (CNS) including promoting neuroprotection. However, the precise mechanisms involved in its neuroprotective effects are still unknown. Given that the regulation of the intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) concentration is critical for cell survival, we determined if inositol 1, 4, 5-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)Rs) are relevant targets of P4. Using primary hippocampal neurons, we tested the hypothesis that P4 controls the gain of IP3R-mediated intracellular Ca(2+) signaling in neurons and characterized the subcellular distribution and phosphorylation of potential signaling intermediates involved in P4s actions. Our results reveal that P4 treatment altered the intensity and distribution of IP3R immunoreactivity and induced the nuclear translocation of phosphorylated Akt. Further, P4 potentiated IP(3)R-mediated intracellular Ca(2+) responses. These results suggest a potential involvement of P4 in particular and of steroid hormone signaling pathways in general in the control of intracellular Ca(2+) signaling and its related functions.
Epigenetic changes of chromatin are increasingly recognized as key modifications that dictate the differentiation state of cells during development. Within the central nervous system, extracellular cues induce chromatin remodelling events that are essential for neuronal progenitor proliferation, cell differentiation and, later, plasticity. In this review, we discuss recent studies that show how extracellular and intranuclear signals influence chromatin remodelling and neuron-specific gene expression. The gaseous molecule Nitric Oxide (NO) has recently emerged as a new key player that mediates the epigenetic changes associated with cell cycle arrest and differentiation in neurons. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are the first identified intranuclear targets of NO, but, due to its highly diffusible nature, it is likely that many other nuclear factors are directly regulated by NO.
Distinct neuronal populations differ by the degree of damage caused from cellular stress. Hippocampal neurons of area CA1 are especially vulnerable to several stressors that increase as age advances. We show here that survival signaling, as measured by activated protein kinase B (AKT), was significantly reduced in the nuclear CA1 region across the lifespan compared with CA3. In agreement with these findings, the pro-apoptotic protein and AKT nuclear substrate, forkhead box O3a transcription factor (FOXO3a), were significantly higher in CA1. Further, regional differences in PH domain and leucine-rich repeat protein phosphatase 1 (PHLPP1), a recently discovered inhibitor of AKT, inversely correlated with nuclear phosphorylated AKT at Ser473. Altogether, our data suggest that regional differences in nuclear levels of activated AKT may contribute to regional differences in hippocampal vulnerability and implicate PHLPP1 as a potential target for therapeutic intervention to improve hippocampal health.
We examined the expression of galectin-1, an endogenous lectin with one carbohydrate-binding domain, in the adult mouse hippocampus after systemic kainate administration. We found that the expression of galectin-1 was remarkably increased in activated astrocytes of the CA3 subregion and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, and in nestin-positive neural progenitors in the dentate gyrus. Quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) analysis revealed that the galectin-1 mRNA level in hippocampus began to increase 1 day after kainate administration and that a 13-fold increase was attained within 3 days. Western blotting analysis confirmed that the level of galectin-1 protein increased to more than three-fold a week after the exposure. We showed that isolated astrocytes express and secrete galectin-1. To clarify the significance of the increased expression of galectin-1 in hippocampus, we compared the levels of hippocampal cell proliferation in galectin-1 knockout and wild-type mice after saline or kainate administration. The number of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells detected in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of galectin-1 knockout mice decreased to 62% with saline, and to 52% with kainate, as compared with the number seen in the wild-type mice. Most of the BrdU-positive cells in SGZ expressed doublecortin and neuron-specific nuclear protein, indicating that they are immature neurons. We therefore concluded that galectin-1 promotes basal and kainate-induced proliferation of neural progenitors in the hippocampus.
Mitochondria constantly respond to changes in substrate availability and energy utilization to maintain cellular ATP supplies, and at the same time control reactive oxygen radical (ROS) production. Reversible phosphorylation of mitochondrial proteins has been proposed to play a fundamental role in metabolic homeostasis, but very little is known about the signaling pathways involved. We show here that protein kinase A (PKA) regulates ATP production by phosphorylation of mitochondrial proteins, including subunits of cytochrome c oxidase. The cyclic AMP (cAMP), which activates mitochondrial PKA, does not originate from cytoplasmic sources but is generated within mitochondria by the carbon dioxide/bicarbonate-regulated soluble adenylyl cyclase (sAC) in response to metabolically generated carbon dioxide. We demonstrate for the first time the existence of a CO(2)-HCO(3)(-)-sAC-cAMP-PKA (mito-sAC) signaling cascade wholly contained within mitochondria, which serves as a metabolic sensor modulating ATP generation and ROS production in response to nutrient availability.
Base excision repair (BER) is the primary DNA repair pathway that corrects base lesions that arise due to oxidative, alkylation, deamination, and depurinatiation/depyrimidination damage. BER facilitates the repair of damaged DNA via two general pathways - short-patch and long-patch. The shortpatch BER pathway leads to a repair tract of a single nucleotide. Alternatively, the long-patch BER pathway produces a repair tract of at least two nucleotides. The BER pathway is initiated by one of many DNA glycosylases, which recognize and catalyze the removal of damaged bases. The completion of the BER pathway is accomplished by the coordinated action of at least three additional enzymes. These downstream enzymes carry out strand incision, gap-filling and ligation. The high degree of BER conservation between E. coli and mammals has lead to advances in our understanding of mammalian BER. This review will provide a general overview of the mammalian BER pathway. (Part of a Multi-author Review).
Visinin-like protein (VILIP-1) belongs to the neuronal Ca2+ sensor family of EF-hand Ca2+-binding proteins that regulate a variety of Ca2+-dependent signal transduction processes in neurons. It is an interaction partner of alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) and increases surface expression level and agonist sensitivity of the receptor in oocytes. Nicotine stimulation of nicotinic receptors has been reported to lead to an increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration by Ca2+-permeable nAChRs, which in turn might lead to activation of VILIP-1, by a mechanism described as the Ca2+-myristoyl switch. It has been postulated that this will lead to co-localization of the proteins at cell membranes, where VILIP-1 can influence functional activity of alpha4-containing nAChRs. In order to test this hypothesis we have investigated whether a nicotine-induced and reversible Ca2+-myristoyl switch of VILIP-1 exists in primary hippocampal neurons and whether pharmacological agents, such as antagonist specific for distinct nAChRs, can interfere with the Ca2+-dependent membrane localization of VILIP-1. Here we report, that only alpha7- but not alpha4-containing nAChRs are able to elicit a Ca2+-dependent and reversible membrane-translocation of VILIP-1 in interneurons as revealed by employing the specific receptor antagonists dihydro-beta-erythroidine and methylallylaconitine. The nAChRs are associated with processes of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal neurons and they have been implicated in the pathology of CNS disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. VILIP-1 might provide a novel functional crosstalk between alpha4- and alpha7-containing nAChRs.
The identification of brain tumor stem cells (BTSCs) leads to promising progress on brain tumor treatment. For some brain tumors, BTSCs are the driving force of tumor growth and the culprits that make tumor revive and resistant to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Therefore, it is specifically significant to eliminate BTSCs for treatment of brain tumors. There are considerable similarities between BTSCs and normal neural stem cells (NSCs), and diverse aspects of BTSCs have been studied to find potential targets that can be manipulated to specifically eradicate BTSCs without damaging normal NSCs, including their surface makers, surrounding niche, and aberrant signaling pathways. Many strategies have been designed to kill BTSCs, and some of them have reached, or are approaching, effective therapeutic results. Here, we will focus on advantages in the issue of BTSCs and emphasize on potential therapeutic strategies targeting BTSCs.
The antennal lobe is the primary processing center for olfactory information in insects. To understand further the neural circuitry of this brain area, we have investigated the distribution of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and its colocalization with neuropeptides in the antennal lobe of the noctuid moth Heliothis virescens. Immunocytochemical experiments with an antiserum against GABA showed a large number of labeled somata in the antennal lobe; these somata were located exclusively in the lateral cell cluster. Stained neurites innervating all antennal-lobe glomeruli, including the male-specific macroglomerular complex, suggested a prominent role of GABA in processing olfactory information, including signals from pheromones, interspecifically acting odors, and plant odors. Fibers in two antennocerebral tracts (the middle and dorsal antennocerebral tract) exhibited prominent GABA immunoreactivity. Double-labeling experiments revealed that immunostaining for three neuropeptides, viz., A-type allatostatin, Manduca sexta allatotropin, and FMRFamide-related peptides, was largely colocalized with GABA in cell bodies of the lateral cell cluster. The general absence of peptide immunostaining in the antennocerebral tracts strongly indicated that these peptides were colocalized with GABA in local interneurons of the antennal lobe. In contrast, tachykinin-related peptides occurred in a distinct population of local antennal-lobe neurons that did not exhibit GABA immunostaining. Thus, local interneurons that were not GABAergic were present in the moth antennal lobe.
Previous studies have demonstrated that neurofilament proteins are expressed by type II neurons in the enteric plexuses of a range of species from mouse to human. However, two previous studies have failed to reveal this association in the guinea-pig. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry for neurofilaments has revealed neurons with a single axon and spiny dendrites in human and pig but this morphology has not been described in the guinea-pig or other species. We have used antibodies against high- and medium-weight neurofilament proteins (NF-H and NF-M) to re-examine enteric neurons in the guinea-pig. NF-H immunoreactivity occurred in all type II neurons (identified by their IB4 binding) but these neurons were never NF-M-immunoreactive. On the other hand, 17% of myenteric neurons expressed NF-M. Many of these were uni-axonal neurons with spiny dendrites and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) immunoreactivity. NOS immunoreactivity occurred in surface expansions of the cytoplasm that did not contain neurofilament immunoreactivity. Thus, because of their NOS immunoreactivity, spiny neurons had the appearance of type I neurons. This indicates that the apparent morphologies and the morphological classifications of these neurons are dependent on the methods used to reveal them. We conclude that spiny type I NOS-immunoreactive neurons have similar morphologies in human and guinea-pig and that many of these are inhibitory motor neurons. Both type II and neuropeptide-Y-immunoreactive neurons in the submucosal ganglia exhibit NF-H immunoreactivity. NF-M has been observed in nerve fibres, but not in nerve cell bodies, in the submucosa.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult onset, progressive and fatal motor neuron degenerative disease [1]. The aetiology of ALS is currently unknown, though strongly suggested to be multifactorial. Recently, the kynurenine pathway (KP) has emerged as a potential contributing factor [2]. The KP is a major route for the metabolism of tryptophan, generating neuroactive intermediates in the process. These catabolites include the excitotoxic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist, quinolinic acid (QUIN) [3] and the neuroprotective NMDA receptor antagonist, kynurenic acid (KYNA) [4,5]. These catabolites appear to play a key role in the communication between the nervous and immune systems, and also in modulating cell proliferation and tissue function [6]. As the cause of ALS is still unknown, there is presently no efficient treatment for it. Currently, Riluzole is the drug of choice but its effect is relatively modest [7]. Targeting the KP, hence, could offer a new therapeutic option to improve ALS treatment [8]. Several drugs that block the KP are already under investigation by our laboratory and others, some of which are in or about to enter clinical trials for other diseases. For example, the KP inhibitors, Teriflunomide (Sanofi-Aventis) and Laquinimod (Teva Neuroscience). Recently, a KP inhibitor has also reached the Japan market as an immunomodulative drug [9]: Tranilast/Rizaben (Angiogen Ltd.) is an anthranilic acid derivative [8]. Finally, the 8-hydroxyquinolinine metal attenuating compounds, Clioquinol and PBT2, interestingly have close structural similarity with KYNA and QUIN. Such drugs would open a new and important therapeutic door for ALS.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disorder of the central nervous system (CNS). It is characterized by episodic and progressive neurological dysfunction resulting from inflammatory and autoimmune reactions, myelin loss, conduction block, oligodendrocyte pathology, gliosis, and axonal loss in CNS. Recent years have witnessed advances in better understanding the immune pathogenesis of MS, prompted by animal models, human pathological observations and MRI studies. There have been significant changes in the therapeutic regimens in MS, with an emphasis on preventative treatment of an ongoing disease process. Agents in use and in the research pipeline have mechanisms that act on various anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties, including blocking leukocyte migration into CNS and targeting chemoattraction. In addition, recent studies on the neurodegenerative components of MS have directed therapeutic trials to neuroprotection and neurorestoration. In this paper, we summarize the current understanding of the mechanisms of approved pharmacological agents and review the putative mechanisms and status of some important agents in clinical phase two or three trials in MS.
We conducted a longitudinal study with 32 nonmusician children over 9 months to determine 1) whether functional differences between musician and nonmusician children reflect specific predispositions for music or result from musical training and 2) whether musical training improves nonmusical brain functions such as reading and linguistic pitch processing. Event-related brain potentials were recorded while 8-year-old children performed tasks designed to test the hypothesis that musical training improves pitch processing not only in music but also in speech. Following the first testing sessions nonmusician children were pseudorandomly assigned to music or to painting training for 6 months and were tested again after training using the same tests. After musical (but not painting) training, children showed enhanced reading and pitch discrimination abilities in speech. Remarkably, 6 months of musical training thus suffices to significantly improve behavior and to influence the development of neural processes as reflected in specific pattern of brain waves. These results reveal positive transfer from music to speech and highlight the influence of musical training. Finally, they demonstrate brain plasticity in showing that relatively short periods of training have strong consequences on the functional organization of the children's brain.
Human cerebral development is remarkably protracted. Although microstructural processes of neuronal maturation remain accessible only to morphometric post-mortem studies, neuroimaging tools permit the examination of macrostructural aspects of brain development. The analysis of resting-state functional connectivity (FC) offers novel possibilities for the investigation of cerebral development. Using seed-based FC methods, we examined the development of 5 functionally distinct cingulate-based intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs) in children (n = 14, 10.6 +/- 1.5 years), adolescents (n = 12, 15.4 +/- 1.2) and young adults (n=14, 22.4 +/- 1.2). Children demonstrated a more diffuse pattern of correlation with voxels proximal to the seed region of interest (ROI) (&quot;local FC&quot;), whereas adults exhibited more focal patterns of FC, as well as a greater number of significantly correlated voxels at long distances from the seed ROI. Adolescents exhibited intermediate patterns of FC. Consistent with evidence for different maturational time courses, ICNs associated with social and emotional functions exhibited the greatest developmental effects. Our findings demonstrate the utility of FC for the study of developing functional organization. Moreover, given that ICNs are thought to have an anatomical basis in neuronal connectivity, measures of FC may provide a quantitative index of brain maturation in healthy subjects and those with neurodevelopmental disorders.
Alterations in gamma-frequency oscillations are implicated in psychiatric disorders, and polymorphisms in NRG-1 and ERBB4, genes encoding Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) and one of its receptors, designated ErbB4, are associated with schizophrenia. Here we show that NRG-1 selectively increases the power of kainate-induced, but not carbachol-induced, gamma oscillations in acute hippocampal slices. NRG-1beta is more effective than NRG-1alpha, a splice variant with lower affinity for ErbB receptors, and neither isoform affects the network activity without prior induction of gamma oscillations. NRG-1beta dramatically increases gamma oscillation power in hippocampal slices from both rats (2062 +/- 496%) and mice (710 +/- 299%). These effects of NRG-1beta are blocked by PD158780, a pan-specific antagonist of ErbB receptors, and are mediated specifically via ErbB4 receptors, because mice harboring a targeted mutation of ErbB4 do not respond to NRG-1. Moreover, we demonstrate that 50% of gamma-amino butyric acidergic parvalbumin (PV)-positive interneurons, which heavily contribute to the generation of gamma oscillations, express ErbB4 receptors. Importantly, both the number of PV-immunoreactive interneurons (-31%) and the power of kainate-induced gamma oscillations (-60%) are reduced in ErbB4 knockout mice. This study provides the first plausible link between NRG-1/ErbB4 signaling and rhythmic network activity that may be altered in persons with schizophrenia.
The prefrontal cortex receives multiple inputs from the hippocampal complex, which are thought to drive memory-guided behavior. Moreover, dysfunctions of both regions have been repeatedly associated with several psychiatric disorders. Therefore, understanding the interconnections and modulatory interactions between these regions is essential in evaluating their role in behavior and pathology. The effects of entorhinal cortex (EC) stimulation on the activity of identified medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) pyramidal neurons were examined using single-unit extracellular recordings and sharp-electrode intracellular recordings in anesthetized rats. Single-pulse electrical stimulation of EC induced a powerful inhibition in the majority of mPFC neurons examined during extracellular recording. Intracellular recording showed that EC stimulation evoked a complex synaptic response, in which the greater proportion of neurons exhibited excitatory postsynaptic events and/or a short lasting and a prolonged inhibitory postsynaptic response. Furthermore, stimulation of EC selectively produced an augmentation of the bistable up-down state only in the type 2 regular spiking neurons and in a subclass of nonintrinsic bursting neurons. Taken together, these data suggest that the potent inhibition observed following EC stimulation may mask a direct excitatory response within the mPFC which markedly potentiates the bistable states in a select subpopulation of mPFC pyramidal neurons.
The characterization of the topological architecture of complex networks underlying the structural and functional organization of the brain is a basic challenge in neuroscience. However, direct evidence for anatomical connectivity networks in the human brain remains scarce. Here, we utilized diffusion tensor imaging deterministic tractography to construct a macroscale anatomical network capturing the underlying common connectivity pattern of human cerebral cortex in a large sample of subjects (80 young adults) and further quantitatively analyzed its topological properties with graph theoretical approaches. The cerebral cortex was divided into 78 cortical regions, each representing a network node, and 2 cortical regions were considered connected if the probability of fiber connections exceeded a statistical criterion. The topological parameters of the established cortical network (binarized) resemble that of a &quot;small-world&quot; architecture characterized by an exponentially truncated power-law distribution. These characteristics imply high resilience to localized damage. Furthermore, this cortical network was characterized by major hub regions in association cortices that were connected by bridge connections following long-range white matter pathways. Our results are compatible with previous structural and functional brain networks studies and provide insight into the organizational principles of human brain anatomical networks that underlie functional states.
Neurons in the visual primary cortex (area V1) do not only code simple features but also whether image elements are attended or not. These attentional signals are weaker than the feature-selective responses, and their reliability may therefore be limited by the noisiness of neuronal responses. Here we show that it is possible to decode the locus of attention on a single trial from the activity of a small population of neurons in area V1. Previous studies suggested that correlations between the activities of neurons that are part of a population limit the information gain, but here we report that the impact of these noise correlations depends on the relative position of the neurons' receptive fields. Correlations reduce the benefit of pooling neuronal responses evoked by the same object but actually enhance the advantage of pooling responses evoked by different objects. These opposing effects cancelled each other at the population level, so that the net effect of the noise correlations was negligible and attention could be decoded reliably. Our results suggest that noise correlations are caused by large-scale fluctuations in cortical excitability, which can be removed by a comparison of the response strengths evoked by different objects.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is often comorbid with seizures. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in brain. GABA(B) receptors play an important role in maintaining excitatory-inhibitory balance in brain and alterations may lead to seizures. We compared levels of GABA(B) receptor subunits GABA(B) receptor 1 (GABBR1) and GABA(B) receptor 2 (GABBR2) in cerebellum, Brodmann's area 9 (BA9), and BA40 of subjects with autism and matched controls. Levels of GABBR1 were significantly decreased in BA9, BA40, and cerebellum, while GABBR2 was significantly reduced in the cerebellum. The presence of seizure disorder did not have a significant impact on the observed reductions in GABA(B) receptor subunit expression. Decreases in GABA(B) receptor subunits may help explain the presence of seizures that are often comorbid with autism, as well as cognitive difficulties prevalent in autism.
Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) typically presents with early-onset progressive cerebellar ataxia, oculomotor apraxia and later, oculo-cutaneous telangiectasia. Extrapyramidal symptoms, apart from chorea, are rare. In this paper, we report a case of A-T with an atypically mild and slowly progressive disease course. Although by history there was mild gait clumsiness in early childhood, the leading problem was that of dystonia with onset at age 15, in the absence of gross gait imbalance or ocular motor apraxia. Dystonia was generalized and with prominent oromandibular involvement. Unusually, a leash of telangiectasia was present on the posterior pharyngeal wall, while other features frequently associated with A-T were absent.
Inverse problems for dynamical system models of cognitive processes comprise the determination of synaptic weight matrices or kernel functions for neural networks or neural/dynamic field models, respectively. We introduce dynamic cognitive modeling as a three tier top-down approach where cognitive processes are first described as algorithms that operate on complex symbolic data structures. Second, symbolic expressions and operations are represented by states and transformations in abstract vector spaces. Third, prescribed trajectories through representation space are implemented in neurodynamical systems. We discuss the Amari equation for a neural/dynamic field theory as a special case and show that the kernel construction problem is particularly ill-posed. We suggest a Tikhonov-Hebbian learning method as regularization technique and demonstrate its validity and robustness for basic examples of cognitive computations.
Psychophysiological correlations form the basis for different medical and scientific disciplines, but the nature of this relation has not yet been fully understood. One conceptual option is to understand the mental as &quot;emerging&quot; from neural processes in the specific sense that psychology and physiology provide two different descriptions of the same system. Stating these descriptions in terms of coarser- and finer-grained system states (macro- and microstates), the two descriptions may be equally adequate if the coarse-graining preserves the possibility to obtain a dynamical rule for the system. To test the empirical viability of our approach, we describe an algorithm to obtain a specific form of such a coarse-graining from data, and illustrate its operation using a simulated dynamical system. We then apply the method to an electroencephalographic recording, where we are able to identify macrostates from the physiological data that correspond to mental states of the subject.

Several studies suggest that children with ADHD tend to perform worse than typically developing children on emotion recognition tasks. However, most of these studies have focused on the recognition of facial expression, while there is evidence that context plays a major role on emotion perception. This study aims at further investigating emotion processing in children with ADHD, by assessing not only facial emotion recognition (Experiment 1) but also emotion recognition on the basis of contextual cues (Experiment 2). Twenty-seven children and adolescents with ADHD were compared to age-matched typically developing controls. Importantly, findings of this study show that emotion-processing difficulties in children with ADHD extend beyond facial emotion and also affect the recognition of emotions on the basis of contextual information. Our data thus indicate that children with ADHD have an overall emotion-processing deficit.


Evidence increasingly suggests that cognitive impairment is common in intensive care unit survivors, although the nature, severity, and natural history remain unclear. Although the cognitive impairments improve over time in some individuals, they often fail to completely abate. While the functional correlates of these impairments are under-studied, cognitive impairments may adversely impact quality of life, ability to return to work or to work at previously established levels, and ability to function effectively in emotional and interpersonal domains. The potential etiologies of cognitive impairments in intensive care unit survivors are not fully understood and are likely heterogeneous and vary widely across patients. The contributions of these many factors may be particularly significant in patients with pre-existing vulnerabilities for the development of cognitive impairments, such as mild cognitive impairment, dementia, prior traumatic brain injury, or other comorbid disorders, as well as predisposing genetic factors.

The stomach is commonly the source of chronic digestive symptoms in patients with diabetes mellitus; erratic stomach emptying may result in poor glycemic control. On the other hand, medications that mimic or enhance the function of the endogenous incretins retard gastric emptying to enhance glycemic control. In patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes, bariatric procedures alter food intake and weight; however, effects on glycemic control precede and are out of proportion with the degree of weight loss. The mechanisms responsible for the improved glycemic control after bariatric surgery are the subject of ongoing research, and include increased circulating incretins stimulated by the delivery of nutrients to the intestine, contributing to weight loss and independently to glycemic control. The stomach is not always a villain, but is an ally in patients with type 2 diabetes.




To compare adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to topiramate in patients with migraine and patients with epilepsy, we systematically reviewed all published randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compare topiramate monotherapy in epilepsy and migraine. We included four epilepsy RCTs (N = 1,179 patients; vs. active comparators) and six migraine RCTs (N = 1,723 patients; vs. placebo). Behavioral ADRs and headache were found only in the case of epilepsy, whereas cognitive complaints and alteration of taste were found only in the case of migraine. The risk ratios (RRs) for paresthesia in migraine vs. epilepsy trials were 2.5 (99% confidence interval (CI): 1.66-3.77) for 50 mg, 2.7 (99% CI: 1.80-3.97) for 100 mg, and 3.0 (99% CI: 1.95-4.56) for 200 mg. For ADR-related dropouts, the RR was 2.5 (95% CI: 2.03-2.98) for 50 mg but no different for the other doses. We conclude that when treated with the same doses of topiramate, migraineurs show different ADRs than patients with epilepsy and are more likely to drop out because of ADRs.
There is substantial and compelling evidence that aggregation and accumulation of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) plays a pivotal role in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD); thus, numerous strategies to prevent Abeta aggregation and accumulation or to facilitate removal of preexisting deposits of Abeta are being evaluated as ways to treat or prevent AD. Pre-clinical studies in mice demonstrate the therapeutic potential of altering Abeta deposition by inducing a humoral immune response to fibrillar Abeta42 (fAbeta42) or passively administering anti-Abeta antibodies (Abs), and both passive and active anti-Abeta immunotherapeutic approaches are now being tested in humans. Although a variety of mechanisms have been postulated regarding how Abeta immunotherapy might work to attenuate or in some circumstances clear Abeta from the brain, no mechanism has been definitively proven or disproven. Herein, we will review the various mechanisms that have been postulated. In addition we will discuss how a more thorough understanding of the pharmacokinetics of anti-Abeta Abs and their effects on Abeta levels and turnover provides insight into both the therapeutic potential and limitation of Abeta immunotherapy. We will conclude with a discussion of additional experimentation required to better understand the mechanism of action of anti-Abeta Abs in AD and optimize antibody (Ab) mediated therapy for AD.
As a competitive adenosine antagonist, caffeine affects dopamine transmission and has been reported to worsen psychosis in people with schizophrenia and to cause psychosis in otherwise healthy people. We report of case of apparent chronic caffeine-induced psychosis characterized by delusions and paranoia in a 47-year-old man with high caffeine intake. The psychosis resolved within 7 weeks after lowering caffeine intake without use of antipsychotic medication. Clinicians might consider the possibility of caffeinism when evaluating chronic psychosis.

We compare the oft-cited Wing &amp; Baddeley approach for normalizing serial position errors with an approach that we believe more accurately reflects the underlying process. We argue that the Wing &amp; Baddeley approach inadequately normalizes the allocation of errors to each serial position, and that a number of seminal publications have inadvertently referred to biased results as a consequence.
Recent evidence from cognitive neuroscience suggests that certain cognitive processes employ perceptual representations. Inspired by this evidence, a few researchers have proposed that cognition is inherently perceptual. They have developed an innovative theoretical approach that rests on the notion of perceptual simulation and marshaled several general arguments supporting the centrality of perceptual representations to concepts. In this article, I identify a number of weaknesses in these arguments and defend a multiple semantic code approach that posits both perceptual and non-perceptual representations.
Humans and animals can perform much more complex tasks than they can acquire using pure trial and error learning. This gap is filled by teaching. One important method of instruction is shaping, in which a teacher decomposes a complete task into sub-components, thereby providing an easier path to learning. Despite its importance, shaping has not been substantially studied in the context of computational modeling of cognitive learning. Here we study the shaping of a hierarchical working memory task using an abstract neural network model as the target learner. Shaping significantly boosts the speed of acquisition of the task compared with conventional training, to a degree that increases with the temporal complexity of the task. Further, it leads to internal representations that are more robust to task manipulations such as reversals. We use the model to investigate some of the elements of successful shaping.
Over the last three decades, the California sea hare, Aplysia californica, has played an increasingly important role as a model organism in the neurosciences. Since 1995, the National Resource for Aplysia has supported a growing research community by providing a consistent supply of laboratory-reared individuals of known age, reproductive status, and environmental history. The purpose of the present study was to resolve the key biological factors necessary for successful culture of large numbers of high quality larval Aplysia. Data from a sequence of five experiments demonstrated that algal diet, food concentration, and veliger density significantly affected growth, attainment of metamorphic competency, and survival of Aplysia larvae. The highest growth and survival were achieved with a mixed algal diet of 1:1 Isochrysis sp (TISO) and Chaetoceros muelleri (CHGRA) at a total concentration of 250 x 10(3) cells/mL and a larval density of 0.5-1.0 per mL. Rapid growth was always correlated with faster attainment of developmental milestones and increased survival, indicating that the more rapidly growing larvae were healthier. Trials conducted with our improved protocol resulted in larval growth rates of &gt;14 microm/day, which yielded metamorphically competent animals within 21 days with survival rates in excess of 90%. These data indicate the important effects of biotic factors on the critical larval growth period in the laboratory and show the advantages of developing optimized protocols for culture of such marine invertebrates.
Visual, somatosensory, and perspectival cues normally provide congruent information about where the self is experienced. Separating those cues by virtual reality techniques, recent studies found that self-location was systematically biased to where a visual-tactile event was seen. Here we developed a novel, repeatable and implicit measure of self-location to compare and extend previous protocols. We investigated illusory self-location and associated phenomenological aspects in a lying body position that facilitates clinically observed abnormal self-location (as on out-of-body experiences). The results confirm that the self is located to where touch is seen. This leads to either predictable lowering or elevation of self-localization, and the latter was accompanied by sensations of floating, as during out-of-body experiences. Using a novel measurement we show that the unitary and localized character of the self can be experimentally separated from both the origin of the visual perspective and the location of the seen body, which is compatible with clinical data.
Contemporary experimental research has emphasised the role of centrally generated signals arising from premotor areas in voluntary muscular force perception. It is therefore generally accepted that judgements of force are based on a central sense, known as the sense of effort, rather than on a sense of intra-muscular tension. Interestingly, the concept of effort is also present in the classical philosophy: to the French philosopher Maine de Biran [Maine de Biran (1805). Mmoire sur la dcomposition de la pense (Tome III), Vrin, Paris (1963)], the sense of effort is the fundamental component of self-experience, the landmark of the exercise of the will. In the present review, after a presentation of the nature and neurophysiological bases of effort sensation, we will examine its possible involvement in the neurocognitive process of agency. We will further focus on delusions of alien control in schizophrenic patients. Experimental data suggest that these patients have an abnormal awareness of effort caused by cerebral anomalies in the frontal and parietal lobes.
The nature of &quot;the self&quot; has been one of the central problems in philosophy and more recently in neuroscience. This raises various questions: (i) Can we attribute a self to animals? (ii) Do animals and humans share certain aspects of their core selves, yielding a trans-species concept of self? (iii) What are the neural processes that underlie a possible trans-species concept of self? (iv) What are the developmental aspects and do they result in various levels of self-representation? Drawing on recent literature from both human and animal research, we suggest a trans-species concept of self that is based upon what has been called a &quot;core-self&quot; which can be described by self-related processing (SRP) as a specific mode of interaction between organism and environment. When we refer to specific neural networks, we will here refer to the underlying system as the &quot;core-SELF.&quot; The core-SELF provides primordial neural coordinates that represent organisms as living creatures-at the lowest level this elaborates interoceptive states along with raw emotional feelings (i.e., the intentions in action of a primordial core-SELF) while higher medial cortical levels facilitate affective-cognitive integration (yielding a fully-developed nomothetic core-self). Developmentally, SRP allows stimuli from the environment to be related and linked to organismic needs, signaled and processed within core-self structures within subcorical-cortical midline structures (SCMS) that provide the foundation for epigenetic emergence of ecologically framed, higher idiographic forms of selfhood across different individuals within a species. These functions ultimately operate as a coordinated network. We postulate that core SRP operates automatically, is deeply affective, and is developmentally and epigenetically connected to sensory-motor and higher cognitive abilities. This core-self is mediated by SCMS, embedded in visceral and instinctual representations of the body that are well integrated with basic attentional, emotional and motivational functions that are apparently shared between humans, non-human mammals, and perhaps in a proto-SELF form, other vertebrates. Such a trans-species concept of organismic coherence is thoroughly biological and affective at the lowest levels of a complex neural network, and culturally and ecologically molded at higher levels of neural processing. It allows organisms to selectively adapt to and integrate with physical and social environments. Such a psychobiologically universal, but environmentally diversified, concept may promote novel trans-species studies of the core-self across mammalian species.

Many pre-school children show 'Closing-in behaviour' (CIB) in graphic copying, placing their copy excessively close to, or even on top of the original. This behaviour can also be observed in patients with dementia, though it is unclear whether the superficial similarities between CIB in development and dementia reflect common underlying mechanisms. Two main hypotheses have been proposed to account for CIB: the compensation hypothesis considers CIB as a strategic adaptation to underlying deficits in visuospatial and/or memory functions; the attraction hypothesis proposes that CIB is a primitive default behaviour in which the acting hand is drawn towards the focus of visual attention. The present study tested between these hypotheses in a group of 15 pre-school children. The children performed a simple straight-line drawing task whilst naming line drawings of animals printed at the top or bottom of the sheet. The drawn lines veered reliably towards the named animals, mimicking CIB in copying tasks. This pattern is not predicted by the compensation hypothesis, but is consistent with the attraction account. We suggest that this default attraction may emerge in children with insufficiently developed attentional and/or executive control.
We report a functional imaging study of drawing cartoon faces. Normal, untrained participants were scanned while viewing simple black and white cartoon line drawings of human faces, retaining them for a short memory interval, and then drawing them without vision of their hand or the paper. Specific encoding and retention of information about the faces were tested for by contrasting these two stages (with display of cartoon faces) against the exploration and retention of random dot stimuli. Drawing was contrasted between conditions in which only memory of a previously viewed face was available versus a condition in which both memory and simultaneous viewing of the cartoon were possible, and versus drawing of a new, previously unseen, face. We show that the encoding of cartoon faces powerfully activates the face-sensitive areas of the lateral occipital cortex and the fusiform gyrus, but there is no significant activation in these areas during the retention interval. Activity in both areas was also high when drawing the displayed cartoons. Drawing from memory activates areas in posterior parietal cortex and frontal areas. This activity is consistent with the encoding and retention of the spatial information about the face to be drawn as a visuo-motor action plan, either representing a series of targets for ocular fixation or as spatial targets for the drawing action.
In this study we examined the differential contribution of superior parietal cortex (SPC) and caudal dorsal-lateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) to drawing geometrical shapes. Monkeys were trained to draw triangles, squares, trapezoids and inverted triangles while we recorded the activity of small ensembles of neurons in caudal area 46 and areas 5 and 2 of parietal cortex. We analyzed the drawing factors encoded by individual neurons by fitting a step-wise general-linear model using as our dependent variable the firing rate averaged over segments of the produced trajectories. This analysis demonstrated that both cognitive (shape and segment serial position) and motor (maximum speed, position and direction of segment) factors modulated the activity of individual neurons. Furthermore, SPC had an enriched representation of both shape and motor factors, with the motor enrichment being stronger than the shape enrichment. Following this we used the activity in the simultaneously recorded neural ensembles to predict the hand velocity. In these analyses we found that the prediction of the hand velocity was better when we estimated different linear decoding functions for each shape than when we estimated a single function across shapes, although it was a subtle effect. Furthermore, we also found that ensembles of caudal dlPFC neurons carried considerable information about hand velocity, a purely motor factor. However, the SPC ensembles carried more information at the ensemble level as a function of the ensemble size than the caudal dlPFC ensembles, although the differences were not dramatic. Finally, an analysis of the response latencies of individual neurons showed that the caudal dlPFC representation was more sensory than the SPC representation, which was equally sensory and motor. Thus, this neurophysiological evidence suggests that both SPC and caudal dlPFC have a role in drawing, but that SPC plays a larger role in both the cognitive and the motor components.

A European project called &quot;Nanopathology&quot; allowed to develop a new diagnostic tool through which the presence of inorganic particulate matter in pathological human tissues of the digestive tract could be shown. This unexpected evidence induced the authors to put forward the hypothesis that that sort of contamination was present in ingested food. In order to demonstrate this hypothesis, 86 samples of wheat bread and 49 of wheat biscuits from 14 different countries were analyzed by means of an Environmental Scanning Electron Microscopy to detect inorganic, micro-, and nano-scaled contaminants. The X-ray microprobe of an Energy Dispersion Spectroscope was employed to identify their chemical composition. The results indicate that 40% of the samples analyzed contained foreign bodies as ceramic and metallic debris of probable environmental or industrial origin. Because of the great variety of chemical composition of the particulate matter, those contaminants were listed according to the most expressed element. The majority of these debris are not biodegradable, some are chemically toxic, and none of them have any nutritive value. The work discusses the possible origin of such a pollution and the role that it can play on human life.
This paper considers how the full range of human experience may catalyze a placebo response. The placebo effect has been characterized as something to control in clinical research, something to cultivate in clinical practice and something present in all healing encounters. We examine domains in which the term 'placebo' is used in discourse: clinical research, clinical practice, media representations of treatment efficacy and lay interpretations of placebo--an underresearched topic. We briefly review major theoretical frameworks proposed to explain the placebo effect: classical conditioning, expectancy, the therapeutic relationship and sociocultural 'meaning.' As a corrective to what we see as an overemphasis on conscious cognitive approaches to understanding placebo, we reorient the discussion to argue that direct embodied experience may take precedence over meaning-making in the healing encounter. As an example, we examine the neurobiology of rehearsing or visualizing wellness as a mode of directly (performatively) producing an outcome often dismissed as a 'placebo response.' Given body/mind/emotional resonance, we suggest that the placebo response is an evolutionarily adaptive trait and part of healing mechanisms operating across many levels--from genetic and cellular to social and cultural.
The interaction between the brain and immune system has been intensely studied in patients with several central nervous system (CNS) disorders including brain trauma and brain tumours. Pioneering studies described cellular immune changes after human stroke more than three decades ago but the potential existence of a CNS- mediated immunodepression syndrome has obtained renewed attention only recently. The CNS and the immune system are extensively interconnected through neural pathways, hormonal cascades and cell-to-cell interactions orchestrated primarily by cytokines. Indeed, the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines determines the prowess of the immunological response but could also influence the fate of the injured brain tissue and the threshold to develop complications including systemic infection. Prominent changes in primary and secondary lymphoid organs and increased susceptibility to infections and pneumonia have been described in a mouse model of transient focal cerebral ischemia in support of the existence of a stroke induced immunodepression syndrome. Yet, the intrinsic characteristics of secondary lymphoid organs located in areas that receive direct signals from the CNS could mediate anti-inflammatory responses after stroke. In human stroke, the balance between pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines is an important prognostic clinical factor. Recent data also suggest that the appearance infections early after stroke could be the manifestation of a stroke-induced immunodepression syndrome, characterized by strong adrenergic activity and excessive anti-inflammatory drive. Overall, current research suggests that a better understanding of the reciprocal effects between the CNS and the immune system could pave the way to more effective therapies for this devastating condition.
Sleep apnea in neurologically compromised children is common but underrecognized. It can be secondary to diseases at all locations on the neuroaxis and may independently alter their presentation, severity, and course. As a primary and secondary illness, it is associated with significant neurological morbidities. In its severe manifestation, it can cause life-threatening short- and long-term systemic morbidities. The authors review the most recent and relevant literature and provide the pediatric neurologist with a framework with which to identify children at risk.



In the spider Cupiennius salei the mechanosensory organs of the legs are generated from epithelial sensory precursor groups which are specified by elevated levels of the achaete-scute homologues CsASH1 and CsASH2. Neural precursors delaminate from the groups and occupy positions basal and proximal to the accessory cells which remain in the epithelium. Here we analyse the role of Notch signalling and numb function in the development of the mechanosensory organs of the spider. We show that Notch signalling is required for several processes: the selection of the sensory precursor groups, the maintenance of undifferentiated sensory precursors, the binary cell fate decision between accessory and neural fate and the differentiation of sensory neurons. Our data suggest that Numb antagonises Notch signalling in the neural precursors, which results in activation of the neural cell fate determinant Prospero and delamination of the neural precursors from the epithelium. Prospero is expressed de novo in sensory neural precursors and we assume that the expression of the gene is regulated by the Notch to Numb ratio within the sensory precursors. Interestingly, the spider numb RNAi phenotype resembles the numb/numblike loss of function phenotypes in the mammalian nervous system, indicating that the interaction between Notch signalling and Numb might play a similar role in both systems.
Human studies of intrasex variability have shown that males are intellectually more variable. Here we have performed retrospective statistical analysis of human intrasex variability in several different properties and performances that are unrelated or indirectly related to intelligence: (a) birth weights of nearly 48,000 babies (Medical Birth Registry of Norway); (b) adult weight, height, body mass index and blood parameters of more than 2,700 adults aged 18-90 (NORIP); (c) physical performance in the 60 meter dash event of 575 junior high school students; and (d) psychological performance reflected by the results of more than 222,000 undergraduate university examination grades (LIST). For all characteristics, the data were analyzed using cumulative distribution functions and the resultant intrasex variability for males was compared with that for females. The principal finding is that human intrasex variability is significantly higher in males, and consequently constitutes a fundamental sex difference.
Mammalian infant behavior directed toward caregivers is critical to survival and may play a role in establishing social bonds. Most mammalian infants vocalize when isolated. Rat pups vocalize at a higher rate when isolated following an interaction with an adult female than after an interaction with littermates, a phenomenon termed maternal potentiation. We previously reported that the D2 receptor family agonist quinpirole disrupts maternal potentiation at a dose that does not alter vocalization rate following contact with littermates. Here we further examine the role of dopamine in maternal potentiation by testing effects of both D1 and D2 receptor family ligands, alone and in combination, on maternal potentiation. We tested the drugs' effects on isolation vocalization subsequent to littermate contact and then another isolation preceded by a brief &quot;reunion&quot; period of exposure either to the anesthetized dam or a handling-only &quot;pickup&quot; condition. D2 receptor stimulation blocked the increase in vocalizations following reunion with the dam. The D2 agonist effect in the dam-reunion condition was much larger than its small effect in the pickup condition, providing further evidence that D2 receptors exert a selective modulation of maternal potentiation. On the other hand, systemic administration of the D1 agonist SKF81297 reduced isolation vocalizations nonspecifically, across all the experimental conditions. Finally, the D1 and D2 receptor dual antagonist, alpha-flupenthixol, increased isolation vocalizations and disrupted potentiation, but at doses that also inhibited locomotion. We conclude that D2 receptor family activation has a more selective effect of disrupting maternal potentiation than D1 receptor family activation.
The ontogeny of the temporal context modulation of conditioned taste aversion was studied in male Wistar rats using a palatable 1% NaCl solution. A procedure that included two saline preexposures, a single pairing saline-lithium chloride (0.15 M; 1% b.w.) either at the same or a different time of day of preexposures and a one-bottle test at the same time than preexposure was applied. Four age groups (PN32, PN48, PN64, and PN100) covering the complete range from adolescence to the adult period were tested. The results showed no effect of a temporal context shift in PN32. A peculiar enhancement of temporal context-specific saline aversions was exhibited by PN48 and PN64 rats, while the adult typical temporal context specificity of latent inhibition was only evident in PN100 rats. The results are discussed in terms of the peculiar brain functional organization during a protracted adolescence period.
Rat pups' vocalization during social separation and the cessation of vocalization upon social reunion (contact quieting) model early life affiliative relationships. The present study examined the roles of dopamine (DA) receptors in regulating contact quieting. Contact quieting to the dam, but not to littermates, was disrupted by either blockade or exogenous stimulation of DA D1-like receptors. The D2 antagonist raclopride also prevented the quieting effect of reunion with the dam and had a lesser effect on the quieting properties of littermates. In contrast, the D2 agonist quinpirole permitted or enhanced contact quieting. Combined systemic and local striatal administration of D2 ligands showed that stimulation of striatal D2 receptors can enhance, but is not necessary for, contact quieting to the dam. These results are consistent with the literature linking the neural mechanisms of affiliation and reinforcement. This is also the first demonstration that the neurochemical substrates of an infant comfort response to dams differ from a behaviorally similar response to siblings.
Adult cognitive neuroscience employs a wide variety of techniques to investigate a broad range of behavioral and cognitive functions. One prominent area of study is that of executive control, complemented by a smaller but growing literature exploring the developmental cognitive neuroscience of executive control. To date this approach has often compared children with specific developmental disorders, such as ADHD and ASD, with typically developing controls. Whilst these comparisons have done much to advance our understanding of the neural markers that underpin behavioral difficulties at specific time-points in development, we contend that they should leave developmental cognitive neuroscientists wanting. Studying the neural correlates of typical changes in executive control in their own right can reveal how different neural mechanisms characteristic of the adult end-state emerge, and it can therefore inform the adult cognitive neuroscience of executive control itself. The current review addresses the extent to which developmentalists and adult cognitive neuroscientists have tapped this common ground. Some very elegant investigations illustrate how seemingly common processes in adulthood present as separable in childhood, on the basis of their distinctive developmental trajectories. These demonstrations have implications not only for an understanding of changing behavior from infancy through childhood and adolescence into adulthood, but, moreover, for our grasp of the adult end-state per se. We contend that, if used appropriately, developmental cognitive neuroscience could enable us to construct a more mechanistic account of executive control.
Maturational changes in the capacity to process quickly the temporal envelope of sound have been linked to language abilities in typically developing individuals. As part of a longitudinal study of brain maturation and cognitive development during adolescence, we employed dense-array EEG and spatiotemporal source analysis to characterize maturational changes in the timing of brain responses to temporal variations in sound. We found significant changes in the brain responses compared longitudinally at two time points in early adolescence, namely 10 years (65 subjects) and 11.5 years (60 of the 65 subjects), as well as large differences between adults, studied with the same protocol (Poulsen, Picton &amp; Paus, 2007), and the children at 10 and 11.5 years of age. The transient auditory evoked potential to tone onset showed decreases in the latency of vertex and T-complex components, and a highly significant increase in the amplitude of the N1 wave with increasing age. The auditory steady state response to a 40-Hz frequency-modulated tone increased in amplitude with increasing age. The peak frequency of the envelope-following response to sweeps of amplitude-modulated white noise also increased significantly with increasing age. These results indicate persistent maturation of the cortical mechanisms for auditory processing from childhood into middle adulthood.
Studies of the biobehavioral actions of psychostimulants commonly focus on locomotion and less commonly on feeding, and only rarely are these measures considered in conjunction within the same animal. The present study compared the impact of (+)-amphetamine and three amphetamine analogs, PAL-287, PAL-313, and PAL-353, on eating and locomotion assessed concurrently using an automated activity/feeding chamber during a daily 45 min session. Each analog is a potent releaser of norepinephrine and of dopamine, but exerts differential serotonin-releasing activity (PAL-287&gt;PAL-313&gt;amphetamine&gt;PAL-353). Rats were tested with each of five doses of drug (0, 2, 4, 8, or 16 micromol/kg, i.p.), given in equimolar concentrations and in random dose order. PAL-353, an analog with minimal serotonin-releasing capacity, markedly stimulated forward locomotion at 2, 4, 8 and 16 micromol/kg, as did amphetamine, whereas PAL-287 and PAL-313 did not. In contrast to the locomotor findings, all four amphetamine-like drugs exerted similar effects on the suppression of food intake. These results suggest that the capacity of an amphetamine analog (i.e. amphetamine and PAL-353) to stimulate serotonin release can diminish its psychostimulant action on locomotion, but does not reliably augment drug-induced hypophagia.
This study sought to determine whether effortful saliva swallows could be differentiated from habitual, noneffortful saliva swallows on the basis of swallow-related changes in neck circumference in humans. Gender differences in swallow-related neck circumference were examined as a secondary question. Twenty-seven healthy adults (14 females; mean age = 26.6 years, SD = 3.9 years) participated in two experimental runs (run duration = 10 min) during which they produced single trials of three visually cued tasks in random order: effortful saliva swallowing, saliva swallowing, and a control task involving repetitive apposition of the dominant thumb and index finger. Neck and ribcage circumference were simultaneously collected from the output of force transducers positioned around the neck and ribcage, respectively. The primary outcome variables were the positive and negative voltage peak amplitudes associated with changes in neck circumference during single-swallow trials. Effects of the swallowing task on positive and negative voltage peaks were examined with separate two-way analysis of variance procedures. Results indicated that both positive (F = 6.49, p &lt; 0.05) and negative (F = 12.05, p &lt;or= .05) voltage peaks were significantly greater for effortful swallows compared with those for noneffortful swallows. The gender main effect and the swallow type by gender interaction were not significant. Effortful and noneffortful swallows of saliva can be differentiated from the output of a noninvasive force transducer worn around the neck. This type of physiologic recording may have potential as a biofeedback technique in training dysphagic patients on the effortful swallow maneuver.
Policy discussions to ameliorate socioeconomic (SES) inequalities are increasingly focused on investments in early childhood. Yet such interventions are costly to implement, and clear evidence on the optimal time to intervene to yield a high economic and social return in the future is meagre. The majority of successful early childhood interventions start in the preschool years. However socioeconomic gradients in cognitive skills, socio-emotional functioning and health can be observed by age three, suggesting that preventative programmes starting earlier in childhood may be even more effective. We discuss the optimal timing of early childhood intervention with reference to recent research in developmental neuroscience. We motivate the need for early intervention by providing an overview of the impact of adverse risk factors during the antenatal and early childhood periods on outcomes later in life. We provide a brief review of the economic rationale for investing early in life and propose the &quot;antenatal investment hypothesis&quot;. We conclude by discussing a suite of new European interventions that will inform this optimal timing debate.
The effects of 375 mgm(-3) (100 ppm) toluene in air inhalation were evaluated on pigmented rats during either repeated exposures over five consecutive days 3h a day or during a single 4-h exposure. At the end of the inhalation period, the animals were returned to fresh air to evaluate their ability to recover optokinetic performance. The optokinetic responses were analyzed using a magnetic search coil technique previously described. After repeated toluene exposure, the eye position at rest of all the rats was unsteady. In response to visual stimulation, the eye velocity was slower and more irregular than in the control state. At the end of the stimulation, the environment of the animals became stationary, but the eye did not immediately return to a fixed stable position. A similar effect was observed after a single exposure. An increase of the optokinetic deficit was observed after single or repeated 375 mgm(-3) toluene exposures. No recovery was observed even after a single exposure. In view of the fact that toluene is a widely used solvent, these results show that inhalation of low concentrations, even for short single exposures, must be taken into account, because gaze destabilization could cause vertigo symptoms.

Ardipusilloside I, a triterpenoid saponin isolated from Ardisia pusilla A. DC, suppresses the growth of a variety of cancer cells, and has certain immunomodulative properties. Herein, we investigated its effect on glioblastoma cell line U87MG cells and primary cultured human glioblastoma cells, and examined the underlying mechanism of action. Ardipusilloside I substantially decreased the number of viable cells of both cell lines in a time- and concentration-dependent manner, with a similar IC(50) of 4.05M. Microscopy revealed apoptotic characteristics, including chromatin condensation and cell nucleus fragmentation, demonstrating that ardipusilloside I-induced apoptosis. Ardipusilloside I exposure also gradually increased the sub-G1 fraction (the apoptotic cell population) and an S phase-arrest of both glioblastoma cells. Furthermore, ardipusilloside I increased the expression of Fas and its ligand (FasL), and enhanced the activation of caspase-8 and caspase-3. Additionally, we observed a significant decreased apoptosis after the trigger effection of FasL was abolished by the neutralization antibody anti-FasL antibody and an unchanged apoptosis level when the activation of caspase-8 was interrupted by specific inhibitor z-IETD-fmk, which suggested that a casepase-8 independent FasL/Fas-signaling-mediated death receptor pathway is involved. These data suggested that ardipusilloside I could be developed as a chemotherapeutic agent for the management of gliomas.
This paper gives an account of the global evolution of (neuro-)chemistry in epileptology with an emphasis on the role of the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE), which declared in its constitution a mission &quot;to make the epilepsy-problem the object of special study and to make practical use of the results of such study.&quot; As Epilepsia is the scientific journal of the ILAE, the review emphasizes papers published in the journal.
The available English and other major Western European language literature was reviewed to assess the stage of development of experimental epileptology prior to the end of the 19th Century. The relevant investigations had been carried out in animals of various species employing a number of methods of evoking convulsive seizures, mainly mechanical, electrical or chemical stimulation or surgical removal of parts of the cerebral cortex. The studies had produced some conflicting data but (i) allowed the development of a number of reasonably satisfactory experimental models of convulsive epileptic seizures (ii) confirmed that such epileptic seizures arose from the cerebral cortex, and (iii) suggested that for local onset epileptic seizures to become generalised tonic-clonic ones, the opposite motor cortex and probably a brain stem, possibly pontine, centre needed to be involved. No generally acceptable animal model of chronic epilepsy had been developed, and the non-motor manifestations of epileptic seizures were still largely unexplored experimentally. Nevertheless, the pre-1900 investigations not only laid the foundations for the 20th Century expansion of experimental studies on epileptogenesis but also advanced the understanding of epileptic seizure production.
Inflammation is an important biological process that is activated after status epilepticus and could be implicated in the development of epilepsy. Here we tested whether an anti-inflammatory treatment with a selective cox-2 inhibitor (SC58236) could prevent the development of epilepsy or modify seizure activity during the chronic epileptic phase. SC58236 was orally administered (10mg/kg) during the latent period for 7 days, starting 4h after electrically induced SE. Seizures were monitored using EEG/video monitoring until 35 days after SE. Cell death and inflammation were investigated using immunocytochemistry (NeuN and Ox-42). Sprouting was studied using Timm's staining after 1 week and after 4-5 months when rats were chronic epileptic. SC58236 was also administered during 5 days in chronic epileptic rats. Hippocampal EEG seizures were continuously monitored before, during and after treatment. SC58236 effectively reduced PGE(2) production but did not modify seizure development or the extent of cell death or microglia activation in the hippocampus. SC58236 treatment in chronic epileptic rats did not show any significant change in seizure duration or frequency of daily seizures. The fact that cox-2 inhibition, which effectively reduced prostaglandin levels, did not modify epileptogenesis or chronic seizure activity suggests that this type of treatment (starting after SE) will not provide an effective anti-epileptogenic or anti-epileptic therapy.
The human DLG3 gene encodes the synapse-associated protein 102 (SAP102), which is concentrated in the postsynaptic densities of excitatory synapses and involved in receptor-mediated synaptic transmission via binding to the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor. In this study, we investigated the expression and cellular distribution of the DLG3/SAP102 protein in human epileptic cortex. Tissue microarrays of a large number of specimens from patients operated for medically intractable epilepsy were used for immunohistochemical screening with anti-DLG3 antibody. The cellular distribution of the protein was further investigated in samples of malformations of cortical development, and the amount of DLG3 protein in the total homogenate and in the postsynaptic membrane fraction of these samples was quantified by Western blot. We found a strictly neuronal expression of DLG3/SAP102 in epileptogenic cortex as well as in non-epileptic human cortex used for control. In focal cortical dysplasia and tuberous sclerosis complex, the protein was expressed in most neurons including dysplastic neurons, but not in giant cells. Increased expression of DLG3 protein was observed in the postsynaptic membrane fraction of patients with focal cortical dysplasia. Double-labeling experiments confirmed the exclusive neuronal character of the DLG3 expressing cells and the co-localization of the DLG3 protein with the NR2B subunit. Our results suggest a putative role for DLG3/SAP102 in cortical hyperexcitability and epileptogenicity of malformations of cortical development.
The purpose of this study is to describe possible differences in cognitive functioning between smoking and non-smoking patients with first-episode psychosis and to determine whether there is a better cognitive profile associated with smoking. We assessed 61 first-episode psychosis patients with a neuropsychological battery that included computerized measurements of attention, working memory, and executive functioning. Patients were grouped into two categories: non-smokers (0 cigarettes/day; n = 30) and smokers (&gt;/=20 cigarettes/day; n = 31). No significant differences were detected in sociodemographic and clinical data between the two groups. For attention tasks, smokers exhibited shorter reaction times in the sustained attention test than non-smokers (P = 0.039) and needed less time to complete the Stroop interference test (P = 0.013). In the working memory task, smokers exhibited shorter reaction times (P = 0.029) and presented a significantly lower percentage of omission (P = 0.002) and commission errors (P = 0.020) than non-smokers. For executive functioning, no differences were detected between groups in performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. Results indicate that first-episode psychosis patients who are nicotine users have better cognitive functioning in the areas of attention and working memory than patients who are not nicotine users. This study supports the cognitive approach to the self-medication hypothesis, to explain the high rates of cigarette smoking among psychosis patients. These results may be relevant for developing new strategies involving nicotinic receptors for cognitive enhancement in psychosis.
We have characterised for the first time the general and neurological side effects experienced when using a series of chronic non-lethal cisplatin + paclitaxel schedules in Wistar rats, selected according to our previous experience and the animals' maximum tolerated dose. At the pathological level, the use of combination schedules was definitely more toxic at the kidney and sternal bone marrow level than the single-agent schedules. At the neurophysiological examination based on the assessment of the nerve conduction velocity measurement in the tail nerve, we identified only one combination schedule that was more neurotoxic than the similar schedules based on single-agent administration. This observation was confirmed by the neuropathological examination performed on the sciatic nerve, dorsal root ganglia, ventral and dorsal roots. Our study supports the hypothesis that the general and, to a lesser extent, neurological effects of a combination of cisplatin and paclitaxel are different from those of the administration of both drugs as single agents. We believe that these models may be useful for testing neuroprotective strategies.
Cell volume is an important parameter in many physiological processes, and is closely regulated in many cell types. In those cells, swelling induced by hypotonic media is followed by an ion-driven regulatory volume decrease. In many cell types, this regulatory volume decrease requires an intact actin cytoskeleton. Therefore, we investigated the changes in the structure and polymerization state of the actin cytoskeleton in HaCaT keratinocytes during cell swelling and regulatory volume decrease. Disruption of the actin cytoskeleton by 2microM cytochalasin D inhibits regulatory volume decrease in HaCaT cells. Cells swollen in the presence of low concentrations of cytochalasin D (0.8microM, 305-250mosM) keep the elevated volume even after cytochalasin D removal. A further decrease of tonicity (250-200mosM) is again counteracted by regulatory volume decrease reaching the volume, which has been established at 250mosM. In contrast, no visible changes occurred in actin cytoskeleton morphology of EGFP-actin-transfected HaCaT cells during swelling or regulatory volume decrease. However, biochemical analysis showed an increase in total F-actin levels 90s after the onset of hypotonicity. The ratio of Triton-soluble to -insoluble actin also increased after hypotonic shock, suggesting that the measured increase in F-actin is primarily due to de novo polymerization and formation of short actin filaments, i.e., actin oligomers. These results show that a rapid reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton takes place after hypotonic treatment. This reorganization can influence signaling in response to hypotonicity either indirectly by means of sequestering or releasing actin-associated proteins, or directly by the interaction of short actin filaments with plasma membrane ion channels, and may be involved in determining a new volume set point.
Many vertebrate cells react to hypotonic conditions with swelling, followed by an active downregulation of the cell volume; a progress called regulatory volume decrease (RVD). While the actual process of volume decrease by loss of osmotically active molecules like K(+) and Cl(-), followed by water efflux has been extensively investigated, the signal for activation of RVD still remains obscure. Studies with different cell lines demonstrated a participation of the cation channel transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) as well as the actin cytoskeleton in volume regulation. Therefore, we analyzed putative links between TRPV4 and F-actin in RVD in HaCaT keratinocytes and CHO cells. Laser scanning microscopy studies revealed a distinct colocalization of TRPV4 and actin in highly dynamic membrane structures, such as microvilli, filopodia and lamellipodia edges. After treatment of cells with the actin-destabilizing reagent latrunculin A, TRPV4 and F-actin no longer colocalized within the membrane. In accordance with these data, close interaction between TRPV4 and F-actin was revealed by FRAP and FRET studies. For functional analysis, CHO cells that endogenously do not express TRPV4, were transfected with recombinant TRPV4, which rendered them RVD-competent. Treatment with latrunculin A abolished both, RVD and the accompanying rise of [Ca(2+)](i) after hypotonic stress in TRPV4-transfected CHO cells. Taken together, our data demonstrate a functional interaction between TRPV4 and F-actin in sensing hypotonicity and the onset of RVD.
Herein, we investigate whether single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across the PARK10 locus are associated with susceptibility to Parkinson's disease (PD) or age at onset (AAO) of disease. One hundred and eighty-eight SNPs were genotyped across the PARK10 locus in 180 PD patients and 180 controls from central Norway (stage 1). We then used the linkage disequilibrium (LD) structure from stage 1 to select 75 SNPs for genotyping in 186 patients and 186 controls from Ireland (stage 2). Nineteen SNPs were selected from this and previous studies for follow-up in an extended Norwegian series (530 patients and 1142 controls), the Irish series and a US series (221 patients and 221 controls) (stage 3). After correction for multiple testing, markers within ubiquitin specific peptidase 24 (USP24) are significantly associated with PD within Norwegian, Irish, and US series combined (rs13312: odds ratio (OR) 0.78, P&lt;0.001; rs487230: OR 0.80, P=0.001). Independently, the association for rs13312 is strongest in the extended Norwegian series (OR 0.76, P=0.005), although not significant after correction for multiple testing (P&lt; or =0.003 is considered significant). ORs in the Irish series are almost identical, and a similar but a weaker effect was observed for the US series. No marker showed consistent association with AAO. Our data indicate that genetic variability in USP24 is associated with PD. Although our work extends and confirms a previous report, the observed effect size does not explain the PARK10 linkage peak.

Prenatal exposure to alcohol can result in a spectrum of adverse developmental outcomes, collectively termed fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). This study evaluated deficits in sensory, motor and cognitive processing in children with FASD that can be identified using eye movement testing. Our study group was composed of 89 children aged 8-15 years with a diagnosis within the FASD spectrum [i.e. fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), partial fetal alcohol syndrome (pFAS), and alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder (ARND)], and 92 controls. Subjects looked either towards (prosaccade) or away from (antisaccade) a peripheral target that appeared on a computer monitor, and eye movements were recorded with a mobile, video-based eye tracker. We hypothesized that: (i) differences in the magnitude of deficits in eye movement control exist across the three diagnostic subgroups; and (ii) children with FASD display a developmental delay in oculomotor control. Children with FASD had increased saccadic reaction times (SRTs), increased intra-subject variability in SRTs, and increased direction errors in both the prosaccade and antisaccade tasks. Although development was associated with improvements across tasks, children with FASD failed to achieve age-matched control levels of performance at any of the ages tested. Moreover, children with ARND had faster SRTs and made fewer direction errors in the antisaccade task than children with pFAS or FAS, although all subgroups were different from controls. Our results demonstrate that eye tracking can be used as an objective measure of brain injury in FASD, revealing behavioral deficits in all three diagnostic subgroups independent of facial dysmorphology.
In this fMRI study we investigated functional connectivity between components of the mentalising system during a social emotion task, using psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analysis. Ten adults (22-32 years) and 18 adolescents (11-18 years) were scanned while thinking about scenarios in which a social or a basic emotion would be experienced. Unlike basic emotions (such as disgust and fear), social emotions (such as embarrassment and guilt) require the representation of another's mental states. In both adults and adolescents, an anterior rostral region of medial prefrontal cortex (arMPFC) involved in mentalising showed greater connectivity with the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) bordering on the temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) and with anterior temporal cortex (ATC) during social than during basic emotion. This result provides novel evidence that components of the mentalising system interact functionally during a social emotion task. Furthermore, functional connectivity differed between adolescence and adulthood. The adolescent group showed stronger connectivity between arMPFC and pSTS/TPJ during social relative to basic emotion than did the adult group, suggestive of developmental changes in functional integration within the mentalising system.
The sedative and hypnotic agent 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[4,5-c]pyridine-3-ol (THIP) is a GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) agonist that preferentially activates delta-subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs (delta-GABA(A)Rs). To clarify the role of delta-GABA(A)Rs in mediating the sedative actions of THIP, we utilized mice lacking the alpha(1)- or delta-subunit in a combined electrophysiological and behavioural analysis. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from ventrobasal thalamic nucleus (VB) neurones at a holding potential of -60 mV. Application of bicuculline to wild-type (WT) VB neurones revealed a GABA(A)R-mediated tonic current of 92 +/- 19 pA, which was greatly reduced (13 +/- 5 pA) for VB neurones of delta(0/0) mice. Deletion of the delta- but not the alpha(1)-subunit dramatically reduced the THIP (1 mum)-induced inward current in these neurones (WT, -309 +/- 23 pA; delta(0/0), -18 +/- 3 pA; alpha(1) (0/0), -377 +/- 45 pA). Furthermore, THIP selectively decreased the excitability of WT and alpha(1) (0/0) but not delta(0/0) VB neurones. THIP did not affect the properties of miniature inhibitory post-synaptic currents in any of the genotypes. No differences in rotarod performance and locomotor activity were observed across the three genotypes. In WT mice, performance of these behaviours was impaired by THIP in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of THIP on rotarod performance was blunted for delta(0/0) but not alpha(1) (0/0) mice. We previously reported that deletion of the alpha(1)-subunit abolished synaptic GABA(A) responses of VB neurones. Therefore, collectively, these findings suggest that extrasynaptic delta-GABA(A)Rs vs. synaptic alpha(1)-subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs of thalamocortical neurones represent an important molecular target underpinning the sedative actions of THIP.
Environmental stimuli constantly compete for human attention and in many cases decisions are made based on the affective meaning they convey. Although the network of structures involved in processing affective value has been well described, the specific contribution of these structures to the process by which affective value guides decision making is less well understood and is the focus of the present study. Thus, subjects read descriptions of individually tailored holidays, varying in incentive value and then made preference judgements, cognitive judgements or no decision. Choices made from an affective perspective, compared with those made from a cognitive perspective, activated a region of the anterior insula/operculum and also the anterior cingulate cortex. Furthermore, activity in perigenual, anterior cingulate cortex was correlated with subjective ratings of incentive value. In contrast, medial orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and a region of posterior ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC), bordering on the insula, were found to be more active when affective stimuli guided response selection than when no selection was made. However, only the activity in the ventrolateral PFC was specific to response selection based on affective compared with cognitive judgements. It is proposed that the necessary introspection required to make subjective preference judgements is provided by the insula and cingulate cortices, while the medial OFC and posterior ventrolateral PFC/insula cortices contribute to stimulus evaluation and motivational aspects of response selection, respectively.
The age of an experimental animal can be a critical variable, yet age matters are often overlooked within neuroscience. Many studies make use of young animals, without considering possible differences between immature and mature subjects. This is especially problematic when attempting to model traits or diseases that do not emerge until adulthood. In this commentary we discuss the reasons for this apparent bias in age of experimental animals, and illustrate the problem with a systematic review of published articles on long-term potentiation. Additionally, we review the developmental stages of a rat and discuss the difficulty of using the weight of an animal as a predictor of its age. Finally, we provide original data from our laboratory and review published data to emphasize that development is an ongoing process that does not end with puberty. Developmental changes can be quantitative in nature, involving gradual changes, rapid switches, or inverted U-shaped curves. Changes can also be qualitative. Thus, phenomena that appear to be unitary may be governed by different mechanisms at different ages. We conclude that selection of the age of the animals may be critically important in the design and interpretation of neurobiological studies.
In rodents and nonhuman primates subjected to spinal cord lesion, neutralizing the neurite growth inhibitor Nogo-A has been shown to promote regenerative axonal sprouting and functional recovery. The goal of the present report was to re-examine the data on the recovery of the primate manual dexterity using refined behavioral analyses and further statistical assessments, representing secondary outcome measures from the same manual dexterity test. Thirteen adult monkeys were studied; seven received an anti-Nogo-A antibody whereas a control antibody was infused into the other monkeys. Monkeys were trained to perform the modified Brinkman board task requiring opposition of index finger and thumb to grasp food pellets placed in vertically and horizontally oriented slots. Two parameters were quantified before and following spinal cord injury: (i) the standard 'score' as defined by the number of pellets retrieved within 30 s from the two types of slots; (ii) the newly introduced 'contact time' as defined by the duration of digit contact with the food pellet before successful retrieval. After lesion the hand was severely impaired in all monkeys; this was followed by progressive functional recovery. Remarkably, anti-Nogo-A antibody-treated monkeys recovered faster and significantly better than control antibody-treated monkeys, considering both the score for vertical and horizontal slots (Mann-Whitney test: P = 0.05 and 0.035, respectively) and the contact time (P = 0.008 and 0.005, respectively). Detailed analysis of the lesions excluded the possibility that this conclusion may have been caused by differences in lesion properties between the two groups of monkeys.
A growing body of data suggests that information coding can be achieved not only by varying neuronal firing rate, but also by varying spike timing relative to network oscillations. In the olfactory bulb (OB) of a freely breathing anaesthetized mammal, odorant stimulation induces prominent oscillatory local field potential (LFP) activity in the beta (10-35 Hz) and gamma (40-80 Hz) ranges, which alternate during a respiratory cycle. At the same time, mitral/tufted (M/T) cells display respiration-modulated spiking patterns. Using simultaneous recordings of M/T unitary activities and LFP activity, we conducted an analysis of the temporal relationships between M/T cell spiking activity and both OB beta and gamma oscillations. We observed that M/T cells display a respiratory pattern that pre-tunes instantaneous frequencies to a gamma or beta regime. Consequently, M/T cell spikes become phase-locked to either gamma or beta LFP oscillations according to their frequency range and respiratory pattern. Our results suggest that slow respiratory dynamics pre-tune M/T cells to a preferential fast rhythm (beta or gamma) such that a spike-LFP coupling might occur when units and oscillation frequencies are in a compatible range. This double-coupling process might define two complementary beta- and gamma-neuronal assemblies along the course of a respiratory cycle.

Rosiglitazone is a commonly prescribed insulin-sensitizing drug with a selective agonistic activity on the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma). PPAR-gamma can modulate inflammatory responses in the brain, and agonists might be beneficial in neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study we used a chronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine plus probenecid (MPTPp) mouse model of progressive Parkinson's disease (PD) to assess the therapeutic efficacy of rosiglitazone on behavioural impairment, neurodegeneration and inflammation. Mice chronically treated with MPTPp displayed typical features of PD, including impairment of motor and olfactory functions associated with partial loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc), decrease of dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content and dynorphin (Dyn) mRNA levels in the caudate-putamen (CPu), intense microglial and astroglial response in the SNc and CPu. Chronic rosiglitazone, administered in association with MPTPp, completely prevented motor and olfactory dysfunctions and loss of TH-positive cells in the SNc. In the CPu, loss of striatal DA was partially prevented, whereas decreases in DOPAC content and Dyn were fully counteracted. Moreover, rosiglitazone completely inhibited microglia reactivity in SNc and CPu, as measured by CD11b immunostaining, and partially inhibited astroglial response assessed by glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity. Measurement of striatal MPP+ levels 2, 4, 6 h and 3 days after chronic treatment indicated that MPTP metabolism was not altered by rosiglitazone. The results support the use of PPAR-gamma agonists as a putative anti-inflammatory therapy aimed at arresting PD progression, and suggest that assessment in PD clinical trials is warranted.
In this study we investigate how the basal ganglia (BG) may process the behavioural relevance of environmental cues by recording local field potentials (LFPs) in the subthalamic nucleus of patients with Parkinson's disease who had undergone implantation of electrodes for deep brain stimulation. Fourteen patients were recorded as they performed a paradigm dissociating warning cue presentation from programming related to execution of specific tasks. Target and non-target warning cues of differing behavioural relevance were contrasted, and we evaluated if warning cue-evoked activities varied according to whether the eventual task to be performed was motor or cognitive and whether patients were receiving or withdrawn from dopaminergic therapy. Warning cues evoked a complex temporal sequence of activities with three epochs over the 760 ms following the onset of the warning cue. In contrast to the initial evoked LFP, evoked activities over two later periods were significantly influenced by behavioural relevance and by treatment state. The early activity was likely related to the initial orientating of attention induced by a novel target, while the delayed responses in our paradigm may reflect processing related to the non-motor resource implications of cues. The results suggest that the BG are intimately involved in the evaluation of changes in the environment and of their behavioural significance. The latter process is partly modulated by dopamine. Weakness in this function might contribute to the behavioural impairment that can follow BG lesions and surgery.


In functional assay assessments using the five muscarinic receptor subtypes, a second generation of muscarinic M(1)-preferring receptor agonists [AC-42 (1), AC-260584 (2), 77-LH-28-1 (3) and LY-593039 (4)] was shown to have higher selectivity for muscarinic M(1) over M(3) receptor as compared to historical agonists [talsaclidine (8), sabcomeline (10), xanomeline (11), WAY-132983 (12), cevimeline (9) and NGX-267 (6)]. Another striking difference of these more recent compounds is their affinities for the dopamine D(2) and 5-HT(2B) receptors. Taken together, these results suggest that the newer compounds may have a greater clinical safety profile, especially with regard to muscarinic M(3) receptor-mediated events, than the historical agonists, but their affinities for other receptors may still compromise their use to validate the therapeutic potential of muscarinic M(1) receptor agonists.
Varenicline, an alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial agonist developed as a smoking cessation aid, showed antidepressant-like activity in the forced swim test in two mouse strains. In addition, a low varenicline dose significantly enhanced the effects of moderately active doses of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor sertraline. These findings are consistent with the notion that reducing alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor activity either by antagonists or by partial agonists that can partially activate or desensitize acetylcholine receptors is associated with antidepressant-like properties. These data suggest that varenicline may have antidepressant potential and can, when combined, augment antidepressant responses of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.

Blockade of the cannabinoid CB1 receptors (CB1R) has been shown to reduce psychostimulant-induced hyperactivity, an effect that we sought to further characterize here. The CB1R antagonist SR141716A dose-dependently decreased d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity.Also, d-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion was reduced in CB1R knockout (KO) mice. However, CB1R KO and wild-type mice showed a similar d-amphetamine-induced increase in nucleus accumbens DA release. Hence, we investigated whether CB1R antagonism/invalidation reduces d-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion through a mechanism involving changes in glutamatergic neurotransmission. Blockade of metabotropic-glutamate-receptors-5 (mGluR5)with MPEP, but not blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptors (NMDA) with MK-801,restored to a great extent the blunted d-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion seen after CB1R antagonism/invalidation. Thus, hyporesponsiveness to the psychostimulant effects of d-amphetamine as a result of CB1R antagonism/invalidation is not due to an ensuing decrease in d-amphetamine-induced DA release in the nucleus accumbens, but rather due to a hyperglutamatergic state and facilitation of glutamatergic neurotransmission at the mGlu5, but not NMDA, receptors.
Bipolar disorder is characterized by dysregulated motivation and increased hedonistic drive. d-Amphetamine induces manic symptoms in humans and exacerbates mania in bipolar disorder patients, effects that are counteracted by mood stabilizers. We utilized intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) to examine how lithium (LiCl), valproate (VPA) or their combination that is commonly used in the clinic affect brain reward function in rats, and how these drugs affect d-amphetamine's reward-facilitating effects. Acute intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of LiCl (100, 200 mg/kg), VPA (400 mg/kg) or combined administration of subthreshold doses of LiCl (50 mg/kg) and VPA (200 mg/kg) increased ICSS thresholds. LiCl (100 mg/kg) and combined administration of LiCl and VPA (50 and 200 mg/kg), but not VPA alone (200, 400 mg/kg), attenuated d-amphetamine's reward-facilitating effects. These results suggest that ICSS combined with d-amphetamine constitutes a useful model to explore the elation and increased hedonistic drive observed in bipolar patients and ultimately help to identify novel pharmacotherapies for bipolar disorder.
Excessive physical activity is commonly described as symptom of Anorexia Nervosa (AN). Activity-based anorexia (ABA) is considered an animal model for AN. The ABA model mimics severe body weight loss and increased physical activity. Suppression of hyperactivity by olanzapine in anorectic patients as well as in ABA rats suggested a role of dopamine and/or serotonin in this trait. Here, we investigated the effect of a non-selective dopamine antagonist in the ABA model. A dose-response curve of chronic treatment with the non-selective dopaminergic antagonist cis-flupenthixol was determined in the ABA model. Treatment reduced activity levels in both ad libitum fed and food-restricted rats. Treated ABA rats reduced body weight loss and increased food intake. These data support a role for dopamine in anorexia associated hyperactivity. Interestingly, in contrast to leptin treatment, food-anticipatory activity still persists in treated ABA rats.

Cortical activity driving a voluntary muscle contraction is inhibited by very low-intensity transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and is reflected in the suppression of the average rectified EMG. This approach offers a method to test the contribution of cortical neurons actively involved in a motor task, but requires a large number of stimuli (approximately 100) to suitably depress the average EMG. Here, we investigated whether two pulses of subthreshold TMS at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) ranging between 1 and 12 ms could enhance the amount of EMG suppression in the tibialis anterior muscle compared to a single pulse. Pairs of subthreshold TMS at an ISI of 7 ms produced the maximum EMG suppression that was 42% more than the inhibition elicited using a single pulse. In addition, the signal-to-noise ratio of the TMS-induced suppression was further increased by a second pulse, delivered 7 ms later. The reduction in the EMG at the 7 ms paired-pulse interval occurred without any short-latency excitation suggesting that the two stimuli increased the activation of cortical inhibitory neurons. Subthreshold paired-pulse TMS at ISIs of 1-3 ms was prone to EMG excitation in the period that immediately preceded the inhibition and is consistent with the recruitment of short-interval intracortical facilitation (SICF). We propose that pairs of subthreshold TMS outside the range of SICF with an inter-pulse interval of 7 ms is optimal to inhibit ongoing cortical activity during human motor movement.
Practice of a motor task leads to an increase in amplitude of motor-evoked potentials (MEP) in the exercised muscle. This is termed practice-dependent plasticity, and is abolished by the NMDA antagonist dextromethorphan and the GABA(A) agonist lorazepam. Here, we sought to determine whether specific subtypes of GABA(A) circuits are responsible for this effect by comparing the action of the non-selective agonist, lorazepam with that of the selective GABA(A)-alpha(1) receptor agonist, zolpidem. In seven healthy subjects, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to quantify changes in amplitude of MEP after practice of a ballistic motor task. In addition we measured how the same drugs affected MEP amplitudes and the excitability of a number of cortical inhibitory circuits [short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), short-interval afferent inhibition (SAI) and long-interval intracortical inhibition]. This allowed us to explore correlations between drugs effects in measures of cortical excitability and practice-dependent plasticity of MEP amplitudes. As previously reported, lorazepam increased SICI and decreased SAI, while zolpidem only decreased SAI. The new findings were that practice-dependent plasticity of MEPs was impaired by lorazepam but not zolpidem, and that this was negatively correlated with lorazepam-induced changes in SICI but not SAI. This suggests that the intracortical circuits involved in SICI (and not neurons expressing GABA(A)-alpha(1) receptor subunits that are implicated in SAI) may be involved in controlling the amount of practice-dependent MEP plasticity.
Displacements of the visual axis and multi-segmental (eye-to-foot) coordination in the yaw plane were studied in ten human subjects (Ss) during voluntary reorientations to illuminated targets of eccentricities up to 180 degrees . We also investigated how knowledge of target location modifies the movement pattern. Eccentric targets (outbound trials) elicited eye, head, trunk and foot movements at latencies ca. 0.5, 0.6, 0.7 and 1.1 s, respectively. Knowledge of target location (return trials) reduced latencies for foot and trunk (but not eye and head) thus eye, head and trunk moved more en bloc. In most trials, the initial gaze shift fell short of the target and more than 50% of the visual angle was covered by the sum of vestibular nystagmic fast phases and head-in-space displacement, until target fixation. This indicates that during large gaze shifts the 'anticompensatory' role of the vestibulo-ocular reflex in target acquisition is prominent. During some predictable trials Ss acquired targets with a single large gaze shift, shortening target acquisition time by more than 200 ms. In these, gaze velocity (trunk-in-space + head-on-trunk + eye-in-orbit) remained often fairly constant for durations of up to 500 ms, suggesting that gaze velocity is a controlled parameter. Such pattern occurred during trunk mobilization, thus eye velocity co-varied with head-in-space rather than head-on-trunk velocity. Foot rotations were stereotyped and of constant frequency, suggesting they are generated by locomotor pattern generators. However, knowledge of target location reduced foot latencies indicating that local and supraspinal mechanisms interact for foot control. We propose that a single controller is responsible for the coupling of the multiple body segments and gaze velocity control during gaze shifts.
Changes in the levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) are known to occur in different parts of the brain during aging. In our study we attempted to define the effect that aging has on glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), the key enzyme in the synthesis of GABA, in the central parts of the auditory system. Age-related changes in GAD65 and GAD67 levels were investigated using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting in the inferior colliculus (IC), the auditory cortex (AC) and the visual cortex in Long-Evans rats. The results show that aging is associated with a decrease in the numbers of GAD65- and 67-immunoreactive neurons and the optical density of their somas in both the IC and AC. Western blot analysis revealed a pronounced age-related decline in the levels of GAD65 and 67 proteins in both the IC and AC. For comparison, in the visual cortex the decrease in both proteins was less pronounced than in the IC and AC. A similar pattern of age-related changes was found in Fischer 344 rats, a strain that manifests a rapid loss of hearing function with aging. The observed age-related decline in the levels of GAD65 and 67 may contribute significantly to the deterioration of hearing function that accompanies aging in mammals, including man.

Secondary degeneration is a form of 'bystander' damage that can affect neural tissue both nearby and remote from an initial injury. Partial optic nerve transection is an excellent model in which to unequivocally differentiate events occurring during secondary degeneration from those resulting from primary CNS injury. We analysed the primary injury site within the optic nerve (ON) and intact areas vulnerable to secondary degeneration. Areas affected by the primary injury showed morphological disruption, loss of beta-III tubulin axonal staining, reduced myelinated axon density, greater proteoglycan expression (phosphacan), increased microglia and macrophage numbers and increased oxidative stress. Similar, but less extreme, changes were seen in areas of the optic nerve undergoing secondary degeneration. The CNS-specific L- and T-type calcium channel blocker lomerizine alleviated some of the changes in areas vulnerable to secondary degeneration. Lomerizine reduced morphological disruption, oxidative stress and phosphacan expression, and limited early increases in macrophage numbers. However, lomerizine failed to prevent progressive de-myelination of ON axons. Within the retina, secondary retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death was significant in areas vulnerable to secondary degeneration. Lomerizine protected RGCs from secondary death at 4 weeks but did not fully restore behavioural function (optokinetic nystagmus). We conclude that blockade of calcium channels is neuroprotective and limits secondary degenerative changes following CNS injury. However such an approach may need to be combined with other treatments to ensure long-term maintenance of full visual function.
Statins are widely being used for the treatment of a variety of conditions beyond their original indication for lowering cholesterol. We have previously reported that simvastatin affected the dopaminergic system in the rat brain. This study aims to investigate locomotor and anxiety effects along with the regional changes of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the rat brain after 4-week administration of simvastatin. Hyperlocomotive and anxiolytic-like activities in the rat were observed after chronic administration of high dose simvastatin (10 mg/kg/day). Distributions and alterations of NMDA receptors in the post-mortem rat brain were detected by [(3)H] MK-801 binding autoradiography. Simvastatin increased [(3)H] MK-801 binding, predominantly in the prefrontal cortex (20%, p=0.003), primary motor cortex (20%, p&lt;0.001), cingulate cortex (28%, p&lt;0.001), hippocampus (41%, p&lt;0.001), caudate putamen (30%, p=0.029), nucleus accumbens (27%, p=0.035) and amygdala (45%, p&lt;0.001) compared to controls. Significant positive correlations were identified between hyperlocomotive as well as anxiolytic-like activities and the upregulation of NMDA receptors in different brain regions. Our results also provide strong evidence that chronic high dose simvastatin administration is to exhibit NMDA antagonist-like effects, which would partially explain the anxiolytic and hyperlocomotor activities. These findings contribute to a better understanding of the critical roles of simvastatin in modulating psycho-neurodegenerative disorders, via NMDA receptors.
In rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) undergo a paired-pulse depression (PPD) by the second of two pulses, with inter-pulse intervals of 100-2000 ms, applied to the stratum radiatum. While GABA-C receptors are described in the CA1 area, their functional significance is unknown. In this study, the involvement of GABA-C receptors in PPD was examined using an in vitro hippocampal slice preparation. IPSCs evoked by stimulations in stratum radiatum were recorded with patch pipettes from CA1 pyramidal cells. PPD, when induced in the above fashion, was blocked by the GABA-C receptor antagonist (1,2,5,6-Tetrahydropyridin-4-yl) methylphosphinic acid (TPMPA, 10 muM, applied in the superfusing medium). GABA-A and GABA-B receptor-mediated IPSCs, as well as the baclofen-induced suppression of the GABA-A receptor mediated IPSC, were not antagonized by TPMPA (10-20 muM). These results indicate that PPD of the IPSC is mediated by the activation of GABA-C receptors.
In rat hippocampal CA1 neurons, excitatory synaptic transmission is depressed following a 20 Hz, 30 s stimulation in the stratum radiatum. This depression lasts for at least 25 min post-tetanus (long-term depression, LTD). The LTD is significantly enhanced by about 20% if rats were sleep-deprived for 12 h prior to recording. The increase in LTD following sleep-deprivation is a new finding which can have implications for hippocampal neuronal excitability, network activity, and induction of long-term potentiation and may account for post-sleep deprivation amnesia.
Analysis of intracranial electroencephalographic (iEEG) recordings in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) has revealed characteristic dynamical features that distinguish the interictal, ictal, and postictal states and inter-state transitions. Experimental investigations into the mechanisms underlying these observations require the use of an animal model. A rat TLE model was used to test for differences in iEEG dynamics between well-defined states and to test specific hypotheses: 1) the short-term maximum Lyapunov exponent (STL(max)), a measure of signal order, is lowest and closest in value among cortical sites during the ictal state, and highest and most divergent during the postictal state; 2) STL(max) values estimated from the stimulated hippocampus are the lowest among all cortical sites; and 3) the transition from the interictal to ictal state is associated with a convergence in STL(max) values among cortical sites. iEEGs were recorded from bilateral frontal cortices and hippocampi. STL(max) and T-index (a measure of convergence/divergence of STL(max) between recorded brain areas) were compared among the four different periods. Statistical tests (ANOVA and multiple comparisons) revealed that ictal STL(max) was lower (p&lt;0.05) than other periods, STL(max) values corresponding to the stimulated hippocampus were lower than those estimated from other cortical regions, and T-index values were highest during the postictal period and lowest during the ictal period. Also, the T-index values corresponding to the preictal period were lower than those during the interictal period (p&lt;0.05). These results indicate that a rat TLE model demonstrates several important dynamical signal characteristics similar to those found in human TLE and support future use of the model to study epileptic state transitions.
Background: The development of new treatment alternatives for schizophrenia has been prevented by the unknown etiology of the illness and the divergence of results in the field. However, consistent neuropathological findings are emerging from anatomical areas known to be at the core of schizophrenia. If these deficiencies are replicated in animal models then such anomalies could become the target for a new generation of drugs. Objective: To determine if the methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) model, the heterozygote reeler mouse (HRM) and NMDA-antagonists treated rats replicate neuropathological deficits encountered in patients with schizophrenia and to establish if such changes could lead the search for developing novel treatment alternatives. Methods: Databases including MEDLINE, Cochrane and Ovid were searched; search terms included neuropathology, schizophrenia and animal models. Results/conclusions: NMDA-antagonist treated animals partially replicate schizophrenia anomalies in parvalbumin positive interneurons. In contrast, neuroanatomical deficiencies replicated by the MAM model and the HRM in the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex seem promising targets for future pharmacological research in schizophrenia. Such neuroanatomical findings along with evidence from molecules and genes associated with schizophrenia suggest new drugs should aim to correct deficits in the formation of dendrites and axons that seems to be implicated in this illness pathophysiology.

The concerted efforts of clinicians, scientists and caregivers of HIV-infected children have led to tremendous advances in our understanding of pediatric HIV/AIDS. Antiretroviral therapy (ART; formerly known as highly active antiretroviral therapy [HAART]) has significantly extended the longevity of HIV-infected children, but there are limitations to improvements in quality of life that may persist despite therapy. ART has remarkably reduced the incidence of neurologic deficits for the majority of infected children, but some patients do not experience these benefits and children living in poorer nations, who may not have access to antiretrovirals, are particularly at risk for developing neurologic deficits. This article reviews the neurologic symptoms of pediatric HIV infection that manifest as dopaminergic disruptions and explores potential future adjuvant therapies for HIV-related neurologic disorders in children.
This report covers a range of communications delivered at the Winter Meeting of the British Pharmacology Society, held at the Brighton Metropole Hotel on the 15-17th December 2008, which reported new findings in basic and clinical neuropharmacology. The report is subdivided into aspects of analgesia, neurological and psychological disorders.
Cluster headache (CH), a primary neurovascular headache syndrome, is characterized by recurrent, unilateral, short-lasting attacks of excruciating pain in the temporal and/or orbital region. The pain is considered one of the most severe pain conditions known to humans. Compared with the general population, first-degree relatives of probands with CH have a significantly increased risk of the same disorder. However, there seems to be no clear mode of inheritance, suggesting that both genetic and environmental factors are of importance, with the pathophysiology being multifactorial. Despite the genetic influence of the disease, a low prevalence and small pedigrees complicate the feasibility of genetic studies. To date, only genetic studies with limited sample sizes have been performed, but results have indicated an association with the HCRTR2 gene, which is involved in the regulation of chronobiological rhythms. Collaborative multicenter studies on large clinically well-defined materials are needed to reach a better understanding of the complex genetic background of CH.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the presence of neurofibrillary tangles of hyperphosphorylated, aggregated tau protein and extracellular deposits of beta-amyloid peptide. Increased beta-amyloid levels are thought to precede tangle formation, but tau pathology is more closely related to neuronal death. Minocycline, a tetracycline derivative, has potent antiinflammatory, antiapoptotic, and neuroprotective effects in several models of neurodegenerative disease, including models of AD with amyloid pathology. We have used both in vitro and in vivo models of AD to determine whether minocycline may have therapeutic efficacy against tau pathology. In primary cortical neurons, minocycline prevents beta-amyloid-induced neuronal death, reduces caspase-3 activation, and lowers generation of caspase-3-cleaved tau fragments. Treatment of tangle-forming transgenic mice (htau line) with minocycline results in reduced levels of tau phosphorylation and insoluble tau aggregates. The in vivo effects of minocycline are also associated with reduced caspase-3 activation and lowered tau cleavage by caspase-3. In tau mice, we find that conformational changes in tau are susceptible to minocycline treatment, but are not directly associated with the amount of tau fragments produced, highlighting a dissociation between the development of these pathological tau species. These results suggest a possible novel therapeutic role for minocycline in the treatment of AD and related tauopathies.
Free nucleotides in living cells play important roles in a variety of biological reactions, and often undergo chemical modifications of their base moieties. As modified nucleotides may have deleterious effects on cells, they must be eliminated from intracellular nucleotide pools. We have performed a screen for ITP-binding proteins because ITP is a deaminated product of ATP, the most abundant nucleotide, and identified RS21-C6 protein, which bound not only ITP but also ATP. Purified, recombinant RS21-C6 hydrolyzed several canonical nucleoside triphosphates to the corresponding nucleoside monophosphates. The pyrophosphohydrolase activity of RS21-C6 showed a preference for deoxynucleoside triphosphates and cytosine bases. The k(cat)/K(m) (s(-1) m(-1)) values were 3.11 x 10(4), 4.49 x 10(3) and 1.87 x 10(3) for dCTP, dATP and dTTP, respectively, and RS21-C6 did not hydrolyze dGTP. Of the base-modified nucleotides analyzed, 5-I-dCTP showed an eightfold higher k(cat)/K(m) value compared with that of its corresponding unmodified nucleotide, dCTP. RS21-C6 is expressed in both proliferating and non-proliferating cells, and is localized to the cytoplasm. These results show that RS21-C6 produces dCMP, an upstream precursor for the de novo synthesis of dTTP, by hydrolyzing canonical dCTP. Moreover, RS21-C6 may also prevent inappropriate DNA methylation, DNA replication blocking or mutagenesis by hydrolyzing modified dCTP.
The cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) and total particulate matter (TPM) in cigarette smoke is extremely toxic and may produce several pathologies. In our study, we used a chicken chorioallantoic membrane assay (CAM) to study the toxicological effects of CSC and TPM on different aspects of angiogenesis. CSC and TPM from four different commercial filtered cigarettes were applied to the CAMs on day 6 of incubation. Macroscopic vascular transformations were observed among all treated CAMs. The application of CSC disks caused obliteration of main blood vessels, while the entire architecture of the secondary and tertiary vasculature was completely destroyed. Likewise, the application of TPM from all brands of cigarette caused the disproportionate thinning of all primary and secondary blood vessels. A reduction in the total area and diameter of the primary, secondary, and tertiary blood vessels was observed after treatment with CSC and TPM. Histological evaluations revealed the loss of ectodermal and mesodermal integrity with both types of treatments. We also noted a profound inflammatory reaction restricted to the disk area with a novel filopodial deformity of the endoderm in the CSC treated groups. Scanty capillary plexus formation, deterioration of the extracellular matrix, and delayed migration of blood vessels were prominent findings among all treated groups. Results obtained from the CSC treated groups were more localized, while more generalized results were recorded in the TPM treated groups. Special caution should be taken for the presence of CSC and TPM while smoking during pregnancy or after surgery because it may severely affect the process of angiogenesis, which is vital to the maintenance of pregnancy and wound healing.
We report here for the first time the isolation and identification of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) huntingtin (Htt) gene, whose ortholog in humans is known to be related to Huntington's disease (HD). A 9396 nucleotide complementary DNA (cDNA) carrying the putative full-length open reading frame of the marmoset Htt gene was identified, and highly conserved nucleotide and amino acid sequences among primates were observed. Based on this data and using tools evaluated for the detection of the marmoset Htt gene, we have demonstrated gene silencing against the expression of endogenous Htt gene in immortalized common marmoset mononuclear cells by means of RNA interference (RNAi). Taken together, the data presented here may assist us in realizing a non-human primate HD model with the common marmoset.
Engineered foamy virus (FV) vectors have been lauded for their superior safety profiles and stable integration patterns compared to their gammaretroviral counterparts. The drawback has been the belief that FV incorporation is cell cycle-dependent, thereby limiting its utility in post-mitotic tissues such as the central nervous system. In this brief communication, we challenged this theory by examining FV in vivo. We injected equal titers of FV and lentivirus (LV) into the adult rat brain and found that at 1 week, FV transduced a significantly greater volume of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-negative brain parenchyma than did LV. By 8 weeks, however, the volume of transduced tissue was greatly reduced--comparable to LV-and restricted to BrdU+. Taken together, these data implicate a role for FV in short-term gene delivery strategies to the CNS.
Raised levels of inflammation markers have been associated with several mental disorders; however, studies regarding the relationship between inflammation or the immune system and various aspects of human behaviour are not numerous. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether an association exists between personality traits and two single nucleotide polymorphisms located in genes that are associated with the innate immune system. The studied population consisted of 42-year-old women recruited from the population registry that had been assessed by means of Karolinska Scales of Personality, a self-reported inventory. The first polymorphism, +1444C&gt;T (rs1130864), is located in the gene coding for C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of low-grade inflammation. The T-allele has previously been suggested to be linked to raised serum levels of CRP. The second polymorphism, Y402H (1277T&gt;C, rs1061170), is located in the gene coding for complement factor H, an important regulator of the complement system. The C-allele has consistently been associated with age-related macular degeneration. While the +1444T allele was associated with higher scores in the personality traits impulsiveness, monotony avoidance and social desirability, the 1277C polymorphism was associated with higher scores in verbal aggression and lower scores in social desirability. In conclusion, the associations between the personality traits and the studied polymorphisms further support the possible influence of the immune system on mental functions.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether the preference for a palatable high-fat diet (HFD) is associated with response to novelty and with anxiety-like behavior in rats and whether such fat preference correlates with gene expression of hypothalamic neuropeptides related to feeding. We subjected male rats to two tests of exploration of novel environments: the multivariate concentric square field (MCSF) and the elevated plus maze (EPM). The rats were then exposed to a 5-day test of preference for a palatable HFD versus reference diets. Messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of 21 neuropeptides were investigated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. We found a strong positive correlation of HFD preference and open-arm activity in the EPM (% open-arm time, r(s) = 0.629, df = 26, P &lt; 0.001). Thus, HFD preference was inversely associated with anxiety-like behavior. The same association was found for HFD preference and behavior in the MCSF (bridge entries, r(s) = 0.399, df = 23, P = 0.048). In addition, the HFD preference was positively correlated (r(s) = 0.433, df = 25, P = 0.021) with hypothalamic mRNA levels of urocortin 2 (Ucn 2). Moreover, behavior in the EPM was significantly correlated with expression levels of the receptor for Ucn 2, the corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 2, in the hypothalamus (r(s) = 0.382, df = 33, P = 0.022, pituitary (r(s) = 0.494, df = 31, P = 0.004) and amygdala (r(s) = 0.381, df = 30, P = 0.032). We conclude that preference for palatable HFD is inversely associated with anxiety and propose that Ucn 2 signaling may play a role in this association.
Febrile seizures (FS) are the most common seizure type in children and recurrent FS are a risk factor for developing temporal lobe epilepsy. Although the mechanisms underlying FS are largely unknown, recent family, twin and animal studies indicate that genetics are important in FS susceptibility. Here, a forward genetic strategy was used employing mouse chromosome substitution strains (CSS) to identify novel FS susceptibility quantitative trait loci (QTLs). FS were induced by exposure to warm air at postnatal day 14. Video electroencephalogram monitoring identified tonic-clonic convulsion onset, defined as febrile seizure latency (FSL), as a reliable phenotypic parameter to determine FS susceptibility. FSL was determined in both sexes of the host strain (C57BL/6J), the donor strain (A/J) and CSS. C57BL/6J mice were more susceptible to FS than A/J mice. Phenotypic screening of the CSS panel identified six strains(CSS1, -2, -6 -10, -13 and -X) carrying QTLs for FS susceptibility. CSS1, -10 and -13 were less susceptible (protective QTLs), whereas CSS2, -6 and -X were more susceptible (susceptibility QTLs) to FS than the C57BL/6J strain. Our data show that mouse FS susceptibility is determined by complex genetics, which is distinct from that for chemically induced seizures. This is the first dataset using CSS to screen for a seizure trait in mouse pups. It provides evidence for common FS susceptibility QTLs that serve as starting points to fine map FS susceptibility QTLs and to identify FS susceptibility genes. This will increase our understanding of human FS, working toward the identification of new therapeutic targets.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) persist throughout life in two forebrain areas: the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the hippocampus. Why forebrain NSCs self-renew more extensively than those from other regions remains unclear. Prior studies have shown that the polycomb factor Bmi-1 is necessary for NSC self-renewal and that it represses the cell cycle inhibitors p16, p19, and p21. Here we show that overexpression of Bmi-1 enhances self-renewal of forebrain NSCs significantly more than those derived from spinal cord, demonstrating a regional difference in responsiveness. We show that forebrain NSCs require the forebrain-specific transcription factor Foxg1 for Bmi-1-dependent self-renewal, and that repression of p21 is a focus of this interaction. Bmi-1 enhancement of NSC self-renewal is significantly greater with increasing age and passage. Importantly, when Bmi-1 is overexpressed in cultured adult forebrain NSCs, they expand dramatically and continue to make neurons even after multiple passages, when control NSCs have become restricted to glial differentiation. Together these findings demonstrate the importance of Bmi-1 and Foxg1 cooperation to maintenance of NSC multipotency and self-renewal, and establish a useful method for generating abundant forebrain neurons ex vivo, outside the neurogenic niche.
The vgf gene regulates energy homeostasis and the VGF-derived peptide TLQP-21 centrally exerts catabolic effects in mice and hamsters. Here, we investigate the effect of chronic intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of TLQP-21 in mice fed high fat diet (HFD). Fast weight-gaining mice injected with the peptide or cerebrospinal fluid were selected for physiological, endocrine, and molecular analysis. TLQP-21 selectively inhibited the increase in body weight and epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) weight induced by HFD in control animals despite both groups having a similar degree of hyperphagia. TLQP-21 normalized the increase in leptin and decrease in ghrelin while increasing epinephrine and epinephrine/norepinephrine ratio when compared to values in controls. Finally, HFD-TLQP-21 mice showed a selective increase of eWAT beta3-adrenergic receptor mRNA. Peroxisome-proliferator-activated-receptor-delta and hormone-sensing-lipase mRNA were also upregulated. In conclusion, chronic icv infusion of TLQP-21 prevented the early phase of diet-induced obesity despite overfeeding. These effects were paralleled by activation of catabolic pathways within the eWAT. Our results further support a role for TLQP-21 as a catabolic neuropeptide.
We describe here the repertoire of neuropeptide Y (NPY) peptides and receptors in the elephant shark Callorhinchus milii, belonging to the chondrichthyans that diverged from the rest of the gnathostome (jawed vertebrate) lineage about 450 million years ago and the first chondrichthyan with a genome project. We have identified two peptide genes that are orthologous to NPY and PYY (peptide YY) in other vertebrates, and seven receptor genes orthologous to the Y1, Y2, Y4, Y5, Y6, Y7 and Y8 subtypes found in tetrapods and teleost fishes. The repertoire of peptides and receptors seems to reflect the ancestral configuration in the predecessor of all gnathostomes, whereas other lineages such as mammals and teleosts have lost one or more receptor genes or have acquired 1-2 additional peptide genes. Both the peptides and receptors showed broad and overlapping mRNA expression which may explain why some receptor gene losses could take place in some lineages, but leaves open the question why all the known ancestral receptors have been retained in the elephant shark.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) has been implicated in modulating the central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory response. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in apoE-dependent immunomodulation are poorly understood. We hypothesize that apoE alters the CNS inflammatory response by signaling via low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors in glia. To address this hypothesis, we used a small bioactive peptide formed from the receptor-binding domain of apoE, apoE peptide (EP), to study LDL receptor signaling in microglia. To model glial activation, we treated primary mouse microglia and the microglial cell line BV2 with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and studied two inflammatory responses: an increase in nitric oxide production (NO) and a decrease in apoE production. We found that treatment of primary microglia and BV2 cells with EP attenuated LPS-induced NO accumulation and apoE reduction in a dose-dependent manner. Using the receptor-associated protein to block ligand binding to members of the LDL receptor family, we found that EP attenuated both of these LPS-induced inflammatory responses via LDL receptors. We studied two intracellular signaling cascades associated with apoE: c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). LPS induced both ERK and JNK activation, whereas EP induced ERK activation, but drastically reduced JNK activation. Inhibition of JNK with SP600125 reduced LPS-induced NO production and apoE reduction in a dose-dependent manner. Treatment of microglia with suboptimal EP in combination with JNK inhibitor enhanced attenuation of LPS-induced NO production. These data suggest that microglial LDL receptors regulate JNK activation, which is necessary for apoE modulation of the inflammatory response.

Synaptic activity-dependent phosphorylation of the transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) leads to CREB-dependent gene transcription, a process thought to underlie long-term hippocampal synaptic plasticity and memory formation. We previously reported that increasing CREB activity in glutamatergic neurons enhances synaptic plasticity and neuronal excitability. Whether these modifications are sufficient to promote hippocampal-dependent memory formation was not determined. Here, we provide direct evidence that a brief increase in CREB-dependent transcription in either CA1 or DG neurons, using in vivo viral vectors, is sufficient to boost memory for contextual representations, as tested in the contextual fear conditioning task, without affecting motor, pain, or anxiety behaviors.
The postrhinal cortex (POR) receives input from parietal cortex and sends output to the hippocampus. It may, therefore, relay spatial information to the hippocampus and as a result, lesions of POR may disturb the spatial firing patterns of hippocampal place cells. To test this hypothesis, the firing of hippocampal CA1 place cells in rats with bilateral N-methyl-D-aspartic acid lesions centered on the POR (n = 83 cells) and rats with sham lesions (n = 77 cells) was compared, while animals foraged freely. The main effect of postrhinal lesions on the basic firing properties of hippocampal place cells was to decrease the coherence of their firing fields. In contrast to the previously reported effects of lesions of neighboring perirhinal cortex, however, there was no effect of postrhinal lesions on the location stability of the fields over time or in the response of these cells to the animal's movement. These data indicate that information originating from the POR has relatively little influence on hippocampal place cell firing while an animal is engaged in foraging behavior. This also suggests that perirhinal and postrhinal cortices make distinct contributions to hippocampal functioning.
Traumatic events always lead to aversive emotional memory, i.e., fear memory. In contrast, positive events in daily life such as sex experiences seem to reduce aversive memory after aversive events. Thus, we hypothesized that post-traumatic pleasurable experiences, especially instinctive behaviors such as sex, might modulate traumatic memory through a memory competition mechanism. Here, we first report that male rats persistently expressed much lower fear responses when exposed to females, but not when exposed to males, for 24 h immediately after contextual fear conditioning. Remarkably, this effect of sexual behavior was blocked by either systemic or intrahippocampal injection of the dopamine D1/D5 receptor antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH23390) and was mimicked by systemic but not intrahippocampal injection of the D1/D5 receptor agonist R(+)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol hydrochloride (SKF39393). Furthermore, as a candidate mechanism underlying contextual fear memory, the impaired induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) elicited by conditioned fear was rescued in male rats immediately exposed to female but not male rats for 24 h. Systemic injection of the dopamine D1/D5 receptor antagonist SCH23390 or agonist SKF38393 prevented or mimicked the effect of sexual behavior on the impaired induction of hippocampal LTP. Thus, our finding suggests that dopaminergic functions may, at least partially, govern competition between contextual fear and enjoyable memories through the modulation of hippocampal LTP.
Recent evidence indicates that some synapses exhibit long-lasting synaptic potentiation in response to low frequency (1 Hz) stimulation, similar to long-term potentiation (LTP) following high frequency induction protocols. Here, the authors characterize a form of long-lasting synaptic potentiation in the hippocampal CA1 area following alternating, single pulse stimulation of the medial septum (MS) and hippocampal CA3 commissural fibers (MS-H LTP). In urethane-anesthetized rats, alternating single pulse stimulation of the MS and CA3 (50 pulses each at 0.5 Hz, 1,000 ms interstimulus interval [ISI]) produced gradual increases of field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) amplitude in CA1 ( approximately 123% of baseline), while MS or CA3 stimulation alone was ineffective. The fEPSP enhancement was long-lasting (&gt;4h) and repeated episodes of alternating MS-CA3 stimulation tended to result in greater levels of potentiation than those elicited by a single episode. Surprisingly, ISIs of 500, 750, and 1,500 ms did not result in significant changes in fEPSP amplitude, while an ISI of 100 ms produced synaptic depression. MS-H LTP was resistant to systemic administration of nicotinic and muscarinic receptor antagonists (scopolamine, mecamylamine), but abolished by systemic MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or local CA1 application of AP-V (10 mM), indicative of a critical role of hippocampal NMDA receptors in this effect. Paired-pulse facilitation experiments revealed a gradually developing, significant inverse correlation between fEPSP enhancement and decrease in paired-pulse facilitation ratio, suggesting a role of changes in presynaptic transmitter release. Together, these data demonstrate a novel form of long-lasting synaptic enhancement in CA1 neurons in response to low frequency activity in separate afferent systems, an activity that might mimic some aspects of natural discharge patterns during the acquisition or consolidation of memory processes in hippocampal circuits.
Individuals with alexithymia are typically unable to identify, understand, or describe their own emotions. Patients with anorexia nervosa (AN) have been shown to have high levels of alexithymia, and the latter trait may play an important role over the course of AN. However, relatively little is known about the underlying neurobiological relationships between alexithymia and AN. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between alexithymia level and brain activation in patients with AN. Thirty female patients participated in this study. Alexithymia was measured using the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to identify the brain regions that display abnormal hemodynamic activity while patients with AN were engaged in an emotional decision-making task. There was significant activation in the amygdala during the task, but not in the posterior and anterior cingulate cortices (PCC, ACC). However, PCC and ACC activation did vary as a function of alexithymia level. These results suggest that alexithymia in AN patients is associated with a deficit in the cognitive evaluation of negative emotions concerning body image. Alexithymia might play a crucial role in the emotional processing impairments that are often observed in AN patients, and this trait might ultimately help to better account for the psychopathological mechanism that underlies AN.
Ank1.5 is a muscle-specific isoform of ankyrin1 localized on the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) membrane that has been shown to interact with obscurin, a sarcomeric protein. We report here studies on the localization of obscurin and ank1.5 in embryonic and postnatal rodent skeletal muscles. Using two antibodies against epitopes in the N- and C-terminus of obscurin, two distinct patterns of localization were observed. Before birth, the antibodies against the N- and the C-terminus of obscurin stained the Z-disk and M-band, respectively. At the same time, ank1.5 was detected at the Z-disk, rising the possibility that obscurin molecules at M-band may not be able to interact with ank1.5. Localization of ank1.5 at Z-disks in E14 muscle fibers revealed that ank1.5 is among the earliest SR proteins to assemble, since its organization preceded that of other SR proteins, like SERCA and RyR. After birth, the antibody against the N-terminus of obscurin stained the M-band while that against the C-terminus stained both M-bands and the Z-disks. Starting from postnatal day 1, ank1.5 was found at the level of both M-bands and Z-disks. Altogether, from these results we infer that exposure of some obscurin epitopes changes during skeletal muscle development, resulting in distinct, antibody-specific, localization pattern. Why this occurs is not clear, yet these data indicate that the organization of obscurin at different locations in the sarcomere changes during muscle development and that this might affect the interaction with ank1.5.
The present study was initiated to gain some information about the tissue distribution of transient receptor potential proteins of C-type (TRPC), a family of voltage-independent cation channels, at the beginning of neurogenesis in the telencephalon of embryonic mice. The mRNAs of all known TRPCs (TRPC1-TRPC7) could be found in the cortex at E13. TRPC1, TRPC3 and TRPC5 were the main isoforms, whereas the mRNAs for TRPC2, TRPC4, TRPC6 and TRPC7 were less abundant. The distribution throughout the cortical wall of TRPC1, TRPC3 and TRPC6 was studied by means of immuno-histochemistry. The data collected pointed to a heterogeneous expression of the channels. Three groups were identified. The first one comprises TRPC1, specifically found in the preplate but only in some post-mitotic neurons. It was mainly observed in a subset of cells distinct from the Cajal-Retzius cells. The second group is composed of TRPC3. It was found in non-neuronal cells and also in dividing (5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-positive) cells, indicating that TRPC3 is present in precursor cells. The third group contains TRPC6 detected in neuronal and in dividing non-neuronal cells. Double immunostaining experiments showed that TRPC3-positive cells also express TRPC6. Collectively, this report highlights a specific TRPC expression pattern in the immature cortical wall.
Estradiol (E2) is important in activation of male reproductive behaviors, and masculinizes morphology of associated brain regions in a number of mammalian and avian species. In contrast, it is testosterone, rather than its metabolites, that is the most potent activator of male sexual behavior in green anole lizards. As in other vertebrate groups, however, E2 is critical for receptivity in females of this species. Aromatase, the enzyme which converts testosterone to E2, is more active in the male than female green anole brain, and appears to be actively regulated on a seasonal basis, suggesting some role for E2 in males. This study was designed to enhance our understanding of potential E2 actions by localizing and quantifying relative levels of estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) mRNA in forebrain regions involved in masculine and feminine behaviors in anoles. These areas include the preoptic area (POA), ventromedial amygdala (AMY) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). In situ hybridization was conducted in adult males and females collected during both breeding and non-breeding seasons. ERalpha mRNA was expressed in each brain region across sexes and seasons. However, expression was up to 3 times greater in the VMH compared to the POA and AMY. In the POA and VMH, expression was higher in females compared to males, independent of season. The increased receptor expression in females is consistent with E2 playing a larger role in female than male reproductive behaviors.
Transient global ischemia induces selective, delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 and cognitive deficits. Physiological levels of 17beta-estradiol ameliorate ischemia-induced neuronal death and cognitive impairments in young animals. In view of concerns regarding hormone therapy in postmenopausal women, we investigated whether chronic estradiol treatment initiated 14 days prior to ischemia attenuates ischemia-induced CA1 cell loss and impairments in visual and spatial memory, in ovariohysterectomized (OVX), middle-aged (9-11 months) female rats. To determine whether the duration of hormone withdrawal affects the efficacy of estradiol treatment, hormone treatment was initiated immediately (0 week), 1 week, or 8 weeks after OVX. Age-matched, OVX and gonadally intact females were studied at each OVX interval. Ischemia was induced 1 week after animals were pretested on a variety of behavioral tasks. Global ischemia produced significant neuronal loss in the CA1 and impaired performance on visual and spatial recognition. Chronic estradiol modestly but significantly increased the number of surviving CA1 neurons in animals at all OVX durations. However, in contrast with previous results in young females, estradiol did not preserve visual or spatial memory performance in middle-aged females. All animals displayed normal locomotion, spontaneous alternation and social preference, indicating the absence of global behavioral impairments. Therefore, the neuroprotective effects of estradiol are different in middle-aged than in young rats. These findings highlight the importance of using older animals in studies assessing potential treatments for focal and global ischemia.
In language production, naming a picture with a gender-marked determiner phrase is faster in the presence of a distractor noun with the same grammatical gender (congruent condition) as compared with a different grammatical gender (incongruent condition). We investigated the neural correlates of this determiner congruency effect in German with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Participants named pictures of real objects with determiner phrases (e.g. &quot;der Tisch&quot;-the table) in the presence of a gender-congruent or gender-incongruent distractor noun. Different comparisons allow the following functional segregation within the prefrontal cortex. First, the comparison between picture naming versus rest revealed a steeper slope of the haemodynamic response function (HRF) in the gender-congruent than the gender-incongruent condition in the left BA 44, suggesting the involvement of BA 44 in determiner selection. HRF amplitude differences between the congruent and the incongruent condition were observed outside the language network in the right fronto-median wall (congruent &gt; incongruent), and in the left premotor cortex, middle frontal gyrus, cerebellum, and inferior parietal lobe (incongruent &gt; congruent). The latter regions are known to be involved in the processing of incongruence and conflict in general. The data thus reveal the involvement of the left BA 44 in the selection of determiners for language production.
It is well known that most odorants stimulate both the olfactory system and the trigeminal system. However, the overlap between the brain processes involved in each of these sensorial perceptions is still poorly documented. This study aims to compare fMRI brain activations while smelling two odorants of a similar perceived intensity and pleasantness: phenyl ethyl alcohol (a pure olfactory stimulus) and iso-amyl-acetate (a bimodal olfactory-trigeminal stimulus) in a homogeneous sample of 15 healthy, right-handed female subjects. The analysis deals with the contrasts of brain activation patterns between these two odorant conditions. The results showed a significant recruitment of the right insular cortex, and bilaterally in the cingulate in response to the trigeminal component. These findings are discussed in relation to the characteristics of these odorants compared with those tested in previous studies.
Mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (sod1) gene cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS), likely due to the toxic properties of misfolded mutant SOD1 protein. Here we demonstrated that, starting from the pre-onset stage of FALS, misfolded SOD1 species associates specifically with kinesin-associated protein 3 (KAP3) in the ventral white matter of SOD1(G93A)-transgenic mouse spinal cord. KAP3 is a kinesin-2 subunit responsible for binding to cargos including choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). Motor axons in SOD1(G93A)-Tg mice also showed a reduction in ChAT transport from the pre-onset stage. By employing a novel FALS modeling system using NG108-15 cells, we showed that microtubule-dependent release of acetylcholine was significantly impaired by misfolded SOD1 species. Furthermore, such impairment was able to be normalized by KAP3 overexpression. KAP3 was incorporated into SOD1 aggregates in human FALS cases as well. These results suggest that KAP3 sequestration by misfolded SOD1 species and the resultant inhibition of ChAT transport play a role in the dysfunction of ALS.
Hyperphosphorylation and aggregation of the microtubule-binding protein tau characterize a diverse array of neurodegenerative disorders. Most of these lack mutations in the encoding MAPT gene, and the role of tau in disease pathogenesis remains controversial. Among these tauopathies is Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC), a lysosomal storage disorder characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and premature death, most often caused by an inherited deficiency in the intracellular lipid trafficking protein NPC1. To determine the extent to which tau affects NPC pathogenesis, we generated Npc1-/- mice deficient in tau. Unexpectedly, NPC1/tau double null mutants are generated in markedly smaller litters, exhibit an enhanced systemic phenotype and die significantly earlier than NPC1 single null mutants. As autophagy is up-regulated in NPC and protein degradation through this pathway depends on movement along microtubules, we knocked down MAPT expression in NPC1-deficient human fibroblasts and examined effects on this pathway. We show that an acute reduction of tau expression in a cellular model of NPC decreases induction and flux through the autophagic pathway. Our data establish that MAPT deletion exacerbates the NPC phenotype through a mechanism independent of tau protein aggregation and identifies a critical role for tau in the regulation of autophagy in NPC1-deficient cells.
Recessively inherited mutations in ATP13A2 result in Kufor-Rakeb syndrome (KRS), whereas genetic variability and elevated ATP13A2 expression have been implicated in Parkinson disease (PD). Given this background, ATP13A2 was comprehensively assessed to support or refute its contribution to PD. Sequencing of ATP13A2 exons and intron-exon boundaries was performed in 89 probands with familial parkinsonism from Tunisia. The segregation of mutations with parkinsonism was subsequently assessed within pedigrees. The frequency of genetic variants and evidence for association was also examined in 240 patients with nonfamilial PD and 372 healthy controls. ATP13A2 mRNA expression was also quantified in brain tissues from 38 patients with nonfamilial PD and 38 healthy subjects from the United States. Sequencing analysis revealed 37 new variants; seven missense, six silent, and 24 that were noncoding. However, no single ATP13A2 mutation segregated with familial parkinsonism in either a dominant or recessive manner. Four markers showed marginal association with nonfamilial PD, prior to correction for multiple testing. ATP13A2 mRNA expression was marginally decreased in PD brains compared with tissue from control subjects. In conclusion, neither ATP13A2 genetic variability nor quantitative gene expression in brain appears to contribute to familial parkinsonism or nonfamilial PD.
Experimental research seeking to quantify neuronal structure constantly contends with restrictions on image resolution and variability. In particular, experimentalists often need to analyze images with very low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). In many experiments, dye toxicity scales with the light intensity; this leads experimentalists to reduce image SNR in order to preserve the viability of the specimen. In this paper, we present a Bayesian approach for estimating the neuronal shape given low-SNR observations. This Bayesian framework has two major advantages. First, the method effectively incorporates known facts about 1) the image formation process, including blur and the Poisson nature of image noise at low intensities, and 2) dendritic shape, including the fact that dendrites are simply-connected geometric structures with smooth boundaries. Second, we may employ standard Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques for quantifying the posterior uncertainty in our estimate of the dendritic shape. We describe an efficient computational implementation of these methods and demonstrate the algorithm's performance on simulated noisy two-photon laser-scanning microscopy images.
In 1990, the discovery of three Caenorhabditis elegans genes (unc5, unc6, unc40) involved in pioneer axon guidance and cell migration marked a significant advancement in neuroscience research [Hedgecock EM, Culotti JG, Hall DH. The unc-5, unc-6, and unc-40 genes guide circumferential migrations of pioneer axons and mesodermal cells on the epidermis in C. elegans. Neuron 1990;4:61-85]. The importance of this molecular guidance system was exemplified in 1994, when the vertebrate orthologue of Unc6, Netrin-1, was discovered to be a key guidance cue for commissural axons projecting toward the ventral midline in the rodent embryonic spinal cord [Serafini T, Kennedy TE, Galko MJ, Mirzayan C, Jessell TM, Tessier-Lavigne M. The netrins define a family of axon outgrowth-promoting proteins homologous to C. elegans UNC-6. Cell 1994;78:409-424]. Since then, Netrin-1 has been found to be a critical component of embryonic development with functions in axon guidance, cell migration, morphogenesis and angiogenesis. Netrin-1 also plays a role in the adult brain, suggesting that manipulating netrin signals may have novel therapeutic applications.



Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common progressive neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer's disease (AD) and represents a large health burden to society. Genetic and oxidative risk factors have been proposed as possible causes, but their relative contribution remains unclear. Dysfunction of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) has been associated with PD due to its increased presence, together with iron, in Lewy bodies. Brain oxidative damage caused by iron may be partly mediated by alpha-syn oligomerization during PD pathology. Also, alpha-syn gene dosage can cause familial PD and inhibition of its gene expression by blocking translation via a newly identified Iron Responsive Element-like RNA sequence in its 5'-untranslated region may provide a new PD drug target.
A number of studies indicate that glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) neurotransmission is disturbed in schizophrenia partly based on the findings that NMDA receptor antagonists such as phencyclidine (PCP) can reproduce a schizophrenia-like syndrome in both humans and rodents. This study investigated whether repeated administration of low doses of PCP can induce cognitive dysfunctions in mice at doses which produce no sensorimotor disturbances. In addition, the effects on cognition were related to the expression of two genes, Arc and spinophilin, which have been related to neuronal plasticity and learning. Adult male C57Bl/6J mice received daily s.c. doses of PCP (0.5-2.0 mg/kg) or saline for 7 d. Testing was performed 24 h after the last day of treatment. Only the 2.0 mg/kg PCP dose produced a consistent impairment in spatial learning and working memory performed in the water-maze task without any apparent sensorimotor deficits. Importantly, the 2.0 mg/kg PCP dose produced no impairment in a non-spatial learning paradigm in the water-maze task. PCP treatment altered Arc mRNA levels in the hippocampus and retrosplenial agranular cortex while leaving the striatum and prefrontal cortex unaffected. The mRNA expression of spinophilin was down-regulated in striatum by repeated PCP treatment. These results demonstrate that repeated treatment with low doses of PCP in mice can produce specific cognitive deficits which are associated with alterations in gene expression in brain regions that appear to play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. These results suggest that the low-dose PCP model may have significant potential in characterizing the behavioural and molecular mechanisms underlying cognitive deficits seen in schizophrenia patients.

Human malignant neuroblastoma is characterized by poor differentiation and uncontrolled proliferation of immature neuroblasts. Retinoids such as all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-CRA), and N-(4-hydroxyphenyl) retinamide (4-HPR) at low doses are capable of inducing differentiation, while flavonoids such as (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) and genistein (GST) at relatively high dose can induce apoptosis. We used combination of retinoid and flavonoid for controlling growth of malignant neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Cells were treated with a retinoid (1 microM ATRA, 1 microM 13-CRA, or 0.5 microM 4-HPR) for 7 days and then with a flavonoid (25 microM EGCG or 25 microM GST) for 24 h. Treatment of cells with a low dose of a retinoid for 7 days induced neuronal differentiation with downregulation of telomerase activity and N-Myc but overexpression of neurofilament protein (NFP) and subsequent treatment with a relatively high dose of a flavonoid for 24 h increased apoptosis in the differentiated cells. Besides, retinoids reduced the levels of inflammatory and angiogenic factors. Apoptosis was associated with increases in intracellular free [Ca2+], Bax expression, cytochrome c release from mitochondria and activities of calpain and caspases. Decreases in expression of calpastatin (endogenous calpain inhibitor) and baculovirus inhibitor-of-apoptosis repeat containing (BIRC) proteins (endogenous caspase inhibitors) favored apoptosis. Treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with EGCG activated caspase-8, indicating induction of the receptor-mediated pathway of apoptosis. Based on our observation, we conclude that combination of a retinoid and a flavonoid worked synergistically for controlling the malignant growth of human neuroblastoma cells.
The number of patients with difficulty in resuming work after long-term sick leave has increased in several European countries including Sweden. The general aim of this study was a comprehensive description--based on multidisciplinary diagnostics and assessments--of patients with the common feature of marked difficulty in resuming working life after a long absence. A particular aim was to elucidate the possible effect of comorbidity on pain descriptors, disability, quality of life, assessed working ability and rehabilitation needs. Six hundred and thirty-five long-term sick leavers were referred from National Insurance Offices and consecutively accepted for investigation. Several self-report questionnaires were used. All patients were examined by three board-certified specialist physicians in psychiatry, orthopaedic surgery and rehabilitation medicine, respectively. Fifty-five percent of the patients had psychiatric-somatic comorbidity. The three most frequent combinations of diagnoses in the comorbidity group were fibromyalgia/myalgia and depressive episode, fibromyalgia/myalgia and recurrent depression, spinal pain and depressive episode, whereas the three most frequent in those with psychiatric diagnosis only were depressive episode, recurrent depression, phobias/anxiety. Differences in pain descriptors and in difficulties with activities were found among the three groups. All had lower health-related quality of life than references. Only one-sixth had no assessed working capacity and only 3% were assessed as able to resume work without rehabilitation; 80% were multidisciplinarily assessed as needing rehabilitation. Patients with psychiatric diagnoses, with or without concomitant somatic diagnoses, need medical rehabilitation or medical/vocational rehabilitation in combination to a greater extent than patients with somatic diagnoses only. This implies that medical rehabilitation programmes ought to adapt increasingly to the needs of patients with psychiatric-somatic comorbidity.
In this paper, we will examine and untangle a conflict mainly between a developmental psychologist, Martin Hoffman and a social psychologist, Daniel Batson. According to Hoffman, empathic distress, a vicarious feeling through empathy, is transformed into an altruistic motivation. Batson and others on the other hand, criticize Hoffman, claiming that empathic altruism has no relation with empathic distress. We will point out some problems with Batson's position by referring to the results of fMRI experiments that suggest empathic distress and empathic altruism share a common basis, and defend Hoffman's argument. This will also offer new insights into the evolution of empathy.
The brains of ray-finned fishes form a morphocline of increasing complexity, from cladistians through teleosts. This is particularly apparent in the posterior tubercle of the diencephalon. In cladistians, the posterior tubercle consists of a periventricular nucleus and a migrated nucleus medianus that is fused across the midline. In more advanced ray-finned fishes, such as gars and bowfins, the posterior tubercle comprises numerous additional migrated nuclei, termed the preglomerular complex, in addition to a more well developed nucleus medianus. In teleosts, the most derived ray-finned fishes, there is an even more elaborate preglomerular complex, but there is no recognizable nucleus medianus. In an attempt to explain the variation in the posterior tubercle of the diencephalon in ray-finned fishes, the immunohistochemistry and connections of nucleus medianus were examined in cladistians, gars and bowfins. In each of these taxa, nucleus medianus exhibits large numbers of calretinin-positive neurons and has ascending projections that terminate in several divisions of the pallium. Although teleosts, such as goldfish, also exhibit numerous cell groups in the posterior tubercle that are rich in calretinin, none of these cell groups has connections that are comparable to those of nucleus medianus in non-teleost ray-finned fishes. It is possible, therefore, that nucleus medianus was lost with the origin of teleosts.

Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) is a technique for the assay of brain neurochemistry in vivo. N-acetylaspartate (NAA), the most prominent metabolite visible within the (1)H-MRS spectrum, is found primarily within neurons. The current study was designed to further elucidate NAA-cognition relationships, particularly whether such relationships are moderated by sex, or tissue type (gray or white matter). We administered standard measures of intelligence to 63 young, healthy subjects and obtained spectroscopic imaging data within a slab of tissue superior to the lateral ventricles. We found that lower NAA within right anterior gray matter predicted better performance VIQ (F=6.83, p=.011, r(2)=.10), while higher NAA within the right posterior gray matter region predicted better PIQ (F=8.175, p=.006, r(2)=.12). These findings add to the small but growing body of literature linking brain biochemistry to intelligence in normal healthy subjects using (1)H-MRSI.
Sensitization of the defensive shortening reflex in the leech has been linked to a segmentally repeated tri-synaptic positive feedback loop. Serotonin from the R-cell enhances S-cell excitability, S-cell impulses cross an electrical synapse into the C-interneuron, and the C-interneuron excites the R-cell via a glutamatergic synapse. The C-interneuron has two unusual characteristics. First, impulses take longer to propagate from the S soma to the C soma than in the reverse direction. Second, impulses recorded from the electrically unexcitable C soma vary in amplitude when extracellular divalent cation concentrations are elevated, with smaller impulses failing to induce synaptic potentials in the R-cell. A compartmental, computational model was developed to test the sufficiency of multiple, independent spike initiation zones in the C-interneuron to explain these observations. The model displays asymmetric delays in impulse propagation across the S-C electrical synapse and graded impulse amplitudes in the C-interneuron in simulated high divalent cation concentrations.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) is involved in a number of physiological and pathophysiological processes in vertebrates, but there have been few studies examining the role of invertebrate NMDA receptors. In the leech, pharmacological evidence suggests that NMDARs contribute to synaptic plasticity, but there has been no molecular identification of NMDA receptors. In this report, a partial cDNA encoding the leech NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor (HirNR1) is presented. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction from single neurons of the leech central nervous system confirms HirNR1 expression in the Retzius (R), Anterior Pagoda (AP), Pressure (P), and Touch (T) neurons. Immunoblotting with an anti-NR1 antibody yielded a approximately 110 kDa protein, similar to the expected weight of the NR1 subunit (approximately 116 kDa). Finally, pairing pre- and postsynaptic activity elicited long-term potentiation in synapses between neurons expressing NR1 mRNA (P-to-AP synapse) and this potentiation was blocked by the NMDAR antagonist AP5.
It has been previously demonstrated that extensive activation in the dorsolateral temporal lobes associated with masking a speech target with a speech masker, consistent with the hypothesis that competition for central auditory processes is an important factor in informational masking. Here, masking from speech and two additional maskers derived from the original speech were investigated. One of these is spectrally rotated speech, which is unintelligible and has a similar (inverted) spectrotemporal profile to speech. The authors also controlled for the possibility of &quot;glimpsing&quot; of the target signal during modulated masking sounds by using speech-modulated noise as a masker in a baseline condition. Functional imaging results reveal that masking speech with speech leads to bilateral superior temporal gyrus (STG) activation relative to a speech-in-noise baseline, while masking speech with spectrally rotated speech leads solely to right STG activation relative to the baseline. This result is discussed in terms of hemispheric asymmetries for speech perception, and interpreted as showing that masking effects can arise through two parallel neural systems, in the left and right temporal lobes. This has implications for the competition for resources caused by speech and rotated speech maskers, and may illuminate some of the mechanisms involved in informational masking.
Cochlear implant (CI) users have limited access to fundamental frequency (F0) and timbre cues, which are needed to segregate competing voices and/or musical instruments. In the present study, CI users' melodic contour identification was measured for three target instruments in the presence of a masker instrument; the F0 of the masker was varied relative to the target instruments. Mean CI performance significantly declined in the presence of the masker, while mean normal-hearing performance was largely unaffected. However, the most musically experienced CI users were able to make use of timbre and F0 differences between instruments.
The concept of intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions and evidence for their existence was introduced by Agnati and Fuxe in 1980/81 suggesting the existence of heteromerization of receptors. In 1982, they proposed the existence of aggregates of multiple receptors in the plasma membrane and coined the term receptor mosaics (RM). In this way, cell signaling becomes a branched process beginning at the level of receptor recognition at the plasma membrane where receptors can directly modify the ligand recognition and signaling capacity of the receptors within a RM. Receptor-receptor interactions in RM are classified as operating either with classical cooperativity, when consisting of homomers or heteromers of similar receptor subtypes having the same transmitter, or non-classical cooperativity, when consisting of heteromers. It has been shown that information processing within a RM depends not only on its receptor composition, but also on the topology and the order of receptor activation determined by the concentrations of the ligands and the receptor properties. The general function of RM has also been demonstrated to depend on allosteric regulators (e.g., homocysteine) of the receptor subtypes present. RM as integrative nodes for receptor-receptor interactions in conjunction with membrane associated proteins may form horizontal molecular networks in the plasma membrane coordinating the activity of multiple effector systems modulating the excitability and gene expression of the cells. The key role of electrostatic epitope-epitope interactions will be discussed for the formation of the RM. These interactions probably represent a general molecular mechanism for receptor-receptor interactions and, without a doubt, indicate a role for phosphorylation-dephosphorylation events in these interactions. The novel therapeutic aspects given by the RMs will be discussed in the frame of molecular neurology and psychiatry and combined drug therapy appears as the future way to go.

The distinction between natural addiction and drug addiction is interesting from many points of view, including scientific and medical perspectives. &quot;Natural addictions&quot; are those based on activation of a physiobehavioral system, such as the one that controls metabolism, foraging, and eating to achieve energy balance. &quot;Drug addictions&quot; activate many systems based on their pharmacology. This review discusses the following questions: (1) When does food produce a natural addiction? Sugar causes signs of addiction if the scheduling conditions are appropriate to cause binge eating. (2) Why does addictive-like behavior result? Bingeing on a 10% sucrose solution repeatedly releases dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, and it delays the release of acetylcholine, thereby postponing satiety. Opioid involvement is shown by withdrawal caused by naloxone or food deprivation. Bingeing, withdrawal, and abstinence-induced motivation are described as the basis for a vicious cycle leading to excessive eating. (3) Which foods can lead to natural addiction? A variety of sugars, saccharin, and sham feeding are compared with bingeing on high-fat diets, which seem to lack sugar's opioid-withdrawal characteristic. (4) How does natural food addiction relate to obesity? Low basal dopamine may be a common factor, leading to &quot;eating for dopamine.&quot; (5) In a neural model, the accumbens is depicted as having separate GABA output pathways for approach and avoidance, both controlled by dopamine and acetylcholine. These outputs, in turn, control lateral hypothalamic glutamate release, which starts a meal, and GABA release, which stops it.
Obesity research has recognized that there are many factors contributing to this devastating disorder. Much debate has arisen among scientists to develop models that might be useful in understanding why obesity has become a major health problem and epidemic. However, much of the current debate has been fractious and causes of obesity have been attributed solely to behavior or fast food, personality issues, depression, addiction, or genetics. One of the neurohormonal and genetic causes has been found in Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), which results in excessive, pathologic reinforcement of food. We have studied PWS to delineate the neurobiology so that environmental cue stimulation may be explained for PWS. Neuroimaging studies have shown that appetizing food and food cues are associated with appetite stimulation. Appetite control is poor in PWS, thus food cues play a major role in its regulation. Hence, PWS may be the genetic model of choice for obesity.
The interaural time difference (ITD) is an important cue to localize sound sources. Sensitivity to ITD was measured in eight users of a cochlear implant (CI) in the one ear and a hearing aid (HA) in the other severely impaired ear. The stimulus consisted of an electric pulse train of 100 pps and an acoustic filtered click train. Just-noticeable differences (JNDs) in ITD were measured using a lateralization paradigm. Four subjects exhibited median JNDs in ITD of 156, 341, 254, and 91 mus; the other subjects could not lateralize the stimuli consistently. Only the subjects who could lateralize had average acoustic hearing thresholds at 1,000 and 2,000 Hz better than 100-dB SPL. The electric signal had to be delayed by 1.5 ms to achieve synchronous stimulation at the auditory nerves.


An imbalance in medium osmolarity is a determinant that affects cell culture longevity. Even in humidified incubators, evaporation of water leads to a gradual increase in osmolarity over time. We present a simple replica-moulding strategy for producing self-sealing lids adaptable to standard, small-size cell-culture vessels. They are made of polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS), a flexible, transparent and biocompatible material, which is gas-permeable but largely impermeable to water. Keeping cell cultures in a humidified 5% CO2 incubator at 37 degrees C, medium osmolarity increased by +6.86 mosmol/kg/day in standard 35 mm Petri dishes, while PDMS lids attenuated its rise by a factor of four to changes of +1.72 mosmol/kg/ day. Depending on the lid membrane thickness,pH drifts at ambient CO2 levels were attenuated by a factor of 4 to 9. Comparative evaporation studies at temperatures below 60 degrees C yielded a 10-fold reduced water vapour flux of 1.75 g/day/ dm 2 through PDMS lids as compared with 18.69 g/day/dm 2 with conventional Petri dishes. Using such PDMS lids,about 2/3 of the cell cultures grew longer than 30 days in vitro. Among these,the average survival time was 69 days with the longest survival being 284 days under otherwise conventional cell culture conditions.
There is a need to further our understanding of the neurophysiological effects of chiropractic spinal manipulation on brain activity as it pertains to both musculoskeletal and non-musculoskeletal complaints. This paper aims to provide a basic overview of the most commonly utilised techniques in the neurosciences for functional imaging the brain (positron emission tomography, single-photon emission computerised tomography, functional magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, and magnetoencephalography), and discuss their applicability in future chiropractic research. Functional neuroimaging modalities are used in a wide range of different research and clinical settings, and are powerful tools in the investigation of neuronal activity in the human brain. There are many potential applications for functional neuroimaging in future chiropractic research, but there are some feasibility issues, mainly pertaining to access and funding. We strongly encourage the use of functional neuroimaging in future investigations of the effects of chiropractic spinal manipulation on brain function.
In this second part of our 2-part review, we discuss recent research about pulp tests that determine the vitality of the tooth and clinically accepted pulp testers. A pain response to hot, cold or an electric pulp tester indicates the vitality of only a tooth's pulpal sensory supply; the response does not give any idea about the state of the pulp. Although the sensitivity of these tests is high, when false-positive and false-negative results occur, they may affect the treatment of the tooth. A tooth falsely diagnosed as nonvital with an electric pulp tester may undergo an unnecessary root canal, whereas one falsely diagnosed as vital may be left untreated, causing the necrotic tissue to destroy the supporting tissues (resorption). The vascular supply is more important to the determination of the health of the pulp than the sensory supply. Pulp death is caused by cessation of blood flow and may result in a necrotic pulp, even though the pulpal sensory supply may still be viable. The pulp can be healed only if the circulating blood flow is healthy. Although still under investigation, diagnostic devices that examine pulpal blood flow, such as the pulse oximeter and laser Doppler flowmetry, show promising results for the assessment of pulp vitality.
G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) represent the largest family of transmembrane receptors involved in cell signal transduction. Many of these GPCRs convey their pharmacological actions by regulating intracellular levels of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Although the heart expresses more than 100 GPCRs, drug agonists for approximately one third of these GPCRs have not been identified. The goal of this project was to initiate the development of a high-throughput screening assay for monitoring cAMP in the heart. Neonatal rat cardiac ventricular myocytes were isolated and cultured on coverslips (whole-cell patch clamp recording) or in 96-well plates (fluorescent imaging plate reader measurements). Cells were infected with adenovirus expressing either beta-galactosidase (AdLacZ) or a mutant cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel containing the double mutation C460W/E583M (AdCNG). Addition of 2 microM forskolin along with 100 microM 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, to increase intracellular cAMP, activated a cation current in myocytes infected with the AdCNG. In myocytes loaded with the fluorescent Ca indicator Fluo-4, stimulation with forskolin, epinephrine, norepinephrine, or the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol increased the fluorescent signal indicative of Ca influx through the CNG channel. In conclusion, CNG channels are readily expressed in cultured cardiac myocytes and may be utilized in high-throughput screening assays of intracellular cAMP.
AMPA-type glutamate receptors mediate fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the vertebrate brain. Their surface expression at synapses between neurons is regulated in an activity-dependent and activity-independent manner. The protein machinery that regulates synaptic targeting, anchoring and turnover of AMPA receptors consists of several types of specialized scaffolding proteins. The FERM domain scaffolding proteins 4.1G and 4.1N were previously suggested to act jointly in binding and regulating synaptic trafficking of the AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR4. To determine the functions of 4.1G and 4.1N in vivo, we generated a mutant mouse line that lacks 4.1G entirely and expresses 4.1N at 22% of wild-type levels. These mice had combined 4.1G and 4.1N protein expression in the hippocampus at 12% of wild-type levels (equivalent to 8-10% of combined GluR1 and GluR4 expression levels). They show a moderate reduction in synaptosomal expression levels of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 at 3 weeks of age, but no change in basic glutamatergic synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation in the hippocampus. Our study indicates that 4.1G and 4.1N do not have a crucial role in glutamatergic synaptic transmission and the induction and maintenance of long-term plastic changes in synaptic efficacy.
Galanin-like peptide (GALP) is located in the arcuate nucleus (Arc) of the hypothalamus and is known to regulate both food intake and sexual behaviors in adult male rats. We have previously demonstrated that ICV GALP administration elicits a significant fos response within the medial preoptic area (mPOA). GALP is known to stimulate both food intake and male-typical sex behavior, presumably by direct actions within the mPOA. Recent data from our and other labs have led us to suspect that GALP effects on sex behaviors are due to activation of incertohypothalamic dopaminergic neurons that terminate within the mPOA. To test the hypothesis that GALP activates mPOA dopaminergic systems, we utilized an immunolesion technique to eliminate dopaminergic fiber input to the mPOA via a dopamine transporter-specific toxin (DATSAP, n=8) and compared to control injections (SAP, n=8). All animals were sexually experienced adult male Long-Evans rats. DATSAP-treated male rats showed a significant (p&lt;0.001) reduction in male sexual behaviors compared to SAP controls. We found that elimination of dopaminergic fibers within the mPOA significantly (p&lt;0.001) eliminated all aspects of male sexual behavior under normal mating paradigms. Injections of GALP (5.0 nmol) significantly increased (p&lt;0.01) male sex behavior and food intake in SAP control male rats but GALP did not stimulate the expression of these behaviors in DATSAP-treated rats. The orexigenic and anorexigenic effects of GALP were significantly (p&lt;0.001) attenuated in DATSAP-treated male rats compared to SAP controls; however, ICV GALP was still able to significantly (p&lt;0.05) reduce 24h body weight in both DATSAP and SAP rats. ICV GALP significantly (p&lt;0.05) stimulated fos within the mPOA of SAP rats but not in DATSAP-treated male rats. These data suggest that GALP activates feeding and sexual behaviors in male rats by stimulating dopaminergic neurons that terminate within the mPOA.
Weight gain in children due to valproate is a major concern in the treatment of epilepsy. Previous studies have yielded conflicting results both as to how common this problem is in children and as to whether there are clinical predictors of weight gain. The authors perform a chart review of 94 pediatric patients treated with valproate to investigate weight gain and potential predictors. The slope of the regression line for the body mass index z scores for each patient at each available visit was calculated, (Deltaz-score). Relationships between Deltaz scores and predictors of interest were assessed via univariate analyses. Twenty-three of 94 patients had Deltaz score &gt;0.25 SD/year. Twelve of 94 patients had Deltaz score &gt;0.5 SD/year. Pediatric participants appear to be less prone to weight gain on valproate than adults. A negative correlation was found between duration on treatment and Deltaz score. No other significant correlations were found between potential clinical predictors and Deltaz score.
The clinical and radiological features of childhood acute transverse myelitis are compared to those of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis with spinal cord involvement in 22 children with acute transverse myelitis and 12 children with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis with spinal cord involvement. Children with acute transverse myelitis were more likely to have a sensory level (55%) and areflexia. Sixty-eight percent of the children with acute transverse myelitis, and 92% of children with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis had longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis. Demyelination was more extensive in acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (mean 15.6 vertebral segments) than in acute transverse myelitis (mean 8.0 vertebral segments). The outcome was normal to good in 82% with acute transverse myelitis and in 100% with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis. Persistent bladder dysfunction was uncommon in both. Poor prognostic factors in acute transverse myelitis are flaccid paraparesis, respiratory failure, and age less than 6 months. These clinical and radiological differences suggest acute transverse myelitis and acute disseminated encephalomyelitis are separate entities.
Peritumoral edema is frequently present in meningiomas and can result in serious morbidity and mortality. The aquaporins (AQPs) are a family of membrane protein water channels with an integral role in water transport and maintenance of fluid balance. AQP4, increased in edematous human brain tumors such as astrocytomas and metastases, is present in the astrocytic foot processes adjacent to endothelial cells and may therefore have a role in cerebral edema formation. The objective of this study is to investigate the expression of AQP4 in meningiomas and to correlate their expression with peritumoral edema. Fresh human meningioma specimens (17) were obtained and immunohistochemical staining and Western blot analysis was performed for AQP4. The peritumoral edema index (EI) was calculated based on MRI post-processed to calculate the tumor and edema volume. Overexpression of AQP4 was associated with significant peritumoral edema. Immunohistochemistry showed upregulation of AQP4 throughout the specimens. Therefore, we conclude that increased expression of AQP4 is associated with peritumoral edema in meningiomas. This suggests that AQP4 overexpression can lead to abnormal water transport and edema formation in meningiomas. The inhibition of AQP4 water channels is a potential therapeutic option to reduce the adverse effects of peritumoral edema in meningiomas.
Vasomotor symptoms may be linked to changing levels of estrogen, which can affect levels of neurotransmitters and neural proteins that modulate the risk of depression in some women, thus serving as harbingers of oncoming depression or signs of incomplete recovery from a major depressive episode (MDE).The question arises whether clinicians who normally diagnose and treat depression should also diagnose and treat vasomotor symptoms, and if so, how.
The amygdala is located in the caudal part of the ventral telencephalon. It is composed of many subdivisions and is involved in the control of emotion. It is important to know the mechanisms of amygdalar development in order to analyze the pathogenesis of emotional disorders, but they are still not adequately understood. In the present study the migration, differentiation, and distribution of amygdalar neurons in the mouse embryo were investigated by means of in utero electroporation. Ventricular zone cells in restricted regions, that is, the caudal ganglionic eminence (CGE), the ventral pallium, the lateral pallium, and the diencephalon, were labeled with an expression vector of the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene. Labeling at embryonic day (E)10 revealed that the central nucleus originates from the neuroepithelium in the ganglionic eminence and the labeling at E11 and E12 revealed that the basolateral complex originates from the neuroepithelium of the ventral and lateral pallia. The introduction of the EGFP gene into the neuroepithelium of the third ventricle at E11 showed that the medial nucleus originates, at least in part, from the neuroepithelium of the diencephalon and migrates over the diencephalo-telencephalic boundary. The radial glial arrangement corresponded well with the initial migration of amygdalar neurons, and the radial processes later formed the boundary demarcating the basolateral complex. These findings indicate that the neurons originating from the temporally and spatially restricted neuroepithelium in both the telencephalon and diencephalon migrate and differentiate to form the mosaic of amygdalar subdivisions.
Transcription factors of the Nuclear Factor I (Nfi) family are important for the development of specific neuronal and glial populations in the nervous system. One such population, the neurons of the basilar pontine nuclei, expresses high levels of Nfi proteins, and the pontine nuclei are greatly reduced in mice lacking a functional Nfib gene. Pontine neurons, along with other precerebellar neurons that populate the hindbrain, arise from precursors in the lower rhombic lip and migrate anteroventrally to reach their final location. Using immunohistochemistry, we find that NFI-B expression is specific for mossy fiber populations of the precerebellar system. Analysis of the Nfib(-/-) hindbrain indicates that the development of the basilar pontine nuclei is delayed, with pontine neurons migrating 1-2 days later than in control animals, and that significantly fewer pontine neurons are produced. While the mossy fiber nuclei of the caudal medulla do form, they also exhibit a developmental delay. Nfia and Nfix null mice exhibit no apparent pontine phenotype, implying specificity in the action of NFI family members. Collectively, these data demonstrate that Nfib plays an important role in the generation of precerebellar mossy fiber neurons, and may do so at least in part by regulating neurogenesis.
Patients with autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type I (APS1) often display high titers of autoantibodies (autoAbs) directed against aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). Neurological symptoms, including stiff-man syndrome and cerebellar ataxia, can occur in subjects with high levels of GAD autoAbs, particularly when patient sera can immunohistochemically stain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons. However, it was not known if APS1 sera can also stain major monoamine systems in the brain. Therefore, in this work we applied sera from 17 APS1 patients known to contain autoAbs against AADC, TH, TPH, and/or GAD to rat brain sections and processed the sections according to the sensitive immunohistochemical tyramide signal amplification method. We found that autoAbs in sera from 11 patients were able to stain AADC-containing dopaminergic, serotonergic, and noradrenergic as well as AADC only (D-group) neurons and fibers in the rat brain, in several cases with a remarkably high quality and sensitivity (dilution up to 1:1,000,000); and, since they are human antibodies, they offer a good opportunity for performing multiple-labeling experiments using antibodies from other species. Six APS1 sera also stained GABAergic neuronal circuitries. Similar results were obtained in the mouse and primate brain. Our data demonstrate that many APS1 sera can immunostain the major monoamine and GABA systems in the brain. Only in a few cases, however, there was evidence that these autoAbs can be associated with neurological manifestations in APS1 patients, as, e.g., shown in previous studies in stiff-man syndrome.
Information contained in the spatial excitation pattern along arrayed sensors in the lateral line system of Lake Michigan mottled sculpin, as well as other surface-feeding fish and amphibians, is thought to play a fundamental role in guiding prey-orienting behaviors. However, the way in which prey location is encoded by the excitation pattern and used by the nervous system to direct orienting behaviors is largely unknown. In this study, we test the hypothesis that mottled sculpin use excitation peaks (local 'hot spots') to determine the somatotopic location of an artificial prey (vibrating sphere/dipole source) along the body surface. Dipole orientation (axis of sphere vibration re: long axis of the fish) is manipulated to produce excitatory peaks in different body locations without changing the actual sphere location. Our results show that orienting accuracy is largely independent of source orientation, but not source distance and that turning directions are not guided by local hot spots in the somatotopic activation pattern of the lateral line.
Mexican blind cavefish exhibit an unconditioned wall-following behavior in response to novel environments. Similar behaviors have been observed in a wide variety of animals, but the biological significance and evolutionary history of this behavior are largely unknown. In this study, the behaviors of Mexican blind cavefish (Astyanax sp.) and sighted Mexican tetra (Astyanax mexicanus) were videotaped after fish were introduced into a novel environment under dark (infrared) or well-lit conditions. Under dark conditions, both sighted and blind morphs exhibited wall-following behaviors with subtle but significant differences. Blind morphs swam more nearly parallel to the wall, exhibited greater wall-following continuity and reached higher levels of sustained swimming speeds more quickly than sighted morphs. In contrast, sighted morphs in the light remained motionless near the wall for long periods of time or moved slowly around the center of the tank without entraining to the walls. These results are consistent with the idea that wall-following is a shared, primitive trait that serves an exploratory function under dark conditions to compensate for the absence of vision. This behavior has become more honed in blind morphs for exploratory purposes--in large part due to the enhanced, active-flow sensing abilities of the lateral line.
While effective therapies are available for some types of craniofacial pain, treatments for deep-tissue craniofacial pain such as temporomandibular disorders are less efficacious. Several ion channels and receptors which are prominent in craniofacial nociceptive mechanisms have been identified on trigeminal primary afferent neurons. Many of these receptors and channels exhibit unusual distributions compared with extracranial regions. For example, expression of the ATP receptor P2X(3) is strongly implicated in nociception and is more abundant on trigeminal primary afferent neurons than analogous extracranial neurons, making them potentially productive targets specifically for craniofacial pain therapies. The initial part of this review therefore focuses on P2X(3) as a potential therapeutic target to treat deep-tissue craniofacial pain. In the trigeminal ganglion, P2X(3) receptors are often co-expressed with the nociceptive neuropeptides CGRP and SP. Therefore, we discuss the role of CGRP and SP in deep-tissue craniofacial pain and suggest that neuropeptide antagonists, which have shown promise for the treatment of migraine, may have wider therapeutic potential, including the treatment of deep-tissue craniofacial pain. P2X(3), TRPV1, and ASIC3 are often co-expressed in trigeminal neurons, implying the formation of functional complexes that allow craniofacial nociceptive neurons to respond synergistically to altered ATP and pH in pain. Future therapeutics for craniofacial pain thus might be more efficacious if targeted at combinations of P2X(3), CGRP, TRPV1, and ASIC3.
The electrical induction of seizures with a therapeutic aim began in 1938, but the history of electric currents to relieve mental illness began 2 centuries earlier with the pioneering work of the Italian Giovanni Aldini and the American Benjamin Franklin.These early experiments are described demonstrating that the electrical force encouraged hopeful applications. This history emphasizes the unique contribution in the induction of grand mal seizures as the therapeutic basis rather than the role of electricity alone.
Oestrogen is a powerful mitogen that is believed to exert a continuous, dose-dependent trophic stimulus at the anterior pituitary. This persistent mitotic effect contrasts with corticosterone and testosterone, changes in the levels of which induce only transient, self-limiting fluctuations in pituitary mitotic activity. To further define the putative long-term trophic effects of oestrogen, we have accurately analysed the effects of 7 and 28 days oestrogen treatment on anterior pituitary mitotic activity in ovariectomized 10-week-old Wistar rats using both bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and timed colchicine-induced mitotic arrest. An oestrogen dose-dependent increase in mitotic index was seen 7 days after the start of treatment as expected, representing an acceleration in gross mitotic activity from 1.7%/day in ovariectomized animals in the absence of any oestrogen replacement to 3.7%/day in the presence of a pharmacological dose of oestrogen (50 mcg/rat per day: approximately 230 mcg/kg per day). Despite continued exposure to high-dose oestrogen and persistence of the increase in pituitary wet weight, the increase in mitotic index was unexpectedly not sustained. After 28 days of high-dose oestrogen treatment, anterior pituitary mitotic index and BrdU-labelling index were not significantly different from baseline. Although a powerful pituitary mitogen in the short term, responsible, presumably, for increased trophic variability in oestrus cycling females, these data indicate that in keeping with other trophic stimuli to the pituitary and in contrast to a much established dogma, the mitotic response to longer-term high-dose oestrogen exposure is transient and is not the driver of persistent pituitary growth, at least in female Wistar rats.
Exposure to chronic restraint (CR) modifies the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to subsequent acute stressors with adaptation of the response to a homotypic and sensitization of the response to a heterotypic stressor. Since vasopressin (AVP) activity has been reported to change during chronic stress, we investigated whether this was an important factor in HPA facilitation. We therefore tested whether vasopressin 1b receptor (AVPR1B) blockade altered the ACTH and corticosterone response to heterotypic stressors following CR stress. Adult male rats were exposed to CR, single restraint, or were left undisturbed in the home cage. Twenty-four hours after the last restraint, rats were injected with either a AVPR1B antagonist (Org, 30 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (5% mulgofen in saline, 0.2/kg, s.c.) and then exposed to either restraint, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or white noise. CR resulted in the adaptation of the ACTH and corticosterone response to restraint and this effect was not prevented by pretreatment with Org. Although we found no effect of CR on LPS-induced ACTH and corticosterone secretion, both repeated and single episodes of restraint induced the sensitization of the ACTH, but not corticosterone response to acute noise. Pretreatment with Org reduced the exaggerated ACTH response to noise after both single and repeated exposure to restraint.
Vasopressin (AVP), produced in parvocellular neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, regulates, together with CRH, pituitary ACTH secretion. The pituitary actions of AVP are mediated through the G protein receptor V(1b) (V(1b)|R). In man, hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis has been associated with depression and other stress-related conditions. There are also clinical data suggesting a role for AVP in the dysfunctional HPA axis described in some depressed patients. In this study, we have investigated the effect of a recently synthesised selective antagonist of the V(1b)R both on exogenous AVP-induced ACTH and corticosterone secretion, and on basal and stress-induced pituitary-adrenal activity. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats treated with the V(1b)R antagonist (Org, 30 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (5% mulgofen in 0.9% saline, 2 ml/kg, s.c.). We found that blockade of the V(1b)R reduced the increase in both ACTH and corticosterone secretion induced by AVP (100 ng, i.v.). The same treatment had no effect either on basal ACTH and corticosterone levels or on the ultradian or diurnal rhythms of corticosterone secretion. Acute administration of the V(1b)R antagonist reduced ACTH secretion following both restraint and lipopolysaccharide, but did not antagonise the ACTH response to noise. The same treatment did not reduce corticosterone secretion in response to any of the three stressors used in this study. Our results confirm that this compound is an antagonist of the V(1b)R in the rat, and that its ability to reduce stress-induced ACTH responses is stressor dependent with differential modulation of pituitary and adrenal responses.

Many thousands of students take standardized tests every year. In the current research, we asked whether answering standardized test questions affects students' later test performance. Prior research has shown both positive and negative effects of multiple-choice testing on later tests, with negative effects arising from students selecting incorrect alternatives on multiple-choice tests and then believing they were correct (Roediger &amp; Marsh, 2005). In the current experiments, undergraduates and high school students answered multiple-choice questions retired from SAT II tests (that are no longer in the testing pool) on biology, chemistry, U.S. history, and world history, and later answered cued-recall questions about these subjects. In 3 experiments, we observed positive testing effects: More final cued-recall questions were answered correctly if the items had appeared on the initial multiple-choice test. We also sometimes observed negative testing effects: intrusions of multiple-choice distractors as answers on the final cued-recall test. Students who scored well on the initial test benefited from taking the test, but lower achieving students showed either less benefit (undergraduates) or costs from the testing (high school students).
Backward inhibition (BI) refers to a reaction time cost incurred when returning to a recently abandoned task compared to returning to a task not recently performed. The effect has been proposed to reflect an inhibitory mechanism that aids transition from one task to another. The question arises as to precisely what aspects of a task may be inhibited and when the process takes place. Recent work has suggested a crucial role for response-related components of the task, which occur late in the typical trial structure (cue-target-response). In contrast to this suggestion, the authors present evidence that the way in which the task is cued can also modulate BI. Specifically, they find that the less transparent the cue-target relationship, the greater the level of BI. This also demonstrates that BI can be triggered at early stages of the trial structure, specifically during task preparation and prior to response processes. The authors conclude that BI is not tied to any particular component of the task structure but arises from whatever component generates the greatest intertrial conflict.
Sex differences in forebrain morphology arise during development and are often linked to hormonal changes. These dimorphisms frequently occur in regions related to reproductive behaviors. Little is known about the normal ontogeny of reproductive nuclei in the green anole lizard, including whether steroid hormones influence their development. To address this issue, brain region volume, cell density, soma size, and estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) mRNA expression were characterized in the preoptic area (POA), ventromedial amygdala (AMY), and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) of late embryonic and early post-hatchling anoles. In adulthood, the POA and AMY are associated with male-specific reproductive behaviors and the VMH is implicated in female receptivity. Although soma size decreased in all brain regions with age, brain region volume diminished only in the POA, with a transient sex difference appearing before hatching. Cell density increased with age only in the female AMY. ERalpha mRNA expression was up to four times greater in the developing VMH than POA and AMY, peaking in the VMH around the day of hatching. These results are consistent with the idea that estradiol may influence differentiation of the VMH in particular. However, other factors are likely important to the development of these three brain regions, some of which exert their effects at later developmental stages.
This article is a critical review of risk factors for pathological gambling categorized by demographics, physiological and biological factors, cognitive distortions, comorbidity and concurrent symptoms, and personality symptoms and characteristics. There is also a varia section (availability, parents playing, sensory characteristics, schedules of reinforcement, age of onset, and playing duration). The review found very few well established risk factors for pathological gambling (i.e. more than two studies to support the conclusions). Well established risk factors included demographic variables (age, gender), cognitive distortions (erroneous perceptions, illusion of control), sensory characteristics, schedules of reinforcement, comorbid disorders (OCD, drug abuse), and delinquency/illegal acts. An understanding of risk factors for pathological gambling should enhance prevention and treatment approaches.
Forensic examiners generally agree that their contributions to the forensic process have to be based on scientific principles, high ethical values, and sound clinical skills and judgment. In part I, the challenges of maintaining high ethical standards as a scientist-practitioner are addressed. In part II, the scientific strengths and weaknesses of our neuropsychological assessments are explored within the context of the 4 articles published in this issue. Specifically, Wood points out that while most traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) compromise the prefrontal cortex (PFC), traditional neuropsychological examinations do not fully capture to what extent PFC damage disrupts cognitive, emotional, and social regulation. New advances in clinical neuroscience are presented to facilitate a more detailed understanding of PFC functioning. Schwarz et al examine how clinical neuropsychology services can adequately handle forensic consultations. Frederick and Bowden, meanwhile, identify the persistent weaknesses of various Symptom Validity Tests in reliably classifying poor effort and malingering. Bailey et al conclude that the findings from sport concussion studies cannot be generalized to clinical populations, who, as a rule, have more premorbid and comorbid vulnerabilities. Finally, part III provides guidelines based on the introductory article by Bigler and Brooks, as well as a synopsis of the main conclusions offered by the contributors in this journal issue. Guidelines for both the diagnosis of mild TBI and the diagnosis of postconcussional disorder are included.
One of the core tenets of the scientist-practitioner model, slightly modified to make it applicable to modern neuropsychology, is that assessment procedures should be developed, applied, and interpreted in a relevant scientific framework. However, over the last 30 years, the general structure of a neuropsychological assessment has changed little, if at all. It has continued to focus mainly on the assessment of cognitive constructs such as intelligence, memory, attention, and perception. During the same time period, cognitive neuroscience has focused on integrative systems, largely controlled by frontal mechanisms, that allow individuals to utilize cognitive functions in an adaptive way, especially in the context of novel situations or when social stimuli are ambiguous. Consequently, the gulf between cognitive neuroscience and the practice of clinical neuropsychology has grown uncomfortably large. This article attempts to review some of the developments in cognitive and affective neuroscience that are relevant to an evaluation of neuropsychological abilities, especially in a medicolegal context, to determine whether conventional neuropsychological methods can be considered fit for purpose.



Guanine deaminase (GDA; guanase) is a ubiquitous enzyme that catalyzes the first step of purine metabolism by hydrolytic deamination of guanine, resulting in the production of xanthine. This hydrolase subfamily member plays an essential role in maintaining homeostasis of cellular triphosphate nucleotides for energy, signal transduction pathways, and nitrogen sources. In mammals, GDA protein levels can play a role in neuronal development by regulating dendritic arborization. We previously demonstrated that the most abundant alternative splice form of GDA in mammals, termed cypin (cytosolic PSD-95 interactor), interacts with postsynaptic density proteins, regulates microtubule polymerization, and increases dendrite number. Since purine metabolism and dendrite development were previously thought to be independent cellular processes, this multifunctional protein serves as a new target for the treatment of cognitive disorders characterized by aberrant neuronal morphology and purine metabolism. Although the enzymatic activity of GDA has been conserved during evolution from prokaryotes to higher eukaryotes, a detailed evolutionary assessment of the principal domains in GDA proteins has not yet been put forward. In this study, we perform a complete evolutionary analysis of the full-length sequences and the principal domains in guanine deaminases. Furthermore, we reconstruct the molecular phylogeny of guanine deaminases with neighbor-joining, maximum-likelihood, and UPGMA methods of phylogenetic inference. This study can act as a model whereby a universal housekeeping enzyme may be adapted to act also as a key regulator of a developmental process.
Being supportive cells for neurons in the central nervous system, astrocytes have recently found to be associated with neurogenesis. Ventral mesencephalon (VM) astrocytes were also detected being instructive for VM dopaminergic (DA) neurogenesis, but the underling mechanisms are still unclear. This research is to figure out whether VM astrocytes are more efficient than those from other brain regions in inducing VM DA neurons from their precursors and whether transforming growth factor-betas (TGF-betas) are the underlying molecules. We found that, compared with astrocytes preparations from striatum and hippocampus, VM astrocytes preparations displayed markedly higher efficacy in inducing DA neurogenesis. Besides, they also expressed higher level of TGF-beta3 than those of two other regions. When TGF-beta3 gene expression in astrocytes preparations was inhibited by its antisense oligonucleotide, the induction of DA neurons decreased to a similar level among these three astrocytes preparations. Thus, our experiment indicates that VM astrocytes preparations which contained highly purified astrocytes are more efficient in inducing DA neurogenesis than those from other regions. Furthermore, it also suggests that the regional differences are regulated by different expression levels of TGF-beta3 in those astrocytes preparations from different derivations.
Since a growing number of studies based on the real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) continue to be published in order to highlight genes specifically involved in brain development, maturation, and function, the identification of reference genes suitable for this kind of experiments is now an urgent need in the neuroscience field. The aim of this work was to verify the suitability of some very common housekeeping genes (such as Gapdh, 18s, and B2m) and of some relatively new control genes (such as Pgk1, Tfrc, and Gusb) during mouse brain maturation. We tested the candidate reference genes in mouse whole brain, cerebellum, brain stem, hippocampus, medial septum, frontal neocortex, and olfactory bulb. Moreover, we reported the first complete study of Pgk1 expression throughout the development and the aging of mouse brain. Although no tested gene showed to be the optimal reference for all mouse brain regions, in general, the new housekeeping genes were highly stable in most of the analyzed regions. Above all, with few exceptions, Pgk1 showed to be a reliable control for the analyzed mouse brain regions during development, maturation, and aging.
The key symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) are caused by degeneration of dopamine neurons originating in substantia nigra. Whereas, transcription factor LMX1A is crucial for the differentiation of mesencephalic dopamine neurons, LMX1B appears to be important for both the development and the survival of these cells. The aim of this study was to investigate if genetic variation in LMX1A and LMX1B differs between patients with PD (n = 357) and control subjects (n = 1428) by genotyping 33 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in LMX1A and 11 SNPs in LMX1B. Three SNPs in LMX1A and one in LMX1B were associated with PD. After splitting for gender, six SNPs were associated with PD in women and four in men. The significances obtained did not survive correction for multiple testing, and our results should hence be interpreted with caution, but are partly in line with a previous report, and should thus be of sufficient interest to encourage further studies of these genes in PD.
Botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) therapy has gained wide acceptance in the management of spasticity in cerebral palsy (CP). Clinical experience from numerous case reports and series, retrospective and prospective open label cohort studies, and randomized controlled trials (RCT) has grown over the past 10 years. Several independent systematic reviews on the role of BoNT-A for upper and lower limb spasticity have been written by various authors. The objective of this paper is to summarize past systematic reviews and recent RCT not yet included in the systematic reviews that assess the effectiveness of BoNT-A in upper and lower limb spasticity in children with CP. We reviewed four Class II RCT discussed in five independent systematic reviews and two new Class II trials on the use of BoNT-A alone or with occupational therapy compared to placebo or occupational therapy alone in children with upper limb spasticity. There were 229 children recruited in these six trials and of those, 115 children received BoNT-A in the upper limbs. Five of six RCT showed a time limited decrease in muscle tone most especially at the wrist. Four of six trials showed improvement of hand function on a few specific functional tests. Four systematic reviews concluded that there is insufficient and inconsistent evidence to support or refute the effectiveness of BoNT-A in upper limb spasticity but one recent review recommended that BoNT-A should be considered as a treatment option in upper limb spasticity. For lower limb spasticity, we reviewed 13 RCT discussed in six systematic reviews and two new trials comparing BoNT-A with placebo or other rehabilitation modalities such as physiotherapy, occupational therapy, casting or electrical stimulation. In these studies, 617 children were recruited and of those, 360 children received BoNT-A in the lower limbs. There were six Class I and nine Class II trials. Three Class I trials documented significant improvement in gait pattern in children with gastrocnemius spasticity and one Class I study showed significant reduction in tone in the hip adductors. The most recent review establishes BoNT-A as an effective treatment for equinovarus deformity. Adverse events in these trials were mild and self-limited. The most common complaints were pain in the injection sites and transient weakness. BoNT-A is considered safe for use in children. In conclusion, there is now growing convincing evidence for the time limited beneficial effect of BoNT-A in decreasing muscle tone in children with upper and lower limbs spasticity associated with CP. Decrease muscle tone in the lower limbs translates to improved gait in CP children with spastic equinovarus however more systematic studies are necessary to show sufficient evidence for improved hand function from BoNT-A injection in the upper limbs.

The molecular determinants of Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) signaling in mammalian cells and, in particular, those of the CNS are unclear. Here we report that primary cortical astrocyte cultures are highly responsive to both Shh protein and Hh Agonist 1.6, a selective, small molecule Smoothened agonist. Both agonists produced increases in mRNA expression of Shh-regulated gene targets, Gli-1 and Patched in a cyclopamine- and forskolin-sensitive manner. Using this model we show for the first time that Shh pathway activation mediates rapid increases in p38 MAPK phosphorylation, without altering phosphorylation of either extracellular-signal-regulated kinases or c-jun N-terminal kinases. Selective inhibition of p38 MAPK significantly attenuated Shh-dependent up-regulation of Gli-1, inter-alpha trypsin inhibitor and thrombomodulin mRNA, however did not affect expression of insulin-like growth factor 2 or a novel Shh target, membrane-associated guanylate kinase p55 subfamily member 6. Using RNAi and a constitutively-active mutant we show that Shh signaling to p38 MAPK and subsequent Gli-1 transcription requires G-protein receptor kinase 2. Taken together, these findings provide evidence for a central role of G-protein receptor kinase 2-dependent p38 MAPK activity in regulating Shh-mediated gene transcription in astrocytes.
A decrease in GSH levels, the main redox regulator, can be observed in neurodegenerative diseases as well as in schizophrenia. In search for substances able to increase GSH, we evaluated the ability of curcumin (polyphenol), quercetin (flavonoid), and tert-butylhydroquinone (tBHQ) to up-regulate GSH-synthesizing enzymes. The gene expression, activity, and product levels of these enzymes were measured in cultured neurons and astrocytes. In astrocytes, all substances increased GSH levels and the activity of the rate-limiting synthesizing enzyme, glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL). In neurons, curcumin and to a lesser extent tBHQ increased GCL activity and GSH levels, while quercetin decreased GSH and led to cell death. In the two cell types, the gene that showed the greatest increase in its expression was the one coding for the modifier subunit of GCL (GCLM). The increase in mRNA levels of GCLM was 3 to 7-fold higher than that of the catalytic subunit. In astrocytes from GCLM-knock-out mice showing low GSH (-80%) and low GCL activity (-50%), none of the substances succeeded in increasing GSH synthesis. Our results indicate that GCLM is essential for the up-regulation of GCL activity induced by curcumin, quercetin and tBHQ.
Regulated trafficking of neurotransmitter receptors is critical to normal neurodevelopment and neuronal signaling. Group I mGluRs (mGluR1/5 and their splice variants) are G protein-coupled receptors enriched at excitatory synapses, where they serve to modulate glutamatergic transmission. The mGluR1 splice variants mGluR1a and mGluR1b are broadly expressed in the central nervous system and differ in their signaling and trafficking properties. Several proteins have been identified that selectively interact with mGluR1a and participate in receptor trafficking but no proteins interacting with mGluR1b have thus far been reported. We have used a proteomic strategy to isolate and identify proteins that co-purify with mGluR1b in Madin-Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cells, an established model system for trafficking studies. Here, we report the identification of 10 novel candidate mGluR1b-interacting proteins. Several of the identified proteins are structural components of the cell cytoskeleton, while others serve as cytoskeleton-associated adaptors and motors or endoplasmic reticulum-associated chaperones. Findings from this work will help unravel the complex cellular mechanisms underlying mGluR trafficking under physiological and pathological conditions.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by accumulation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) and degeneration of neuronal populations in cortical and subcortical regions. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been considered a potential unifying factor in the pathogenesis of the disease. Mutations in genes linked to familial forms of PD, including SNCA encoding alpha-syn and Pten-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), have been shown to disrupt mitochondrial activity. We investigated the mechanisms through which mutant Pink1 might disrupt mitochondrial function in neuronal cells with alpha-syn accumulation. For this purpose, a neuronal cell model of PD was infected with virally-delivered Pink1, and was analyzed for cell survival, mitochondrial activity and calcium flux. Mitochondrial morphology was analyzed by confocal and electron microscopy. These studies showed that mutant (W437X) but not wildtype Pink1 exacerbated the alterations in mitochondrial function promoted by mutant (A53T) alpha-syn. This effect was associated with increased intracellular calcium levels. Co-expression of both mutant Pink1 and alpha-syn led to alterations in mitochondrial structure and neurite outgrowth that were partially ameliorated by treatment with cyclosporine A, and completely restored by treatment with the mitochondrial calcium influx blocker Ruthenium Red, but not with other cellular calcium flux blockers. Our data suggest a role for mitochondrial calcium influx in the mechanisms of mitochondrial and neuronal dysfunction in PD. Moreover, these studies support an important function for Pink1 in regulating mitochondrial activity under stress conditions.
Human brain encompasses six tau isoforms, containing either three (3R) or four (4R) repeat domains, all of which participate in the pathogenesis of human tauopathies. To investigate the role of tau protein in the disease, transgenic rat models have been created. However, unlike humans, it has been suggested that rat brain expresses only three 4R tau isoforms. Because of the significance of the number of tau isoforms for faithful reproducibility of neurofibrillary pathology in transgenic rat models, we reopened this issue. Surprisingly, our results showed that adult rat brain contains six tau isoforms like humans. Protein expression of 4R tau isoforms was ninefold higher than 3R isoforms. Furthermore, the protein levels of tau isoforms with none, one or two N-terminal inserts were 30%, 35%, and 35% of total tau, respectively. Moreover, amount and ratio of tau isoforms were developmentally regulated. The levels of 4R tau isoforms progressively increased from early postnatal period until adulthood, whereas the expression of 3R tau isoforms reached maximum at P10 and then gradually declined. Our results show that rat brain encompasses full tau proteome similar to humans. These findings support the use of rat as an animal model in human tauopathies research.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) affords neuroprotection in Parkinson's disease in accordance with its ability to bolster nigrostriatal innervation. We previously found that GDNF facilitates dopamine release in a manner dependent on adenosine A(2A) receptor activation. As motor dysfunction also involves modifications of striatal glutamatergic innervation, we now tested if GDNF and its receptor system, Ret (rearranged during transfection) and GDNF family receptor alpha1 controlled the cortico-striatal glutamatergic pathway in an A(2A) receptor-dependent manner. GDNF (10 ng/mL) enhanced (by approximately 13%) glutamate release from rat striatal nerve endings, an effect potentiated (up to approximately 30%) by the A(2A) receptor agonist CGS 21680 (10 nM) and prevented by the A(2A) receptor antagonist, SCH 58261 (50 nM). Triple immunocytochemical studies revealed that Ret and GDNF family receptor alpha1 were located in 50% of rat striatal glutamatergic terminals (immunopositive for vesicular glutamate transporters-1/2), where they were found to be co-located with A(2A) receptors. Activation of the glutamatergic system upon in vivo electrical stimulation of the rat cortico-striatal input induced striatal Ret phosphorylation that was prevented by pre-treatment with the A(2A) receptor antagonist, MSX-3 (3 mg/kg). The results provide the first functional and morphological evidence that GDNF controls cortico-striatal glutamatergic pathways in a manner largely dependent on the co-activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors.
Formation of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species is a precipitating event in an array of neuropathological conditions. In response to excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, transcriptionally dependent mechanisms drive the up-regulation of ROS scavenging proteins which, in turn, limit the extent of brain damage. Here, we employed a transgenic approach in which cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB)-mediated transcription is repressed (via A-CREB) to examine the contribution of the CREB/cAMP response element pathway to neuroprotection and its potential role in limiting ROS toxicity. Using the pilocarpine-evoked repetitive seizure model, we detected a marked enhancement of cell death in A-CREB transgenic mice. Paralleling this, there was a dramatic increase in tyrosine nitration (a marker of reactive species formation) in A-CREB transgenic mice. In addition, inducible expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1alpha was diminished in A-CREB transgenic mice, as was activity of complex I of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. Finally, the neuroprotective effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) against ROS-mediated cell death was abrogated by disruption of CREB-mediated transcription. Together, these data both extend our understanding of CREB functionality and provide in vivo validation for a model in which CREB functions as a pivotal upstream integrator of neuroprotective signaling against ROS-mediated cell death.
Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) was first isolated in the mammal and shown to be the primary regulator of the reproductive system through its initiation of pituitary gonadotrophin release. Subsequent to its discovery, this form of GnRH has been shown to be one of many structural variants found in the brain and peripheral tissues. Accordingly, the original form first discovered and cloned in the mammal is commonly referred to as GnRH-I. In addition to the complex regulation of GnRH-I synthesis, release and function, further evidence suggests that the processing of GnRH-I produces yet another layer of complexity in its activity. GnRH-I is processed by a zinc metalloendopeptidase EC 3.4.24.15 (EP24.15), which cleaves the hormone at the covalent bond between the fifth and sixth residue of the decapeptide (Tyr(5)-Gly(6)) to form GnRH-(1-5). It was previously thought that the cleavage of GnRH-I by EP24.15 represents the initiation of its degradation. Here, we review the evidence for the involvement of GnRH-(1-5), the metabolite of GnRH-I, in the regulation of GnRH-I synthesis, secretion and facilitation of reproductive behaviour.
Long-term selection (&gt; 45 generations) for low or high body weight from the same founder population has generated two extremely divergent lines of chickens, the low (LWS) and high weight (HWS) lines, which at the age of selection (56 days) differs by more than nine-fold in body weight. The HWS line chickens are compulsive feeders, whereas, in the LWS line, some individuals are anorexic and others have very low appetites. The involvement of the central nervous system in these behavioural differences has been experimentally supported. We compared a brain region at 0 and 56 days of age containing the major metabolic regulatory regions, including the hypothalamus and brainstem, using a global cDNA array expression analysis. The results obtained show that the long-term selection has produced minor but multiple expression differences. Genes that regulate neuronal plasticity, such as actin filament polymerisation and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, were identified as being differentially expressed. Genes involved in lipid metabolism were over-represented among differentially expressed genes. The expression data confirm that neural systems regulating feeding behaviours in these lines are different. The results suggest that the lines are set in separate developmental trajectories equipped with slightly different nervous systems. We suggest that the lines adapt behaviourally different to changing situations post hatch, such as the transition from dependence on yolk to feeding, in order to obtain energy. The present study has identified and exemplifies the kind of changes that may underlie the extreme differences in such behaviours.
Besides their well-known genomic actions, oestrogens also exert effects through the activation of receptors associated with the plasma membrane that are too fast to be mediated by transcriptional activation (nongenomic effects). Although the existence of such rapid effects of oestrogens and their involvement in various biological processes are not in doubt, questions remain about the mechanisms responsible for the rapid modulations of oestrogen production that are required to sustain their nongenomic effects. Recent data indicate that the conversion of androgens into oestrogens in the brain by the enzyme aromatase can be rapidly modulated by conformational changes of the enzyme, thus providing a possible mechanism for rapid controls of the effects of oestrogens on male sexual behaviour. In this review, the data supporting this hypothesis are described. Subsequently, a few unanswered questions are discussed, such as the mechanism of oestrogen inactivation or the potential cellular sites of action of brain-derived oestrogens on male sexual behaviour.
Orexins play an important role on the central nervous system to modulate gastric acid secretion. The orexin receptors are distributed within the hypothalamus, and expression of orexin-1 receptors (OX1R) is greatest in the anterior hypothalamus and ventromedial nucleus. Therefore, we hypothesised that ventromedial hypothalamic OX1R may be involved in the control of gastric acid secretion. To address this question, we examined the effects of orexin-A and a selective OX1R antagonist, SB-3345867, on gastric acid secretion in pyloric-ligated conscious rats. Intraventromedial injection of orexin-A (0.5-2 microg/microl) stimulated gastric acid secretion in a dose-dependent manner. This stimulatory effect of orexin-A persisted over 3 h. In some experiments, SB-3345867 (10 mg/kg i.p.) was administered 30 min before orexin-A or saline injections. We found that i.p. injection of SB-334867 suppressed stimulated gastric acid secretion induced by orexin-A (2 microg/microl). Atropine (5 mg/kg) also inhibited the stimulatory effect of central injection of orexin-A on acid secretion. In conclusion, the present study suggests that endogenous orexin-A acts on the ventromedial hypothalamus to stimulates acid secretion. This stimulatory effect is probably mediated through OX1R.
Steroid hormones act both in the brain and throughout the body to influence behaviour and physiology. Many of these effects of steroid hormones are elicited by transcriptional events mediated by their respective receptors. A variety of cell culture studies reveal that nuclear receptor coactivators are critical for modulating steroid receptor-dependent transcription. Thus, in addition to the availability of the hormone and the expression of its receptor, nuclear receptor coactivators are essential for steroid-dependent transactivation of genes. This review discusses the mounting evidence indicating that nuclear receptor coactivators are critical for modulating steroid hormone action in the brain and in the regulation of behaviour.
Until recently, the idea that oestradiol could affect cellular processes independent of nuclear oestrogen receptors (ERs) was controversial. This was despite the large number of carefully controlled studies performed both within and outside the nervous system demonstrating that oestrogens regulate various intracellular signalling pathways by acting at the membrane surface of cells and/or at biological rates incompatible with the time course of genomic-initiated events. At present, it is far less controversial that oestradiol acts at surface membrane receptors to regulate nervous system function. Recent studies have demonstrated that the classical intracellular ERs, ERalpha and ERbeta, are major players in mediating the actions of oestradiol on the membrane surface. This review focuses on one potential mechanism by which surface-localised ERalpha and ERbeta stimulate intracellular signalling events in cells of the nervous system. After oestradiol treatment, both ERalpha and ERbeta are capable of activating different classes of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Oestradiol activation of mGluRs is independent of glutamate, but requires expression of several different caveolin proteins to compartmentalise the different ERs with mGluRs into functional signalling microdomains. ER/mGluR signalling is a potential means by which oestrogens can both rapidly and for extended periods, influence a variety of intracellular signalling processes and behaviours.
Writing this editorial is especially pleasing. First, it provides us an opportunity to introduce new directives to the field of Neuroimmune Pharmacology and to explain why the field of nanomedicine is likely an important part of its future growth and development. Second, it is an opportunity to showcase research in this area currently operative in Russia that may not be readily accessible to the readership. Third, it is a platform to better explain why the Journal Editorial leadership was enthusiastic about the science and its relationship to the Society on NeuroImmune Pharmacology strategic goals. All are brought to bear in this issue of the Journal of Neuroimmune Pharmacology. The issue includes articles presented at a recent joint US-Russian workshop entitled, &quot;Health in the 21st Century: Nanomedicine and Self-Organization of Biological Systems&quot; held at M.V. Lomonosov Moscow State University (MSU), Moscow, Russia, December 10-11, 2007. The conjoint meeting was organized through the Departments of Biology, Chemistry, and Physics, MSU and by the Center for Drug Delivery and Nanomedicine and Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience, University of Nebraska Medical Center (Omaha, NE). The speakers included established internationally regarded scientists from these institutions as well as graduate students and faculties at MSU. In addition to selected papers by workshop contributors, we have included several papers closely aligned to the theme of nanomedicine and nanopharmacology of the central nervous system in order to provide a biological anchor for this research. We understand that such works are new to many but hope that its organization and interdisciplinary approaches will appeal to this audience. All together, it is our hope that, by gathering basic and clinical scientists with the common interest of using nanotechnology in the delivery of therapeutic agents with a focus on nanopharmacology and complex supramolecular biological assembly, the papers included will provide a platform for thought, discussion, and future translational research.
OTK18 is a C2H2 type zinc finger protein involved in the regulation of HIV-1 replication in human mononuclear phagocytes. Previously, we reported OTK18 expression in brain perivascular macrophages but not in microglia in HIV encephalitis brain. We have cloned the OTK18 promoter region proximal to the transcriptional start site and determined the region responsible (-884/+1) for the basal transcriptional activity in a microglia cell line. Sequential deletion mutation analyses reveal three important response elements: Yingyang-1 (YY1; -805/-777), an HIV-1 response element for promoter activation; FoxD3 (-743/-725), a negative regulatory element; and Ets response element (-725/-707), a basal transcriptional activity response element. HIV-1 infection-induced upregulation of YY1 and c-Ets-1 protein, binding to the promoter region as determined by immunoblotting and chromatin immunoprecipitation and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays, and induction of YY1 was also observed in virus-infected monocyte-derived macrophages. Silencing of FoxD3 and YY1 in the cell line by small interfering RNA duplexes specific to these molecules significantly up- and downregulated basal OTK18 promoter activity in FoxD3 and YY1 response element-dependent manners, respectively. On the other hand, infection of primary cultured human microglia significantly reduced YY1 expression and induced FoxD3 as determined by immunoblotting and reverse transcription real-time PCR. These data suggest that HIV-1 induces OTK18 expression through a YY1-mediated manner in human macrophages, although its gene expression is suppressed by FoxD3 upregulation and YY1 downregulation in human microglia. This mechanism may explain the perivascular macrophage-specific expression of OTK18 in HIV encephalitis brains.
As part of the innate immune defense against HIV infection, OTK18, a zinc finger protein, is upregulated in human macrophages and reduces viral replication through suppression of viral long-terminal repeat promoter activity. Although we know that the processing products of OTK18 accumulate in the cytoplasm of brain perivascular macrophages in advanced HIV encephalitis cases, the molecular mechanisms behind its post-translational processing are still poorly understood. To characterize OTK18 processing, we assessed a panel of protease inhibitors to identify the candidates involved in the OTK18 processing using human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) overexpressing OTK18 by recombinant adenoviral gene transfer. Viral infection of MDM strongly increased the processing of OTK18 into its N-terminal fragment. Treatment of OTK18-expressing MDM with calpain and proteasome inhibitors significantly accumulated either full-length or processed OTK18 fragments in time- and dose-dependent manners. A series of OTK18 truncation mutants and synthetic peptides were tested to locate the calpain cleavage sites after arginine 359. Finally, we developed an enhanced cyan and yellow fluorescent protein (ECFP and EYFP)-based intramolecular fluorescent resonance energy transfer (intramolecular FRET) system to monitor the OTK18 endoproteolysis in human microglia cell line. Inhibition of proteasome activity significantly increased the intramolecular FRET signal in the nucleus. These data suggest that calpain and proteasome are involved in OTK18 endoproteolysis and degradation. Additionally, intramolecular FRET has proven to be a useful tool for monitoring the processing in live cells.
Neuronal loss, reactive astrocytes, and other abnormalities are seen in the brain of individuals with acquired immune deficiency syndrome-associated Dementia Complex (ADC). Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) is believed to be the main agent causing ADC. However, little is known about the molecular and cellular mechanisms of HIV-1 neurotoxicity considering that HIV-1 does not infect post-mitotic neurons and that viral load does not necessarily correlate with ADC. Various viral proteins, such as the envelope protein gp120 and the transcription activator Tat, have been shown to induce neuronal apoptosis through direct and indirect mechanisms both in vitro and in vivo. Progeny HIV-1 virions can also cause neuronal death. However, it has not been fully established yet whether HIV-1 promotes neuronal apoptosis by a direct mechanism. To explore the neurotoxic effect of HIV-1, we exposed rat cerebellar granule cells and cortical neurons in culture to two different strains of HIV-1, IIIB and BaL, T- and M-tropic strains that utilize CXCR4 and CCR5 coreceptors, respectively, to infect cells. We observed that both viruses elicit a time-dependent apoptotic cell death in these cultures without inducing a productive infection as determined by the absence of the core protein of HIV-1, p24, in cell lysates. Instead, neurons were gp120 positive, suggesting that the envelope protein is shed by the virus and then subsequently internalized by neurons. The CXCR4 receptor antagonist AMD3100 or the CCR5 receptor inhibitor D-Ala-peptide T-amide blocked HIV IIIB and HIV Bal neurotoxicity, respectively. In contrast, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker MK801 failed to protect neurons from HIV-mediated apoptosis, suggesting that HIV-1 neurotoxicity can be initiated by the viral protein gp120 binding to neuronal chemokine receptors.
The cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) is a key factor in several inflammatory diseases and its levels increase in response to a variety of internal or external stimuli. The regulation of the TNFalpha promoter is mediated by several transcription factors including the nuclear factor kappa B protein (NF-kappaB). This study examines the role of NF-kappaB in the regulation of TNFalpha production by morphine in microglia. Using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, we demonstrated the presence of morphine receptors in these cells. We next demonstrated the ability of morphine to promote TNFalpha production and secretion by these cells using a cytokine array assay. Transient transfection experiments led to the identification of the region located between nucleotides -751 and -615 within the TNFalpha promoter as being responsive to morphine treatment. The DNA sequence of this region contains a motif indicative of a potential NF-kappaB binding site. The use of a small interfering RNA directed against p65, a subunit of NF-kappaB, demonstrated that TNFalpha induction by morphine is NF-kappaB-dependent. All of the effects of morphine were reversed by the morphine inhibitor, naloxone. These data provide important insights into the effects of morphine on microglia.

Further to the well-established association between apolipoprotein E (APOE) and Alzheimer's disease, this gene has also been implicated in both susceptibility to, and dementia in, Parkinson's disease (PD). However studies to date have produced contradictory findings. We conducted a case-control study in a population of 528 PD patients and 512 healthy controls and found no significant difference in allele or genotype distribution of APOE between the two groups. An updated meta-analysis showed a modest increase of APOE-epsilon2 carriers amongst PD patients compared to controls [P = 0.017, OR = 1.16 (95 % CI 1.03-1.31)]. 107 of our patients were incident cases participating in a population-based epidemiological study. Longitudinal follow-up of this cohort over a mean of 5.0 +/- 0.7 years from diagnosis revealed no significant impact of APOE-epsilon4 carrier status on risk of dementia or rate of cognitive decline. An updated meta-analysis indicated an over-representation of APOE-epsilon4 carriers amongst PD dementia compared to non dementia cases [OR 1.74 (1.36-2.23), P = 1 x 10(-4)], although small sample sizes, heterogeneity of odds ratios and publication bias may have confounded this finding. In conclusion, our study does not support previously reported associations between APOE genotype and susceptibility to, or cognitive decline in, PD. An updated meta-analysis indicates any association with PD susceptibility is at most modest, an observation with important implications for further study of this issue. Large scale longitudinal studies would be best placed to further evaluate any impact of APOE genotype on cognitive decline in PD.
Prehension movements consist of distal (grasp) and proximal (reach, lift) components. The proximal lifting movements (achieved at the wrist) of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are characterized by bradykinesia. With respect to the distal component, PD patients show pathologically high grip forces (generated by the fingers) and slowing of force development indicative of disturbed sensorimotor adjustments during prehension. Combining kinematic and force analyses of prehension movements, we investigated whether PD differentially affects the adjustments of the distal or proximal prehension components to current load conditions. First, PD patients (n = 12) and healthy, age-matched control subjects grasped and lifted light and heavy objects without any load cues. Then, they were presented with cues that indicated changes in object load. These load cues were either consciously perceived or rendered subconscious through use of the technique of metacontrast masking. Consistent with the functional organization of the basal ganglia, patients with PD could adapt distal prehension components (grip force) to current load conditions using both types of cues. However, they were impaired in adjusting proximal prehension components (lift velocity). While controls were able to normalize lift velocity with the help of both conscious and subconscious load cues, the PD patients could use neither form of cue, and retained a pathological overshoot in lift velocity. Our results demonstrate that visuomotor integration during prehension movements differs at distal and more proximal joints and that deficits in this integration are pronounced for the latter in Parkinson's disease.
The inflammatory neuropathies are a large diverse group of immune-mediated neuropathies that are amenable to treatment and may be reversible. Their accurate diagnosis is essential for informing the patient of the likely course and prognosis of the disease, informing the treating physician of the appropriate therapy and informing the scientific community of the results of well-targeted, designed and performed clinical trials. With the advent of biological therapies able to manipulate the immune response more specifically, an understanding of the pathogenesis of these conditions is increasingly important. This review presents a broad overview of the pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapy of inflammatory neuropathies, concentrating on the most commonly encountered conditions.






Regeneration of peripheral nerves involves complex and intimate interactions between axons and Schwann cells. Here, we show that local axon synthesis and action of the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is critical for this collaboration. After peripheral sural sensory axon injury in rats, we observed an unexpectedly large proportion of axons that newly expressed CGRP during regeneration. Intense peptide expression accompanied local rises in alphaCGRP mRNA in the nerve trunk, and there was evidence of transport of alphaCGRP mRNA into regenerating axons, indicating intra-axonal peptide synthesis. Calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor and its receptor activity modifying protein were expressed onadjacent Schwann cells, where they were available for signaling. Moreover, exogenous CGRP induced proliferation in isolated adult Schwann cells. New axon outgrowth and CGRP expression depended on local peptide synthesis and were inhibited by exposure tolocal translation inhibitors. Local delivery of siRNAs to either alphaCGRP or receptor activity modifying protein 1 to sites of nerve transection was associated with severe disruption of axon outgrowth.These findings indicate that robust localized intra-axonal translation of the CGRP neuropeptide during regeneration signals Schwann cell proliferation, behavior that is critical for partnering during adult peripheral nerve regrowth.
Delayed rewards lose their value for economic decisions and constitute weaker reinforcers for learning. Temporal discounting of reward value already occurs within a few seconds in animals, which allows investigations of the underlying neurophysiological mechanisms. However, it is difficult to relate these mechanisms to human discounting behavior, which is usually studied over days and months and may engage different brain processes. Our study aimed to bridge the gap by using very short delays and measuring human functional magnetic resonance responses in one of the key reward centers of the brain, the ventral striatum. We used psychometric methods to assess subjective timing and valuation of monetary rewards with delays of 4.0-13.5 s. We demonstrated hyperbolic and exponential decreases of striatal responses to reward predicting stimuli within this time range, irrespective of changes in reward rate. Lower reward magnitudes induced steeper behavioral and striatal discounting. By contrast, striatal responses following the delivery of reward reflected the uncertainty in subjective timing associated with delayed rewards rather than value discounting. These data suggest that delays of a few seconds affect the neural processing of predicted reward value in the ventral striatum and engage the temporal sensitivity of reward responses. Comparisons with electrophysiological animal data suggest that ventral striatal reward discounting may involve dopaminergic and orbitofrontal inputs.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is critical for the formation of emotional memories. Little is known about the physiological properties of BLA interneurons, which can be divided into four subtypes based on their immunocytochemical profiles. Cholecystokinin (CCK) interneurons play critical roles in feedforward inhibition and behavioral fear responses. Evidence suggests that interneurons within a subgroup can display heterogeneous physiological properties. However, little is known about the physiological properties of CCK interneurons in the BLA and/or whether they represent a homogeneous or heterogeneous population. To address this question, we generated a lentivirus-expressing GFP under the control of the CCK promoter to identify CCK neurons in vivo. We combined this with whole cell patch-clamp recording techniques to examine the physiological properties of CCK-containing interneurons of the rat BLA. Here, we describe the physiological properties of 57 cells recorded in current-clamp mode; we used hierarchical cluster and discriminant function analysis to demonstrate that CCK interneurons can be segregated into three distinct subtypes (I, II, III) based on their passive and active membrane properties. Additionally, Type II neurons could be further separated into adapting and nonadapting types based on their rates of spike frequency adaptation. These data suggest that CCK interneurons of the BLA are a heterogeneous population and may be functionally distinct subpopulations that differentially contribute to the processing of emotionally salient stimuli.
The classical model of visual processing emphasizes the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) as the major intermediary between the retina and visual cortex. Yet, anatomical findings inspired Francis Crick to suggest an alternative model in which the thalamic reticular nucleus, which envelops the LGN, acts as the &quot;guardian&quot; of visual cortex by modulating LGN activity. Recent work by McAlonan and colleagues supports Crick's hypothesis, thereby enhancing our understanding of the early stages of visual processing.
The mechanisms underlying neuronal coding and, in particular, the role of temporal spike coordination are hotly debated. However, this debate is often confounded by an implicit discussion about the use of appropriate analysis methods. To avoid incorrect interpretation of data, the analysis of simultaneous spike trains for precise spike correlation needs to be properly adjusted to the features of the experimental spike trains. In particular, nonstationarity of the firing of individual neurons in time or across trials, a spike train structure deviating from Poisson, or a co-occurrence of such features in parallel spike trains are potent generators of false positives. Problems can be avoided by including these features in the null hypothesis of the significance test. In this context, the use of surrogate data becomes increasingly important, because the complexity of the data typically prevents analytical solutions. This review provides an overview of the potential obstacles in the correlation analysis of parallel spike data and possible routes to overcome them. The discussion is illustrated at every stage of the argument by referring to a specific analysis tool (the Unitary Events method). The conclusions, however, are of a general nature and hold for other analysis techniques. Thorough testing and calibration of analysis tools and the impact of potentially erroneous preprocessing stages are emphasized.
Basal dendrites of prefrontal cortical neurons receive strong synaptic drive from recurrent excitatory synaptic inputs. Synaptic integration within basal dendrites is therefore likely to play an important role in cortical information processing. Both synaptic integration and synaptic plasticity depend crucially on dendritic membrane excitability and the backpropagation of action potentials. We carried out multisite voltage-sensitive dye imaging of membrane potential transients from thin basal branches of prefrontal cortical pyramidal neurons before and after application of channel blockers. We found that backpropagating action potentials (bAPs) are predominantly controlled by voltage-gated sodium and A-type potassium channels. In contrast, pharmacologically blocking the delayed rectifier potassium, voltage-gated calcium, or I(h) conductance had little effect on dendritic AP propagation. Optically recorded bAP waveforms were quantified and multicompartmental modeling was used to link the observed behavior with the underlying biophysical properties. The best-fit model included a nonuniform sodium channel distribution with decreasing conductance with distance from the soma, together with a nonuniform (increasing) A-type potassium conductance. AP amplitudes decline with distance in this model, but to a lesser extent than previously thought. We used this model to explore the mechanisms underlying two sets of published data involving high-frequency trains of APs and the local generation of sodium spikelets. We also explored the conditions under which I(A) down-regulation would produce branch strength potentiation in the proposed model. Finally, we discuss the hypothesis that a fraction of basal branches may have different membrane properties compared with sister branches in the same dendritic tree.
In many situations, such as pedestrians crossing a busy street or prey evading predators, rapid decisions based on limited perceptual information are critical for survival. The brevity of these perceptual judgments constrains how neuronal signals are integrated or pooled over time because the underlying sequence of processes, from sensation to perceptual evaluation to motor planning and execution, all occur within several hundred milliseconds. Because most previous physiological studies of these processes have relied on tasks requiring considerably longer temporal integration, the neuronal basis of such rapid decisions remains largely unexplored. In this study, we examine the temporal precision of neuronal activity associated with a rapid perceptual judgment. We find that the activity of individual neurons over tens of milliseconds can reliably convey information about sensory events and was well correlated with the animals' judgments. There was a strong correlation between sensory reliability and the correlation with behavioral choice, suggesting that rapid decisions were preferentially based on the most reliable sensory signals. We also find that a simple model in which the responses of a small number of individual neurons (&lt;5) are summed can completely explain behavioral performance. These results suggest that neuronal circuits are sufficiently precise to allow for cognitive decisions to be based on small numbers of action potentials from highly reliable neurons.
Decoding and information theoretic techniques were used to analyze the predictions that can be made from functional magnetic resonance neuroimaging data on individual trials. The subjective pleasantness produced by warm and cold applied to the hand could be predicted on single trials with typically in the range 60-80% correct from the activations of groups of voxels in the orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortex and pregenual cingulate cortex, and the information available was typically in the range 0.1-0.2 (with a maximum of 0.6) bits. The prediction was typically a little better with multiple voxels than with one voxel, and the information increased sublinearly with the number of voxels up to typically seven voxels. Thus the information from different voxels was not independent, and there was considerable redundancy across voxels. This redundancy was present even when the voxels were from different brain areas. The pairwise stimulus-dependent correlations between voxels, reflecting higher-order interactions, did not encode significant information. For comparison, the activity of a single neuron in the orbitofrontal cortex can predict with 90% correct and encode 0.5 bits of information about whether an affectively positive or negative visual stimulus has been shown, and the information encoded by small numbers of neurons is typically independent. In contrast, the activation of a 3 x 3 x 3-mm voxel reflects the activity of approximately 0.8 million neurons or their synaptic inputs and is not part of the information encoding used by the brain, thus providing a relatively poor readout of information compared with that available from small populations of neurons.
Motor cortex (M1) activity between postnatal weeks 5 and 7 is essential for normal development of the corticospinal tract (CST) and visually guided movements. Unilateral reversible inactivation of M1, by intracortical muscimol infusion, during this period permanently impairs development of the normal dorsoventral distribution of CST terminations and visually guided motor skills. These impairments are abrogated if this M1 inactivation is followed by inactivation of the contralateral, initially active M1, from weeks 7 to 11 (termed alternate inactivation). This later period is when the M1 motor representation normally develops. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of alternate inactivation on the motor representation of the initially inactivated M1. We used intracortical microstimulation to map the left M1 1 to 2 mo after the end of left M1 muscimol infusion. We compared representations in the unilateral inactivation and alternate inactivation groups. Alternate inactivation converted the sparse proximal M1 motor representation produced by unilateral inactivation to a complete and high-resolution proximal-distal representation. The motor map was restored by week 11, the same age that our present and prior studies demonstrated that alternate inactivation restored CST spinal connectivity. Thus M1 motor map developmental plasticity closely parallels plasticity of CST spinal terminations. After alternate inactivation reestablished CST connections and the motor map, an additional 3 wk was required for motor skill recovery. Since motor map recovery preceded behavioral recovery, our findings suggest that the representation is necessary for recovering motor skills, but additional time, or experience, is needed to learn to take advantage of the restored CST connections and motor map.
A change in neuronal network excitability within the hippocampus is one of the hallmarks of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). In the dentate gyrus (DG), however, neuronal loss and mossy fiber sprouting are associated with enhanced inhibition rather than progressive hyperexcitability. The aim of this study was to investigate how alterations in excitability take place in association with spontaneous seizures expressed in the DG before, during, and after a seizure. For this purpose, we used freely moving rats that had developed spontaneous seizures after a kainate-induced status epilepticus (SE). Continuous EEG was recorded in the DG during several days along with local field potentials (LFPs) that were evoked every 15-30 s by applying paired-pulse stimuli to the angular bundle. Input-output relations showed increased paired pulse depression in epileptic compared with control rats, suggesting a rather strong inhibition in the DG during the interictal state. A characteristic pattern of changes in intrinsic excitability was observed during the ictal period: an increase in the population spike (PS) amplitude, mostly during the early phase of a seizure and often followed by a decrease of the main evoked potential amplitude. The paired-pulse extracellular postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) ratio increased during the seizure and did slowly recover to preictal levels after the seizure ended. Although clear changes in excitability occurred during and after seizure activity, changes of LFP parameters were more subtle before seizure onset; a significant reduction of LFP and PS amplitudes was observed that started 1-2 min in advance in approximately 33% of the cases; in approximately 18%, an increase of LFP/PS amplitude was observed; in the other cases, no significant change was observed. Taken together, these results provide evidence that, in this experimental model, DG physiology is more likely to follow the already ongoing seizure activity rather than to contribute to its generation.
One-hertz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (1Hz-rTMS) over ipsilateral motor cortex is able to modify up to 30 min the motor performance of repetitive finger opposition movements paced with a metronome at 2 Hz. We investigated whether the long-lasting rTMS effect on motor behavior can be modulated by subsequent engagement of the contralateral sensorimotor system. Motor task was performed in different experimental conditions: immediately after rTMS, 30 min after rTMS, or when real rTMS was substituted with sham rTMS. Subjects performing the motor task immediately after rTMS showed modifications in motor behavior &lt; or =30 min after rTMS. On the other hand, when real rTMS was substituted with sham stimulation or when subjects performed the motor task 30 min after the rTMS session, the effect was no longer present. These findings suggest that the combination of ipsilateral 1Hz-rTMS and voluntary movement is crucial to endure the effect of rTMS on the movement itself, probably acting on synaptic plasticity-like mechanism. This finding might provide some useful hints for neurorehabilitation protocols.
The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) has been associated with the encoding of events in peripersonal space, but little is known about the precise segregation of parietal areas involved specifically in 'near-space' visuospatial processing. This study applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to two parietal areas: the right angular gyrus (ANG) and the right supramarginal gyrus (SMG) in addition to a control site, cortical visual area V5, while subjects performed symmetry judgements on lines presented simultaneously in the left and right visual fields. Eight subjects performed the task with the stimuli presented either in peripersonal or extra personal space. As expected, TMS over the right ANG caused subjects to report lines as being longer ipsilateral to the stimulation site, but only in near space. TMS of the right SMG, however, induced a bias shift in both near and far space, but the change only reached significance in near space. Our findings suggest that, consistent with its role in somatosensory functions, the SMG, like the ANG, is specialised for near space.
When trying to make sense of other people's behaviour we usually invoke their mental states, such as their intentions, beliefs or emotions. This mind reading ability has been traditionally investigated in developmental psychology and comparative psychology but is now receiving increasing attention from the cognitive neurosciences. I will show the important role that neuropsychology plays in unravelling the cognitive and neural basis of our mind reading abilities. I will illustrate this by showing how cases of adults with acquired brain lesions can help us tease apart the different mechanisms that underlie mind reading abilities and can help us understand the nature of these mechanisms, especially their relation to language and executive function.
Antiglycolipid IgM antibodies are known to induce formation of &quot;wide spaced&quot; or &quot;expanded&quot; myelin, a distinctive form of dysmyelination characterized by a repeat period approximately two or three times normal, which is seen also in diseases, including multiple sclerosis. To determine whether an antibody directed against a myelin protein would cause equivalent pathology, we implanted O10 hybridoma cells into the spinal cord of adult or juvenile rats. O10 produces an IgM directed against PLP, the major protein of CNS myelin. Subsequent examination of the cords showed focal demyelination and remyelination. In addition, however, some juvenile cords, but none of the adult cords, displayed wide-spaced myelin with lamellae separated by an extracellular material comprising elements consistent with IgM molecules in appearance. Wide spacing tended to involve the outer layers of the sheath and in some cases alternated with normally spaced lamellae. A feature not seen previously consists of multiple expanded myelin lamellae in one sector of a sheath continuous with normally spaced lamellae in another, resulting in variation in sheath thickness around the axonal circumference. This uneven distribution of wide-spaced lamellae is most simply explained based on incorporation of IgM molecules into immature sheaths during myelin formation and implies a model of CNS myelinogenesis more complex than simple spiraling. The periaxonal space never displays widening of this kind, but the interface with adjacent myelin sheaths or oligodendrocytes may. Thus, wide spacing appears to require that IgM molecules bridge between two PLP-containing membranes and does not reflect the mere presence of immunoglobulin within the extracellular space.
We investigated by (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) the mechanisms underlying Li(+) effects on glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission systems in the adult rat brain and in primary cultures of cortical neurons and astrocytes during the metabolism of (1-(13)C) glucose or (2-(13)C) acetate. Adult male rats receiving a single dose of Li(+) intraperitoneally (7 mmol/kg) were infused 2 hr later, for 60 min, with (1-(13)C) glucose (80 mumol/min/kg) or (2-(13)C) acetate (240 micromol/min/kg). High-resolution (13)C NMR spectra of brain extracts prepared after the infusion revealed that Li(+) significantly decreased the incorporation of (13)C in glutamate and GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) carbons from (1-(13)C) glucose, but not from (2-(13)C) acetate. To complement the in vivo approach, primary cultures of cortical neurons or astrocytes were incubated with 1 mM uniformly (13)C-labeled glucose or 5 mM (2-(13)C) acetate, in the absence and presence of increasing Li(+) concentrations up to 15 mM. Under these conditions, Li(+) significantly decreased neuronal glucose uptake in a concentration-dependent manner without apparent effects on astrocytic acetate uptake. Extracts prepared at the end of the incubations showed that Li(+) significantly decreased the incorporation of (13)C labeling into GABA carbons from its precursor glutamate in neurons, but such a decrease into glutamine carbons in astrocytes was not statistically significant. Our results indicate that the effects of Li(+) are mediated through a reduction of neuronal glucose uptake, resulting in a decrease of glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission without apparent effects on astrocytic metabolism.
Primary impact to the spinal cord results in stimulation of secondary processes that potentiate the initial trauma. In the present study, we hypothesized that the altered expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) may contribute to these effects. Recent evidence indicates that nicotine can exert potent antioxidant and neuroprotective effects in spinal cord injury (SCI). Therefore, the aim of the present study was to evaluate whether the administration of nicotine can influence expression of inducible NOS (iNOS) and/or neuronal NOS (nNOS) in injured spinal cords. Adult male Long-Evans rats were subjected to a moderate contusion model of SCI and received a single intraperitoneal injection of either saline or nicotine (0.35, 3.5, or 7 mg/kg) 2 hr after trauma. SCI dramatically increased iNOS (but not nNOS) mRNA and protein levels in microglial cells in the thoracic and lumbar regions of spinal cords. iNOS overexpression resulted in increased nitrotyrosine formation, decreased number of NeuN (neuronal nuclei)-immunoreactive cells, and up-regulation of inflammatory genes. Most importantly, these effects were markedly attenuated by nicotine acting via a receptor-mediated mechanism. These data may have significant therapeutic implications for the targeting of nicotine receptors in the treatment of compressive spinal cord trauma.



Preclinical as well as clinical studies in traumatic brain injury (TBI) have established the likely association of secondary injury and outcome in adults in children following severe injury. Similarly, there is growing evidence in experimental laboratory studies that moderate hypothermia has a beneficial effect on outcome, though the exact mechanisms remain to be absolutely defined. The Pediatric TBI Guidelines provided the knowledge and background for standard management of children following severe TBI and highlighted that there are very few clinical studies to date. In particular with respect to temperature regulation and the use of hypothermia, initial findings of case series of small numbers were promising. Further preliminary randomized clinical trials, both single institution and multicenter, have provided the initial data on safety and efficacy, though larger, Phase III studies are necessary to ensure both the safety and efficacy of hypothermia in pediatric TBI prior to implementation as part of the standard of care. It is expected that hypothermia initiated early after severe TBI will have a protective effect on the pediatric brain and can be done safely, but this still remains to be definitively tested.
Induced hypothermia after ischemic stroke is a promising neuroprotective therapy and is the most potent in pre-clinical models. Technological limitations and homeostatic mechanisms that maintain core body temperature, however, have limited the clinical application of hypothermia. Advances in intravascular cooling and successful trials of hypothermia after global cerebral ischemia, such as in cardiac arrest and neonatal asphyxia, have renewed interest in hypothermia for stroke.
Nursing documentation is an essential component for professional practice and providing quality patient care. A complete, accurate, and up-to-date document is a defense tool to prevent liability if nurses are involved in a lawsuit. To evaluate the quality of nursing documentation in a neurosciences unit, a chart audit project was conducted in year 2004. This project assessed nurses' documentation skills and consistency between prescribed care and care provided to patients. Strategies have now been implemented to improve nursing documentation and resolve issues that were identified during the chart audit.


The incidence of obesity is increasing at an alarming rate and this worldwide epidemic represents an ominous predictor of increases in diseases such as type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Epidemiological and animals studies suggest that maternal obesity and alterations in postnatal nutrition are associated with increased risks for obesity, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes in the offspring. Furthermore, there is also growing appreciation that developmental programming of neuroendocrine systems by the perinatal environment represents a possible cause for these diseases. This review article provides a synthesis of recent evidence concerning the actions of perinatal hormones and nutrition in programming the development and organization of hypothalamic circuits that regulate body weight and energy balance. Particular attention is given to the neurodevelopmental actions of insulin and leptin.
Non-invasive excitability tests have been developed to appraise axonal membrane properties in peripheral nerves and are contributing to our understanding of neuropathies and neuronopathies. These techniques have been adapted to in vivo and in vitro rat models, but little data are available on mice, although mice provide more transgenic models of neurological disorders. This study was therefore undertaken to assess the suitability of mice to model human nerve excitability measurements and to document changes during maturation. Female mice, aged 4-19 weeks, were recorded under isoflurane anesthesia. Electrical stimuli were applied via surface electrodes to the caudal motor nerve and compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) recorded from the tail with needle electrodes. Then, the sciatic nerve was stimulated above the ankle and CMAPs recorded from plantar muscles. The method was only minimally invasive, enabling the same animal to be tested up to eight times at weekly intervals. As in human studies, the multiple excitability program recorded stimulus-response, strength-duration, and current-threshold relationships; threshold electrotonus; and recovery cycle. The response waveforms were qualitatively similar to those from human axons. This resemblance was closer for the caudal nerve, which also showed more marked changes with age. Early hyperpolarizing electrotonus fell sharply from weeks 4 to 13 (p &lt; 0.0001), while a progressive increase in superexcitability occurred throughout the period studied (p &lt; 0.001). We conclude that multiple measures of nerve excitability can be performed reliably in mice in vivo, preferentially on the tail, and are suitable for longitudinal studies, but age matching is critical for younger animals.
Renaut bodies are well-demarcated cylindrical (circular in cross section) hyaline structures attached to the inner layer of the perineurium that can be found in normal and pathological nerves of various animals and humans. They are composed of spidery fibroblasts and perineurial cells immersed in an extracellular matrix that contains randomly oriented collagen fibers and elastin precursors but not axons or Schwann cells. Frequently, they are associated with thickened subperineurial capillaries. As Renaut bodies are mainly located at sites of nerve compression, it is hypothesized they may act as 'protective cushions' for endoneurial components, and that they may be formed as a secondary reaction to trauma. Herein, we report the presence of Renaut bodies within numerous small dermal nerve trunks in an amputated finger. By immunohistochemistry, Renaut bodies expressed markers identical to those of perineurial cells (epithelial membrane antigen, Glut-1, and claudin-1), supporting the concept of a closely associated perineurial but not endoneurial origin. In addition, expression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (which has been shown to increase Glut-1 transcription), neurofibromatosis 1 gene related product and NF-2, were also detected in these peripheral nerve structures.
The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia, leading to efforts targeted toward discovering agonists and positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of this receptor. In a Ca2+ flux fluorometric imaging plate reader assay, SB-206553 (3,5-dihydro-5-methyl -N-3-pyridinylbenzo [1, 2-b:4,5 -b']-di pyrrole-1(2H)-carboxamide), a compound known as a 5-hydroxytryptamine(2B/2C) receptor antagonist, produced an 8-fold potentiation of the evoked calcium signal in the presence of an EC(20) concentration of nicotine and a corresponding EC(50) of 1.5 muM for potentiation of EC(20) nicotine responses in GH4C1 cells expressing the alpha7 receptor. SB-206553 was devoid of direct alpha7 receptor agonist activity and selective against other nicotinic receptors. Confirmation of the PAM activity of SB-206553 on the alpha7 nAChR was obtained in patch-clamp electrophysiological experiments in GH4C1 cells, where it failed to evoke any detectable currents when applied alone, yet dramatically potentiated the currents evoked by an EC(20) (17 microM) and EC(100) (124 microM) of acetylcholine (ACh). Native nicotinic receptors in CA1 stratum radiatum interneurons of rat hippocampal slices could also be activated by ACh (200 microM), an effect that was entirely blocked by the alpha7-selective antagonist methyllycaconitine (MLA). These ACh currents were potentiated by SB-206553, which increased the area of the current response significantly, resulting in a 40-fold enhancement at 100 microM. In behavioral experiments in rats, SB-206553 reversed an MK-801 (dizocilpine maleate)-induced deficit in the prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle response, an effect attenuated in the presence of MLA. This latter observation provides further evidence in support of the potential therapeutic utility of alpha7 nAChR PAMs in schizophrenia.
We have reported that the major endogenous estrogen, 17beta-estradiol (E2), protects against oxidative injury during ethanol withdrawal (EW) in a cultured hippocampal cell line (HT22). Here, we investigated whether the pro-oxidant nature of EW mediates opening of the mitochondrial membrane permeability transition pore (PTP) in a manner protected by E2. Excess PTP opening provokes mitochondrial membrane swelling (MMS) and the collapse of membrane potential (DeltaPsim). HT22 cells were collected at the end of ethanol exposure (100 mM) for 24 h or at 4 h of EW to assess MMS by monitoring absorbance decline at 540 nm and to assess DeltaPsim using flow cytometry. Protective effects of E2 on PTP were compared with an antioxidant butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) and an E2 analog, ZYC26 [(3-hydroxy-2-adamantyl(1)-4-methyl-estra-1,3,5(10)-17-one], with higher antioxidant potency than E2. To assess cellular consequences of PTP opening, effects of a PTP inhibitor (cyclosporin A) on EW-induced cell death were assessed using the calcein assay. Major findings were that: 1) EW resulted in rapid MMS and DeltaPsim collapse; 2) cyclosporin A attenuated EW-induced cell death; and 3) E2 treatment restricted to the EW phase protected against the PTP opening more prominently than BHT and to a similar degree to ZYC26. These findings suggest that EW provokes PTP opening partly but not entirely through the pro-oxidant nature and that E2 counteracts EW-associated factors to protect against the PTP opening.
Gradients of molecular factors pattern the developing retina and superior colliculus (SC) and guide retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons to their appropriate central target perinatally. During and subsequent to this period, spontaneous waves of action potentials sweep across the retina, providing an instructive topographic signal based on the correlations of firing patterns of neighbouring RGCs. How these activity-independent and activity-dependent factors interact during retinotopic map formation remains unclear. A typical phenotype of mutant mice lacking genes for one or more RGC axon guidance molecules is the presence of topographically inappropriate projections or 'ectopic spots'. Here, we examine mice that lack functional bone morphogenetic protein receptors (BMPRs) in the retina. Retinal BMP controls the graded expression of RGC axon guidance molecules, resulting in some dorsal RGCs projecting ectopically to locations in the SC that normally receive input from ventral retina. We examine the consequences of this anatomical phenotype in vivo by studying the receptive field (RF) properties of neurons in the superficial SC. We observe a mixture of physiological phenotypes in BMPR mutant mice; notably we find some neurons with ectopic RFs displaced in elevation, corresponding to the observed anatomical defect. However, in a result not necessarily congruent with the presence of focal ectopic projections, some neurons have split, enlarged and patchy/distorted RFs. These results are consistent with the effects of spontaneous retinal waves acting upon a disrupted molecular template, and they place significant limits on the form of an activity-dependent learning rule for the development of retinocollicular projections.
Area F5, in the ventral premotor cortex of the macaque monkey, plays a critical role in determining the hand shape appropriate for grasp of a visible object. F5 neurones show increased firing for particular types of grasp, and inactivation of F5 produces deficits in visually guided grasp. But how is F5 activity transformed into the appropriate pattern of hand muscle activity for efficient grasp? Here we investigate the pathways that may be involved by testing the effect of single stimuli delivered through microwires chronically implanted in area F5 and in primary motor cortex (M1) of two macaque monkeys. The EMG responses from M1 test (T) stimulation were recorded from 4-11 contralateral hand, digit and arm muscles during reach-to-grasp of visually presented objects. Conditioning (C) stimulation of F5, at intensities subthreshold for motor effects, caused strong modulation (over twofold) of M1 test (T) responses. The pattern of facilitation was specific. First, facilitation of the T response was particularly evident at short C-T intervals of -1 to 1 ms. Second, this facilitation was only present in some muscles and during reach-to-grasp of a subset of objects; it did not appear to be simply related to the level of EMG activity in the muscles at the moment of cortical stimulation or indeed to the upcoming contribution of that muscle during grasp. At later C-T intervals (1-6 ms), F5 stimulation caused significant suppression of the test M1 response. The results are in keeping with the concept that during visually guided grasp, F5 modulates corticospinal outputs from M1 in a muscle- and grasp-specific manner.
Acetylcholine is a transmitter in preganglionic autonomic and postganglionic parasympathetic nerves and a non-neuronal paracrine mediator in the alimentary tract. Acetylcholine is involved in the control of almost any function within these organ systems, and almost every cell type expresses multiple muscarinic receptor subtypes. Although muscarinic receptors at non-neuronal effector cells commonly are of the M3 subtype, the population usually consists of a mixture of muscarinic receptor subtypes often co-acting postsynaptically. However, the pattern of heterogeneity of varies between different tissues. The population in gland parenchymal tissue often consists of a mixture of M1 and M3 receptors, smooth muscle tissue of the gut of M2 and M3, blood vessels of M1, M3, M4 and M5 and neuronal cells of M1 and M4. Nitric oxide production, effects on inflammation and proliferation may involve M1, M3 and M5 receptors. Muscarinic receptors expressed on nerve terminals may indirectly modulate the responses by inhibition or facilitation of neuronal transmission in the autonomic nervous system. The present review describes signalling mechanisms, expression and functional effects of muscarinic receptors in salivary glands and in the gastrointestinal tract.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a commonly abused drug that damages nerve terminals by causing reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, apoptosis, and neuronal damage. Autophagy, a type of programmed cell death independent of apoptosis, is negatively regulated by the mammalian target of the rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. It is not known, however, whether autophagy is involved in METH-induced neurotoxicity. Therefore, we investigated the effect of METH on autophagy and its upstream regulator, the mTOR signaling pathway. Using the SK-N-SH dopaminergic cell line, we found that METH induces the expression of LC3-II, a protein associated with the autophagosome membrane, in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, METH inhibits the phosphorylation of mTOR and the action of its downstream target, the eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF)4E-binding protein, 4EBP1. Melatonin, a major secretory product of pineal, is a potent naturally produced antioxidant that acts through various mechanisms to ameliorate the toxic effects of ROS. We found that a pretreatment with melatonin enhances mTOR activity and 4EBP1 phosphorylation and protects against the formation of LC3-II in SK-N-SH cells exposed to METH. This work demonstrates a novel role for melatonin as a neuroprotective agent against METH.
This column reviews progress in our understanding of the neuroanatomy, pathophysiology, and genetics underlying clinical depression. Such understanding is fundamental to the ability to rationally identify the neural regulatory processes involved and develop drugs specifically targeted to those processes. The goal of the column is to help clinicians better conceptualize the nature of depressive illness and its treatment and educate their patients about these issues.

Findings from neuroscience research hold promise for improved treatments for and prevention of substance use disorders (SUD), but ethical concerns about psychopharmacological research involving SUD may potentially undermine scientific progress. This article reviews the literature pertaining to seven ethical requirements that elucidate a coherent framework for evaluating the ethics of clinical SUD research protocols. Those requirements are social or scientific value, scientific validity, fair subject selection, favorable risk-benefit ratio, independent review, informed consent, and respect for potential or enrolled subjects. An evidence-based analysis suggests that sound pharmacological research in SUD can safeguard the welfare of research participants while collecting valuable scientific data and benefiting society.

A major hurdle in the structural analysis of membrane proteins is the expression of a functional and homogeneous form of the protein. Except for rhodopsin, most G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are endogenously expressed at very low levels. Heterologous expression of GPCRs in bacteria, yeast, insect cells or mammalian cell lines often yields proteins with large amounts of misfolded proteins and heterogeneous posttranslational modifications. Here, we report a novel mammalian &quot;in vivo&quot; system for the expression of the chemokine receptor CXCR1. This receptor was expressed in liver of mice infected with adenovirus encoding CXCR1. Liver plasma membranes from infected mice displayed high-levels of (125)I-labeled human interleukin-8 (IL-8) binding. The pharmacological profile of the recombinant CXCR1 expressed &quot;in vivo&quot; was similar to those expressed in neutrophils. We found that the incorporation of the detergent solubilized CXCR1 into phospholipid vesicles in the presence of Gi/Go proteins is required for the reconstitution of (125)I-IL-8 binding. On the basis of the presence of the several endogenous His residues and glycosylation moieties in CXCR1 we fractionated the detergent-solubilized plasma membranes by employing Ni- and Concanavalin A-based chromatography. Fractions enriched with CXCR1 were monitored by (125)I-IL-8-bound to the receptor and Western blots with anti-CXCR1 antibodies. This robust expression system could be readily applied for the expression of GPCRs and other eukaryotic membrane proteins.
Multiple sclerosis (MS), an inflammatory demyelinating disease, is a major cause of neurological disability in young adults in the developed world. Although the progressive neurological disability that most patients with MS eventually experience results from axonal degeneration, little is known about the mechanisms of axonal injury in MS. Accumulating evidence suggests that the increased energy demand of impulse conduction along excitable demyelinated axons and reduced axonal ATP production induce a chronic state of virtual hypoxia in chronically demyelinated axons. In response to such a state, key alterations that contribute to chronic necrosis of axons might include mitochondrial dysfunction (due to defective oxidative phosphorylation or nitric oxide production), Na+ influx through voltage-gated Na+ channels and axonal AMPA receptors, release of toxic Ca2+ from the axoplasmic reticulum, overactivation of ionotropic and metabotropic axonal glutamate receptors, and activation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, ultimately leading to excessive stimulation of Ca2+-dependent degradative pathways. The development of neuroprotective therapies that target these mechanisms might constitute effective adjuncts to currently used immune-modifying agents.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a clinical syndrome comprising supranuclear palsy, postural instability, and mild dementia. Neuropathologically, PSP is defined by the accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles. Since the first description of PSP in 1963, several distinct clinical syndromes have been described that are associated with PSP; this discovery challenges the traditional clinicopathological definition and complicates diagnosis in the absence of a reliable, disease-specific biomarker. We review the emerging nosology in this field and contrast the clinical and pathological characteristics of the different disease subgroups. These new insights emphasise that the pathological events and processes that lead to the accumulation of phosphorylated tau protein in the brain are best considered as dynamic processes that can develop at different rates, leading to different clinical phenomena. Moreover, for patients for whom the diagnosis is unclear, clinicians must continue to describe accurately the clinical picture of each individual, rather than label them with inaccurate diagnostic categories, such as atypical parkinsonism or PSP mimics. In this way, the development of the clinical features can be informative in assigning less common nosological categories that give clues to the underlying pathology and an understanding of the expected clinical course.
We propose that what appears to be hemispheric specialisation in the memory domain, as indexed by effects of unilateral brain lesions, is to a great extent explainable as response bias: left hemisphere lesions result in an omissive response bias or error pattern whereas right hemisphere lesions result in a commissive response bias or error pattern. To test this prediction a group of 40 non-confabulatory cases with a verbal and non-verbal retention deficit (hypomnesia), subsequent to a unilateral lesion, was assembled from the literature. A group of non-amnesic cases with confabulation, paramnesia, false memories or memory-laden hallucination (dysfunctional hypermnesia), due to a unilateral lesion, was also assembled from the literature (N=72). Most of the hypomnesic patients had left hemisphere lesions (73%, p&lt;.005, two tailed) while most of the hypermnesic patients had right hemisphere lesions (78%, p&lt;.0005, two tailed). This crossed double dissociation held good despite statistical control of the lesion's locus within the hemisphere, its size or its aetiology, presence of aphasic symptoms, psychiatric comorbidity, the patient's age, gender, or hand preference, and several other potentially confounding variables.
Immunotherapy approaches for Alzheimer disease currently are among the leading therapeutic directions for the disease. Active and passive immunotherapy against the beta-amyloid peptides that aggregate and accumulate in the brain of those afflicted by the disease have been shown by numerous groups to reduce plaque pathology and improve behavior in transgenic mouse models of the disease. Several ongoing immunotherapy clinical trials for Alzheimer disease are in progress. The background and ongoing challenges for these immunological approaches for the treatment of Alzheimer disease are discussed.
A modification of the Stejskal-Tanner diffusion-weighting preparation with a single refocusing RF pulse is presented which involves three gradient lobes that can be adjusted to null eddy currents with any given decay rate to reduce geometric distortions in diffusion-weighted echo-planar imaging (EPI). It has a very similar compensation performance as the commonly used double-spin-echo preparation but (i) is less sensitive to flip angle imperfections, e.g. along the slice profile, and B(1) inhomogeneities and (ii) can yield shorter echo times for moderate b values, notably for longer echo trains as required for higher spatial resolution. It therefore can provide an increased signal-to-noise ratio as is simulated numerically and demonstrated experimentally in water phantoms and the human brain for standard EPI (2.0 x 2.0 mm(2)) and high-resolution EPI of inner field-of-views using 2D-selective RF excitations (0.5 x 1.0 mm(2)). Thus, the presented preparation may help to overcome current limitations of diffusion-weighted EPI, in particular at high static magnetic fields.
neuroD is a member of the family of proneural genes, which function to regulate the cell cycle, cell fate determination and cellular differentiation. In the retinas of larval and adult teleosts, neuroD is expressed in two populations of post-mitotic cells, a subset of amacrine cells and nascent cone photoreceptors, and proliferating cells in the lineages that give rise exclusively to rod and cone photoreceptors. Based on previous studies of NeuroD function in vitro and the cellular pattern of neuroD expression in the zebrafish retina, we hypothesized that within the mitotic photoreceptor lineages NeuroD selectively regulates aspects of the cell cycle. To test this hypothesis, gain and loss-of-function approaches were employed, relying on the inducible expression of a NeuroD(EGFP) fusion protein and morpholino oligonucleotides to inhibit protein translation, respectively. Conditional expression of neuroD causes cells to withdraw from the cell cycle, upregulate the expression of the cell cycle inhibitors, p27 and p57, and downregulate the cell cycle progression factors, Cyclin B1, Cyclin D1, and Cyclin E2. In the absence of NeuroD, cells specific for the rod and cone photoreceptor lineage fail to exit the cell cycle, and the number of cells expressing Cyclin D1 is increased. When expression is ectopically induced in multipotent progenitors, neuroD promotes the genesis of rod photoreceptors and inhibits the genesis of Mller glia. These data show that in the teleost retina NeuroD plays a fundamental role in photoreceptor genesis by regulating mechanisms that promote rod and cone progenitors to withdraw from the cell cycle. This is the first in vivo demonstration in the retina of cell cycle regulation by NeuroD.
Protein O-linked mannose beta1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 1 (POMGnT1) is an enzyme that transfers N-acetylglucosamine to O-mannose of glycoproteins. Mutations of the POMGnT1 gene cause muscle-eye-brain (MEB) disease. To obtain a better understanding of the pathogenesis of MEB disease, we mutated the POMGnT1 gene in mice using a targeting technique. The mutant muscle showed aberrant glycosylation of alpha-DG, and alpha-DG from mutant muscle failed to bind laminin in a binding assay. POMGnT1(-/-) muscle showed minimal pathological changes with very low-serum creatine kinase levels, and had normally formed muscle basal lamina, but showed reduced muscle mass, reduced numbers of muscle fibers, and impaired muscle regeneration. Importantly, POMGnT1(-/-) satellite cells proliferated slowly, but efficiently differentiated into multinuclear myotubes in vitro. Transfer of a retrovirus vector-mediated POMGnT1 gene into POMGnT1(-/-) myoblasts completely restored the glycosylation of alpha-DG, but proliferation of the cells was not improved. Our results suggest that proper glycosylation of alpha-DG is important for maintenance of the proliferative activity of satellite cells in vivo.
Correlates of barriers to healthcare access among distinctive categories of vulnerable, homeless persons are examined. Results indicated that stigma, lack of respect of health care providers, lack of insurance, transport problems, confusion, not knowing where to go, too sick to seek help are reported by homeless persons as barriers to healthcare access. Suggestions for improvement are also included.
The nervous system is extraordinarily complex and exposed to various trauma and degenerative diseases that remain difficult to treat. To facilitate its study, in vitro models were developed by culturing neurons and glial cells in monolayer cultures, or through organotypic cultures of brain or spinal cord slices. These in vitro models were, and are still very helpful for the advancement of neurosciences. However, they are for some studies, either overly simplified, or too complex. The application of tissue engineering to neurosciences offers a new and highly versatile approach to develop accurate models of the nervous system. These models can be engineered in three-dimensions while choosing for each individual component, cellular and molecular, that will compose it. The level of complexity of the model can be adjusted from the simplest to the more complete as needed. For example, through the use of a three-dimensional tissue-engineered model of the spinal cord, it was possible to reproduce the process of myelin sheath formation around motor neuron axons for the first time in vitro. This breakthrough shows the promising potential of tissue engineering in the development of powerful in vitro models of the nervous system. The combination of these models with the use of human adult neurons and glial cells obtained from the differentiation of neural precursor cells isolated from accessible tissues from patients (skin, fat, bone marrow), opens promising perspectives to better understand -neurodegenerative diseases.
Examinations of the cognitive neuroscience of category learning frequently rely on probabilistic classification-learning tasks-namely, the weather prediction task (WPT)-to study the neural mechanisms of implicit learning. Accumulating evidence suggests that the task also depends on explicit-learning processes. The present investigation manipulated the WPT to assess the specific contributions of implicit- and explicit-learning processes to performance, with a particular focus on how the contributions of these processes change as the task progresses. In Experiment 1, a manipulation designed to disrupt implicit-learning processes had no effect on classification accuracy or the distribution of individual response strategies. In Experiment 2, by contrast, a manipulation designed to disrupt explicit-learning processes substantially reduced classification accuracy and reduced the number of participants who relied on a correct response strategy. The present findings suggest that WPT learning is not an effective tool for investigating nondeclarative learning processes.
Elevated concentrations of ammonia in the brain as a result of hyperammonemia leads to cerebral dysfunction involving a spectrum of neuropsychiatric and neurological symptoms (impaired memory, shortened attention span, sleep-wake inversions, brain edema, intracranial hypertension, seizures, ataxia and coma). Many studies have demonstrated ammonia as a major player involved in the neuropathophysiology associated with liver failure and inherited urea cycle enzyme disorders. Ammonia in solution is composed of a gas (NH(3)) and an ionic (NH(4) (+)) component which are both capable of crossing plasma membranes through diffusion, channels and transport mechanisms and as a result have a direct effect on pH. Furthermore, NH(4) (+) has similar properties as K(+) and, therefore, competes with K(+) on K(+) transporters and channels resulting in a direct effect on membrane potential. Ammonia is also a product as well as a substrate for many different biochemical reactions and consequently, an increase in brain ammonia accompanies disturbances in cerebral metabolism. These direct effects of elevated ammonia concentrations on the brain will lead to a cascade of secondary effects and encephalopathy.
End-stage chronic liver failure results in thiamine deficiency caused principally by depletion of liver thiamine stores. Chronic liver failure also leads to increased brain ammonia concentrations. Both ammonia and thiamine deficiency result in decreased activity of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, a rate-limiting tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme. Loss of enzyme activity results in a mitochondrial oxidative deficit in brain and consequent increases in brain lactate, oxidative/nitrosative stress, cellular energy impairment and release of proinflammatory cytokines, all of which have been described in brain in end-stage chronic liver failure. Synergistic effects of ammonia exposure and thiamine deficiency could explain the diencephalic and cerebellar symptomatology described in patients with &quot;hepatic encephalopathy&quot;. Unsuspected brain lesions due to thiamine deficiency could explain the incomplete resolution of neuropsychiatric symptoms following the use of ammonia-lowering agents or liver transplantation in patients with end-stage chronic liver failure. These findings underscore the need for prompt, effective thiamine supplementation in all patients with chronic liver failure.
De Lorenzo and coworkers have recently described a class of women with normal body mass index (BMI) and high fat content (normal weight obese syndrome [NWO]). This observation prompted us to study the possible role of acid phosphatase locus 1 (ACP(1)) in the differentiation of this special class of obese subjects. Acid phosphatase locus 1 is a polymorphic gene associated with severe obesity and with total cholesterol and triglycerides levels. The enzyme is composed by 2 isoforms--F and S--that have different biochemical properties and probably different functions. The sample study was composed of 130 white women from the population of Rome. Total fat mass and percentage of fat mass were measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry. Thirty-six women had a BMI less than 25 and percentage of fat mass greater than 30 (high fat, normal BMI [HFHB]), and 94 women showed a BMI greater than 25 and a percentage of fat mass greater than 30 (high fat, high BMI [HFHB]). In the whole sample, the proportion of low-activity ACP(1) genotypes (*A/*A and *B/*A) was higher than in controls. However, whereas HFNB showed a very high frequency of ACP(1) *A/*A genotype, high-fat, high-BMI women showed an increase of *B/*A genotype. These 2 genotypes differ in the concentration of F isoform and the F/S ratio, which are lower in ACP(1)*A/*A genotype than in ACP(1)*B/*A genotype. The genetic differentiation of the class of women with normal BMI and high fat content from the class showing a concordant level of the 2 parameters supports the hypothesis that HFNB class represents a special cluster of obese subjects not revealed by BMI evaluation. Because ACP(1) is present in adipocytes, the present observation suggests that F isoform may have a specific role in the regulation of quantity of adipose tissue.
Neisseria meningitidis, a causative agent of meningitis and septicaemia, expresses type IV pili, a feature correlating with the uptake of exogenous DNA from the environment by natural transformation. The outer membrane complex PilQ, through which pili are extruded and retracted, has previously been shown to bind DNA in its pore region. In order to further elucidate how DNA is transported across the membranes, we searched for DNA binding proteins within the meningococcal inner membrane. Inner membrane fractions from a panel of neisserial strains were subjected to a solid-phase overlay assay with DNA substrates, and MS was subsequently employed to identify proteins that bind DNA. A number of DNA binding components were detected, including the pilus biogenesis component PilG, the competence protein ComL, and the cell division ATP-binding protein FtsE, as well as two hypothetical proteins. The DNA binding activity of these components was not dependent on the presence of the neisserial DNA uptake sequence. Null mutants, corresponding to each of the proteins identified, were constructed to assess their phenotypes. Only mutants defective in pilus biogenesis were non-competent and non-piliated. The DNA binding activity of the pilus biogenesis components PilQ and PilG and the phenotypes of their respective null mutants suggest that these proteins are directly involved as players in natural transformation, and not only indirectly, through pilus biogenesis.
How neuroinflammatory activities affect signaling pathways leading to blood-brain barrier (BBB) injury during HIV/AIDS are currently unknown. Our previous work demonstrated that HIV-1 exposure activates pro-inflammatory genes in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMEC) and showed that these genes are linked to the janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) pathway. Here, we report that HIV-1 gp120 protein activated STAT1 and induced interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 secretion in HBMEC. IL-6, IL-8, and gp120 increased monocyte adhesion and migration across in vitro BBB models. The STAT1 inhibitor, fludarabine, prevented gp120-induced IL-6 and IL-8 secretion. Inhibitors of STAT1, mitogen activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) (PD98059), and phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase (PI3K) (LY294002), blocked gp120-induced STAT1 activation and significantly diminished IL-8-, IL-6-, and gp120-induced monocyte adhesion and migration across in vitro BBB models. These data support the notion that STAT1 plays an important role in gp120-induced inflammation and BBB dysfunction associated with viral infection. Results also suggest crosstalk between STAT1, MEK, and PI3K pathways in gp120-induced BBB dysfunction. Inhibition of STAT1 activation could provide a unique therapeutic strategy to decrease neuroinflammation and BBB dysfunction in HIV/AIDS.
The SM proteins Vps33A and Vps33B are believed to act in membrane fusions in endosomal pathways, but their specific roles are controversial. In Drosophila, Vps33A is the product of the carnation (car) gene. We generated a null allele of car to test its requirement for trafficking to different organelles. Complete loss of car function is lethal during larval development. Eye-specific loss of Car causes late, light-independent degeneration of photoreceptor cells. Earlier in these cells, two distinct phenotypes were detected. In young adults, autophagosomes amassed indicating that their fusion with lysosomes requires Car. In eye discs, endocytosed receptors and ligands accumulate in Rab7-positive prelysosomal compartments. The requirement of Car for late endosome-to-lysosome fusion in imaginal discs is specific as early endosomes are unaffected. Furthermore, lysosomal delivery is not restored by expression of dVps33B. This specificity reflects the distinct pattern of binding to different Syntaxins in vitro: dVps33B predominantly binds the early endosomal Avl and Car to dSyntaxin16. Consistent with a role in Car-mediated fusion, dSyntaxin16 is not restricted to Golgi membranes but also present on lysosomes.
Previously, we identified cytoskeleton-associated protein 4 (CKAP4) as a major substrate of the palmitoyl acyltransferase, DHHC2, using a novel proteomic method called palmitoyl-cysteine identification, capture and analysis (PICA). CKAP4 is a reversibly palmitoylated and phosphorylated protein that links the ER to the cytoskeleton. It is also a high-affinity receptor for antiproliferative factor (APF), a small sialoglycopeptide secreted from bladder epithelial cells of patients with interstitial cystitis (IC). The role of DHHC2-mediated palmitoylation of CKAP4 in the antiproliferative response of HeLa and normal bladder epithelial cells to APF was investigated. Our data show that siRNA-mediated knockdown of DHHC2 and consequent suppression of CKAP4 palmitoylation inhibited the ability of APF to regulate cellular proliferation and blocked APF-induced changes in the expression of E-cadherin, vimentin, and ZO-1 (genes known to play a role in cellular proliferation and tumorigenesis). Immunocytochemistry revealed that CKAP4 palmitoylation by DHHC2 is required for its trafficking from the ER to the plasma membrane and for its nuclear localization. These data suggest an important role for DHHC2-mediated palmitoylation of CKAP4 in IC and in opposing cancer-related cellular behaviors and support the idea that DHHC2 is a tumor suppressor.
Gamma-protocadherins (Pcdh-gammas) are good candidates to mediate specificity in synaptogenesis but their role in cell-cell interactions is a matter of debate. We proposed that Pcdh-gammas modify preformed synapses via trafficking of Pcdh-gammas-containing organelles, insertion into synaptic membranes and homophilic transcellular interaction. Here we provide evidence in support of this model. We show for the first time that Pcdh-gammas have homophilic properties and that they accumulate at dendro-dendritic and axo-dendritic interfaces during neuronal development. Pcdh-gammas are maintained in a substantial mobile intracellular pool in dendrites and cytoplasmic deletion shifts the molecule to the surface and reduces the number and velocity of the mobile packets. We monitored Pcdh-gamma temporal and spatial dynamics in transport organelles. Pcdh-gamma organelles bud and fuse with stationary clusters near synapses. These results suggest that Pcdh-gamma-mediated cell-cell interactions in synapse development or maintenance are tightly regulated by control of intracellular trafficking via the cytoplasmic domain.
Pain is a physiological state promoting protective responses to harmful episodes. However, pain can become pathophysiological and become a chronic disruptive condition, damaging quality of life. The mammalian K(2P)2.1 (KCNK2, TREK-1) channel, expressed in sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia, was previously identified as a polymodal molecular sensor involved in pain perception. Here, we report that two pain-associated signals, external acidosis and lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), known to rise during injury, inflammation and cancer, profoundly down-modulate human K(2P)2.1 activity. The pH regulatory effect was mediated by activation of proton-sensitive G-protein coupled receptors and phospholipase C. Physiological concentrations of LPA overcame the effects of known K(2P)2.1 activators, such as arachidonic acid, lysophosphatidylcholine and temperature, by activating cell-surface receptors stimulating the G(q) pathway. Furthermore, we identified three K(2P)2.1 carboxy-terminal residues that mediate both pH and LPA regulatory effects. Our results highlight the important role of K(2P)2.1 channels as receptors for mediators known to cause nociception.
The transport of mitochondria to specific neuronal locations is critical to meet local cellular energy demands and for buffering intracellular calcium. A critical role for kinesin motor proteins in mitochondrial transport in neurons has been demonstrated. Currently however the molecular mechanisms that underlie the recruitment of motor proteins to mitochondria, and how this recruitment is regulated remain unclear. Here we show that a protein trafficking complex comprising the adaptor protein Grif-1 and the atypical GTPase Miro1 can be detected in mammalian brain where it is localised to neuronal mitochondria. Increasing Miro1 expression levels recruits Grif-1 to mitochondria. This results in an enhanced transport of mitochondria towards the distal ends of neuronal processes. Uncoupling Grif-1 recruitment to mitochondria by expressing a Grif-1/Miro1 binding fragment dramatically reduces mitochondrial transport into neuronal processes. Altering Miro1 function by mutating its first GTPase domain affects Miro's ability to recruit Grif-1 to mitochondria and in addition alters mitochondrial distribution and shape along neuronal processes. These data suggest that Miro1 and the kinesin adaptor Grif-1 play an important role in regulating mitochondrial transport in neurons.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and cholecystokinin (CCK), two highly colocalized neuropeptides, have been linked to the etiology of stress-related anxiety disorders. Recent evidence points to the possibility that some of the anxiogenic effects of the central CCK system take place through interplay with the CRF system. The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of chronic, mild activation of CRF receptor 1 (CRF(1)) on the central CCK system of the C57BL/6J mouse. As shown by in situ hybridization, real-Time PCR and immunohistochemistry, 5 days of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of a subeffective dose (2.3 pmol) of cortagine, a CRF(1)-selective agonist, resulted in an increase in CCK mRNA levels and CCK(2) receptor immunoreactivity in several brain regions, such as amygdala and hippocampus, known to be involved in the regulation of anxiety. Mice with elevated endogenous central CCK tone exhibited significantly higher anxiety-like behaviors in the open-field task and elevated plus maze, and enhanced conditioned fear. These behavioral changes were reversed by i.c.v. administration of the CCK(2)-selective antagonist LY225910, after 5 days of priming with cortagine. Under the same conditions, the intraperitoneal administration of the CRF(1) antagonist antalarmin was ineffective. This result indicated that once the CCK system was sensitized by prior CRF(1) activation, it exhibited its anxiogenic effects, without influence by CRF(1), possibly because of its observed downregulation. In sum, our results provide a novel model for the interaction of the CRF and CCK systems contributing to the development of hypersensitive emotional circuitry.

Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) expresses no viral genes after transduction. In addition, because the brain is relatively immunoprivileged, intracranial rAAV transduction may be immunologically benign due to a lack of antigen presentation. However, preexposure to AAV allows neutralizing antibodies (nAbs) to block brain transduction and rAAV readministration in the brain leads to an inflammatory response in the second-injection site. In this study, we replicate our striatal rAAV2/2-GDNF readministration results and extend this effect to a second transgene, green fluorescent protein (GFP). Unlike rAAV2/2-GDNF readministration, striatal rAAV2/2-GFP readministration leads to a loss of transgene in the second site in the absence of detectable circulating nAbs. In order to determine whether the transgene or the AAV2 capsid is the antigenic stimulus in brain for the immune response in the second site, we readministered rAAV2/2-GFP using two different rAAV serotypes (rAAV2/2 followed by rAAV2/5). In this case, there was no striatal inflammation or transgene loss detected in the second-injection site. In addition, striatal readministration of rAAV2/5-GFP also resulted in no detectable immune response. Furthermore, delaying rAAV2/2 striatal readministration to a 11-week interval abrogated the immune response in the second-injection site. Finally, while striatal readministration of rAAV2/2 leads to significant loss of transgene in the second-injection site, this effect is not due to loss of vector genomes as determined by quantitative real-time PCR. We conclude that intracellular processing of AAV capsids after transduction is the immunogenic antigen and capsid serotypes that are processed more quickly than rAAV2/2 are less immunogenic.
The aim of the present study was to determine the sensitivity and the profile of motor evoked potentials (MEP) in patients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) suggestive of multiple sclerosis (MS). We measured the central motor conduction time (CMCT), amplitude ratio (AR), and surface ratio (SR) in tibialis anterior and first dorsal interosseous muscles in 22 patients with CIS. In 12 patients, the triple stimulation technique (TST) was also performed. AR was abnormal in 50% of patients, CMCT in 18% of patients, and TST in 25% of patients. AR had the highest sub-clinical sensitivity and the best positive predictive value. In the absence of clinical pyramidal signs, an early AR decrease seems to result from demyelination inducing excessive temporal dispersion of the MEP, while in territories with clinical pyramidal signs, it seems to result from conduction failure, which suggests that clinical pyramidal signs may be attributable to conduction failure. This study demonstrates that MEP, especially the AR, is sensitive to motor pathway dysfunction right from the early stages of MS.

We examined whether there are gender differences in the progressive loss of functional motor units in SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice. Isometric muscle and motor unit twitch contractions were recorded in fast- and slow-twitch muscles in response to stimulation of the sciatic nerve. Using a modified motor unit number estimation technique (ITS-MUNE), we found that motor unit numbers declined rapidly from 40 to 90 days of age during the asymptomatic phase of ALS in fast- but not slow-twitch hindlimb muscles of both male and female mice. There was a corresponding decline in twitch and tetanic contractile forces of the fast-twitch muscles. Gender did not affect the progressive loss of motor units and associated decline in force production. We conclude that gender does not alter progressive, muscle-specific motor unit loss in ALS, even though gender does influence disease onset.
Causative genes have been identified only in four types of lipid storage myopathies (LSMs): SLC22A5 for primary carnitine deficiency (PCD); ETFA, ETFB, and ETFDH for multiple acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenation deficiency (MADD); PNPLA2 for neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy (NLSDM); and ABHD5 for neutral lipid storage disease with ichthyosis. However, the frequency of these LSMs has not been determined. We found mutations in only 9 of 37 LSM patients (24%): 3 in SLC22A5; 4 in MADD-associated genes; and 2 in PNPLA2. This low frequency suggests the existence of other causative genes. Muscle coenzyme Q(10) levels were normal or only mildly reduced in two MADD patients, indicating that ETFDH mutations may not always be associated with CoQ(10) deficiency. The 2 patients with PNPLA2 mutations had progressive, non-episodic muscle disease with rimmed vacuoles. This suggests there is a different pathomechanism from other LSMs.
Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are nanodevices with important potential applications in biomedicine such as drug and gene delivery. Brain diseases with no current therapy could be candidates for CNT-based therapies. Little is known about toxicity of CNTs and of their dispersion factors in the brain. Here we show that multiwall CNTs (MWCNTs) coated with Pluronic F127 (PF127) surfactant can be injected in the mouse cerebral cortex without causing degeneration of the neurons surrounding the site of injection. We also show that, contrary to previous reports on lack of PF127 toxicity on cultured cell lines, concentrations of PF127 as low as 0.01% can induce apoptosis of mouse primary cortical neurons in vitro within 24 hours. However, the presence of MWCNTs can avoid PF127-induced apoptosis. These results suggest that PF127-coated MWCNTs do not induce apoptosis of cortical neurons. Moreover, the presence of MWCNTs can reduce PF127 toxicity.
Profound neuronal dysfunction in the entorhinal cortex contributes to early loss of short-term memory in Alzheimer's disease. Here we show broad neuroprotective effects of entorhinal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) administration in several animal models of Alzheimer's disease, with extension of therapeutic benefits into the degenerating hippocampus. In amyloid-transgenic mice, BDNF gene delivery, when administered after disease onset, reverses synapse loss, partially normalizes aberrant gene expression, improves cell signaling and restores learning and memory. These outcomes occur independently of effects on amyloid plaque load. In aged rats, BDNF infusion reverses cognitive decline, improves age-related perturbations in gene expression and restores cell signaling. In adult rats and primates, BDNF prevents lesion-induced death of entorhinal cortical neurons. In aged primates, BDNF reverses neuronal atrophy and ameliorates age-related cognitive impairment. Collectively, these findings indicate that BDNF exerts substantial protective effects on crucial neuronal circuitry involved in Alzheimer's disease, acting through amyloid-independent mechanisms. BDNF therapeutic delivery merits exploration as a potential therapy for Alzheimer's disease.

Although the properties and trafficking of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) depend critically on associated transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins (TARPs) such as stargazin (gamma-2), no TARP has been described that can specifically regulate the important class of calcium-permeable (CP-) AMPARs. We examined the stargazin-related protein gamma-5, which is highly expressed in Bergmann glia, a cell type possessing only CP-AMPARs. gamma-5 was previously thought not to be a TARP, and it has been widely used as a negative control. Here we find that, contrary to expectation, gamma-5 acts as a TARP and serves this role in Bergmann glia. Whereas gamma-5 interacts with all AMPAR subunits, and modifies their behavior to varying extents, its main effect is to regulate the function of AMPAR subunit combinations that lack short-form subunits, which constitute predominantly CP-AMPARs. Our results suggest an important role for gamma-5 in regulating the functional contribution of CP-AMPARs.
How active membrane conductance dynamics tunes neurons for specific time-varying stimuli remains poorly understood. We studied the biophysical mechanisms by which spike frequency adaptation shapes visual stimulus selectivity in an identified visual interneuron of the locust. The lobula giant movement detector (LGMD) responds preferentially to objects approaching on a collision course with the locust. Using calcium imaging, pharmacology and modeling, we show that spike frequency adaptation in the LGMD is mediated by a Ca(2+)-dependent potassium conductance closely resembling those associated with 'small-conductance' (SK) channels. Intracellular block of this conductance minimally affected the LGMD's response to approaching stimuli, but substantially increased its response to translating ones. Thus, spike frequency adaptation contributes to the neuron's tuning by selectively decreasing its responses to nonpreferred stimuli. Our results identify a new mechanism by which spike frequency adaptation may tune visual neurons to behaviorally relevant stimuli.
Contradicting the common assumption that accurate recognition reflects explicit-memory processing, we provide evidence for recognition lacking two hallmark explicit-memory features: awareness of memory retrieval and facilitation by attentive encoding. Kaleidoscope images were encoded in conjunction with an attentional diversion and were subsequently recognized more accurately than those encoded without diversion. Confidence in recognition was superior following attentive encoding, although recognition was markedly accurate when people claimed to be unaware of memory retrieval. This 'implicit recognition' was associated with frontal-occipital negative brain potentials at 200-400 ms post-stimulus-onset, which were spatially and temporally distinct from positive brain potentials corresponding to explicit recollection and familiarity. This dissociation between behavioral and electrophysiological characteristics of 'implicit recognition' versus explicit recognition indicates that a neurocognitive mechanism with properties similar to those that produce implicit memory can be operative in standard recognition tests. People can accurately discriminate repeat stimuli from new stimuli without necessarily knowing it.
The learning of new skills is characterized by an initial phase of rapid improvement in performance and a phase of more gradual improvements as skills are automatized and performance asymptotes. Using in vivo striatal recordings, we observed region-specific changes in neural activity during the different phases of skill learning, with the associative or dorsomedial striatum being preferentially engaged early in training and the sensorimotor or dorsolateral striatum being engaged later in training. Ex vivo recordings from medium spiny striatal neurons in brain slices of trained mice revealed that the changes observed in vivo corresponded to regional- and training-specific changes in excitatory synaptic transmission in the striatum. Furthermore, the potentiation of glutamatergic transmission observed in dorsolateral striatum after extensive training was preferentially expressed in striatopallidal neurons, rather than striatonigral neurons. These findings demonstrate that region- and pathway-specific plasticity sculpts the circuits involved in the performance of the skill as it becomes automatized.
Although the clarity of many memories fades with time, some memories may maintain their original precision. Here we used a context discrimination procedure to evaluate whether the hippocampus is important in maintaining precision as memories mature. Spared discrimination in hippocampal-lesioned mice indicated that precise, remote context memories may be supported by extra-hippocampal brain regions.
Consolidated memories can re-enter states of transient instability following reactivation, from which they must again stabilize in order to persist, contradicting the previously dominant view that memory and its associated plasticity mechanisms progressively and irreversibly decline with time. We witness exciting times, as neuroscience begins embracing a position, long-held in cognitive psychology, that recognizes memory as a principally dynamic process. In light of remaining controversy, we here establish that the same operational definitions and types of evidence underpin the deduction of both reconsolidation and consolidation, thus validating the extrapolation that post-retrieval memory plasticity reflects processes akin to those that stabilized the memory following acquisition.
To a large extent, progress in neuroscience has been driven by the study of single-cell responses averaged over several repetitions of stimuli or behaviours. However,the brain typically makes decisions based on single events by evaluating the activity of large neuronal populations. Therefore, to further understand how the brain processes information, it is important to shift from a single-neuron, multiple-trial framework to multiple-neuron, single-trial methodologies. Two related approaches--decoding and information theory--can be used to extract single-trial information from the activity of neuronal populations. Such population analysis can give us more information about how neurons encode stimulus features than traditional single-cell studies.
Recent developments in the quantitative analysis of complex networks, based largely on graph theory, have been rapidly translated to studies of brain network organization. The brain's structural and functional systems have features of complex networks--such as small-world topology, highly connected hubs and modularity--both at the whole-brain scale of human neuroimaging and at a cellular scale in non-human animals. In this article, we review studies investigating complex brain networks in diverse experimental modalities (including structural and functional MRI, diffusion tensor imaging, magnetoencephalography and electroencephalography in humans) and provide an accessible introduction to the basic principles of graph theory. We also highlight some of the technical challenges and key questions to be addressed by future developments in this rapidly moving field.

Progress in neurobiological research has influenced our view of human beings and the basics of their behavior. Regarding criminal law and forensic psychiatry, established codes of practice are being challenged by neuroscientific research. This article gives an overview of neurobiological findings and methods in the context of forensic psychiatric issues. Empirical approaches to addressing important legal questions are outlined. Principles behind forensic psychiatric expert opinions are given. The effect and future of neuroscientific findings and methods in answering forensic psychiatric questions are discussed. Limitations and legal and ethical requirements are addressed.
For simulations of neural networks, there is a trade-off between the size of the network that can be simulated and the complexity of the model used for individual neurons. In this study, we describe a generalization of the leaky integrate-and-fire model that produces a wide variety of spiking behaviors while still being analytically solvable between firings. For different parameter values, the model produces spiking or bursting, tonic, phasic or adapting responses, depolarizing or hyperpolarizing after potentials and so forth. The model consists of a diagonalizable set of linear differential equations describing the time evolution of membrane potential, a variable threshold, and an arbitrary number of firing-induced currents. Each of these variables is modified by an update rule when the potential reaches threshold. The variables used are intuitive and have biological significance. The model's rich behavior does not come from the differential equations, which are linear, but rather from complex update rules. This single-neuron model can be implemented using algorithms similar to the standard integrate-and-fire model. It is a natural match with event-driven algorithms for which the firing times are obtained as a solution of a polynomial equation.
Adaptively optimizing experiments has the potential to significantly reduce the number of trials needed to build parametric statistical models of neural systems. However, application of adaptive methods to neurophysiology has been limited by severe computational challenges. Since most neurons are high-dimensional systems, optimizing neurophysiology experiments requires computing high-dimensional integrations and optimizations in real time. Here we present a fast algorithm for choosing the most informative stimulus by maximizing the mutual information between the data and the unknown parameters of a generalized linear model (GLM) that we want to fit to the neuron's activity. We rely on important log concavity and asymptotic normality properties of the posterior to facilitate the required computations. Our algorithm requires only low-rank matrix manipulations and a two-dimensional search to choose the optimal stimulus. The average running time of these operations scales quadratically with the dimensionality of the GLM, making real-time adaptive experimental design feasible even for high-dimensional stimulus and parameter spaces. For example, we require roughly 10 milliseconds on a desktop computer to optimize a 100-dimensional stimulus. Despite using some approximations to make the algorithm efficient, our algorithm asymptotically decreases the uncertainty about the model parameters at a rate equal to the maximum rate predicted by an asymptotic analysis. Simulation results show that picking stimuli by maximizing the mutual information can speed up convergence to the optimal values of the parameters by an order of magnitude compared to using random (nonadaptive) stimuli. Finally, applying our design procedure to real neurophysiology experiments requires addressing the nonstationarities that we would expect to see in neural responses; our algorithm can efficiently handle both fast adaptation due to spike history effects and slow, nonsystematic drifts in a neuron's activity.
Human communication emerges from cortical processing, known to be implemented on a regular repetitive neuronal substratum. The supposed genericity of cortical processing has elicited a series of modeling works in computational neuroscience that underline the information flows driven by the cortical circuitry. In the minimalist framework underlying the current theories for the embodiment of cognition, such a generic cortical processing is exploited for the coordination of poles of representation, as is reported in this paper for the case of visual attention. Interestingly, this case emphasizes how abstract internal referents are built to conform to memory requirements. This paper proposes that these referents are the basis for communication in humans, which is firstly a coordination and an attentional procedure with regard to their congeners.
Recent years have seen convergence in research on brain mechanisms and neurocomputational approaches, culminating in the creation of a new generation of robots whose artificial &quot;brains&quot; respect neuroscience principles and whose &quot;cognitive&quot; systems venture into higher cognitive domains such as planning and action sequencing, complex object and concept processing, and language. The present article gives an overview of selected projects in this general multidisciplinary field. The work reviewed centres on research funded by the EU in the context of the New and Emergent Science and Technology, NEST, funding scheme highlighting the topic &quot;What it means to be human&quot;. Examples of such projects include learning by imitation (Edici project), examining the origin of human rule-based reasoning (Far), studying the neural origins of language (Neurocom), exploring the evolutionary origins of the human mind (Pkb140404), researching into verbal and non-verbal communication (Refcom), using and interpreting signs (Sedsu), characterising human language by structural complexity (Chlasc), and representing abstract concepts (Abstract). Each of the communication-centred research projects revealed individual insights; however, there had been little overall analysis of results and hypotheses. In the Specific Support Action Nestcom, we proposed to analyse some NEST projects focusing on the central question &quot;What it means to communicate&quot; and to review, understand and integrate the results of previous communication-related research, in order to develop and communicate multimodal experimental hypotheses for investigation by future projects. The present special issue includes a range of papers on the interplay between neuroinformatics, brain science and robotics in the general area of higher cognitive functions and multimodal communication. These papers extend talks given at the NESTCOM workshops, at ICANN (http://www.his.sunderland.ac.uk/nestcom/workshop/icann.html) in Porto and at the first meeting of the Federation of the European Societies of Neuropsychology in Edinburgh in 2008 (http://www.his.sunderland.ac.uk/nestcom/workshop/esn.html). We hope that the collection will give a vivid insight into current trends in the field.


Recent research has revealed significant relationships between the vermian regions of the cerebellum and cognitive functions typically associated with prefrontal lobe function. These relationships are believed to be supported by anatomical connections between the distant brain regions. Recent evidence also suggests that age-related reductions in the posterior vermis are associated with age-related decline in frontal lobe cognitive functions, but these studies did not consider concomitant age-related atrophy of the prefrontal lobes. In the present study we addressed this issue by examining cognitive and structural MRI data obtained from 251 adults ranging in age from 18 to 79. Cognition was examined with a computerized cognitive battery and volumes of the cerebellar vermian regions and the prefrontal lobes were determined using quantitative morphometry. Results of the study revealed that both prefrontal and vermian volumes were smaller in older adults compared to younger adults, and both volumes correlated with cognitive performances in the older individuals. However, after controlling for prefrontal volume, the relationships between cognitive function and vermian volumes were eliminated, whereas prefrontal lobe volume remained significantly related to cognitive function after controlling for vermian volumes. These results suggest that while a reduction in cerebellar vermian volume does not significantly relate to normal age-related cognitive decline, prefrontal volume is significantly related to cognitive aging. Our results are consistent with the frontal aging hypothesis.
Cerebral &quot;microvascular&quot; disease occurs in lacunar stroke, leukoaraiosis, vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease. It may arise from or contribute to insidious damage to the blood-brain barrier (BBB). We systematically reviewed the literature for evidence that BBB permeability is altered in patients with manifestations of cerebral microvascular disease. We found 31 BBB permeability studies (1953 individuals) of normal ageing or cerebral microvascular disease. In healthy humans, increasing age (10 comparisons, controls(C):subjects(S)=357:336) was associated with increased BBB permeability (standardised mean difference (S.M.D.) 1.21, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.60, 1.81, p&lt;0.01). BBB permeability was increased further in patients with either vascular or Alzheimer's dementia compared with age-matched controls (26 comparisons, C:S=510:547, S.M.D. 0.81, 99% CI 0.37, 1.26, p&lt;0.01); in vascular compared with Alzheimer's dementia (10 comparisons, C:S=291:165, S.M.D. 0.71, 99% CI 0.12, 1.29, p&lt;0.01); and with worsening leukoaraiosis (5 comparisons, C:S=122:88, S.M.D. 0.60, 99% CI 0.30, 0.89, p&lt;0.01). BBB permeability increases with normal ageing and may be an important mechanism in the initiation or worsening of cerebral microvascular disease. Further studies on the role of BBB permeability are urgently needed.
The question of whether or not stem cell loss drives aging in the brain has not been fully resolved. Here, we used mice over-expressing the short isoform of p53 (DeltaNp53 or p44) as a model of aging to gain insight into the cellular mechanisms underlying age-related functional deficits in the brain. By BrdU labeling, we observed an accelerated decline in the number of subventricular zone proliferating cells with age in p44Tg mice compared to mice with normal p53 expression. A 2-3-fold reduction in the number of slowly dividing stem cells was evident in the subventricular zone of 9-12-month-old p44Tg mice, but not in younger p44Tg mice or in normal mice. Consequently, the supply of new olfactory bulb neurons was also reduced. The number and size of neurospheres generated from subventricular zone cells from p44Tg mice was significantly reduced, and cells derived from these neurospheres had limited self-renewal and amplification capacities. At the cellular level, p44 lengthened the cell cycle and affected cell cycle reentry properties, evident by an increased proportion of cells in G0. At the functional level, p44 expression resulted in impaired olfactory discrimination in 15-16-month-old mice. This phenotype is driven by constitutive activation of p53 and constitutive expression of p21(Cip1/waf1) in neural stem cells. Our results demonstrate that p53 plays a crucial role in the maintenance of the regenerative capacity of the brain by regulating the proliferation of stem and progenitor cells.

Dysregulated cholesterol metabolism is a major risk factor for atherosclerosis and other late-onset disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. The scavenger receptor, class B, type I (SR-BI) is critical in maintaining the homeostasis of cholesterol and alpha-tocopherol. SR-BI binds high-density lipoproteins (HDL) and mediates the selective transfer of cholesteryl esters and alpha-tocopherol from circulating HDL to cells. SR-BI is also involved in reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral tissues into the liver. Previous studies using SR-BI genetic knockout mice indicated that the deletion of SR-BI resulted in an accelerated onset of atherosclerosis. We hypothesized that SR-BI-dependent lipid dysregulation might disrupt brain function leading to cognitive impairment. Here, we report that very old SR-BI knockout mice show deficient synaptic plasticity (long-term potentiation) in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Very old SR-BI KO mice also display selective impairments in recognition memory and spatial memory. Thus, SR-BI influences neural and cognitive processes, a finding that highlights the contribution of cholesterol and alpha-tocopherol homeostasis in proper cognitive function.
Anti-beta-amyloid (Abeta) immunotherapy has been well documented to effectively elicit amyloid plaque clearance and slow cognitive decline in experimental and clinical studies. However, anti-Abeta immunotherapy was associated with detrimental effects of brain inflammation and microhemorrhage, presumably induced by T-cell-mediated and/or Fc-mediated inflammatory responses. In the present study, a single chain antibody (scFv) against Abeta could effectively inhibit the aggregation of Abeta and promote the disaggregation of preformed Abeta fibrils. The recombined adeno-associated virus vectors carrying the scFv gene were produced to delivery the scFv gene. Hippocampus delivery of the scFv gene was effective in reducing the amyloid plaque in the hippocampus of an Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model. Further studies demonstrated that intramuscular delivery of the scFv gene was as effective as intracranial delivery in reducing the total Abeta level in the brain with a concomitant elevated Abeta level in serum. No enhanced microglial activation, discernable T lymphocyte infiltration, and increased microhemorrhage were found after intracranial and intramuscular delivery of the scFv gene. Our results suggest that intramuscular delivery of the scFv gene would be a novel peripheral noninflammatory immunological modality targeting Abeta clearance and be promising in future drug development for the prevention and treatment of AD.

Cholesterol and docosahexenoic acid (DHA) may affect degenerative processes in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) by influencing Abeta metabolism indirectly via the vasculature. We investigated whether DHA-enriched diets or cholesterol-containing Typical Western Diets (TWD) alter behavior and cognition, cerebral hemodynamics (relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV)) and Abeta deposition in 8- and 15-month-old APP(swe)/PS1(dE9) mice. In addition we investigated whether changes in rCBV precede changes in Abeta deposition or vice versa. Mice were fed regular rodent chow, a TWD-, or a DHA-containing diet. Behavior, learning and memory were investigated, and rCBV was measured using contrast-enhanced MRI. The Abeta load was visualized immunohistochemically. We demonstrate that DHA altered rCBV in 8-month-old APP/PS1 and wild type mice[AU1]. In 15-month-old APP/PS1 mice DHA supplementation improved spatial memory, decreased Abeta deposition and slightly increased rCBV, indicating that a DHA-enriched diet can diminish AD-like pathology. In contrast, TWD diets decreased rCBV in 15-month-old mice. The present data indicate that long-term dietary interventions change AD-like pathology in APP/PS1 mice. Additionally, effects of the tested diets on vascular parameters were observed before effects on Abeta load were noted. These data underline the importance of vascular factors in the APP/PS1 mouse model of AD pathology.
Inflammation, phospho-p38 MAPK activation, and a reduction in glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) occur in Parkinson's disease. Microglial activation in the substantia nigra and a tyrosine hydroxylase deficit in the striatum of 3-month-old GDNF heterozygous (GDNF(+/-)) mice were previously reported and both were exacerbated by a toxic methamphetamine binge. The current study assessed the effects of minocycline on these methamphetamine-induced effects. Minocycline (45 mg/kg, i.p.x 14 days post-methamphetamine or saline injections) reduced microglial activation and phospho-p38 MAPK in the substantia nigra of saline-treated GDNF(+/-) mice and in methamphetamine-treated wildtype and GDNF(+/-) mice. Although minocycline increased tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity in GDNF(+/-) mice, it did not attenuate the methamphetamine-induced reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase. The results suggest that neuroinflammation is deleterious to the dopamine system of GDNF(+/-) mice but is not the primary cause of methamphetamine-induced damage to the dopamine system in either GDNF(+/-) or wildtype mice.
Transgenic mice expressing mutant human amyloid precursor protein (APP) develop an age-dependent amyloid pathology and memory deficits, but no overt neuronal loss. Here, in mice overexpressing wild-type human APP (hAPP(wt)) we found an early memory impairment, particularly in the water maze and to a lesser extent in the object recognition task, but beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta(42)) was barely detectable in the hippocampus. In these mice, hAPP processing was basically non-amyloidogenic, with high levels of APP carboxy-terminal fragments, C83 and APP intracellular domain. A tau pathology with an early increase in the levels of phosphorylated tau in the hippocampus, a likely consequence of enhanced ERK1/2 activation, was also observed. Furthermore, these mice presented a loss of synapse-associated proteins: PSD95, AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits and phosphorylated CaMKII. Importantly, signs of neurodegeneration were found in the hippocampal CA1 subfield and in the entorhinal cortex that were associated to a marked loss of MAP2 immunoreactivity. Conversely, in mice expressing mutant hAPP, high levels of Abeta(42) were found in the hippocampus, but no signs of neurodegeneration were apparent. The results support the notion of Abeta-independent pathogenic pathways in Alzheimer's disease.
Perturbations in neuronal protein homeostasis likely contribute to disease pathogenesis in polyglutamine (polyQ) neurodegenerative disorders. Here we provide evidence that the co-chaperone and ubiquitin ligase, CHIP (C-terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein), is a central component to the homeostatic mechanisms countering toxic polyQ proteins in the brain. Genetic reduction or elimination of CHIP accelerates disease in transgenic mice expressing polyQ-expanded ataxin-3, the disease protein in Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 3 (SCA3). In parallel, CHIP reduction markedly increases the level of ataxin-3 microaggregates, which partition in the soluble fraction of brain lysates yet are resistant to dissociation with denaturing detergent, and which precede the appearance of inclusions. The level of microaggregates in the CNS, but not of ataxin-3 monomer, correlates with disease severity. Additional cell-based studies suggest that either of two quality control ubiquitin ligases, CHIP or E4B, can reduce steady state levels of expanded, but not wild-type, ataxin-3. Our results support an aggregation model of polyQ disease pathogenesis in which ataxin-3 microaggregates are a neurotoxic species, and suggest that enhancing CHIP activity is a possible route to therapy for SCA3 and other polyQ diseases.
Neuropathic pain is a disease caused by a lesion or dysfunction of the nervous system. Antidepressants or anticonvulsants are presently the best available treatments. The mechanism by which antidepressants relieve neuropathic pain remains poorly understood. Using pharmacological and transgenic approaches in mice, we evaluated adrenergic receptor (AR) implication in the action of the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine, the noradrenaline and serotonin reuptake inhibitor venlafaxine, and the noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor reboxetine. Neuropathy was induced by cuff insertion around the sciatic nerve. We showed that chronic antidepressant treatment suppressed cuff-induced allodynia in wild-type mice but not in beta(2)-AR deficient mice, and/or that this antiallodynic action was blocked by intraperitoneal or intrathecal injection of the beta(2)-AR antagonist ICI 118,551 but not by the alpha(2)-AR antagonist yohimbine. We also showed that the anticonvulsant gabapentin was still effective in beta(2)-AR deficient mice. Our results demonstrate that beta(2)-ARs are essential for the antiallodynic action of antidepressant drugs.
Previous studies linking amphetamine use during pregnancy to changes in the behavioral development of affected infants have greatly increased society's level of concern regarding amphetamine use by women of reproductive age. The aim of this study was to investigate whether exposure to d-amphetamine sulfate during the brain growth spurt, the most dynamic period of brain development, alters hippocampus-mediated behaviors during both pre-adolescence and young adulthood. Sprague-Dawley rat pups were intragastrically administered a milk formula containing 0, 5, 15 or 25 mg/kg/day of amphetamine from postnatal day (PD) 4-9. Following weaning, the effects of neonatal amphetamine exposure on hippocampus-mediated behaviors were assessed using the open-field, the water maze, and the conditioned taste aversion behavioral tasks. Results from these behavioral tests revealed that while amphetamine exposure during the brain growth spurt alters behaviors in open-field testing, it does not interfere with performance in either the water maze or the conditioned taste aversion paradigm. These results offer speculation that the effects of neonatal amphetamine exposure on hippocampus-mediated behaviors may be related to interactions between the &quot;temporal&quot; (time of drug exposure) and &quot;regional&quot; (different regions of the hippocampus) vulnerability issues.
Previous studies using an in vitro model of eyeblink classical conditioning in turtles suggest that increased numbers of synaptic AMPARs supports the acquisition and expression of conditioned responses (CRs). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its associated receptor tyrosine kinase, TrkB, is also required for acquisition of CRs. Bath application of BDNF alone induces synaptic delivery of GluR1- and GluR4-containing AMPARs that is blocked by coapplication of the receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a. The molecular mechanisms involved in BDNF-induced AMPAR trafficking remain largely unknown. The aim of this study was to determine whether BDNF-induced synaptic AMPAR incorporation utilizes similar cellular mechanisms as AMPAR trafficking that occurs during in vitro classical conditioning. Using pharmacological blockade and confocal imaging, the results show that synaptic delivery of GluR1 subunits during conditioning or BDNF application does not require activity of NMDARs but is mediated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). In contrast, synaptic delivery of GluR4-containing AMPARs during both conditioning and BDNF application is NMDAR- as well as ERK-dependent. These findings indicate that BDNF application mimics AMPAR trafficking observed during conditioning by activation of some of the same intracellular signaling pathways and suggest that BDNF is a key signal transduction element in postsynaptic events that mediate conditioning.
Maternal bioactive substances, such as hormones and neuropeptides, are thought to be essential for fetal development. Recently, ghrelin, a gastrointestinal peptide, has been shown to pass through the rat placenta. The ghrelin receptor, growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R), has been shown to be expressed in the rat fetal central nervous system, and plasma ghrelin levels are related to birth weight in the rodent and human. In the present study, we report a role of maternal ghrelin in mouse fetal brain development. When ghrelin was administrated to pregnant mice, pups exhibited suppression of exploratory behavior in an open-field (OF) test. Control pups, however, remained for longer periods of time in the center area, correlating with exploratory behavior. Basal corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) plasma levels were greater in pups from ghrelin-treated dams, and did not change in response to acute restraint stress. Moreover, reduced growth hormone secretagogue receptor and neuropeptide Y mRNA expression was observed in the hypothalamus at postnatal day 3 and remained until 16 weeks of age. In addition, under physiological condition, increased maternal ghrelin plasma levels following repeated restraint stress to the dam had effect on the increase in fetal plasma acyl ghrelin levels. These results suggest that maternal ghrelin affect fetal plasma ghrelin levels and alters endocrine systems and behaviors of offspring.
Even though ammonia is considered to underlie nervous system symptoms of dysfunction during hyperammonemia, lactate, which increases as a metabolic consequence of high ammonia levels, might also be a contributing factor. The data presented here show that NH4Cl (5 mM) mediates astroglial cell swelling, and that treatment with NH4Cl or lactate (25 mM) causes rearrangements of actin filaments and reduces astroglial glutamate uptake capacity. Co-application with BaCl2, which blocks astroglial uptake of NH4+, prevents NH4Cl-mediated cell swelling and rearrangement of actin filaments, but does not reduce NH4Cl-induced glutamate uptake capacity inhibition. Neither NH4Cl nor lactate affected glutamate uptake or protein expression in microglial cultures, indicating that astroglial cells are more susceptible to the neurotoxic affects of ammonia. Our results suggest that ammonium underlies brain edema, but that lactate can contribute to some of the cellular dysfunctions associated with elevated cerebral levels of ammonia.
Gastric distension activates a cerebral network including brainstem, thalamus, insula, perigenual anterior cingulate, cerebellum, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and potentially somatosensory regions. Cortical deactivations during gastric distension have hardly been reported. To describe brain areas of decreased activity during gastric fundus distension compared to baseline, using data from our previously published study (Gastroenterology, 128, 2005 and 564). H(2) (15)O-brain positron emission tomography was performed in 11 healthy volunteers during five conditions (random order): (C(1)) no distension (baseline); isobaric distension to individual thresholds for (C(2)) first, (C(3)) marked, (C(4)) unpleasant sensation and (C(5)) sham distension. Subtraction analyses were performed (in SPM2) to determine deactivated areas during distension compared to baseline, with a threshold of P(uncorrected_voxel_level) &lt; 0.001 and P(corrected_cluster_level) &lt; 0.05. Baseline-maximal distension (C(1)-C(4)) yielded significant deactivations in: (i) bilateral occipital, lateral parietal and temporal cortex as well as medial parietal lobe (posterior cingulate and precuneus) and medial temporal lobe (hippocampus and amygdala), (ii) right dorsolateral and dorso- and ventromedial PFC, (iii) left subgenual ACC and bilateral caudate head. Intragastric pressure and epigastric sensation score correlated negatively with brain activity in similar regions. The right hippocampus/amygdala deactivation was specific to sham. Gastric fundus distension in health is associated with extensive cortical deactivations, besides the activations described before. Whether this represents task-independent suspension of 'default mode' activity (as described in various cognitive tasks) or an visceral pain/interoception-specific process remains to be elucidated.
Kappa-opioid receptors are located on visceral pain fibres. JNJ-38488502 is a highly selective tetrapeptide kappa-opioid agonist with little access to the central nervous system and low risk of central nervous system side effects. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of i.v. JNJ-38488502 on sensations, including pain, during colonic distension. In a single-centre study, 23 healthy adult males underwent a single-dose, randomized, double-blind crossover study of JNJ-38488502 (0.42 mg kg(-1) i.v. infusion) vs placebo on left colon compliance, sensory thresholds and ratings during standard distensions. One participant could not undergo sensation studies. In the other 22, JNJ-38488502 increased colonic compliance (pressure at half-maximum volume 17.9 +/- 0.8 mmHg) compared to placebo (21.6 +/- 0.9 mmHg, P = 0.007). There was no significant effect on sensory thresholds which, however, were not reached by 44 mmHg in &gt;50% of participants in both treatment phases. There were no significant treatment effects on sensory ratings to distensions at 8, 16, 24, 32 and 36 mmHg above baseline operating pressure. JNJ-38488502 was associated with increased urine output and plasma prolactin, consistent with kappa-opioid receptor activation. This study concluded that i.v. JNJ-38488502 induced kappa-opioid effects, but did not attenuate colonic sensations following random order colonic distension. Further studies of effects on pain sensations in health and disease are required.
Most brain research to date have focused on studying the amplitude of evoked fMRI responses, though there has recently been an increased interest in measuring onset, peak latency and duration of the responses as well. A number of modeling procedures provide measures of the latency and duration of fMRI responses. In this work we compare several techniques that vary in their assumptions, model complexity, and interpretation. For each method, we introduce methods for estimating amplitude, peak latency, and duration and for performing inference in a multi-subject fMRI setting. We then assess the techniques' relative sensitivity and their propensity for mis-attributing task effects on one parameter (e.g., duration) to another (e.g., amplitude). Finally, we introduce methods for quantifying model misspecification and assessing bias and power-loss related to the choice of model. Overall, the results show that it is surprisingly difficult to accurately recover true task-evoked changes in BOLD signal and that there are substantial differences among models in terms of power, bias and parameter confusability. Because virtually all fMRI studies in cognitive and affective neuroscience employ these models, the results bear on the interpretation of hemodynamic response estimates across a wide variety of psychological and neuroscientific studies.
Interpreting brain image experiments requires analysis of complex, multivariate data. In recent years, one analysis approach that has grown in popularity is the use of machine learning algorithms to train classifiers to decode stimuli, mental states, behaviours and other variables of interest from fMRI data and thereby show the data contain information about them. In this tutorial overview we review some of the key choices faced in using this approach as well as how to derive statistically significant results, illustrating each point from a case study. Furthermore, we show how, in addition to answering the question of 'is there information about a variable of interest' (pattern discrimination), classifiers can be used to tackle other classes of question, namely 'where is the information' (pattern localization) and 'how is that information encoded' (pattern characterization).
As one of the earliest structures to degenerate in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the hippocampus is the target of many studies of factors that influence rates of brain degeneration in the elderly. In one of the largest brain mapping studies to date, we mapped the 3D profile of hippocampal degeneration over time in 490 subjects scanned twice with brain MRI over a 1-year interval (980 scans). We examined baseline and 1-year follow-up scans of 97 AD subjects (49 males/48 females), 148 healthy control subjects (75 males/73 females), and 245 subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI; 160 males/85 females). We used our previously validated automated segmentation method, based on AdaBoost, to create 3D hippocampal surface models in all 980 scans. Hippocampal volume loss rates increased with worsening diagnosis (normal=0.66%/year; MCI=3.12%/year; AD=5.59%/year), and correlated with both baseline and interval changes in Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores and global and sum-of-boxes Clinical Dementia Rating scale (CDR) scores. Surface-based statistical maps visualized a selective profile of ongoing atrophy in all three diagnostic groups. Healthy controls carrying the ApoE4 gene atrophied faster than non-carriers, while more educated controls atrophied more slowly; converters from MCI to AD showed faster atrophy than non-converters. Hippocampal loss rates can be rapidly mapped, and they track cognitive decline closely enough to be used as surrogate markers of Alzheimer's disease in drug trials. They also reveal genetically greater atrophy in cognitively intact subjects.
Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN) is a disorder that affects both the peripheral and central nervous system with clinical and genetic heterogeneity. We describe the spectrum of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), MR-spectroscopy (MRS), and diffusion changes in two siblings from India. In addition to the described MRI findings two unreported findings, hyperintensity signals of both the globus pallidus on T1-weighted images and involvement of bilateral thalamus, were observed. MRS showed elevated choline peaks and reduced N-acetylaspartate peaks as well as presence of lactate peaks. Diffusion weighted images showed restricted diffusion.




Multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MADD) is a metabolic disorder due to dysfunction of electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) or ETF-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO). Mutations in ETFDH, encoding ETF-QO have been associated with both riboflavin-responsive and non-responsive MADD as well as a myopathic form of CoQ(10) deficiency, although pathomechanisms responsible for these different phenotypes are not well-defined. We performed mutation analysis in four Taiwanese MADD patients. Three novel ETFDH mutations were identified in four patients and all harbored the p.A84T mutation. Muscle CoQ(10) levels and respiratory chain activities measured in two patients were normal. Three patients improved on riboflavin together with carnitine. Our results show that not all MADD patients have CoQ(10) deficiency. Based upon our data, riboflavin and carnitine may be the first-line treatment for MADD.
Our recent studies have shown that the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) gene is required for the development and persistence of psychomotor sensitization to cocaine in adult but not adolescent male mice (Balda, M.A., Anderson, K.L., Itzhak, Y., 2008. Differential role of the nNOS gene in the development of behavioral sensitization to cocaine in adolescent and adult B6;129S mice. Psychopharmacology (Berlin) 200, 509-519.). The aim of the present study was to investigate the contribution of the nNOS gene to cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization in adolescent and adult female mice. Adolescent and adult wild type (WT) and nNOS knockout (KO) mice received saline or cocaine (20 mg/kg) for 5 days and then were challenged with cocaine (20 mg/kg) after a drug-free period of either 10, 30, or 90 days. Context-dependent sensitization was determined by measuring saline-induced locomotor activity in the previously cocaine-paired environment. Results show that adolescent females of both genotypes, like their adult counterparts, developed long-lasting behavioral sensitization to cocaine (a three-month period), suggesting high vulnerability of females to cocaine regardless of age. An effect of genotype was observed in the initiation of sensitization, e.g., delayed onset in the absence of the nNOS gene. The only age-dependent difference observed was that adult, but not adolescent mice developed context-dependent sensitization. The present study suggests that long-term expression of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization in females (adolescent and adult) is nNOS-independent, unlike our previous findings in adult males.
Endogenous analogues of capsaicin, N-acyldopamines, were previously identified from striatal extracts, but the putative presynaptic role of their receptor, the TRPV(1)R (formerly: vanilloid or capsaicin receptor) in the caudate-putamen is unclear. We found that the endogenous TRPV(1)R agonists, N-arachidonoyldopamine (NADA) and oleoyldopamine (OLDA) with EC(50) values in the nanomolar range, as well as the synthetic TRPV(1)R activator 2-aminoethoxydiphenylborane (2APB), and palmytoyldopamine (PALDA, another endogenous N-acyldopamine inactive at the TRPV(1)R), but not capsaicin or other endogenous and synthetic cannabinoids, triggered a rapid Ca(2+) entry with the concomitant stimulation of glutamate and dopamine release. These effects persisted in the TRPV(1)R null-mutant mice, and were insensitive to antagonists of common ionotropic receptors, to several TRPV(1)R antagonists and to the absence of K(+). Furthermore, these N-acyldopamine receptors in glutamatergic and dopaminergic terminals are different based on their different sensitivity to anandamide, capsazepine and Gd(3+) at nanomolar concentrations. Altogether, novel ion channels instead of the TRPV(1)R mediate the presynaptic action of N-acyldopamines in the striatum of adult rodents.
Transgenic mice carrying human A30P mutated alpha-synuclein demonstrate hypolocomotion and dysfunction of the presynaptic machinery of dopamine overflow, induced by reducing capacity of the dopamine storage pool. We suggested that overexpression of alpha-synuclein may change sensitivity of these mice to L-DOPA. Current study assessed behavioural and neurochemical responses in A30P mice to L-DOPA using automated activity monitoring and voltammetry. We confirmed decreased locomotion and rearing of A30P transgenic mice compared to wild-type controls. L-DOPA (10-200mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently lowered locomotor activity, including stereotypy, in both genotypes, but the effects were larger in A30P mice. The effects of drug on stimulated dopamine overflow were investigated in the nucleus accumbens shell. L-DOPA at the dose of 30mg/kg did not change peak dopamine overflow induced by 10Hz stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle in either genotype, but increased it at the higher (20-50Hz) frequencies of stimulation. At the higher frequencies of stimulation, L-DOPA elevated dopamine overflow significantly more in A30P mice than in the control animals. These data show that A30P transgenic mice are more sensitive to the effects of L-DOPA at both behavioural and neurochemical level.


The fields of cognitive neuroscience and neuropsychology have contributed an extensive corpus of research to the study of error monitoring processes in younger adults; however, less is known about error handling in older adults. This paper highlights current conceptualizations of error detection and correction in healthy and impaired older adult populations. The literature suggests that some error handling processes require fewer processing resources than others and may be performed relatively automatically. Compared with young adults, older adults demonstrate a reduced ability to recognize errors, but exhibit similar rates of correction. Older adults diagnosed with a neurodegenerative disease (e.g. Alzheimer's disease) show a reduced ability to detect and correct their action errors. Thus, neurodegenerative disease processes amplify the impairments in error identification associated with normal aging by disrupting both automatic and controlled error corrections. The clinical implications of our current knowledge are discussed, and directions for future neuropsychological research are offered.
Task-cueing studies suggest that the updating of sensory and task representations both contribute to behavioral task-switch costs [Forstmann, B. U., Brass, M., &amp; Koch, I. (2007). Methodological and empirical issues when dissociating cue-related from task-related processes in the explicit task-cuing procedure. Psychological Research, 71(4), 393-400]. Here we used transition cues to orthogonally manipulate Cue- and Task updating (switches vs. repetitions), in order to identify distinct behavioral indicators and event-related potentials (ERPs) associated with the exogenous and endogenous control of task preparation and execution. Both Cue- and Task updating, as well as their interaction, yielded significant behavioral costs, and evoked distinct cue- and target-locked ERPs. Task-switches enhanced cue-locked early P3 amplitudes (180-220 ms) over mid-central scalp regions, whereas cue switches reduced a fronto-central negativity (N2; 255-295 ms). In contrast, both cue- and task-switches enhanced cue-locked late P3 amplitudes (300-340 ms; novelty P3) over centro-parietal regions, supporting the hypothesis of a common neural substrate for processing stimulus and task novelty [Barcel, F., Escera, C., Corral, M. J., &amp; Perianez, J. A. (2006). Task switching and novelty processing activate a common neural network for cognitive control. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 18(10), 1734-1748]. In the target period, both cue- and task-switches reduced target P3 activity (310-730 ms) with short cue-target intervals only, suggesting that behavioral switch costs reflect the accrual of various time-dependent control operations during task preparation and execution. We conclude that the cognitive control of task-switching seems to emerge from a dynamic interplay between exogenous and endogenous sources of information.
The ability to detect and correct errors is critical to adaptive control of behaviour and represents a discrete neuropsychological function. A number of studies have highlighted that attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with abnormalities in behavioural and neural responsiveness to performance errors. One limitation of previous work has been a failure to determine the extent to which these differences are attributable to failures of conscious error awareness, a process that is dependent on the integrity of the frontal lobes. Recent advances in electrophysiological research make it possible to distinguish unconscious and conscious aspects of error processing. This study constitutes an extensive electrophysiological investigation of error awareness and error processing in ADHD. A Go/No-Go response inhibition task specifically designed to assess error awareness was administered to a group of adults diagnosed with ADHD and a group of matched control participants. The ADHD group made significantly more errors than the control group but was less likely to consciously detect these errors. An analysis of event-related potentials elicited by errors indicated that an early performance monitoring component (early positivity) was significantly attenuated in the ADHD group as was a later component that specifically reflects conscious error processing (Pe). Dipole source modelling suggested that abnormal Pe amplitudes were attributable to decreased activation of the anterior cingulate cortex. Decreased electrodermal activity in the ADHD group also suggested a motivational insensitivity to performance errors. Our data provide evidence that neuropsychological deficits associated with ADHD can be exacerbated by error processing abnormalities. Error awareness may represent an important cognitive and physiological phenotype for ADHD.
Elementary deduction is the ability of unreflectively drawing conclusions from explicit or implicit premises, on the basis of their logical forms. This ability is involved in many aspects of human cognition and interactions. To date, limited evidence exists on its cortical bases. We propose a model of elementary deduction in which logical inferences, memory, and meta-logical control are separable subcomponents. We explore deficits in patients with left, medial and right frontal lesions, by both studying patients' deductive abilities and providing measures of their meta-logical sensitivity for proof difficulty. We show that lesions to left lateral and medial frontal cortex impair abilities at solving elementary deductive problems, but not so lesions to right frontal cortex. Furthermore, we show that memory deficits differentially affect patients according to the locus of the lesion. Left lateral patients with working memory deficits had defective deductive abilities, but not so left lateral patients with spared working memory. In contrast, in medial patients both deductive and meta-deductive abilities were affected regardless of the presence of memory deficits. Overall, the results are compatible with a componential view of elementary deduction, and call for the elaboration of more fine-grained models of deductive abilities.
This study sought to disambiguate the impact of Parkinson's disease (PD) on cognitive control as indexed by task set switching, by addressing discrepancies in the literature pertaining to disease severity and paradigm heterogeneity. A task set is governed by a rule that determines how relevant stimuli (stimulus set) map onto specific responses (response set). Task set switching may entail reconfiguration in either or both of these components. Although previous studies have shown that PD patients are impaired at switching between stimuli, in the present study not all patients were impaired at switching entire task sets, that is, both stimulus and response sets: compared with controls, patients with unilateral signs (Hoehn &amp; Yahr Stage I) demonstrated intact switching, even following withdrawal from dopaminergic medication, while bilaterally affected Stage II patients were impaired. The parametric measure of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) score predicted increasing switch costs within the patient group. These findings suggest that switching entire task sets may be a function of extrastriatal, possibly non-dopaminergic pathology which increases as the disease progresses.
A recent hypothesis proposes that reading depends on writing in a logographic language - Chinese. We present a Chinese individual (HLD) with brain damage whose profile challenges this hypothesis. HLD was severely impaired in the whole process of writing. He could not access orthographic knowledge, had poor orthographic awareness, and was poor at delayed- and direct-copying tasks. Nevertheless, he was perfect at visual word-picture matching and read aloud tasks, indicating his intact ability to access both the semantics and phonology in reading. He was also able to distinguish between fine visual features of characters. We conclude that reading does not depend on writing, even in Chinese.
What are the neural correlates of attractiveness? Using functional MRI (fMRI), the authors addressed this question in the specific context of the apprehension of faces. When subjects judged facial beauty explicitly, neural activity in a widely distributed network involving the ventral occipital, anterior insular, dorsal posterior parietal, inferior dorsolateral, and medial prefrontal cortices correlated parametrically with the degree of facial attractiveness. When subjects were not attending explicitly to attractiveness, but rather were judging facial identity, the ventral occipital region remained responsive to facial beauty. The authors propose that this region, which includes the fusiform face area (FFA), the lateral occipital cortex (LOC), and medially adjacent regions, is activated automatically by beauty and may serve as a neural trigger for pervasive effects of attractiveness in social interactions.
Studies in experimental animals have shown that individuals exhibiting enhanced sensitivity to the locomotor-activating and rewarding properties of drugs of abuse are at increased risk for the development of compulsive drug-seeking behavior. The purpose of the present study was to assess the effect of constitutive deletion of delta-opioid receptors (DOPr) on the rewarding properties of morphine as well as on the development of sensitization and tolerance to the locomotor-activating effects of morphine. Locomotor activity testing revealed that mice lacking DOPr exhibit an augmentation of context-dependent sensitization following repeated, alternate injections of morphine (20 mg/kg; s.c.; 5 days). In contrast, the development of tolerance to the locomotor-activating effects of morphine following chronic morphine administration (morphine pellet: 25 mg: 3 days) is reduced relative to WT mice. The conditioned rewarding effects of morphine were reduced significantly in DOPrKO mice as compared to WT controls. Similar findings were obtained in response to pharmacological inactivation of DOPr in WT mice, indicating that observed effects are not due to developmental adaptations that occur as a consequence of constitutive deletion of DOPr. Together, these findings indicate that the endogenous DOPr system is recruited in response to both repeated and chronic morphine administration and that this recruitment serves an essential function in the development of tolerance, behavioral sensitization, and the conditioning of opiate reward. Importantly, they demonstrate that DOPr has a distinct role in the development of each of these drug-induced adaptations. The anti-rewarding and tolerance-reducing properties of DOPr antagonists may offer new opportunities for the treatment and prevention of opioid dependence as well as for the development of effective analgesics with reduced abuse liability.
Experiential factors, such as stress, are major determinants of vulnerability to drug addiction and relapse. The behavioral controllability of the stressor is a major determinant of how exposure to a stressor impacts addictive processes. Recent evidence suggests that controllable stressors, such as escapable shock (ES), activate ventral regions of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFCv), whereas physically identical, but uncontrollable stress (inescapable shock, IS) does not. This activation is critical to the blunting effect that control has on neurochemical and behavioral sequelae of stress. Our laboratory has previously shown that IS, but not ES, potentiates morphine-conditioned place preference (CPP). However, the role of the mPFCv in this phenomenon is unknown. The present experiments investigated the role of the mPFCv during ES and IS in determining the effects of the stressor on subsequent morphine-CPP. Intra-mPFCv microinjection of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol 1 h before ES led ES to potentiate morphine-CPP, as does IS. Conversely, the potentiation of morphine-CPP normally observed in IS rats was blocked by intra-mPFCv microinjection of the GABA(A) antagonist picrotoxin 1 h before IS. These results suggest that during stress, activation of the mPFCv prevents subsequent potentiation of morphine-CPP, whereas inactivation of the mPFCv during stress does not. Thus, activation of the mPFCv during a stress experience is both necessary and sufficient to block the impact of stress on morphine-CPP, and control over stress blunts stress-induced potentiation of morphine effects by activating the mPFCv.

Modern neuroscience is beginning to substantiate Darwin's notion that the roots of human morality lie in social instincts, present in several species. The role of primitive motivational-emotional systems in human morality still remains under-recognized, however. Based on recent experimental evidence and classic neuroanatomical data, we here portray a view of how &quot;ancient&quot; limbic-neurohumoral systems of social attachment and aversion are crucially involved in human moral behaviors, including altruism, empathic concern and aggression. Rather than being a mere evolutionary remnant of our ancestors, such limbic-neurohumoral systems are tightly integrated with cortical mechanisms to enable complex moral sentiments and values, which powerfully influence our choices in socio-cultural settings. Exploring the underlying mechanisms of human social attachment and aversion will provide new insights and foster novel experimental paradigms for the study of moral cognition and behavior.
Aiming at a formulation of a cytokine model of cognitive function under immunologically unchallenged physiological conditions, this article reviews the cytokine biology in the central nervous system (CNS) and recent developments in normal cytokine functions within the CNS that subserve cognitive processes. Currently available evidence shows that the cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha play a role in complex cognitive processes at the molecular level, such as synaptic plasticity, neurogenesis, as well as neuromodulation. Such findings provide evidence for a cytokine model of cognitive function, which shows that cytokines play an intimate role in the molecular and cellular mechanisms subserving learning, memory and cognition under physiological conditions. These cytokine-mediated cognitive processes have implications in the long-term development and pathogenesis of specific neuropsychiatric disorders such as major depression and dementia. The identification of this central role of cytokines in various brain activities during health provides greater insight into normal brain functions, especially synaptic plasticity, memory and cognition, and facilitates the understanding of specific biological mechanisms involved in neuropsychiatric diseases, such as dementia and depression. In order to extend the suggested cytokine model of cognitive function onto other members of the cytokine family, future research is required to investigate the physiological effects of other cytokines such as interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), alpha(1)-antichymotrypsin and IL-2 on cognitive function at the molecular level under immunologically unchallenged conditions.
Why does moderate exposure to a drug reward make natural rewards increasingly attractive to organisms, whereas prolonged exposure to the same drug reward has the opposite effect? The paradox behind that question remains unsatisfactorily captured by current theories of addiction. The incentive-sensitisation theory is viewed as a promising approach to this paradox, although it provides no mechanism to explain the decrease in interest of natural rewards as time exposure to a drug increases. To attempt to remedy this problem, I describe a model called the anticipatory dynamics model (ADM) that suggests a pivotal role of anticipation and attention in motivational interactions. In addition to relying on strong neuropsychopharmacological data, the ADM provides an original conception of motivational specificity. The ADM is an extension of the incentive-sensitisation theory that hypothesizes how drugs interact with natural rewards. It has not been tested empirically, although a possible experiment to test two predictions in the field of addiction is presented.
Episodic memory retrieval and reasoning are fundamental psychological components of our daily lives. Although previous studies have investigated the brain regions associated with these processes separately, the neural mechanisms of reasoning based on episodic memory retrieval are largely unknown. Here, we investigated the neural correlates underlying episodic memory-based reasoning using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). During fMRI scanning, subjects performed three tasks: reasoning, episodic memory retrieval, and episodic memory-based reasoning. We identified dissociable activations related to reasoning, episodic memory retrieval, and linking processes between the two. Regions related to reasoning were identified in the left ventral prefrontal cortices (PFC), and those related to episodic memory retrieval were found in the right medial temporal lobe (MTL) regions. In addition, activations predominant in the linking process between the two were found in the left dorsal and right ventral PFC. These findings suggest that episodic memory-based reasoning is composed of at least three processes, i.e., reasoning, episodic memory retrieval, and linking processes between the two, and that activation of both the PFC and MTL is crucial in episodic memory-based reasoning. These findings are the first to demonstrate that PFC and MTL regions contribute differentially to each process in episodic memory-based reasoning.



We evaluated biochemical and behavioral effects of single, low-level exposures to the chemical warfare nerve agent soman (GD). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained on a variable-interval, 56-sec schedule of food reinforcement (VI56). The schedule specifies that a single lever press, following an average interval of 56 s, produces food reinforcement (i.e., a single food pellet). After training, rats received a single 60 min exposure to soman vapor at concentrations of 1.0-7.0 mg/m(3), or air control (n=8 for each treatment condition). Blood was sampled before and after the exposure. Following exposures, performance on the VI56 was evaluated for approximately 11 weeks. Additionally, the acquisition and maintenance of a radial-arm maze (RAM) spatial memory task were evaluated in the same subjects during the same 11-week period. Soman exposures produced miosis in all subjects but were otherwise essentially asymptomatic. That is, no convulsions or major signs of toxicity were observed in any subjects, a result consistent with a low-level concentration. Soman exposures produced significant and concentration-dependent decreases in circulating acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activity. Soman exposures also produced concentration-dependent levels of regenerated soman in plasma and red blood cell fractions that served to verify the systemic exposure and estimate the total body burden. Soman exposure did not disrupt performance on the VI56 schedule as responding was maintained at pre-exposure levels throughout the 11-week period in all treatment groups. All subjects acquired, and maintained, performance on the RAM task and no significant differences were observed as a result of soman exposure. That is, soman-exposed rats learned the RAM task at the same general rate and to the same general level of accuracy as air-control rats. No delayed effects from exposures were observed. These results demonstrate that, in rats, single exposures to soman vapors at levels that produce substantial AChE and BChE inhibition, but below those producing convulsions and other severe clinical signs of toxicity, may not produce observable effects on the performance of a previously learned task or the acquisition of a new task.
Chronic, low-level perinatal exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) is associated with neurological and motor deficits that appear to result from cerebellar dysfunction. Neuropathological studies suggest that these deficits are due to impaired cerebellar granule cell (CGC) migration. Although neuronal migration in vivo and in vitro has been shown to be impaired during acute and/or high level exposure to MeHg, the cellular effects of chronic exposure to submicromolar and micromolar levels of MeHg during development are not clear. The majority of CGC migration in rats occurs between postnatal days 8 and 14 (P8 and 14); migration peaks on P10 and 11. Organotypic cultures of parasagittal slices of cerebellum from P8 rats were exposed to low levels of MeHg (0.2-5.0microM) for 3 or 7 days, and CGC viability and migration were assessed. MeHg-induced cell death was time- and concentration-dependent. After 3 days of exposure CGC viability decreased in 3microM MeHg and declined to 42.7% in 5microM MeHg. Cultures treated with MeHg for 7 days showed decreased CGC viability in 1microM MeHg, which declined to 62.8% in 3microM MeHg. CGC migration was assessed by BrdU pulse-chase labeling. Migration into the internal granule cell layer (IGL) was impaired in cultures exposed to &gt;or=1microM MeHg for 3 days or &gt;or=0.5microM for 7 days. CGCs failed to initiate migration from the external germinal cell layer at the same level of exposure. For those cells which initiated migration, MeHg reduced the number that migrated into the IGL. This implied a slowing of migration once it had begun. These effects occurred with no overall change in cerebellar cortical structure, or loss of granule cell viability. Thus, chronic exposure to low micromolar concentrations of MeHg impairs development of the cerebellar cortex in a slice culture model.


About 45% of all pregnant women and 25% of all women postpartum suffer from pelvic girdle pain and/or low back pain (PLPP). It has been suggested that increased motion of the three joints in the pelvic ring is one of the causes of PLPP. However, in spite of the availability of high technology the relation between enlarged motion of the pelvic joints and pain remains unclear. This article presents 14 studies on this topic, of which 8 are of sufficient quality to draw conclusions. The conclusion is that, during the last months of pregnancy and the first 3 weeks after delivery, motion of the pelvic girdle joints is 32-68% larger in patients with PLPP than in healthy controls. The overlap in the range of symphyseal motion between PLPP patients and healthy controls is too large to use motion as a diagnostic tool in individual cases. The findings support the idea that enlarged motion is one of the factors that causes PLPP and justifies treatment with measures to reduce this motion.
It has been widely accepted that the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) plays an essential role in the sensory-discriminative aspect of pain perception. However, it remains unclear whether the SI has a role in the descending modulation of pain. Although there are abundant fibers projecting back from sensory cortex to thalamic nuclei, and the influence of cortical modulation from SI on the thalamic nociceptive relay neurons has been addressed, little is known about how the cortical outputs modulate the nociceptive behaviors resulting from tissue injury or evoked by painful stimulation. The present study was designed to test whether the cortical outputs influenced the nociceptive behaviors using rat models of noxious thermal-induced acute pain, formalin-induced acute and CFA-evoked chronic inflammatory pain. The results showed that intracortical microinjection of GABAA agonist muscimol significantly reduced the first and second phase behaviors in formalin tests and elevated the nociceptive thresholds in the thermal stimulus-elicited acute pain, suggesting a facilitatory influence of SI on the acute pain sensation. By contrast, microinjection of GABAA antagonist bicuculline remarkably reduced the thermal hyperalgesia of the CFA-inflamed hindpaws, indicating an inhibitory effect of SI output in the chronic pain state. The opposite modulatory effects in acute and chronic pain states suggest that there exists a functional switch for the SI cortex at different stages of pain disease, which is of great significance for the biological adaptation.

The pathological basis of dementia and visual hallucinations in Parkinson's disease (PD) is not yet fully understood. To investigate this further we have conducted a clinico-pathological study based on 30 post-mortem PD brains. PD cases were stratified into groups according to clinical characteristics as follows: (1) cognitively intact (n=9); (2) cases with severe dementia and visual hallucinations (n=12); (3) cases with severe dementia and no visual hallucinations (n=4); and (4) cases with severe visual hallucinations and no dementia (n=5). The extent of alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn), tau and amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) deposition was then examined in the CA2 sector of the hippocampus and in neocortical and subcortical areas known to subserve cognitive function. We find that dementia in PD is significantly associated with alphaSyn in the anterior cingulate gyrus, superior frontal gyrus, temporal cortex, entorhinal cortex, amygdaloid complex and CA2 sector of the hippocampus. Abeta in the anterior cingulate gyrus, entorhinal cortex, amygdaloid complex and nucleus basalis of Meynert is also associated with dementia as is tau in the CA2 sector of the hippocampus. alphaSyn burden in the amygdala is strongly related to the presence of visual hallucinations but only in those PD cases with concomitant dementia. Statistical analysis revealed that alphaSyn burden in the anterior cingulate gyrus could differentiate demented from non-demented PD cases with high sensitivity and specificity. We conclude that alphaSyn in limbic regions is related to dementia in PD as well as to visual hallucinations when there is an underlying dementia.

Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus (NPSLE) is one of the most difficult manifestations of lupus to diagnose. Measurement of serum brain autoantibodies and assessment of cognitive function by electroneurophysiological studies (electroencephalogram (EEG) and P300) have contributed to an earlier and a more specific diagnosis of NPSLE. Thus, we were stimulated to assess the value of serum antineuronal antibodies and electroneurophysiological studies in diagnosis and early prediction of NPSLE. To investigate this, assessment of serum antineuronal antibodies and cognitive function (clinically and by electroneurophysiological studies) was done in 30 lupus patients [14 (46.7%) with and 16 (53.3%) without clinical evidence of NPSLE] in comparison with 30 healthy matched subjects. Patients without clinical evidence of NPSLE were followed-up clinically by monthly neuropsychiatric evaluation for 18 months. Seropositivity for antineuronal antibodies and abnormalities of EEG and P300 (prolonged latency and/or low amplitude) were found in 60%, 50% and 70%, respectively of lupus patients. During follow-up, 8 out of the 16 patients without clinical evidence of NPSLE developed such evidence [six (75%) had antineuronal seropositivity, five (62.5%) had abnormal EEG, six (75%) had P300 abnormalities and all had at least one abnormal result of these parameters at the time of initial evaluation before clinical presentation of NPSLE]. In conclusion, serum antineuronal antibodies and electroneurophysiological studies may be reliable parameters for diagnosis and early prediction of NPSLE, especially when combined together, before clinical manifestations ensue. Further studies on a large scale are warranted to evaluate the predictive value of these parameters in NPSLE.
Although neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy is a common cause of childhood developmental disability, its timing, duration, and outcomes are poorly defined. Biomarkers serve as surrogates for disease injury, evolution, and outcome, but no tissue biomarker in routine clinical use can help predict outcomes in term newborn encephalopathy. We reviewed biomarkers in human term neonatal encephalopathy, to determine if current biomarkers are strong enough for clinical use as predictors of outcomes. A comprehensive search of databases identified 110 publications that met our inclusion criteria, i.e., (1) newborns at &gt;36 weeks; (2) neonatal encephalopathy as defined by the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology; (3) the use of a serum, urine, or cerebrospinal fluid biomarker; and (4) reported outcomes beyond age 12 months. Of those 110 publications, 22 reported outcomes beyond age 12 months. In single reports, urine lactate (P &lt; 0.001), first urine S100 (P &lt; 0.0001), cord-blood interleukin-6 (P = 0.02), serum nonprotein-bound iron (P &lt; 0.001), serum CD14 cell NFkappaB activation (P = 0.014), serum interleukin-8 (P = 0.03), and serum ionized calcium (P = 0.001) were potential predictors of death or abnormal outcomes. A meta-analysis identified serum interleukin-1b (P = 0.04, n = 3), serum interleukin-6 (P = 0.04, n = 2), cerebrospinal fluid neuron-specific enolase (P = 0.03, n = 3), and cerebrospinal fluid interleukin-1b (P = 0.003, n = 2) as putative predictors of abnormal outcomes in survivors, when measured before age 96 hours. Several serum, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers of term neonatal encephalopathy may provide important information regarding long-term outcomes. None, however, were studied extensively enough to warrant routine clinical use. Validation of these markers, either alone or in combination, is required in the development of viable therapeutic interventions.
Inflammatory molecules are promptly upregulated in the fetal environment and postnatally in brain-damaged subjects. Intrauterine infections and inflammation are often associated with asphyxia. This double-hit effect by combined infection or inflammation and hypoxia is therefore a frequent concomitant in neonatal brain damage. Animal models combining hypoxia and infection were recently designed to explore the mechanisms underlying brain damage in such circumstances and to look for possible neuroprotective strategies. Proinflammatory cytokines are thought to be major mediators in brain injury in neonates with perinatal asphyxia, bacterial infection, or both. Cytokines, however, could also have neuroprotective properties. The critical point in the balance between neurodamaging and neuroprotective effects of cytokines has yet to be unraveled. This understanding might help to develop new therapeutic approaches to counteract the inflammatory disequilibrium observed in the pathophysiologic mechanisms associated with brain injury.

Goals to understand the etiology of essential hypertension have proposed that this problem arises, in part, because of changes within brainstem circuits involved in arterial blood pressure (ABP) control. It has been suggested that nitric oxide (NO) exerts inhibitory influences on the integration of afferent discharge from the arterial baroreceptors. This study tested the hypothesis that the inhibitory influence of NO on the arterial baroreflex is present in fetal life. Fetal baroreflex sensitivity was calculated in fetal sheep, before and during the NO-clamp; a technique that permits NO synthase (NOS) blockade with l-NAME while maintaining basal cardiovascular function with sodium nitroprusside. Under halothane anesthesia, five fetal sheep at 0.8 gestation were instrumented with vascular catheters. Five days later, fetuses received a range of bolus doses of phenylephrine (5-75 microg I.A.) in randomized order either during saline or treatment with the NO clamp. Basal fetal ABP and heart rate before (50 +/- 4 mm Hg, 170 +/- 3 bpm) or during (51 +/- 4 mm Hg, 173 +/- 3 bpm) the NO-clamp were similar. The gradient of the pulse interval-ABP relationship was nearly doubled during NOS blockade (14.2 =/- 2.5 versus 7.8 +/- 1.6 ms/mm Hg). The data provide in vivo evidence that NO attenuates the sensitivity of the cardiac baroreflex during fetal life.
We studied the effects of the cAMP-hydrolyzing enzyme phosphodiesterase type-4 (PDE4) on the L-type Ca(2+) channels (LTCCs) and Ca(2+)-dependent secretion in mouse chromaffin cells (MCCs). The selective PDE4 inhibitor rolipram (3 microM) had a specific potentiating action on Ca(2+) currents of MCCs (40% increase within 3 min). A similar effect was produced by the selective beta(1)-AR agonist denopamine (1 microM) and by the unselective PDEs inhibitor IBMX (100 microM). Rolipram and denopamine actions were selective for LTCCs, and the Ca(2+) current increase remained unchanged if the two compounds were applied simultaneously. This suggests that at rest, LTCCs in MCCs are down-regulated by the low levels of cAMP determined by PDE4 activity and that LTCCs can be up-regulated by either inhibiting PDE4 or activating beta(1)-AR. No other PDEs are likely involved in this specific action. PDE4 inhibition had also a marked effect on the spontaneous firing of resting MCCs and catecholamine secretion. Rolipram up-regulated the LTCCs contributing to the &quot;pace-maker&quot; current underlying action potential (AP) discharges and accelerated the firing rate, with no significant effects on AP waveform. Acceleration of AP firing was also induced by the LTCC-agonist Bay K (1 microM), while nifedipine (3 microM) reduced the firing frequency, suggesting that LTCCs and intracellular cAMP play a key role in setting the pace-maker current regulating MCCs excitability. Rolipram increased also the size of the ready-releasable pool and the quantal content of secretory vesicles without affecting their probability of release. Thus, rolipram acts on MCCs by up-regulating both exocytosis and AP firings. These two processes are effectively down-regulated by PDE4 at rest and can dramatically increase the quantity of released catecholamines when PDE4 is inhibited and/or cAMP is raised.
Interactions between nicotine and learning could contribute to nicotine addiction. Although previous research indicates that nicotine withdrawal disrupts contextual learning, the effects of nicotine withdrawal on contextual memories acquired before withdrawal are unknown. The present study investigated whether nicotine withdrawal disrupted recall of prior contextual memories by examining the effects of nicotine withdrawal on recall of nicotine conditioned place preference (CPP) and contextual fear conditioning. C57BL/6J mice trained in CPP exhibited a significant preference for an initially non-preferred chamber that was paired with 0.35 mg/kg nicotine. Following CPP, mice were implanted with mini-osmotic pumps containing 6.3 mg/kg/d nicotine or saline. Pumps were removed twelve days later and nicotine CPP was retested 24 h later. Mice withdrawn from chronic nicotine exhibited CPP, suggesting that older drug-context associations are not disrupted by nicotine withdrawal. One hour later, the same mice were trained in contextual and cued fear conditioning; nicotine withdrawal disrupted contextual but not cued fear conditioning. A subsequent experiment demonstrated that nicotine withdrawal did not disrupt recall of contextual or cued fear conditioning when acquisition occurred before nicotine withdrawal. These data suggest that nicotine withdrawal disrupts new contextual learning, but does not alter contextual learning that occurred before withdrawal.
The neurobiological bases of increased vulnerability to substance abuse remain obscure. We report here that rats that were selectively bred for greater drug-seeking behavior exhibited higher levels of FGF2 gene expression. We then asked whether a single FGF2 administration (20 ng/g, s.c.) on postnatal day 2 (PND2) can have a lifelong impact on drug-taking behavior, spatial and appetitive learning and the dopaminergic system. Indeed, early life FGF2 enhanced the acquisition of cocaine self-administration in adulthood. However, early life FGF2 did not alter spatial or operant learning in adulthood. Furthermore, early life FGF2 did not alter gene expression in the dopaminergic system in adulthood. These results suggest that elevated levels of FGF2 may lead to increased drug-taking behavior without altering learning. Thus, FGF2 may be an antecedent of vulnerability for drug-taking behavior and may provide clues to novel therapeutic approaches for the treatment of addiction.
G protein-coupled receptor-targeted drug discovery as well as &quot;compound reassessment&quot; requires the utilization of diverse screens to determine agonist efficacies and potencies beyond the scope of ligand binding and G protein coupling. Such efforts have arisen from extensive studies, both in cellular and animal models, demonstrating that these seven transmembrane domain-spanning, G protein-coupled receptors may engage in more diverse functions than their name suggests and particular focus is drawn to their interactions with beta-arrestins (betaarrestins). As regulators, betaarrestins are involved in dampening G protein-coupling pathways. betaArrestins can also play pro-signaling roles in receptor mediated events and the coupling of receptors to betaarrestins may be as important as their potential to couple to G proteins in the physiological setting. In the last decade, the development of betaarrestin deficient mouse models has allowed for the assessment of the contribution of individual betaarrestins to receptor function in vivo. This review will discuss the current literature that implicates betaarrestins in receptor function in respect to physiological and behavioral responses observed in the live animal model.
Fields studying movement generation, including robotics, psychology, cognitive science, and neuroscience, utilize concepts and tools related to the pervasiveness of variability in biological systems. The concepts of variability and complexity and the nonlinear tools used to measure these concepts open new vistas for physical therapist practice and research in movement dysfunction of all types. Because mounting evidence supports the necessity of variability for health and functional movement, this perspective article argues for changes in the way therapists view variability, both in theory and in action. By providing clinical examples, as well as applying existing knowledge about complex systems, the aim of this article is to create a springboard for new directions in physical therapist research and practice.
Pre-eclampsia is the most important complication of human pregnancy worldwide and a major contributor to maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. Strong evidence exists that generation of placental oxidative stress, secondary to deficient spiral artery remodelling, is a key intermediary event, triggering the secretion of a mixture of placental factors that culminate in an enhanced maternal inflammatory response. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been recognised as secondary messengers in intracellular signalling cascades. Experiments studying placental ischaemia-reperfusion in vitro or in vivo during labour provide strong evidence suggesting that oxidative stress and ROS production can activate downstream stress-signalling pathways, p38 and SAPK/JNK MAPK, and the pro-inflammatory NF-kappaB signalling pathway, culminating in the release of inflammatory mediators, apoptotic debris, anti-angiogenic factors and other mediators, which then stimulate a maternal inflammatory reaction that manifests in endothelial dysfunction and the symptoms of pre-eclampsia. Addition of anti-oxidants or blocking the stress or inflammatory pathways in vitro attenuates these effects and opens possibilities for therapeutic intervention.
The pregnancy complications of unexplained intrauterine growth restriction and early onset preeclampsia are thought to share a common aetiology in placental malperfusion secondary to deficient maternal spiral artery conversion. A key question is whether the contrasting clinical manifestations reflect different placental pathologies, or whether they are due to altered maternal responses to a common factor derived from the placenta. Recently, molecular evidence of protein synthesis inhibition secondary to endoplasmic reticulum stress has provided an explanation for the small placental phenotype in both conditions. However, other pathways activated by more severe endoplasmic reticulum stress are only observed in placentas from pregnancies associated with early onset preeclampsia. Here, we review the literature and conclude that there is evidence of greater maternal vascular compromise of the placenta in these cases. We speculate that in cases of normotensive intrauterine growth restriction the placental pathology is centred predominantly around endoplasmic reticulum stress, whereas in cases complicated by preeclampsia oxidative stress is further superimposed. This causes the release of a potent mix of pro-inflammatory cytokines, anti-angiogenic factors and trophoblastic aponecrotic debris into the maternal circulation that causes the peripheral syndrome. Maternal and fetal constitutional factors may modulate how the placenta responds to the maternal vascular insult, and how the mother is affected by the placental factors released. However, the principal conclusion is that the difference between these two conditions lies in the severity of the initiating deficit in spiral arterial conversion, and the relative degrees of endoplasmic reticulum stress and oxidative stress induced in the placenta as a result.
In this era of complete genomes, our knowledge of neuroanatomical circuitry remains surprisingly sparse. Such knowledge is critical, however, for both basic and clinical research into brain function. Here we advocate for a concerted effort to fill this gap, through systematic, experimental mapping of neural circuits at a mesoscopic scale of resolution suitable for comprehensive, brainwide coverage, using injections of tracers or viral vectors. We detail the scientific and medical rationale and briefly review existing knowledge and experimental techniques. We define a set of desiderata, including brainwide coverage; validated and extensible experimental techniques suitable for standardization and automation; centralized, open-access data repository; compatibility with existing resources; and tractability with current informatics technology. We discuss a hypothetical but tractable plan for mouse, additional efforts for the macaque, and technique development for human. We estimate that the mouse connectivity project could be completed within five years with a comparatively modest budget.
Self-organized criticality is an attractive model for human brain dynamics, but there has been little direct evidence for its existence in large-scale systems measured by neuroimaging. In general, critical systems are associated with fractal or power law scaling, long-range correlations in space and time, and rapid reconfiguration in response to external inputs. Here, we consider two measures of phase synchronization: the phase-lock interval, or duration of coupling between a pair of (neurophysiological) processes, and the lability of global synchronization of a (brain functional) network. Using computational simulations of two mechanistically distinct systems displaying complex dynamics, the Ising model and the Kuramoto model, we show that both synchronization metrics have power law probability distributions specifically when these systems are in a critical state. We then demonstrate power law scaling of both pairwise and global synchronization metrics in functional MRI and magnetoencephalographic data recorded from normal volunteers under resting conditions. These results strongly suggest that human brain functional systems exist in an endogenous state of dynamical criticality, characterized by a greater than random probability of both prolonged periods of phase-locking and occurrence of large rapid changes in the state of global synchronization, analogous to the neuronal &quot;avalanches&quot; previously described in cellular systems. Moreover, evidence for critical dynamics was identified consistently in neurophysiological systems operating at frequency intervals ranging from 0.05-0.11 to 62.5-125 Hz, confirming that criticality is a property of human brain functional network organization at all frequency intervals in the brain's physiological bandwidth.
We systematically determined which spectrotemporal modulations in speech are necessary for comprehension by human listeners. Speech comprehension has been shown to be robust to spectral and temporal degradations, but the specific relevance of particular degradations is arguable due to the complexity of the joint spectral and temporal information in the speech signal. We applied a novel modulation filtering technique to recorded sentences to restrict acoustic information quantitatively and to obtain a joint spectrotemporal modulation transfer function for speech comprehension, the speech MTF. For American English, the speech MTF showed the criticality of low modulation frequencies in both time and frequency. Comprehension was significantly impaired when temporal modulations &lt;12 Hz or spectral modulations &lt;4 cycles/kHz were removed. More specifically, the MTF was bandpass in temporal modulations and low-pass in spectral modulations: temporal modulations from 1 to 7 Hz and spectral modulations &lt;1 cycles/kHz were the most important. We evaluated the importance of spectrotemporal modulations for vocal gender identification and found a different region of interest: removing spectral modulations between 3 and 7 cycles/kHz significantly increases gender misidentifications of female speakers. The determination of the speech MTF furnishes an additional method for producing speech signals with reduced bandwidth but high intelligibility. Such compression could be used for audio applications such as file compression or noise removal and for clinical applications such as signal processing for cochlear implants.
Pitch is one of the most important features of natural sounds, underlying the perception of melody in music and prosody in speech. However, the temporal dynamics of pitch processing are still poorly understood. Previous studies suggest that the auditory system uses a wide range of time scales to integrate pitch-related information and that the effective integration time is both task- and stimulus-dependent. None of the existing models of pitch processing can account for such task- and stimulus-dependent variations in processing time scales. This study presents an idealized neurocomputational model, which provides a unified account of the multiple time scales observed in pitch perception. The model is evaluated using a range of perceptual studies, which have not previously been accounted for by a single model, and new results from a neurophysiological experiment. In contrast to other approaches, the current model contains a hierarchy of integration stages and uses feedback to adapt the effective time scales of processing at each stage in response to changes in the input stimulus. The model has features in common with a hierarchical generative process and suggests a key role for efferent connections from central to sub-cortical areas in controlling the temporal dynamics of pitch processing.
Rapid advances in molecular genetics and neuroimaging over the last 10 to 20 years have been a catalyst for research in neurobiology, developmental psychopathology, and translational neuroscience. Methods of study in psychiatry, previously described as &quot;slow maturing,&quot; now are becoming sufficiently sophisticated to more effectively investigate the biology of higher mental processes. Despite these technologic advances, the recognition that psychiatric disorders are disorders of neurodevelopment, and the importance of case formulation to clinical practice, a neurodevelopmental model of case formulation has not yet been articulated. The goals of this article, which is organized as a clinical case conference, are to begin to articulate a neurodevelopmental model of case formulation, to illustrate its value, and finally to explore how clinical psychiatric practice might evolve in the future if this model were employed.
The side effects are a major issue in the contemporary psychopharmacotherapy. Treatment choices are largely determined by the side-effect profiles of mental health medications. The effects of psychopharmacotherapy result from highly complex interactions between mental health medications and the patient who takes them as well as from the context in which treatment occurs. A high level of care and caution is necessary during the whole course of psychopharmacotherapy to recognize any side effect and respond promptly and specifically. Creative psychopharmacotherapy demands a broad base of pharmacologic and neuroscience knowledge (evidence based practice), personal experience (practice based evidence) and favourable treatment context (well-being therapy, life coaching).
A brief description of the controversies surrounding the diagnosis of dissociative identity disorder is presented, followed by a discussion of the proposed similarities and differences between dissociative identity disorder and borderline personality disorder. The phenomenon of autohypnosis in the context of early childhood sexual trauma and disordered attachment is discussed, as is the meaning of alters or alternate personalities. The author describes recent neurosciences research that may relate the symptoms of dissociative identity disorder to demonstrable disordered attention and memory processes. A clinical description of a typical patient presentation is included, plus some recommendations for approaches to treatment.
Elevated rates of comorbidity between binge eating and alcohol use problems have been widely documented. Prior studies have examined specific personality traits associated with the co-occurrence of these problems. The current study explores comprehensive personality factors that are associated with the co-occurrence of binge eating and binge drinking among a diverse sample of 208 college undergraduates. Using the Five Factor Model of personality, the authors assessed both comprehensive personality factors and style of impulse control, a personality style defined by different combinations of neuroticism and conscientiousness. On the basis of responses to a screening instrument, college students were assigned to one of four groups: binge eat, binge drink, binge eat and drink, and non-binge. The binge eat and drink group reported a higher level of neuroticism than did students in the binge drink and non-binge groups. Additionally, the binge eat and drink group was more likely to report an undercontrolled style of impulse control than were other groups. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2009 APA, all rights reserved).
Although priming of familiar stimuli is usually age invariant, little is known about how aging affects priming of preexperimentally unfamiliar stimuli. Therefore, this study investigated the effects of aging and encoding-to-test delays (0 min, 20 min, 90 min, and 1 week) on priming of unfamiliar objects in block-based priming paradigms. During the encoding phase, participants viewed pictures of novel objects (Experiments 1 and 2) or novel and familiar objects (Experiment 3) and judged their left-right orientation. In the test block, priming was measured using the possible-impossible object-decision test (Experiment 1), symmetric-asymmetric object-decision test (Experiment 2), and real-nonreal object-decision test (Experiment 3). In Experiments 1 and 2, young adults showed priming for unfamiliar objects at all delays, whereas older adults whose baseline task performance was similar to that of young adults did not show any priming. Experiment 3 found no effects of age or delay on priming of familiar objects; however, priming of unfamiliar objects was only observed in the young participants. This suggests that when older adults cannot rely on preexisting memory representations, age-related deficits in priming can emerge.
The ability to recognize facial identity and emotional facial expression is central to social relationships. This paper reviews studies concerning face recognition and emotional facial expression during normal aging as well as in neurodegenerative diseases occurring in the elderly. It focuses on Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal and semantic dementia, and also Parkinson's disease. The results of studies on healthy elderly individuals show subtle alterations in the recognition of facial identity and emotional facial expression from the age of 50 years, and increasing after 70. Studies in neurodegenerative diseases show that - during their initial stages - face recognition and facial expression can be specifically affected. Little has been done to assess these difficulties in clinical practice. They could constitute a useful marker for differential diagnosis, especially for the clinical differentiation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Social difficulties and some behavioural problems observed in these patients may, at least partly, result from these deficits in face processing. Thus, it is important to specify the possible underlying anatomofunctional substrates of these deficits as well as to plan suitable remediation programs.
Cognitive neurosciences are interested in the concept of self, resulting from two muddled aspects. This concept relates to both a set of personal complex and multidimensional mental representations about ourselves and the flow of self-consciousness which is associated. It grounds individual identity and is related to the subjectivity of the personal experiences, at the core of continuity over the time. The existence of others seems essential in the construction of self mental representations; that is why the concept of self is strongly related to the theory of mind (ToM). ToM corresponds to the capacity to infer representations or mental states to others. Even if self and ToM researches are often carried out in two distinct fields, it seems like these two concepts share common processes. Recent imaging studies comfort this idea. Activations in a common neuronal network (principally median prefrontal cortex and precuneus) were found during the realization of self or ToM tasks. Thus, our capacity to represent our thoughts and others' one coud have a similar cerebral origin. Self-consciousness and consciousness of others could then be considered as a bidirectional interaction at the very bases of both individual identity and the other's knowledge, which regulate behavior and social interactions.
Two experiments investigated dimension-based attentional processing in a complex singleton conjunction search task. In Experiment 1, observers had to discern the presence of a singleton target defined by a conjunction of size (fixed primary dimension) with either color or motion direction (secondary dimension). Similar to findings in singleton feature search, changes (vs. repetitions) of the secondary dimension across trials resulted in reaction time (RT) costs--which were, however, increased by a factor of 3-5 compared to singleton feature search. In Experiment 2, the coding of search-critical, dimensional saliency signals was investigated by additionally presenting targets redundantly defined in both secondary dimensions, with redundant-target signals being either spatially coincident or separate (i.e., one vs. two target items). Redundant-target RTs significantly violated Miller's (Cognit Psychol 14:247-279, 1982) race model inequality only when redundant signals were spatially coincident (i.e., bound to a single object), indicating coactive processing of target information in the two secondary dimensions. These findings suggest that the coding and combining of signals from different visual dimensions operates in parallel. Increased change costs in singleton conjunction search are likely to reflect a reduced amount of weight available for processing the secondary target-defining dimensions, due to a large amount of weight being bound by the primary dimension.











ATP, acting on P2X(7) receptors, stimulates changes in intracellular calcium concentrations, maturation, and release of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and following prolonged agonist exposure, cell death. The functional effects of P2X(7) receptor activation facilitate several proinflammatory processes associated with arthritis. Within the nervous system, these proinflammatory processes may also contribute to the development and maintenance of chronic pain. Emerging data from genetic knockout studies have indicated specific roles for P2X(7) receptors in inflammatory and neuropathic pain states. The discovery of multiple distinct chemical series of potent and highly selective P2X(7) receptor antagonists have enhanced our understanding of P2X(7) receptor pharmacology and the diverse array of P2X(7) receptor signaling mechanisms. These antagonists have provided mechanistic insight into the role(s) P2X(7) receptors play under pathophysiological conditions. In this review, we integrate the recent discoveries of novel P2X(7) receptor-selective antagonists with a brief update on P2X(7) receptor pharmacology and its therapeutic potential.
Previous research has demonstrated separation between systems supporting memory for appearance and memory for location. However, the interpretation of these results is complicated by a confound occurring because of the simultaneous presentation of objects in multiple-item arrays when assessing memory for appearance and the sequential presentation of items when assessing memory for location. This paper reports an experiment in which sequential or simultaneous modes of presentation were factorially manipulated with memory for visual appearance or memory for location. Spatial interference (tapping) or visual interference (dynamic visual noise) were presented during retention. Appearance versus location interacted with the type of interference task, but mode of presentation did not. These results are consistent with the view that different subsystems within visuo-spatial working memory support memory for appearance and memory for location.

The neuro-scientific study of moral actions and judgments is particularly relevant to medicine, especially when assessing behavior disorders secondary to brain diseases. In this paper, moral behavior is reviewed from an evolutionary and neuro-scientific perspective. We discuss the role of emotions in moral decisions, the role of brain development in moral development and the cerebral basis of moral behavior. Empirical evidence shows a relationship between brain and moral development: changes in cerebral architecture are related to changes in moral decision complexity. Moral development takes a long time, achieving its maturity during adulthood. It is suggested that moral cognition depends on cerebral regions and neural networks related to emotional and cognitive processing (i.e. prefrontal and temporal cortex) and that moral judgments are complex affective and cognitive phenomena. This paper concludes with the suggestion that a satisfactory clinical/legal evaluation of a patient requires that the neural basis of moral behavior should be taken into account.

Cognitive impairment is common in multiple sclerosis (MS), occurring at all stages of the disease, even at the earliest, and can be a major source of disability, social impairment, and impoverished quality of life. Cognitive dysfunction is mainly focused on working memory, conceptual reasoning, verbal fluency, speed of information processing, attention and executive function. Measures of information-processing speed appear to be the most robust and sensitive markers of cognitive impairment in MS patients. Cognitive testing in MS patients is complex and cognitive screening tests are time- and cost-saving test instruments. A comprehensive and sensitive cognitive test procedure should be administered to detect cognitive dysfunction, and recent studies demonstrate that single, predominantly speed-related cognitive tests may be superior to extensive and time-consuming test batteries in screening cognitive decline. Additional clinical factors, including disease course, fatigue, and affective disturbance, can impact the degree of MS-related cognitive impairment. Despite weak correlation with disease duration and physical disability status, the degree of cognitive impairment in MS has been related to the extent of topographically specific neuronal tissue damage and loss. Numerous studies have applied conventional and quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques to correlate the profile and degree of cognitive impairment with various MRI-detectable abnormalities. The burden of MRI-visible lesions does not fully account for the degree of MS-related cognitive impairment. Nonconventional MRI findings suggest the extent of subtle tissue damage in normal-appearing white and grey matter to correlate best with the severity of cognitive impairment in MS patients. Structural MRI approaches have recently been extended by functional MRI studies scrutinizing the brain's ability for adaptive functional reorganization in the presence of widespread tissue damage. Cognitive impairment in MS seems to be not simply the result of tissue destruction, but also a balance between tissue destruction, tissue repair, and adaptive functional reorganization. These findings highlight the need to screen for cognitive deficits in MS patients to conduct potential cognitive rehabilitation intervention.
Mucocoeles usually involve the frontal sinus and can extend to the orbit or intracranially. In this case symptoms and radiological findings were typical of a left frontal mucocoele with intracranial extension. Intraoperative findings were compatible with a left frontal mucocoele communicating with an arachnoid cyst of the anterior cranial fossa.


Language functions in schizophrenia patients are represented more bilateral, i.e. less lateralized than in healthy subjects. This decreased lateralization is also observed in individuals at increased risk for schizophrenia. Language lateralization is related to handedness; in that left- and mixed-handed individuals more frequently have decreased lateralization in comparison to right-handed subjects. Population schizotypy can be considered part of the schizophrenia spectrum disorders. In line with this, population schizotypy has repeatedly, though inconsistently, been associated with left-handedness. In order to define the exact association between handedness and schizotypy, we performed meta-analyses on the available literature. We found that non-right-handed subjects, but not strong left-handers, had higher scores on schizotypy questionnaires than right-handed subjects. Mixed-handers showed a trend towards higher schizotypy in comparison to strong left-handers. It is argued that the higher schizotypy in non-right-handed individuals reflects the higher incidence of bilateral language lateralization in this group. Bilateral language organisation may underlie loosening of association, possibly leading to higher schizotypy scores.

The cell biology and molecular mediators of proliferative vitreoretinopathy continue to be elucidated. The purpose of this review is to summarize contemporary findings in the visual and neurosciences relevant to the pathophysiology of proliferative vitreoretinopathy, with an emphasis on the biologic mediators that represent potential therapeutic targets.
The following patients with multiple complex diagnoses define the adult hydrocephalus population: (1) transition patients (previously treated for hydrocephalus as children), (2) adults with previously untreated congenital hydrocephalus, (3) adults with acquired hydrocephalus with an identifiable etiology, and (4) patients with suspected or proven idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus. Restricting the outpatient care or hydrocephalus clinic definition to a single hydrocephalus patient subpopulation limits our understanding of these patients and effectively abandons the remaining adult patients with hydrocephalus to a less focused and potentially less effective healthcare arrangement. A comprehensive adult hydrocephalus clinic model is described and recommended to advance our understanding of this diverse patient population, which will ultimately lead to the development and provision of a better standard of patient care.
This review focuses on the problems related to defining hydrocephalus and on the development of a consensus on the classification of this common problem. Such a consensus is needed so that diverse research efforts and plans of treatment can be understood in the same context. The literature was searched to determine the definition of hydrocephalus and to identify previously proposed classification schemes. The historic perspective, purpose, and result of these classifications are reviewed and analyzed. The concept of the hydrodynamics of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as a hydraulic circuit is presented to serve as a template for a contemporary classification scheme. Finally, a definition and classification that include all clinical causes and forms of hydrocephalus are suggested. The currently accepted classification of hydrocephalus into &quot;communicating&quot; and &quot;noncommunicating&quot; varieties is almost 90 years old and has not been modified despite major advances in neuroimaging, neurosciences, and treatment outcomes. Despite a thorough search of the literature using computerized search engines and bibliographies from review articles and book chapters, I identified only 6 previous attempts to define and classify different forms of hydrocephalus. This review proposes the following definition for hydrocephalus: hydrocephalus is an active distension of the ventricular system of the brain related to inadequate passage of CSF from its point of production within the ventricular system to its point of absorption into the systemic circulation. Based on this definition (potential points of flow restriction) and on the view of the CSF system as a hydraulic circuit, a classification system is proposed. The acceptance of this proposed definition and classification schema would allow clinicians and basic scientists to communicate effectively, to share information and results, and to develop testable hypotheses.
Chordomas are tumors commonly of extradural origin associated with bone destruction; their central nervous system invasion has rarely been reported. The authors describe a rare case of a 37-year-old man presenting with a clivial chordoma invading the brainstem with a large pontine cyst. A median suboccipital approach was selected to remove the tumor.



The neural correlates of cognitive control and social processing functions, as well as the characteristic patterns of anomalous brain activation patterns in psychiatric conditions associated with impairment in these functions, have been well characterized. However, these domains have primarily been examined in isolation. The present study used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to map brain areas recruited during a target-detection task designed to evaluate responses to both non-social (i.e. shape) and social (i.e. face) target stimuli. Both shape and face targets activated a similar brain network, including the postcentral gyrus, the anterior and posterior cingulate gyri and the right midfrontal gyrus, whereas face targets additionally activated the thalamus, fusiform and temporooccipital cortex, lingual gyrus and paracingulate gyrus. Comparison of activations to social and non-social target events revealed that a small portion of the dorsal anterior cingulate gyrus (Brodmann's area 32) and the supracalcarine cortex were preferentially activated to face targets. These findings indicate that non-social and social stimuli embedded within a cognitive control task activate overlapping and distinct brain regions. Clinical cognitive neuroscience research of disorders characterized by cognitive dysfunction and impaired social processing would benefit from the use of tasks that evaluate the combined effects of deficits in these two domains.

The twenty-first annual Barrels meeting, sponsored by NINDS, was held on 12-14 November 2008 on the campus of Johns Hopkins University, near the site of the original discovery of barrels almost 40 years ago. The longest running satellite meeting to the Society for Neuroscience Annual Meeting focuses on the development, physiology, and behavior of the rodent whisker-to-barrel sensorimotor system. This year's event focused on what aspects of the sensory world are encoded by neurons within the system and how specifically the posterior medial nucleus can play a role in information processing. Other highlighted topics included the possible role(s) the cerebellum may have and the cues governing the patterning and development of thalamocortical inputs into the barrel cortex.


Radiation therapy is a widely used treatment for malignant central nervous system tumors. Mature neurons are terminally differentiated, whereas stem and progenitor cells have a prominent proliferative capacity and are therefore highly vulnerable to irradiation. Our aim was to investigate how cranial radiation in young rats would affect stem/progenitor cells in the two niches of adult neurogenesis, the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. Nine weeks after irradiation we found that in irradiated animals, hippocampal neurogenesis was reduced to 5% of control levels. Similarly, the numbers of actively proliferating cells and radial glia-like stem cells (nestin+/glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP]+) in the dentate gyrus were reduced to 10% and 15% of control levels, respectively. In the irradiated olfactory bulb, neurogenesis was reduced to 40% of control levels, and the number of actively proliferating cells in the SVZ was reduced to 53% of control levels. However, the number of nestin+/GFAP+ cells in the SVZ was unchanged compared with controls. To evaluate the immediate response to the radiation injury, we quantified the amount of proliferation in the SVZ and dentate gyrus 1 day after irradiation. We found an equal reduction in proliferating cells both in dentate gyrus and SVZ. In summary, we show an initial response to radiation injury that is similar in both brain stem cell niches. However, the long-term effects on stem cells and neurogenesis in these two areas differ significantly: the dentate gyrus is severely affected long-term, whereas the SVZ appears to recover with time.
In this review, we present evidence for the involvement of imidazoline binding sites (IBS) in modulating responses to stress, through central control of monoaminergic and hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity. Pharmacological and physiological evidence is presented for differential effects of different IBS subtypes on serotoninergic and catecholaminergic pathways involved in control of basal and stress-stimulated HPA axis activity. IBS ligands can modulate behavioural and neuroendocrine responses in animal models of stress, depression and anxiety, and a body of evidence exists for alterations in central IBS expression in psychiatric patients, which can be normalised partially or fully by treatment with antidepressants. Dysfunction in monoaminergic systems and the HPA axis under basal and stress-induced activation has been extensively reported in psychiatric illnesses. On the basis of the literature, we suggest a potential therapeutic role for selective IBS ligands in the treatment of depression and anxiety disorders.
Period 2 (Per2) is an important clock gene involved in the regulation of the major circadian clock in the mammalian central nervous system, the suprachiasmatic nucleus. In addition, Per2 is expressed in many other stress-sensitive brain structures. We have previously showed that the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW) is the main site of the corticotropin-releasing factor peptide family member urocortin 1 (Ucn1) and that this peptide undergoes conspicuous expression changes in response to various stressors. Here, we hypothesized that in the rat npEW both Per2 and Ucn1 would be produced in a diurnal, rhythmical fashion. This hypothesis was tested by following this expected rhythm on two days in rats killed at four time points each day (Zeitgeber times 0, 6, 12, and 18). We showed the co-existence of Per2 and Ucn1 in the npEW with double-label immunofluorescence and demonstrated with quantitative RT-PCR and semi-quantitative immunocytochemistry diurnal rhythms in Per2 mRNA expression and Per2 protein content, each on a single different day, with a minimum at lights-off and a maximum at lights-on. We furthermore revealed a diurnal rhythm in the number of Ucn1-immunopositive neurones and in their Ucn1 peptide content, with a minimum at night and at the beginning of the light period and a peak at lights-off, while the Ucn1 mRNA content paralleled the Per2 mRNA rhythm. The rhythms were accompanied by a diurnal rhythm in plasma corticosterone concentration. Our results are in line with the hypothesis that both Per2 and Ucn1 in the rat npEW are produced in a diurnal fashion, a phenomenon that may be relevant for the regulation of the diurnal rhythm in the stress response.


Neuroprotective therapies have so far failed to provide improved neurological function and outcome after stroke. A recent focus on multimodal therapies, including the combination of neuroprotective medications with hypothermia, opens a promising new treatment strategy. Advances in hypothermia administration make it one of the most promising neuroprotective therapies available and an ideal candidate for combination with other neuroprotective approaches.

An approach towards heterogeneous neuroscience dataset integration is proposed that uses Natural Language Processing (NLP) and a knowledgebased phenotype organizer system (PhenOS) to link ontology-anchored terms to underlying data from each database, and then maps these terms based on a computable model of disease (SNOMED CT). The approach was implemented using sample datasets from fMRIDC, GEO and Neuronames and allowed for complex queries such as &quot;List all disorders with a finding site of brain region X, and then find the semantically related references in all participating databases based on the ontological model of the disease or its anatomical and morphological attributes&quot;. Precision of the NLP-derived coding of the unstructured phenotypes in each datasets was 88% (n=50), and precision of the semantic mapping between these terms across datasets was 98% (n=100). To our knowledge, this is the first example of the use of both semantic decomposition of disease relationships and hierarchical information found in ontologies to integrate heterogeneous phenotypes across clinical and molecular datasets.

Individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) may develop neuropsychological impairment, and a modest percentage may progress to HIV-associated dementia (HAD). Research using human and nonhuman, in vitro and in vivo models, demonstrates that subcortical dopamine (DA) systems may be particularly vulnerable to HIV-induced neurodegeneration. The goal of the current investigation is to provide an understanding of the extent to which the HIV-1 protein Tat induces alterations in striatal DA transmission using in vivo brain microdialysis in awake, freely moving rats. The current study was designed to investigate Tat-induced neuronal dysfunction between 24-h and 48-h post-Tat administration, and demonstrates a reduction in evoked DA for the Tat-treated group relative to vehicle-treated group at 24 and 48 h. The Tat-induced reduction of DA overflow by 24 h suggests dysfunction of nerve terminals, and a compromised DA system in Tat-treated animals. Furthermore, the current study provides direct support for HIV-associated decline of DA function at a systemic level, helping to characterize the functional outcome of the relatively large amount of research on the molecular and behavioral levels of HIV-induced neurotoxicity. This initial study may provide additional characteristics of Tat-induced neuronal dysfunction to inform research on therapeutic intervention, and it provides a springboard for future in vivo research currently needed in the field.
Negative motivational symptoms are observed soon after withdrawal from chronic opiate administration, and are thought to mediate dependence. Examination of brain region-specific signaling changes that accompany early withdrawal may shed light on neural mechanisms underlying negative reinforcement and dependence. Thus, we measured alterations in protein phosphorylation in multiple limbic brain regions in rats undergoing 24 h spontaneous or naltrexone-precipitated withdrawal from chronic (6 h/day) i.v. heroin self-administration. Region-specific increases in cyclic AMP-dependent GluR(1) (S845) phosphorylation were found in the nucleus accumbens shell, basolateral amygdala, hippocampal CA1 and CA3 subregions, and premotor cortex from 12 to 24 h of spontaneous withdrawal, and there were no changes in prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens core or caudate-putamen. Increased GluR(1) (S845) phosphorylation was detected earlier (12 h withdrawal) in the central amygdala and ventral tegmental area. In contrast, prominent increases in extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation were found in both prefrontal and premotor cortex, and CA1 and CA3 between 12 and 24 h withdrawal. Phosphorylation of striatal cyclic AMP response element binding protein increased in the caudate-putamen but not in the nucleus accumbens. Naltrexone administration after 24 h withdrawal increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation in the central amygdala, and nucleus accumbens core and shell. Thus, spontaneous withdrawal from heroin self-administration produces region- and time-dependent changes in cyclic AMP and extracellular signal-regulated kinase activity that could contribute to the behavioral manifestation of opiate dependence.
While tissue-engineered blood vessels have already been successfully used in surgical practice, artificially restoring lymphatic circulation when needed is still far to be realized. Stability of arterial vessel wall depends on proper fibrillin deposition; fibrillin in fact is the scaffold for elastic fiber formation. In lymphatic vessels fibrillin is probably implied in lymph formation in response to interstitial requirements. This study was designed to verify whether fibrillin deposition is influenced by the topography of the substrate on which blood and lymphatic endothelial cells grow. Blood and lymphatic endothelial cells were cultured on microstructured surfaces with different topography: stripes of different widths (25, 50, and 100 microm), squares and rectangles, and spiral geometry, obtained by the photoimmobilization of Hyaluronan (Hyal) on aminosilanized glass. Cell orientation and fibrillin deposition were influenced by the topography of the microstructure. Blood endothelial cells deposited fibrillin as a bundle running parallel to the major axis of stripes and spirals, whereas the irregular network of fibrillin deposited by lymphatic endothelial cells was affected by the topography of the substrate only in the smallest stripes. These data bring a contribution to the basic knowledge required to design tissue-engineered blood and lymphatic vessels capable of adapting to the functional requirements of the surrounding environment.
The late, or encephalitic, stage of human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), or sleeping sickness, is typified by a diffuse meningoencephalitis characterised neuropathologically by perivascular infiltration of inflammatory cells. While the cause of this neuroinflammatory reaction is not understood, there is evidence for the roles of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha and counter-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-10, with the balance of these influencing disease outcome. Because of the practical difficulties of obtaining serial measurements in patients, it has proved difficult to assign either cause or effect properties to measured cytokines, but mechanistic animal modelling studies are proving helpful.
Protein kinase C (PKC) activators possess potent neurotrophic and neuroprotective activity, thus indicating potential applications in treating neurodegenerative diseases, stroke and traumatic brain injury. Although some activators, such as bryostatin and gnidimacrin, have been tested as antitumor agents, others, such as phorbol esters, are potent tumor promoters. All PKC activators downregulate PKC at high concentrations and long application times. However, tumorigenic activators downregulate certain PKC isozymes, especially PKCdelta, more strongly. Tumorigenic activators possess unique structural features that could account for this difference. At concentrations that minimize PKC downregulation, PKC activators can improve long-term memory, reduce beta-amyloid levels, induce synaptogenesis, promote neuronal repair and inhibit cell proliferation. Intermittent, low concentrations of structurally specific, non-tumorigenic PKC activators, therefore, could offer therapeutic benefit for a variety of neurologic disorders.
Accumulating evidence from social neuroscience demonstrates that the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is a crucial component of the neural systems mediating social event knowledge. Here, we present an integrative theory of the cognitive and neural bases of social event knowledge. The structural and temporal representation binding (STRing) theory assumes that the mPFC represents abstract dynamic summary representations in the form of event simulators (elators). Elators give rise to social event knowledge via binding with regions in the posterior cerebral cortex and limbic structures. We propose a segregation of elator functions along the dorso-ventral mPFC axis and review neuroscience evidence to support the specificity of elators as the underlying structures for the development of event, person and self schemata.
We consider the impact of purinergic signaling on the physiology of the special senses of vision, smell, taste and hearing. Purines (particularly ATP and adenosine) act as neurotransmitters, gliotransmitters and paracrine factors in the sensory retina, nasal olfactory epithelium, taste buds and cochlea. The associated purinergic receptor signaling underpins the sensory transduction and information coding in these sense organs. The P2 and P1 receptors mediate fast transmission of sensory signals and have modulatory roles in the regulation of synaptic transmitter release, for example in the adaptation to sensory overstimulation. Purinergic signaling regulates bidirectional neuron-glia interactions and is involved in the control of blood supply, extracellular ion homeostasis and the turnover of sensory epithelia by modulating apoptosis and progenitor proliferation. Purinergic signaling is an important player in pathophysiological processes in sensory tissues, and has both detrimental (pro-apoptotic) and supportive (e.g. initiation of cytoprotective stress-signaling cascades) effects.
Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) envelope (E) protein has been shown to play a critical role in attachment to cells. However, the receptor interacting with envelope protein has not been conclusively identified. Using mouse neuroblastoma (Neuro2a) cells and purified JEV-E protein in 'Virus Overlay Protein Binding Assay' followed by MALDI-TOF analysis, we identified 'heat shock protein 70' (Hsp70) as a possible receptor for JEV. Indirect immunofluorescence and flow-cytometry analysis demonstrated localization of Hsp70 on Neuro2a cell surface. Co-immunoprecipitation followed by Western blot analysis reconfirmed the interaction between Hsp70 and JEV-E protein. Further, anti-Hsp70 polyclonal-antibodies were able to block JEV entry into Neuro2a cells. Additionally, using the bioinformatic tool - FTDOCK, docking between the proteins was performed. Amongst six interacting structural poses studied one pose involving RGD motif on JEV-E and leucine(539) on Hsp70 displayed stable interaction. These observations indicate that Hsp70 serves as putative receptor for JEV in Neuro2A cells.

Understanding visuomotor coordination requires the study of tasks that engage mechanisms for the integration of visual and motor information; in this paper we choose a paradigmatic yet little studied example of such a task, namely realistic drawing. On the one hand, our data indicate that the motor task has little influence on which regions of the image are overall most likely to be fixated: salient features are fixated most often. Viceversa, the effect of motor constraints is revealed in the temporal aspect of the scanpaths: (1) subjects direct their gaze to an object mostly when they are acting upon (drawing) it; and (2) in support of graphically continuous hand movements, scanpaths resemble edge-following patterns along image contours. For a better understanding of such properties, a computational model is proposed in the form of a novel kind of Dynamic Bayesian Network, and simulation results are compared with human eye-hand data.
In a series of multiple-regression analyses conducted on the French part of the Dundee corpus, the time spent inspecting a target word in a given sentence was found to depend on its degree of semantic relatedness (as assessed in the LSA framework) to two content words belonging to a prior part of the sentence, and located at varying distances to the left of the target. However, only verb primes were found to elicit a significant influence when located in the more remote position. In addition, the influence elicited by remote primes was modulated as a function of their position in the constituent structure, relative to the position of the target. This pattern of results suggests that relatively abstract semantic relations, probably involved in processing operations developed at the sentence level, can directly influence eye-movement control mechanisms.
Several studies have shown that the precision of smooth pursuit eye speed can match perceptual speed discrimination thresholds during the steady-state phase of pursuit [Kowler, E., &amp; McKee, S. (1987). Sensitivity of smooth eye movement to small differences in target velocity. Vision Research, 27, 993-1015; Gegenfurtner, K., Xing, D., Scott, B., &amp; Hawken, M. (2003). A comparison of pursuit eye movement and perceptual performance in speed discrimination. Journal of Vision, 3, 865-876]. Recently, Osborne et al. [Osborne, L. C., Lisberger, S. G., &amp; Bialek, W. (2005). A sensory source for motor variation. Nature, 437, 412-416; Osborne, L. C., Hohl, S. S., Bialek, W., &amp; Lisberger S. G. (2007). Time course of precision in smooth-pursuit eye movements of monkeys. Journal of Neuroscience, 27, 2987-2998] claimed that pursuit precision during the initiation phase of pursuit also matches the sensory variability, implying that there is no motor noise added during pursuit initiation. However, these results were derived from a comparison of monkey pursuit data to human perceptual data from the literature, which were obtained with different stimuli. To directly compare precision for perception and pursuit, we measured pursuit and perceptual variability in the same human observers using the same stimuli. Subjects had to pursue a Gaussian blob in a step-ramp paradigm and give speed judgments on the same or in different trials. Speed discrimination thresholds were determined for different presentation durations. The analysis of pursuit precision was performed for short intervals containing the initiation period only and also for longer intervals including steady-state pursuit. In agreement with published studies, we found that the Weber fractions for psychophysical speed discrimination were fairly constant for different presentation durations, even for the shortest presentation duration of 150ms. Pursuit variability was 3-4 times as high for the analysis interval (300ms) containing the open-loop phase only. For pursuit analysis intervals of 400-500ms, pursuit variability approached perceptual variability. Our results show that, for the stimuli we used, the motor system contributes at least 50% to the total variability of smooth pursuit eye movements during the initiation phase.

The present article examines several lines of converging evidence suggesting that the slow and insidious brain changes that accumulate over the lifespan, resulting in both natural cognitive aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD), represent a metabolism reduction program. A number of such adaptive programs are known to accompany aging and are thought to have decreased energy requirements for ancestral hunter-gatherers in their 30s, 40s and 50s. Foraging ability in modern hunter-gatherers declines rapidly, more than a decade before the average terminal age of 55 years. Given this, the human brain would have been a tremendous metabolic liability that must have been advantageously tempered by the early cellular and molecular changes of AD which begin to accumulate in all humans during early adulthood. Before the recent lengthening of life span, individuals in the ancestral environment died well before this metabolism reduction program resulted in clinical AD, thus there was never any selective pressure to keep adaptive changes from progressing to a maladaptive extent.Aging foragers may not have needed the same cognitive capacities as their younger counterparts because of the benefits of accumulated learning and life experience. It is known that during both childhood and adulthood metabolic rate in the brain decreases linearly with age. This trend is thought to reflect the fact that children have more to learn. AD &quot;pathology&quot; may be a natural continuation of this trend. It is characterized by decreasing cerebral metabolism, selective elimination of synapses and reliance on accumulating knowledge (especially implicit and procedural) over raw brain power (working memory). Over decades of subsistence, the behaviors of aging foragers became routinized, their motor movements automated and their expertise ingrained to a point where they no longer necessitated the first-rate working memory they possessed when younger and learning actively. Alzheimer changes selectively and precisely mediate an adaptation to this major life-history transition.AD symptomatology shares close similarities with deprivation syndromes in other animals including the starvation response. Both molecular and anatomical features of AD imitate brain changes that have been conceptualized as adaptive responses to low food availability in mammals and birds. Alzheimer's patients are known to express low overall metabolic rates and are genetically inclined to exhibit physiologically thrifty traits widely thought to allow mammals to subsist under conditions of nutritional scarcity. Additionally, AD is examined here in the contexts of anthropology, comparative neuroscience, evolutionary medicine, expertise, gerontology, neural Darwinism, neuroecology and the thrifty genotype.
The caudate nucleus is a structure implicated in the neural circuitry of psychological responses to trauma. This study aimed to quantify the volume of the caudate in persons exposed to trauma. Thirty-six subjects under 65 were recruited from transport workers in Stockholm who reported having been unintentionally responsible for a person-under-the-train accident or among employees having experienced an assault in their work (1999-2001) between 3 months and 6 years before MRI scanning. In those exposed to the trauma, a DSM-IV diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) was made by an independent psychiatrist, with subjects being classified as PTSD or no PTSD. MRI data were analyzed blindly to all clinical information by an experienced rater using a standardized manual tracing protocol to quantify the volume of the caudate. Within-group comparisons of PTSD (n=19) and no PTSD (n=17) found the right caudate nucleus to be significantly (9%) larger than the left: a right hemisphere baseline asymmetry. A multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) was conducted to assess the volume of the caudate nucleus (right and left) in relation to the diagnosis of no PTSD (n=17) or PTSD (n=19). After adjustment for the covariates (age, sex, intracranial volume, years since trauma, and number of trauma episodes), there was a significant difference in raw right caudate nucleus volume between subjects with PTSD compared with those without PTSD. Volume of the left caudate nucleus was not significantly different between the PTSD and no PTSD groups. The right caudate volume in the PTSD group was 9% greater compared with the no PTSD group. There is a larger right hemisphere volume of the caudate within those exposed to trauma with active PTSD compared with those without PTSD, superimposed upon a baseline caudate asymmetry.
The present study examines the effects of different types of childhood maltreatment on personality disorder symptoms in a sample of adults with no Axis I psychopathology. Participants reporting a history of moderate to severe maltreatment on the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (n = 70) were grouped by type of abuse and compared with a non-abused group (n = 35) with regard to the number of personality disorder symptoms endorsed. Physical/sexual abuse and emotional abuse/neglect each were associated with elevated symptoms of all three personality disorder clusters. Elevated symptoms of several specific personality disorders were also seen, including paranoid, borderline, avoidant, dependent, obsessive-compulsive, and depressive personality disorder. There were no significant differences between the maltreatment groups. These findings indicate that emotional abuse/neglect and physical/sexual abuse are risk factors for a broad array of personality outcomes in a non-clinical sample.
Binocular rivalry is a fascinating perceptual phenomenon that has been characterized extensively at the psychophysical level. However, the underlying neural mechanism remains poorly understood. In particular, the role of the early visual pathway remains controversial. In this study, we used voltage-sensitive dye imaging to measure the spatiotemporal activity patterns in cat area 18 evoked by dichoptic orthogonal grating stimuli. We found that after several seconds of monocular stimulation with an oriented grating, an orthogonal stimulus to the other eye evoked a reversal of the cortical response pattern, which may contribute to flash suppression in perception. Furthermore, after several seconds of rival binocular stimulation with unequal contrasts, transient increase in the contrast of the weak stimulus evoked a long-lasting cortical response. This transient-triggered response could contribute to the perceptual switch during binocular rivalry. Together, these results point to a significant contribution of early visual cortex to transient-triggered switch in perceptual dominance.
Beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is generated via the sequential proteolysis of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta- and gamma-secretases, and plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we sought to clarify the role of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), implicated in the AD pathomechanism, in the generation of Abeta. Treatment of neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells expressing AD-associated Swedish mutant APP with IGF-1 did not alter cellular levels of APP, but significantly increased those of beta-C-terminal fragment (beta-CTF) and secreted Abeta. IGF-1 also enhanced APP phosphorylation at Thr668. Treatment of beta-CTF-expressing cells with IGF-1 increased the levels of beta-CTF and secreted Abeta. The IGF-1-induced augmentation of beta-CTF was observed in the presence of gamma-secretase inhibitors, but not in cells expressing beta-CTF with a Thr668 to alanine substitution. These results suggest that IGF-1 promotes Abeta production through a secretase-independent mechanism involving APP phosphorylation.
We recently demonstrated that, as a type of multipotential stem cells, microglia give rise to microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2)-positive and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells. In this study, we investigated the role of SOX2, a high-mobility group DNA binding domain transcription factor, in the generation of microglia-derived MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells. Western blot analysis demonstrated that expression of SOX2 was upregulated by treatment with 70% fetal bovine serum treatment. Immunocytochemical analyses demonstrated that SOX2 expression was evident in the nuclei of microglia-derived MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells, whereas it was not present in the nuclei of microglia. These assays also showed that Sox2 siRNA inhibited the generation of MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells from microglia. Interestingly, this activity was also inhibited by Smad4 siRNA, which reduces SOX2 expression. These results indicate that SOX2 upregulation is involved in the generation of microglia-derived MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells through SMAD4.
Despite the alarming increment in the use and abuse of cannabis preparations among young people, little is known about possible long-term consequences of targeting the endocannabinoid system during the critical developmental period of adolescence. Therefore, we aimed to analyze possible long-lasting neurobiological consequences of enhancing endocannabinoid signalling during adolescence, by means of blocking anandamide (AEA) hydrolysis. Adolescent Wistar male rats were administered an inhibitor of AEA hydrolysis, i.e. URB597 (0, 0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg/day from postnatal days 38 to 43). The expression of brain cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1R) was then analyzed by [(3)H]CP-55,940 auto-radiographic binding at adulthood. Repeated URB597 administration during adolescence persistently modified CB1R binding in a region-dependent manner. A long-lasting decrease of CB1R binding levels was found in caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, ventral tegmental area and hippocampus, while an opposite increment was observed in the locus coeruleus. Present results provide evidence for long-lasting effects of adolescent URB597 administration. Activation of endocannabinoid transmission during the still plastic phase of adolescence may have implications for the maturational end-point of the endocannabinoid system itself, which could lead to permanent alterations in neuronal brain circuits and behavioural responses. Insights into the developmental trajectories of this neuromodulatory system may help us to better understand and prevent outcomes of neonatal and adolescent cannabis exposure.
Protein kinase A (PKA) has been suggested to be spatially regulated in migrating cells due to its ability to control signaling events that are critical for polarized actin cytoskeletal dynamics. Here, using the fluorescence resonance energy transfer-based A-kinase activity reporter (AKAR1), we find that PKA activity gradients form with the strongest activity at the leading edge and are restricted to the basal surface in migrating cells. The existence of these gradients was confirmed using immunocytochemistry using phospho-PKA substrate antibodies. This observation holds true for carcinoma cells migrating randomly on laminin-1 or stimulated to migrate on collagen I with lysophosphatidic acid. Phosphodiesterase inhibition allows the formation of PKA activity gradients; however, these gradients are no longer polarized. PKA activity gradients are not detected when a non-phosphorylatable mutant of AKAR1 is used, if PKA activity is inhibited with H-89 or protein kinase inhibitor, or when PKA anchoring is perturbed. We further find that a specific A-kinase anchoring protein, AKAP-Lbc, is a major contributor to the formation of these gradients. In summary, our data show that PKA activity gradients are generated at the leading edge of migrating cells and provide additional insight into the mechanisms of PKA regulation of cell motility.
A light signal is converted into an electrical one in a single molecule named channelrhodopsin, one of the archaea-type rhodopsins in unicellular green algae. Although highly homologous, two molecules of this family, channelrhodopsin-1 (ChR1) and -2 (ChR2), are distinct in photocurrent properties such as the wavelength sensitivity, desensitization, and turning-on and -off kinetics. However, the structures regulating these properties have not been completely identified. Photocurrents were analyzed for several chimera molecules made by replacing N-terminal segments of ChR2 with the homologous counterparts of ChR1. We found that the wavelength sensitivity of the photocurrent was red-shifted with negligible desensitization and slowed turning-on and -off kinetics when replacement was made with the segment containing the fifth transmembrane helix of ChR1. Therefore, this segment is involved in the determination of photocurrent properties, the wavelength sensitivity, and the kinetics characterizing ChR1 and ChR2. Eight amino acid residues differentiating this segment were exchanged one-by-one, and the photocurrent properties of each targeted mutant ChR2 were further analyzed. Among them, position Tyr(226)(ChR1)/Asn(187)(ChR2) is one of the molecular determinants involved in the wavelength sensitivity, desensitization, and turning-on and -off kinetics. It is suggested that these amino acid residues directly or indirectly interact with the chromophore as well as with the protein structure determining the photocurrent kinetics. Some of the chimera channelrhodopsins are suggested to have several advantages over the wild-type ChR2 in the introduction of light-induced membrane depolarization for the purpose of artificial stimulation of neurons in vivo and visual prosthesis for photoreceptor degeneration.

The use of low-frequency stimulation (LFS) as a therapy for epilepsy is currently being studied in experimental animals and patients with epilepsy. In the present study, the role of serine/threonine protein phosphatases in the inhibitory effects of LFS on perforant path kindling acquisition was investigated in rats. Animals were kindled by stimulation of perforant path in a stimulation using rapid kindling procedure (six stimulations per day). LFS (1Hz) was applied immediately after termination of each kindling stimulation. FK506 (1microM; i.c.v.), a serine/threonine protein phosphatase PP2B inhibitor and okadaic acid (1microM; i.c.v.), a serine/threonine protein phosphatases PP1/2A inhibitor, were daily microinjected into the left ventricle 10min before starting the stimulation protocol. Application of LFS retarded the kindling acquisition and delayed the expression of different kindled seizure stages significantly. In addition, LFS reduced the increment of daily afterdischarge duration during kindling development. Neither FK506 nor okadaic acid microinjection interfere with the antiepileptogenic effect of LFS on kindling parameters. Obtained results showed that activation of PP1/2A and PP2B, which play a critical role in LFS induced down-regulation of synaptic strength, had no role in mediating the inhibitory effects of LFS on perforant path kindling acquisition.
Both feedforward and feedback mechanisms are used to ensure accurate movements. Feedback information comes primarily from vision and proprioception; the relative contributions of these modalities to on-line control of action and internal model maintenance remain unclear. We report data from an experiment in which a chronically deafferented subject (JDY) and nine controls were asked to reach to targets of different sizes both with and without vision. Movement times of controls were consistent with Fitts' law on trials with and without vision. JDY's movement times were consistent with Fitts' law only with vision. She was inaccurate relative to controls with vision but exhibited a significantly greater decrement in performance than controls without vision. Finally, JDY's performance on trials with vision deteriorated as a function of the number of preceding trials on which vision was not available. These data provide support for classical models of motor control that divide reaching into an initial ballistic movement guided by efference copy, and a terminal stage where sensory feedback is crucial. Furthermore, these data also demonstrate that proprioception is needed to calibrate and maintain internal models of action.
In a typical flanker task, responses to a central target (&quot;S&quot; or &quot;N&quot;) are modulated by whether the flankers are compatible (&quot;SSSSS&quot;) or incompatible (&quot;NNSNN&quot;), with increased reaction times and decreased accuracy on incompatible trials. The role of the motor system in response interference under these conditions remains unclear, however. Here we show that transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the left primary motor cortex modulates the amount of flanker interference depending on the hand used for the response. Left motor TMS delivered at 200ms after the onset of the array increased interference from incompatible flankers (&quot;SSNSS&quot;) when the target response was associated with the contralateral motor response (i.e. for &quot;N&quot; responses with the right hand), relative to when responses were to targets using the (left) hand ipsilateral to the site of TMS. Interestingly, under identical conditions, the degree of flanker interference was reduced when the TMS pulse was applied later in time. The analyses of the TMS-induced motor evoked potentials pointed to motor activity varying in the same conditions. We discuss the implications for understanding response interference and the role of the primary motor cortex in response selection.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease that is familial in 10% of cases. We have identified a missense mutation in the gene encoding fused in sarcoma (FUS) in a British kindred, linked to ALS6. In a survey of 197 familial ALS index cases, we identified two further missense mutations in eight families. Postmortem analysis of three cases with FUS mutations showed FUS-immunoreactive cytoplasmic inclusions and predominantly lower motor neuron degeneration. Cellular expression studies revealed aberrant localization of mutant FUS protein. FUS is involved in the regulation of transcription and RNA splicing and transport, and it has functional homology to another ALS gene, TARDBP, which suggests that a common mechanism may underlie motor neuron degeneration.

A report on the Keystone Symposium on Epigenetics, Development and Human Disease, Breckenridge, Colorado, USA, 5-10 January, 2009.



A pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease is an accumulation of insoluble plaque containing the amyloid-beta peptide of 40-42 amino acid residues. Prefibrillar, soluble oligomers of amyloid-beta have been recognized to be early and key intermediates in Alzheimer's-disease-related synaptic dysfunction. At nanomolar concentrations, soluble amyloid-beta oligomers block hippocampal long-term potentiation, cause dendritic spine retraction from pyramidal cells and impair rodent spatial memory. Soluble amyloid-beta oligomers have been prepared from chemical syntheses, transfected cell culture supernatants, transgenic mouse brain and human Alzheimer's disease brain. Together, these data imply a high-affinity cell-surface receptor for soluble amyloid-beta oligomers on neurons-one that is central to the pathophysiological process in Alzheimer's disease. Here we identify the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) as an amyloid-beta-oligomer receptor by expression cloning. Amyloid-beta oligomers bind with nanomolar affinity to PrP(C), but the interaction does not require the infectious PrP(Sc) conformation. Synaptic responsiveness in hippocampal slices from young adult PrP null mice is normal, but the amyloid-beta oligomer blockade of long-term potentiation is absent. Anti-PrP antibodies prevent amyloid-beta-oligomer binding to PrP(C) and rescue synaptic plasticity in hippocampal slices from oligomeric amyloid-beta. Thus, PrP(C) is a mediator of amyloid-beta-oligomer-induced synaptic dysfunction, and PrP(C)-specific pharmaceuticals may have therapeutic potential for Alzheimer's disease.
Memory storage on short timescales is thought to be maintained by neuronal activity that persists after the remembered stimulus is removed. Although previous work suggested that positive feedback is necessary to maintain persistent activity, here it is demonstrated how neuronal responses can instead be maintained by a purely feedforward mechanism in which activity is passed sequentially through a chain of network states. This feedforward form of memory storage is shown to occur both in architecturally feedforward networks and in recurrent networks that nevertheless function in a feedforward manner. The networks can be tuned to be perfect integrators of their inputs or to reproduce the time-varying firing patterns observed during some working memory tasks but not easily reproduced by feedback-based attractor models. This work illustrates a mechanism for maintaining short-term memory in which both feedforward and feedback processes interact to govern network behavior.
Energy use, mainly to reverse ion movements in neurons, is a fundamental constraint on brain information processing. Trafficking of mitochondria to locations in neurons where there are large ion fluxes is essential for powering neural function. Mitochondrial trafficking is regulated by Ca2+ entry through ionotropic glutamate receptors, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. We show that the protein Miro1 links mitochondria to KIF5 motor proteins, allowing mitochondria to move along microtubules. This linkage is inhibited by micromolar levels of Ca2+ binding to Miro1. With the EF hand domains of Miro1 mutated to prevent Ca2+ binding, Miro1 could still facilitate mitochondrial motility, but mitochondrial stopping induced by glutamate or neuronal activity was blocked. Activating neuronal NMDA receptors with exogenous or synaptically released glutamate led to Miro1 positioning mitochondria at the postsynaptic side of synapses. Thus, Miro1 is a key determinant of how energy supply is matched to energy usage in neurons.
Transsynaptic interactions between neurons are essential during both developmental and learning-related synaptic growth. We have used Aplysia neuronal cultures to examine the contribution of transsynaptic signals in both types of synapse formation. We find that during de novo synaptogenesis, specific presynaptic innervation is required for the clustering of postsynaptic AMPA-like but not NMDA-like receptors. We further find that the cell adhesion molecule Dscam is involved in these transsynaptic interactions. Inhibition of Dscam either pre- or postsynaptically abolishes the emergence of synaptic transmission and the clustering of AMPA-like receptors. Remodeling of both AMPA-like and NMDA-like receptors also occurs during learning-related synapse formation and again requires the reactivation of Dscam-mediated transsynaptic interactions. Taken together, these findings suggest that learning-induced synapse formation recapitulates, at least in part, aspects of the mechanisms that govern de novo synaptogenesis.
In the adult rat hippocampus, the axons of granule cells in the dentate gyrus, the mossy fibers (MF), form excitatory glutamatergic synapses with CA3 principal cells. In neonates, MF release into their targets mainly GABA, which at this developmental stage is depolarizing. Here we tested the hypothesis that, at immature MF-CA3 synapses, correlated presynaptic [single fiber-evoked GABA(A)-mediated postsynaptic potentials (GPSPs)] and postsynaptic activity (back propagating action potentials) may exert a critical control on synaptic efficacy. This form of plasticity, called spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), is a Hebbian type form of learning extensively studied at the level of glutamatergic synapses. Depending on the relative timing, pairing postsynaptic spiking and single MF-GPSPs induced bidirectional changes in synaptic efficacy. In case of positive pairing, spike-timing-dependent-long-term potentiation (STD-LTP) was associated with a persistent increase in GPSP slope and in the probability of cell firing. The transduction pathway involved a rise of calcium in the postsynaptic cell and the combined activity of cAMP-dependent PKA (protein kinase A) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Retrograde signaling via BDNF and presynaptic TrkB receptors led to a persistent increase in GABA release. In &quot;presynaptically&quot; silent neurons, the enhanced probability of GABA release induced by the pairing protocol, unsilenced these synapses. Shifting E(GABA) from the depolarizing to the hyperpolarizing direction with bumetanide failed to modify synaptic strength. Thus, STD-LTP of GPSPs provides a reliable way to convey information from granule cells to the CA3 associative network at a time when glutamatergic synapses are still poorly developed.
Acoustic communication often involves complex sound motifs in which the relative durations of individual elements, but not their absolute durations, convey meaning. Decoding such signals requires an explicit or implicit calculation of the ratios between time intervals. Using grasshopper communication as a model, we demonstrate how this seemingly difficult computation can be solved in real time by a small set of auditory neurons. One of these cells, an ascending interneuron, generates bursts of action potentials in response to the rhythmic syllable-pause structure of grasshopper calls. Our data show that these bursts are preferentially triggered at syllable onset; the number of spikes within the burst is linearly correlated with the duration of the preceding pause. Integrating the number of spikes over a fixed time window therefore leads to a total spike count that reflects the characteristic syllable-to-pause ratio of the species while being invariant to playing back the call faster or slower. Such a timescale-invariant recognition is essential under natural conditions, because grasshoppers do not thermoregulate; the call of a sender sitting in the shade will be slower than that of a grasshopper in the sun. Our results show that timescale-invariant stimulus recognition can be implemented at the single-cell level without directly calculating the ratio between pulse and interpulse durations.
The primate prefrontal cortex contributes to stimulus-guided behavior, but the functional specializations among its areas remain uncertain. To better understand such specializations, we contrasted neuronal activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFdl) and the orbital prefrontal cortex (PFo). The task required rhesus monkeys to use a visual cue to choose a saccade target. Some cues instructed the monkeys to repeat their most recent response; others instructed them to change it. Responses were followed by feedback: fluid reward if correct, visual feedback if incorrect. Previous studies, using different tasks, have reported that PFo neurons did not encode responses. We found PFo did encode responses in this task, but only near feedback time, after the response had been completed. PFdl differed from PFo in several respects. As reported previously, some PFdl neurons encoded responses from the previous trial and others encoded planned responses. PFo neurons did not have these properties. After feedback, PFdl encoded rewarded responses better than unrewarded ones and thus combined response and outcome information. PFo, in contrast, encoded the responses chosen, rewarded or not. These findings suggest that PFdl and PFo contribute differently to response knowledge, with PFo using an outcome-independent signal to monitor current responses at feedback time.
Newborn inhibitory neurons migrate into existing neural circuitry in the olfactory bulb throughout the lifetime of adult mammals. While many factors contribute to the maturation of neural circuits, intracellular calcium is believed to play an important role in regulating cell migration and the development of neural systems. However, the factors underlying calcium signaling within newborn neurons in the postnatal olfactory bulb are not well understood. Here, we show that migrating, immature neurons in the olfactory bulb subependymal layer (SEL) undergo spontaneous and depolarization-evoked intracellular calcium transients mediated by high-voltage-activated L-type calcium channels. In contrast to migrating immature neurons in other brain regions, modulation of calcium transients in SEL cells does not alter their rate of migration.
Music consists of sound sequences that require integration over time. As we become familiar with music, associations between notes, melodies, and entire symphonic movements become stronger and more complex. These associations can become so tight that, for example, hearing the end of one album track can elicit a robust image of the upcoming track while anticipating it in total silence. Here, we study this predictive &quot;anticipatory imagery&quot; at various stages throughout learning and investigate activity changes in corresponding neural structures using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Anticipatory imagery (in silence) for highly familiar naturalistic music was accompanied by pronounced activity in rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and premotor areas. Examining changes in the neural bases of anticipatory imagery during two stages of learning conditional associations between simple melodies, however, demonstrates the importance of fronto-striatal connections, consistent with a role of the basal ganglia in &quot;training&quot; frontal cortex (Pasupathy and Miller, 2005). Another striking change in neural resources during learning was a shift between caudal PFC earlier to rostral PFC later in learning. Our findings regarding musical anticipation and sound sequence learning are highly compatible with studies of motor sequence learning, suggesting common predictive mechanisms in both domains.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the human brain is widely used in neuroscience, but the exact relationship between measured fMRI response and the underlying changes in neuronal activity is still elusive. To obtain further information about the specific roles of synaptic (input) and spiking activity (output) for the generation of fMRI-related signals, we used an approach that combines electrophysiological and MRI measurements in the anatomically and physiologically well defined rat hippocampus. Direct electrical stimulation of the perforant pathway enabled us to control synchronized input activity to the dentate gyrus, whereas recorded population spikes from the granular cell layer indicated the dentate output activity. The perforant pathway was first stimulated with 15 identical pulse trains (10 Hz for 8 s), and evoked blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) responses and population spikes were measured for each individual stimulus train. Spatial and magnitude aspects of the elicited BOLD responses differentially changed in the dentate gyrus and hippocampus from early to late stimulus trains together with population spike latencies in the dentate indicating delayed inhibitory network processing. Furthermore, the same number of stimuli presented in different patterns within trains (i.e., bursts of 10 stimuli at 50, 100, or 200 Hz) clearly altered the BOLD responses. Similarly, variations in the BOLD response also occurred when different stimulus patterns were chosen that caused the same number of population spikes. The results indicate that neuronal network activity including inhibitory interneurons rather than exclusively the input or spiking activity of the principal neurons determine a BOLD response to repetitive stimuli.
Several theories have proposed a functional role for synchronous neuronal firing in generating the neural code of a sensory perception. Synchronous neural activity develops during a critical postnatal period of cortical maturation, and severely reducing neural activity in a sensory pathway during this period could interfere with the development of coincident discharge among cortical neurons. Loss of such synchrony could provide a fundamental mechanism for the degradation of acuity shown in behavioral studies. We tested the hypothesis that synchronous discharge of barrel cortex neurons would fail to develop after sensory deprivation produced by bilateral whisker trimming from birth to postnatal day 60. By studying the correlated discharge of cortical neuron pairs, we found evidence for strong correlated firing in control animals, and this synchrony was almost absent among pairs of cortical barrel neurons in deprived animals. The degree of synchrony impairment was different in subregions of rat barrel cortex. The model that best fits the data is that cortical neurons receiving direct inputs from the primary sensory (lemniscal) pathway show the greatest decrement in synchrony following sensory deprivation, while neurons with diverse inputs from other areas of thalamus and cortex are relatively less affected in this dimension of cortical function.
Various arguments suggest that neuronal coding of natural sensory stimuli should be sparse (i.e., individual neurons should respond rarely but should respond reliably). We examined sparseness of visual cortical neurons in anesthetized ferret to flashed natural scenes. Response behavior differed widely between neurons. The median firing rate of 4.1 impulses per second was slightly higher than predicted from consideration of metabolic load. Thirteen percent of neurons (12 of 89) responded to &lt;5% of the images, but one-half responded to &gt;25% of images. Multivariate analysis of the range of sparseness values showed that 67% of the variance was accounted for by differing response patterns to moving gratings. Repeat presentation of images showed that response variance for natural images exaggerated sparseness measures; variance was scaled with mean response, but with a lower Fano factor than for the responses to moving gratings. This response variability and the &quot;soft&quot; sparse responses (Rehn and Sommer, 2007) raise the question of what constitutes a reliable neuronal response and imply parallel signaling by multiple neurons. We investigated whether the temporal structure of responses might be reliable enough to give additional information about natural scenes. Poststimulus time histogram shape was similar for &quot;strong&quot; and &quot;weak&quot; stimuli, with no systematic change in first-spike latency with stimulus strength. The variance of first-spike latency for repeat presentations of the same image was greater than the latency variance between images. In general, responses to flashed natural scenes do not seem compatible with a sparse encoding in which neurons fire rarely but reliably.
Decreased GABAergic signaling is among the more robust pathologies observed postmortem in schizophrenia; however, the functional consequences of this deficit are still largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate, in a verified animal model of schizophrenia, that a reduced expression of parvalbumin (PV)-containing interneurons is correlated with a reduction in coordinated neuronal activity during task performance in freely moving rats. More specifically, methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM)-treated rats display a decreased density of parvalbumin-positive interneurons throughout the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and ventral (but not dorsal) subiculum of the hippocampus. Furthermore, the reduction in interneuron functionality is correlated with a significantly reduced gamma-band response to a conditioned tone during a latent inhibition paradigm. Finally, deficits in mPFC and ventral hippocampal oscillatory activity are associated with an impaired behavioral expression of latent inhibition in MAM-treated rats. Thus, we propose that a decrease in intrinsic GABAergic signaling may be responsible, at least in part, for the prefrontal and hippocampal hypofunctionality observed during task performance, which is consistently observed in animal models as well as in schizophrenia in humans. In addition, a deficit in intrinsic GABAergic signaling may be the origin of the hippocampal hyperactivity purported to underlie the dopamine dysfunction in psychosis. Such information is central to gaining a better understanding of the disease pathophysiology and alternate pharmacotherapeutic approaches.
CREB-target gene transcription during neuronal excitation is important for many aspects of neuronal development and function, including dendrite morphogenesis. However, the signaling events that regulate cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB)-mediated gene transcription during dendritic development are not well understood. Herein we report that the CREB coactivator TORC1 (transducer of regulated CREB 1) is required for activity-dependent CREB-target gene expression and dendrite growth in developing cortical neurons. Ca(2+) influx via voltage-gated calcium channels induced TORC1 dephosphorylation and translocation into the nucleus in a calcineurin-dependent manner. Nuclear accumulation of TORC1 initiated the expression of CREB-target genes, including salt-inducible kinase 1 (SIK1). In response of persistent depolarization, de novo SIK1 protein in turn promoted TORC1 phosphorylation and consequent depletion of nucleus-localized TORC1. SIK1 induction thus appears to act as a negative feedback signal that prevents persistent CREB/TORC1-dependent transcription in the face of long-lasting neuronal activity. Overexpressing wild type TORC1 promoted basal as well as activity-induced dendritic growth, whereas expressing a dominant-negative form of TORC1 or downregulating TORC1 inhibited activity-dependent dendritic growth in vitro and in vivo. Together, these results suggest that neuronal activity-dependent dendritic growth in developing cortical neurons relies on transient TORC1-mediated CREB-target gene transcription.
During development, a specific subset of ventral spinal cord precursors called pMN cells produces first motor neurons and then oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), which migrate, divide and differentiate as myelinating oligodendrocytes. pMN cells express the Olig2 transcription factor and Olig2 function is necessary for formation of spinal motor neurons and OPCs. In the hindbrain and midbrain, distinct classes of visceral, branchiomotor and somatic motor neurons are organized as discrete nuclei, and OPCs are broadly distributed. Mouse embryos deficient for Olig2 function lack somatic motor neurons and OPCs, but it is not clear whether this reflects a common origin for these cells, similar to spinal cord, or independent requirements for Olig2 function in somatic motor neuron and OPC development. We investigated cranial motor neuron and OPC development in zebrafish and found, using a combination of transgenic reporters and cell type specific antibodies, that somatic abducens motor neurons and a small subset of OPCs arise from common olig2(+) neuroepithelial precursors in rhombomeres r5 and r6, but that all other motor neurons and OPCs do not similarly develop from shared pools of olig2(+) precursors. In the absence of olig2 function, r5 and r6 precursors remain in the cell cycle and fail to produce abducens motor neurons, and OPCs are entirely lacking in the hindbrain. These studies, therefore, reveal both common and independent roles for olig2 in development of somatic motor neurons and oligodendrocytes of the hindbrain.

Background. Previous reports have indicated that ketamine anesthesia may produce significant improvement if not complete recovery of patients with complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). Aims. Here we report on a patient who had CRPS affecting mainly the right side of her body who underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans prior to and in the months following apparent successful treatment with anesthetic doses of ketamine. Materials and Methods. The patient underwent two imaging sessions: one during her pain state (CRPS(+)) and 1 month after her ketamine treatment in her pain-free state (CRPS(-)). Both spontaneous and evoked (brush, cold, and heat) pain scores decreased from 7-9/10 on a visual analog scale prior to the treatment to 0-1 immediately following and for months after the treatment. For each imaging session, the identical mechanical (brush) and thermal (cold and heat) stimuli were applied to the same location (the skin of the dorsum of the right hand). Results. Comparison of CRPS(+) vs CRPS(-) for the three stimuli showed significant changes throughout the cerebral cortex (frontal, parietal, temporal, cingulate, and hippocampus), in subcortical regions such as caudate nucleus, and in the cerebellum. In addition, resting state network analysis showed a reversal of brain network state, and the recovered state paralleled specific default networks in healthy volunteers. Discussion. The observed changes in brain response to evoked stimuli provide a readout for the subjective response. Conclusion. Future studies of brain function in these patients may provide novel insight into brain plasticity in response to this treatment for chronic pain.


A new study using transcranial magnetic stimulation of the brain shows that each of three neighboring areas of visual cortex plays a specific and causal role in perceiving faces, bodies and other kinds of objects.
Neuroscientists have long debated whether focal brain regions perform specific cognitive functions [1-5], and the issue remains central to a current debate about visual object recognition. The distributed view of cortical function suggests that object discrimination depends on dispersed but functionally overlapping representations spread across visual cortex [6-8]. The modular view claims different categories of objects are discriminated in functionally segregated and specialized cortical areas [9-11]. To test these competing theories, we delivered transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over three adjacent functionally localized areas in extrastriate cortex. In three experiments, participants performed discrimination tasks involving faces, bodies, and objects while TMS was delivered over the right occipital face area (rOFA) [12], the right extrastriate body area (rEBA) [13], or the right lateral occipital area (rLO) [14]. All three experiments showed a task selective dissociation with performance impaired only by stimulation at the site selective for that category: TMS over rOFA impaired discrimination of faces but not objects or bodies; TMS over rEBA impaired discrimination of bodies but not faces or objects; TMS over rLO impaired discrimination of objects but not faces or bodies. The results support a modular account in which category-selective areas contribute solely to discrimination of their preferred categories.



Methylphenidate is the psychostimulant medication most commonly prescribed to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Recent trends in the high usage of methylphenidate for both therapeutic and nontherapeutic purposes prompted us to investigate the long-term effects of exposure to the drug on neuronal adaptation. We compared the effects of chronic methylphenidate or cocaine (15 mg/kg, 14 days for both) exposure in mice on dendritic spine morphology and DeltaFosB expression in medium-sized spiny neurons (MSN) from ventral and dorsal striatum. Chronic methylphenidate increased the density of dendritic spines in MSN-D1 (MSN-expressing dopamine D1 receptors) from the core and shell of nucleus accumbens (NAcc) as well as MSN-D2 (MSN-expressing dopamine D2 receptors) from the shell of NAcc. In contrast, cocaine increased the density of spines in both populations of MSN from all regions of striatum. In general, the effect of methylphenidate on the increase of shorter spines (class 2) was less than that of cocaine. Interestingly, the methylphenidate-induced increase in the density of relatively longer spines (class 3) in the shell of NAcc was bigger than that induced by cocaine. Furthermore, methylphenidate exposure increased expression of DeltaFosB only in MSN-D1 from all areas of striatum, and surprisingly, the increase was greater than that induced by cocaine. Thus, our results show differential effects of methylphenidate and cocaine on neuronal adaptation in specific types of MSN in reward-related brain regions.
Synaptic transmission depends on the continued availability of neurotransmitter-filled synaptic vesicles (SVs) for triggered release from presynaptic boutons. Surprisingly, small boutons in the brain, that already contain comparatively few SVs, are thought to retain the majority of these SVs in a &quot;reserve&quot; pool that is not mobilized under physiological conditions. Why such a scarce synaptic resource is normally inaccessible has been a matter of debate. Here, we readdress this issue by developing an electrophysiological approach for counting SVs released from boutons formed by a single, isolated neuron on itself (&quot;autapses&quot;). We show that, after treatment with Bafilomycin A1 to prevent reloading of discharged SVs with glutamate, each SV is counted only once on first-time release. Hence, by integrating all autaptic currents as they run down over time, we can estimate the total number of SVs released by a single neuron. This total can be normalized to the number of boutons on the neuron, giving the mean number of SVs released per bouton. We estimate that up to approximately 130 vesicles can be released per bouton over approximately 10 min of stimulation at 0.2 Hz. This number of vesicles represents a substantial proportion of the total number of SVs (100-200) that have been counted in these boutons by using electron microscopy. Thus, mild electrical stimulation, when maintained for sufficient time, causes the eventual release of many of the SVs in a bouton, including those in the putative reserve pool. This result suggests that SVs are functionally homogeneous in that the majority can contribute to basal synaptic transmission.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) and in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) animal model of PD. It is known that under conditions of oxidative stress, the transcription factor NF-E2-related factor (Nrf2) binds to antioxidant response element (ARE) to induce antioxidant and phase II detoxification enzymes. To investigate the role of Nrf2 in the process of MPTP-induced toxicity, mice expressing the human placental alkaline phosphatase (hPAP) gene driven by a promoter containing a core ARE sequence (ARE-hPAP) were used. ARE-hPAP mice were injected (30 mg/kg) once per day for 5 days and killed 7 days after the last MPTP injection. In response to this design, ARE-dependent gene expression was decreased in striatum whereas it was increased in substantia nigra. The same MPTP protocol was applied in Nrf2(+/+) and Nrf2(-/-) mice; Nrf2 deficiency increases MPTP sensitivity. Furthermore, we evaluated the potential for astrocytic Nrf2 overexpression to protect from MPTP toxicity. Transgenic mice with Nrf2 under control of the astrocyte-specific promoter for the glial fribillary acidic protein (GFAP-Nrf2) on both a Nrf2(+/+) and Nrf2(-/-) background were administered MPTP. In the latter case, only the astrocytes expressed Nrf2. Independent of background, MPTP-mediated toxicity was abolished in GFAP-Nrf2 mice. These striking results indicate that Nrf2 expression restricted to astrocytes is sufficient to protect against MPTP and astrocytic modulation of the Nrf2-ARE pathway is a promising target for therapeutics aimed at reducing or preventing neuronal death in PD.
Translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is required for the regulation of gene expression by transcription factors of the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) family. The p65:p50 NF-kappaB heterodimer that predominates in many cell types can undergo stimulated movement, following degradation of the IkappaB inhibitor, as well as shuttling in the absence of stimulation with IkappaB bound. Disruption of the dynactin complex and knockdown of endogenous dynein were used to investigate the nuclear translocation requirements for stimulated and shuttling movement of NF-kappaB. A differential dependence of these two modes of transport on the dynein molecular motor and dynactin was found. NF-kappaB used active dynein-dependent transport following stimulation while translocation during shuttling was mediated by a dynein-independent pathway that could be potentiated by dynactin disruption, consistent with a process of facilitated diffusion. Nuclear translocation and activation of NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression showed a dependence on endogenous dynein in a variety of cell types and in response to diverse activating stimuli, suggesting that dynein-dependent transport of NF-kappaB may be a conserved mechanism in the NF-kappaB activation pathway and could represent a potential point of regulation.
We report the cloning and characterization of TOX3, a high mobility group box protein involved in mediating calcium-dependent transcription. TOX3 was identified as a calcium-dependent transactivator using the Transactivator Trap screen. We find that TOX3 interacts with both cAMP response element (CRE)-binding protein (CREB) and CREB-binding protein (CBP), and knockdown of the endogenous TOX3 by RNAi leads to significant reduction of calcium-induced c-fos expression and complete inhibition of calcium activation of the c-fos promoter. The effects of TOX3 on calcium-dependent transcription require the CRE elements. These observations identify TOX3 as an important regulator of calcium-dependent transcription and suggest that TOX3 exerts its effect on CRE-mediated transcription via its association with the CREB-CBP complex.
D-serine is a physiologic coagonist with glutamate at NMDA-subtype glutamate receptors. As D-serine is localized in glia, synaptically released glutamate presumably stimulates the glia to form and release D-serine, enabling glutamate/D-serine cotransmission. We show that serine racemase (SR), which generates D-serine from L-serine, is physiologically inhibited by phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate (PIP2) presence in membranes where SR is localized. Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR5) on glia leads to phospholipase C-mediated degradation of PIP2, relieving SR inhibition. Thus mutants of SR that cannot bind PIP2 lose their membrane localizations and display a 4-fold enhancement of catalytic activity. Moreover, mGluR5 activation of SR activity is abolished by inhibiting phospholipase C.
Learning increases the survival of new cells that are generated in the hippocampal formation before the training experience, especially if the animal learns to associate stimuli across time [Gould E, Beylin A, Tanapat P, Reeves A, Shors TJ (1999) Nat Neurosci 2:260-265]. All relevant studies have been conducted on male rats, despite evidence for sex differences in this type of learning. In the present study, we asked whether sex differences in learning influence the survival of neurons generated in the adult hippocampus. Male and female adult rats were injected with one dose of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU; 200 mg/kg), to label one population of dividing cells. One week later, half of the animals were trained with a temporal learning task of trace eyeblink conditioning, while the other half were not trained. Animals were killed 1 day after training (12 days after the BrdU injection). Hippocampal tissue was stained for BrdU and a marker of immature neurons, doublecortin. Both sexes learned to emit the conditioned eyeblink response during the trace interval. As a consequence, more new neurons remained in their hippocampi than in sex-matched controls. In individual animals, the number of surviving cells correlated positively with asymptotic performance; those that expressed more learned responses retained more new neurons. However, animals that learned very well retained even more new cells if they required many trials to do so. Because females emitted more learned responses than males did, they retained nearly twice as many new cells per unit volume of tissue. This effect was most evident in the ventral region of the hippocampal formation. Thus, sex differences in learning alter the anatomical structure of the hippocampus. As a result, male and female brains continue to differentiate in adulthood.

One set of evolutionary features that has received less attention than the evolution of genes or species is the evolution of cellular machines, the self-contained structures in cells with dedicated functions. Here I suggest that domain expansion through shuffling, duplication, and changes in protein expression level are critical drivers in the evolution of cellular machines. Once established, evolutionary change in these cellular machines tends to occur by paralogy or expansion and modification of the existing core genes. A comparative genomics approach to one cellular machine--the post-synaptic complex--provided preliminary validation of these views. A comparative genomics approach to the entire cellulome may reveal the diversity of cellular machines and their inter-relationships.
Most biomedical neuroscientists realize the importance of the study of brain evolution to help them understand the differences and similarities between their animal model of choice and the human brains in which they are ultimately interested. Many think of evolution as a linear process, going from simpler brains, as those of rats, to more complex ones, as those of humans. However, in reality, every extant species' brain has undergone as long a period of evolution as has the human brain, and each brain has its own species-specific adaptations. By understanding the variety of existing brain types, we can more accurately reconstruct the brains of common ancestors, and understand which brain traits (of humans as well as other species) are derived and which are ancestral. This understanding also allows us to identify convergently evolved traits, which are crucial in formulating hypotheses about structure-function relationships in the brain. A thorough understanding of the processes and patterns of brain evolution is essential to generalizing findings from 'model species' to humans, which is the backbone of modern biomedical science.
Stress can precipitate onset of multiple mood-related disorders, including depression. Examination of the neural basis of this phenomenon has highlighted the amygdala as a key component. Alterations in amygdalar activity and structure accompany various mood-related disorders, and interestingly, amygdalar morphology and behavior can be altered in animals subjected to repeated stress. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transmission in the amygdala represents an important means by which information flow, activity, and function can be controlled; therefore, we determined the effects of acute and repeated restraint stress (RRS) on GABA efflux in the basolateral and central amygdalar complexes. In vivo microdialysis revealed that acute restraint stress increased GABA efflux in the basolateral amygdala, whereas central amygdala efflux remained unchanged. Animals subjected to prior repeated stress displayed no acute stress-mediated increases in GABA efflux in the basolateral amygdala, an event accompanied by no changes in basal GABA concentrations. Conversely, repeated restraint stress had no effect on GABA efflux or basal GABA levels in the CeA. Collectively, these data demonstrate that acute stress elicits unique and region-specific increases in GABA efflux in the rat amygdala, and that prior repeated stress differentially modifies this response.
The localization of mRNAs to subcellular compartments provides a mechanism for regulating gene expression with exquisite temporal and spatial control. Recent studies suggest that a large fraction of mRNAs localize to distinct cytoplasmic domains. In this Review, we focus on cis-acting RNA localization elements, RNA-binding proteins, and the assembly of mRNAs into granules that are transported by molecular motors along cytoskeletal elements to their final destination in the cell.
An important role for specific lipids in membrane fusion has recently emerged, but regulation of their biosynthesis remains poorly understood. Among fusogenic lipids, phosphatidic acid and phosphoinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) have been proposed to act at various steps of neurotransmitter and hormone exocytosis. Using real time FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) measurements, we show here that the GTPase ARF6, potentially involved in the synthesis of these lipids, is activated at the exocytotic sites in PC12 cells stimulated for secretion. Depletion of endogenous ARF6 by siRNA dramatically inhibited secretagogue-evoked exocytosis. ARF6-siRNA greatly reduced secretagogue-evoked phospholipase D (PLD) activation and phosphatidic acid formation at the plasma membrane and moderately reduced constitutive levels of PIP(2) present at the plasma membrane in resting cells. Expression of an ARF6 insensitive to short interference RNA (siRNA) fully rescued secretion in ARF6-depleted cells. However, a mutated ARF6 protein specifically impaired in its ability to stimulate PLD had no effect. Finally, we show that the ARF6-siRNA-mediated inhibition of exocytosis could be rescued by an exogenous addition of lysophosphatidylcholine, a lipid that favors negative curvature on the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane. Altogether these data indicate that ARF6 is a critical upstream signaling element in the activation of PLD necessary to produce the fusogenic lipids required for exocytosis.
Dynamic inactivation in Kv4 A-type K(+) current plays a critical role in regulating neuronal excitability by shaping action potential waveform and duration. Multifunctional auxiliary KChIP1-4 subunits, which share a high homology in their C-terminal core regions, exhibit distinctive modulation of inactivation and surface expression of pore-forming Kv4 subunits. However, the structural differences that underlie the functional diversity of Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) remain undetermined. Here we have described the crystal structure of KChIP4a at 3.0A resolution, which shows distinct N-terminal alpha-helices that differentiate it from other KChIPs. Biochemical experiments showed that competitive binding of the Kv4.3 N-terminal peptide to the hydrophobic groove of the core of KChIP4a causes the release of the KChIP4a N terminus that suppresses the inactivation of Kv4.3 channels. Electrophysiology experiments confirmed that the first N-terminal alpha-helix peptide (residues 1-34) of KChIP4a, either by itself or fused to N-terminal truncated Kv4.3, can confer slow inactivation. We propose that N-terminal binding of Kv4.3 to the core of KChIP4a mobilizes the KChIP4a N terminus, which serves as the slow inactivation gate.
Our previous work on human myoblasts suggested that a hyperpolarization followed by a rise in [Ca(2+)](in) involving store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE) channels induced myoblast differentiation. Advances in the understanding of the SOCE pathway led us to examine more precisely its role in post-natal human myoblast differentiation. We found that SOCE orchestrated by STIM1, the endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) sensor activating Orai Ca(2+) channels, is crucial. Silencing STIM1, Orai1, or Orai3 reduced SOCE amplitude and myoblast differentiation, whereas Orai2 knockdown had no effect. Conversely, overexpression of STIM1 with Orai1 increased SOCE and accelerated myoblast differentiation. STIM1 or Orai1 silencing decreased resting [Ca(2+)](in) and intracellular Ca(2+) store content, but correction of these parameters did not rescue myoblast differentiation. Remarkably, SOCE amplitude correlated linearly with the expression of two early markers of myoblast differentiation, MEF2 and myogenin, regardless of the STIM or Orai isoform that was silenced. Unexpectedly, we found that the hyperpolarization also depends on SOCE, placing SOCE upstream of K(+) channel activation in the signaling cascade that controls myoblast differentiation. These findings indicate that STIM1 and Orai1 are key molecules for the induction of human myoblast differentiation.
The present study examines subcortical connections of paraventricular thalamic nucleus (Pa) following small anterograde and retrograde tracer injections in cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). An anterograde tracer injection into the dorsal midline thalamus revealed strong projections to the accumbens nucleus, basal amygdala, lateral septum, and hypothalamus. Retrograde tracer injections into these areas labeled neurons specifically in Pa. Following a retrograde tracer injection into Pa, labeled neurons were found in the hypothalamus, dorsal raphe, and periaqueductal gray. Pa contained a remarkably high density of axons and axonal varicosities immunoreactive for serotonin (5-HT) and orexin/hypocretin (ORX), as well as a moderate density of fibers immunoreactive for corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). A retrograde tracer injection into Pa combined with immunohistochemistry demonstrated that ORX and 5-HT axons originate from neurons in the hypothalamus and midbrain. Pa-projecting neurons were localized in the same nuclei of the hypothalamus, amygdala, and midbrain as CRH neurons, although no double labeling was found. The connections of Pa and its innervation by 5-HT, ORX, and CRH suggest that it may relay stress signals between the midbrain and hypothalamus with the accumbens nucleus, basal amygdala, and subgenual cortex as part of a circuit that manages stress and possibly stress-related psychopathologies.
The periaqueductal gray (PAG) and nucleus cuneiformis (CnF), like the rostral ventromedial medulla, have functional roles in descending pain-inhibitory pathway related to morphine antinociception. There is not any evidence concerning the role of different regions of the PAG on antinociceptive effect of morphine administered into the CnF in pain modulatory system. In the present study, we investigate whether electrolytic lesion of dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (dl-PAG) influence the analgesic effect of morphine microinjected into the CnF. 71 adult male Wistar rats weighting 230-280 g cannulated bilaterally into the CnF, concurrently lesion of dl-PAG was done. The tail-flick and formalin tests were performed to measure pain and antinociceptive effect of morphine microinjected into the CnF (2.5 microg/0.3 microl saline per side). The tail-flick latency was measured at 15, 30, 45, 60 and 75 min following morphine microinjection. In formalin test, pain behavior was recorded for 60 min in early (0-5 min) and late (15-60 min) phases after formalin injection. Each rat was given a subcutaneous 50-microl injection of formalin 2.5% into plantar surface of hind paw following morphine administration. The results showed that dl-PAG lesion attenuated the effect of morphine microinjected into the CnF both in tail-flick and formalin tests while dl-PAG lesion solely did not alter basal pain behavior as compared to control group. In conclusion, our results suggest the existence of a direct or indirect projection from CnF to the dl-PAG at least at the level of the morphine antinociception in pain modulation.
Here we report preliminary findings from a small-sample functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study of healthy adolescents who completed a working memory task in the context of a chronic sleep restriction experiment. Findings were consistent with those previously obtained on acutely sleep-deprived adults. Our data suggest that, when asked to maintain attention and burdened by chronic sleep restriction, the adolescent brain responds via compensatory mechanisms that accentuate the typical activation patterns of attention-relevant brain regions. Specifically, it appeared that regions that are normally active during an attention-demanding working memory task in the well-rested brain became even more active to maintain performance after chronic sleep restriction. In contrast, regions in which activity is normally suppressed during such a task in the well-rested brain showed even greater suppression to maintain performance after chronic sleep restriction. Although limited by the small sample, study results provide important evidence of feasibility, as well as guidance for future research into the functional neurological effects of chronic sleep restriction in general, the effects of sleep restriction in children and adolescents, and the neuroscience of attention and its disorders in children.
Alzheimer's disease is a devastating neurological disorder that affects more than 37 million people worldwide. The economic burden of Alzheimer's disease is massive; in the United States alone, the estimated direct and indirect annual cost of patient care is at least $100 billion. Current FDA-approved drugs for Alzheimer's disease do not prevent or reverse the disease, and provide only modest symptomatic benefits. Driven by the clear unmet medical need and a growing understanding of the molecular pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease, the number of agents in development has increased dramatically in recent years. Truly *'disease-modifying' therapies that target the underlying mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease have now reached late stages of human clinical trials. Primary targets include beta-amyloid, whose presence and accumulation in the brain is thought to contribute to the development of Alzheimer's disease, and tau protein which, when hyperphosphorylated, results in the self-assembly of tangles of paired helical filaments also believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. In this review, we briefly discuss the current status of Alzheimer's disease therapies under study, as well the scientific context in which they have been developed.
Pax2 is a well known transcription factor which participates in optic nerve development. It assures the correct arrival and package of the newly formed retinal axons and the adequate differentiation of the newly formed glial cells. Pax2 protein expression is continuous throughout adult life in the goldfish optic nerve. We have found two populations of astrocytes in the optic nerve: Pax2(+) and Pax2(-). Moreover, we have observed that the Pax2(+) astrocytes from the optic nerve head present differences in number and organization to those of the rest of the optic nerve. In the optic nerve head some Pax2(+) astrocytes, principally localized in the glia limitans, have thin GFAP(+) processes and weak cytokeratin and ZO1 immunolabeling. Several Pax2(+) astrocytes are in close association with the GFAP(+)/GS(+) Mller cell vitreal processes and with the growing Zn8(+) retinal ganglion cell axons. However, in the intraorbital segment, Pax2(+) astrocytes are more numerous and they have strongly cytokeratin(+)/ZO1(+) processes and form part of the reticular astrocytes and the glia limitans. We also found Pax2(-) astrocytes in both the optic nerve head and the intraorbital segment. In the intraorbital segment there are GS(+)/Pax2(-) cells which are absent from the optic nerve head. We propose that the maintenance of Pax2 protein expression in adult goldfish optic nerve could be related to the continuous addition of new ganglion cell axons and new glial cells.
Mature sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) are regulated by target-derived neurotrophins such as nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). High molecular weight NGF species and mature NT-3 are the predominant NGF and NT-3 protein isoforms in the SCG, yet it is unknown whether the presence of these species is dependent on intact connection with the target tissues. In an attempt to determine the role of peripheral targets in regulating the neurotrophin species found in the SCG, we investigated the NGF and NT-3 protein species present in the SCG following axotomy (transection) or injury of the post-ganglionic axons. Following a 7 day axotomy, the 22-24 kDa NGF species and the mature 14 kDa NT-3 species in the SCG were significantly reduced by 99% and 66% respectively, suggesting that intact connection with the target is necessary for the expression of these protein species. As expected, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein in the SCG was significantly reduced by 80% at 7 days following axotomy. In order to distinguish between the effects of injury and loss of target connectivity, the SCG was examined following compression injury to the post-ganglionic nerves. Following injury, no reduction in the 22-24 kDa NGF or 14 kDa mature NT-3 species was observed in the SCG. TH protein was slightly, yet significantly, decreased in the SCG following injury. The findings of this study suggest that the presence of the 22-24 kDa NGF and mature 14 kDa NT-3 species in the SCG is dependent on connection with peripheral targets and may influence, at least in part, TH protein expression in adult sympathetic neurons.
The representations employed by the visual system for dynamic object recognition remain relatively unclear, due in part to the lack of sufficient data constraining the nature of the underlying encoding processes. In the current study, we examined the limits of invariant recognition for unfamiliar moving objects in the context of a same/different matching task. In Experiments 1 and 2, Observers were asked to evaluate whether pairs of moving objects differed in identity subject to a spatial manipulation (inversion) and a spatiotemporal manipulation (speed change between sample and target). We find evidence of a speed-dependent inversion effect, suggesting distinct modes of processing for fast-moving and slow-moving objects. Furthermore, we observe a deleterious effect of speed change between sample and test stimuli, indicating that the speed of appearance change is encoded by the visual system for recognition. In a third experiment, we also observed a speed-dependency in the extent to which the direction of motion is encoded by the visual system for recognition. These results are discussed in the context of previous proposals regarding dynamic object representations, and in terms of an emerging model of dynamic object perception.

To act as computational devices, neurons must perform mathematical operations as they transform synaptic and modulatory input into output firing rate. Experiments and theory indicate that neuronal firing typically represents the sum of synaptic inputs, an additive operation, but multiplication of inputs is essential for many computations. Multiplication by a constant produces a change in the slope, or gain, of the input-output relationship, amplifying or scaling down the sensitivity of the neuron to changes in its input. Such gain modulation occurs in vivo, during contrast invariance of orientation tuning, attentional scaling, translation-invariant object recognition, auditory processing and coordinate transformations. Moreover, theoretical studies highlight the necessity of gain modulation in several of these tasks. Although potential cellular mechanisms for gain modulation have been identified, they often rely on membrane noise and require restrictive conditions to work. Because nonlinear components are used to scale signals in electronics, we examined whether synaptic nonlinearities are involved in neuronal gain modulation. We used synaptic stimulation and the dynamic-clamp technique to investigate gain modulation in granule cells in acute slices of rat cerebellum. Here we show that when excitation is mediated by synapses with short-term depression (STD), neuronal gain is controlled by an inhibitory conductance in a noise-independent manner, allowing driving and modulatory inputs to be multiplied together. The nonlinearity introduced by STD transforms inhibition-mediated additive shifts in the input-output relationship into multiplicative gain changes. When granule cells were driven with bursts of high-frequency mossy fibre input, as observed in vivo, larger inhibition-mediated gain changes were observed, as expected with greater STD. Simulations of synaptic integration in more complex neocortical neurons suggest that STD-based gain modulation can also operate in neurons with large dendritic trees. Our results establish that neurons receiving depressing excitatory inputs can act as powerful multiplicative devices even when integration of postsynaptic conductances is linear.
A major challenge in neuroscience is to resolve the connection between gene functionality, neuronal circuits, and behavior. Most, if not all, neuronal circuits of the adult brain contain a glutamatergic component, the nature of which has been difficult to assess because of the vast cellular abundance of glutamate. In this study, we wanted to determine the role of a restricted subpopulation of glutamatergic neurons within the forebrain, the Vglut2-expressing neurons, in neuronal circuitry of higher brain function. Vglut2 expression was selectively deleted in the cortex, hippocampus, and amygdala of preadolescent mice, which resulted in increased locomotor activity, altered social dominance and risk assessment, decreased sensorimotor gating, and impaired long-term spatial memory. Presynaptic VGLUT2-positive terminals were lost in the cortex, striatum, nucleus accumbens, and hippocampus, and a downstream effect on dopamine binding site availability in the striatum was evident. A connection between the induced late-onset, chronic reduction of glutamatergic neurotransmission and dopamine signaling within the circuitry was further substantiated by a partial attenuation of the deficits in sensorimotor gating by the dopamine-stabilizing antipsychotic drug aripiprazole and an increased sensitivity to amphetamine. Somewhat surprisingly, given the restricted expression of Vglut2 in regions responsible for higher brain function, our analyses show that VGLUT2-mediated neurotransmission is required for certain aspects of cognitive, emotional, and social behavior. The present study provides support for the existence of a neurocircuitry that connects changes in VGLUT2-mediated neurotransmission to alterations in the dopaminergic system with schizophrenia-like behavioral deficits as a major outcome.
Tau inclusions are a prominent feature of many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease. Their accumulation in neurons as ubiquitinated filaments suggests a failure in the degradation limb of the Tau pathway. The components of a Tau protein triage system consisting of CHIP/Hsp70 and other chaperones have begun to emerge. However, the site of triage and the master regulatory elements are unknown. Here, we report an elegant mechanism of Tau degradation involving the cochaperone BAG2. The BAG2/Hsp70 complex is tethered to the microtubule and this complex can capture and deliver Tau to the proteasome for ubiquitin-independent degradation. This complex preferentially degrades Sarkosyl insoluble Tau and phosphorylated Tau. BAG2 levels in cells are under the physiological control of the microRNA miR-128a, which can tune paired helical filament Tau levels in neurons. Thus, we propose that ubiquitinated Tau inclusions arise due to shunting of Tau degradation toward a less efficient ubiquitin-dependent pathway.
In subjects trained extensively to indicate a perceptual decision with an action, neural commands that generate the action can represent the process of forming the decision. However, it is unknown whether this representation requires overtraining or reflects a more general link between perceptual and motor processing. We examined how perceptual processing is represented in motor commands in naive monkeys being trained on a demanding perceptual task, as they first establish the sensory-motor association and then learn to form more accurate perceptual judgments. The task required the monkeys to decide the direction of random-dot motion and respond with an eye movement to one of two visual targets. Using electrically evoked saccades, we examined oculomotor commands that developed during motion viewing. Throughout training, these commands tended to reflect both the subsequent binary choice of saccade target and the weighing of graded motion evidence used to arrive at that choice. Moreover, these decision-related oculomotor signals, along with the time needed to initiate the voluntary saccadic response, changed steadily as training progressed, approximately matching concomitant improvements in behavioral sensitivity to the motion stimulus. Thus, motor circuits may have general access to perceptual processing used to select between actions, even without extensive training. The results also suggest a novel candidate mechanism for some forms of perceptual learning, in which the brain learns rapidly to treat a perceptual decision as a problem of action selection and then over time to use sensory input more effectively to guide the selection process.
The beta subunits of voltage-gated Na channels (Scnxb) regulate the gating of pore-forming alpha subunits, as well as their trafficking and localization. In heterologous expression systems, beta1, beta2, and beta3 subunits influence inactivation and persistent current in different ways. To test how the beta4 protein regulates Na channel gating, we transfected beta4 into HEK (human embryonic kidney) cells stably expressing Na(V)1.1. Unlike a free peptide with a sequence from the beta4 cytoplasmic domain, the full-length beta4 protein did not block open channels. Instead, beta4 expression favored open states by shifting activation curves negative, decreasing the slope of the inactivation curve, and increasing the percentage of noninactivating current. Consequently, persistent current tripled in amplitude. Expression of beta1 or chimeric subunits including the beta1 extracellular domain, however, favored inactivation. Coexpressing Na(V)1.1 and beta4 with beta1 produced tiny persistent currents, indicating that beta1 overcomes the effects of beta4 in heterotrimeric channels. In contrast, beta1(C121W), which contains an extracellular epilepsy-associated mutation, did not counteract the destabilization of inactivation by beta4 and also required unusually large depolarizations for channel opening. In cultured hippocampal neurons transfected with beta4, persistent current was slightly but significantly increased. Moreover, in beta4-expressing neurons from Scn1b and Scn1b/Scn2b null mice, entry into inactivated states was slowed. These data suggest that beta1 and beta4 have antagonistic roles, the former favoring inactivation, and the latter favoring activation. Because increased Na channel availability may facilitate action potential firing, these results suggest a mechanism for seizure susceptibility of both mice and humans with disrupted beta1 subunits.
Game theory outlines optimal response strategies during mixed-strategy competitions. The neural processes involved in choosing individual strategic actions, however, remain poorly understood. Here, we tested whether the superior colliculus (SC), a brain region critical for generating sensory-guided saccades, is also involved in choosing saccades under strategic conditions. Monkeys were free to choose either of two saccade targets as they competed against a computer opponent during the mixed-strategy game &quot;matching pennies.&quot; The accuracy with which presaccadic SC activity predicted upcoming choice gradually increased in the time leading up to the saccade. Probing the SC with suprathreshold stimulation demonstrated that these evolving signals were functionally involved in preparing strategic saccades. Finally, subthreshold stimulation of the SC increased the likelihood that contralateral saccades were selected. Together, our results suggest that motor regions of the brain play an active role in choosing strategic actions rather than passively executing those prespecified by upstream executive regions.
Recessive mutations in parkin are the most common cause of familial early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Recent studies suggest that certain parkin mutants may exert dominant toxic effects to cultured cells and such dominant toxicity can lead to progressive dopaminergic (DA) neuron degeneration in Drosophila. To explore whether mutant parkin could exert similar pathogenic effects to mammalian DA neurons in vivo, we developed a BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) transgenic mouse model expressing a C-terminal truncated human mutant parkin (Parkin-Q311X) in DA neurons driven by a dopamine transporter promoter. Parkin-Q311X mice exhibit multiple late-onset and progressive hypokinetic motor deficits. Stereological analyses reveal that the mutant mice develop age-dependent DA neuron degeneration in substantia nigra accompanied by a significant loss of DA neuron terminals in the striatum. Neurochemical analyses reveal a significant reduction of the striatal dopamine level in mutant mice, which is significantly correlated with their hypokinetic motor deficits. Finally, mutant Parkin-Q311X mice, but not wild-type controls, exhibit age-dependent accumulation of proteinase K-resistant endogenous alpha-synuclein in substantia nigra and colocalized with 3-nitrotyrosine, a marker for oxidative protein damage. Hence, our study provides the first mammalian genetic evidence that dominant toxicity of a parkin mutant is sufficient to elicit age-dependent hypokinetic motor deficits and DA neuron loss in vivo, and uncovers a causal relationship between dominant parkin toxicity and progressive alpha-synuclein accumulation in DA neurons. Our study underscores the need to further explore the putative link between parkin dominant toxicity and PD.
Brain white matter volume changes were quantified by using voxel-based morphometry in 26 minimal-to-mild Alzheimer's disease patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors over 20 weeks. Patients treated with rivastigmine, an inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase, did not show those reductions in white matter volume that were observed in patients treated with acetylcholinesterase-selective agents, donepezil and galantamine. This is the first time that dual cholinesterase inhibition has been shown to influence white matter volume specifically. The findings are consistent with a thesis that dual cholinesterase inhibition may have neuroprotective potential. Attenuated loss of brain volumes and delayed/slower long-term clinical decline in patients treated with agents such as rivastigmine may be due to less extensive white matter damage and loss of corticosubcortical connectivity.
We understand from experience that musical contexts are formed when chords are combined according to the rules of harmony. In this study, the N1 component of the auditory-evoked potential was measured using comparable three-chord sequences; these sequences were constructed as a consecutive task (cf. C-C-C vs. Cm-Cm-Cm; control) and a cadence task (cf. C-G-C vs. C-G-Cm). In the cadence task, compared with cadences ending with a major chord (anticipated chord), those ending with a minor chord (unanticipated chord) showed a significantly larger amplitude of N1 waves. These components of auditory-evoked potentials reflect the effect of chord progression in musical perception and suggest that the musical context is recognized at least 100 ms after a chord is played.
Although previous studies have shown pointing errors and abnormal multijoint coordination in seated subjects with Parkinson's disease (PD) who cannot view their arm, the extent to which subjects with PD have problems using proprioception to coordinate equilibrium maintenance and goal-oriented task execution has not been adequately investigated. If a common motor program controls voluntary arm pointing movements and the accompanying postural adjustments, then impairments of proprioceptive integration in subjects with PD should have similar effects on pointing and body center of mass (CoM) control with eyes closed. Ten standing subjects with PD (OFF-medication) and 10 age-matched control (CTR) subjects pointed to a target with their eyes closed and open. Although pointing accuracy was not significantly different between groups, body CoM displacements were reduced in subjects with PD, but not in CTR, when eyes were closed. In addition, with eyes closed, PD subjects showed reduced temporal coupling between pointing and CoM velocity profiles and reduced spatial coupling between pointing and CoM endpoints. This poor coupling with eyes closed could be related to the PD subjects' increased jerkiness of CoM displacements. The different effects of eye closure between CTR and PD subjects on the CoM displacements, but not pointing accuracy, are consistent with separate motor programs for the pointing and postural components of this task. Furthermore, the decoupling between the two movement components in subjects with PD when they could not use vision, suggests that the basal ganglia are involved in the integration of proprioceptive information for posture-movement coordination.
Orexin (hypocretin) peptides are known to depolarize rat thalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVT) neurons by suppression of one or more undefined potassium conductances. Here, we investigated a contribution of TWIK-related acid-sensitive K(+) (TASK) channels to the resting membrane potential and orexin-induced depolarization of PVT neurons, using patch clamp recording techniques in brain slice preparations. Upon exposure to an acidic (pH 6.3) extracellular solution, PVT neurons displayed membrane depolarization. Under voltage-clamp and in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX, 0.5 microM), low pH solutions induced an inward shift in baseline membrane current, accompanied by a net decrease in membrane conductance, reversing close to the potassium equilibrium potential. By contrast, exposure to alkaline (pH 8.3) solutions resulted in membrane hyperpolarization, induced an outward shift in baseline membrane current and an increase in net conductance that reversed close to the potassium equilibrium potential. A local anesthetic bupivacaine (20-40 microM) and the endocannabinoid anandamide (5-10 microM) mimicked the effects of the acidic solution. Exposure to the volatile anesthetic isoflurane (0.2-0.5 mM) induced changes in resting membrane potential, baseline current and membrane conductance similar to those caused by the alkaline solution. Although responsiveness to orexins was preserved under each of the above conditions, the amplitude of the orexin B (0.5 microM)-induced inward current was depressed in the acidic solution and in the presence of anandamide, remained largely unchanged in the alkaline solution, and was enhanced by isoflurane when compared with that in normal artificial cerebrospinal solution. We conclude that pH-sensitive potassium channels, TASK-1 and TASK-3 channels, contribute substantially to the resting membrane conductance(s) and excitability in PVT neurons. The observations that orexin-induced currents were affected by putative TASK-specific drugs in a manner predictable from their effects on TASK channels also suggest that the orexin-induced excitation in PVT neurons is mediated by closure of TASK channels.
Stroke is the second most common cause of death and major cause of disability worldwide. Actual treatment involves surgery and/or thrombolytic drugs, but there is an urgent need for new approaches. Periodic acceleration, a rocking headward to footward movement of the whole body, is a non-invasive method to induce pulsatile shear stress on the vascular endothelium eliciting an enhanced production and secretion of endothelium-derived products such as nitric oxide, prostacyclin, prostaglandin E2, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), and adrenomedullin. All these products have been shown to protect the brain from ischemic injuries. A rat model of focal brain ischemia was treated with application of periodic acceleration for 3 h immediately after the onset of ischemia. Controls remained static for the same period of time. Brain damage was assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and biochemical markers. A significant reduction in brain damage was observed, 7 days post-ischemia, in rocked rats when compared with the static controls, through MRI. Furthermore, rocked animals had significantly lower levels of Beclin 1 and fractin than their static counterparts, and some isoforms of nitric oxide synthase were regulated by periodic acceleration. Our results show that periodic acceleration may provide a novel, affordable, non-invasive therapeutic option for the treatment of stroke.
The involvement of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in cognitive processes and the decrease in its expression in Huntington's disease suggest that this neurotrophin may play a role in learning impairment during the disease progression. We therefore analyzed the onset and severity of cognitive deficits in two different mouse models with the same mutant huntingtin but with different levels of BDNF (R6/1 and R6/1:BDNF+/- mice). We observed that BDNF modulates cognitive function in different learning tasks, even before the onset of motor symptoms. R6/1:BDNF+/- mice showed earlier and more accentuated cognitive impairment than R6/1 mice at 5 weeks of age in discrimination learning; at 5 weeks of age in procedural learning; and at 9 weeks of age in alternation learning. At the earliest age at which cognitive impairment was detected, electrophysiological analysis was performed in the hippocampus. All mutant genotypes showed reduced hippocampal long term potentiation (LTP) with respect to wild type but did not show differences between them. Thus, we evaluated the involvement of BDNF-trkB signaling and glutamate receptor expression in the hippocampus of these mice. We observed a decrease in phospholipaseCgamma activity, but not ERK, in R61, BDNF+/- and R6/1:BDNF+/- hippocampus at the age when LTP was altered. However, a specific decrease in the expression of glutamate receptors NR1, NR2A and GluR1 was detected only in R6/1:BDNF+/- hippocampus. Therefore, these results show that BDNF modulates the learning and memory alterations induced by mutant huntingtin. This interaction leads to intracellular changes, such as specific changes in glutamate receptors and in BDNF-trkB signaling through phospholipaseCgamma.
There is growing evidence that neuropeptide Y (NPY) acting through Y1 and Y2 receptors has a prominent role in modulating anxiety- and depression-like behavior in rodents. However, a role of other Y-receptors like that of Y4 receptors in this process is poorly understood. We now investigated male Y2, Y4 single and Y2/Y4 double knockout mice in behavioral paradigms for changes in motor activity, anxiety and depression-like behavior. Motor activity was increased in Y2, Y4 and Y2/Y4 knockout mice under changing and stressful conditions, but not altered in a familiar environment. Y4 and Y2 knockout mice revealed an anxiolytic phenotype in the light/dark test, marble burying test and in stress-induced hyperthermia, and reduced depression-like behavior in the forced swim and tail suspension tests. In Y2/Y4 double knockout mice, the response in the light/dark test and in the forced swim test was further enhanced compared with Y4 and Y2 knockout mice, respectively. High levels of Y4 binding sites were observed in brain stem nuclei including nucleus of solitary tract and area postrema. Lower levels were found in the medial amygdala and hypothalamus. Peripheral administration of pancreatic polypeptide (PP) induced Y4 receptor-dependent c-Fos expression in brain stem, hypothalamus and amygdala. PP released peripherally from the pancreas in response to food intake, may act not only as a satiety signal but also modulate anxiety-related locomotion.
Neurotensin (NT) is a versatile neuropeptide involved in analgesia, hypothermia, and schizophrenia. Although NT is released from and acts upon brain regions involved in social behaviors, it has not been linked to a social behavior. We previously selected mice for high maternal aggression (maternal defense), an important social behavior that protects offspring, and found significantly lower NT expression in the CNS of highly protective females. Our current study directly tested NT's role in maternal defense. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of NT significantly impaired defense in terms of time aggressive and number of attacks at all doses tested (0.05, 0.1, 1.0, and 3.0 microg). Other maternal behaviors, including pup retrieval, were unaltered following NT injections (0.05 microg) relative to vehicle, suggesting specificity of NT action on defense. Further, i.c.v. injections of the NT receptor 1 (NT1) antagonist, SR 48692 (30 microg), significantly elevated maternal aggression in terms of time aggressive and attack number. To understand where NT may regulate aggression, we examined Fos following injection of either 0.1 microg NT or vehicle. Thirteen of 26 brain regions examined exhibited significant Fos increases with NT, including regions expressing NT1 and previously implicated in maternal aggression, such as lateral septum, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, paraventricular nucleus, and central amygdala. Together, our results indicate that NT inversely regulates maternal aggression and provide the first direct evidence that lowering of NT signaling can be a mechanism for maternal aggression. To our knowledge, this is the first study to directly link NT to a social behavior.
Potassium channels play an important role in microglial activation but their involvement in main functions of microglia including secretion of proinflammatory cytokines has remained uncertain. This study has revealed the specific expression of Kv1.1 in microglia both in vivo and in vitro. Kv1.1 immunoreactivity was localized in the amoeboid microglia in the rat brain between postnatal (P) day 1 (P1) and day 10 (P10); it was, however, progressively reduced with age and was hardly detected at P14 and P21 in ramified microglia, a derivative cell of amoeboid microglia. Following hypoxic exposure, Kv1.1 expression in amoeboid microglia was enhanced or induced in ramified microglia in more mature brain at P21 when compared with their matching controls. RT-PCR and Western blot analysis confirmed Kv1.1 mRNA and protein expression in murine BV-2 cells which was up-regulated by hypoxia or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment; it was reduced significantly by dexamethasone. Neutralization with Kv1.1 antibody suppressed the expression and release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, endothelins and nitric oxide (NO) in LPS-activated BV-2 cells. It is concluded that Kv1.1, constitutively expressed by microglia, is elicited by hypoxia and LPS and this may be linked to production of proinflammatory cytokines, endothelins and NO.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) modulates the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and has a key role in mediating neuroendocrine effects that occur in response to stressful stimuli. We have recently shown that exposure of neonatal chicks to low-temperature resulted in increased oxidative damage to the brain and i.c.v. injection of CRF increased homeothermy that was associated with tissue specific enhancement of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation enzyme activities. These observations prompted an investigation into the potential role of CRF in a state of oxidative damage in the brain and other vital organs in low-temperature-exposed chicks. In the first experiment, neonatal chicks (Gallus gallus) were given i.c.v. injection of CRF (42 pmol) or saline and were then exposed to low-temperature (20 degrees C) for 3 h. Malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were measured in the plasma, brain, heart and skeletal muscle. In the second experiment, to confirm the modulatory role of CRF in the brain oxidative damage, as observed in the first experiment, neonatal chicks were given the i.c.v. injection of CRF (42 pmol), astressin (6 nmol, CRF receptor antagonist), or CRF (42 pmol) plus astressin (6 nmol) in combination, and were then exposed to low-temperature (20 degrees C) for 3 h. CRF significantly decreased the weight gain and feed consumption of chicks that were recovered by astressin. In the plasma, significantly higher MDA levels were observed in i.c.v. CRF chicks exposed to low-temperature, but this pattern was not observed in the brain, heart and skeletal muscle. Brain MDA levels in i.c.v. CRF chicks were decreased as compared with that of i.c.v. saline chicks on low-temperature exposure while i.c.v. astressin increased the MDA levels. In conclusion, CRF plays a putative neuroprotective role in the brain of low-temperature-exposed neonatal chicks.
This study provides the first immunohistochemical evidence of the presence and distribution patterns in the rat spinal cord of alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn), a soluble acidic protein, widely expressed in the CNS and closely associated to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. We used two novel homemade monoclonal antibodies (2E3 and 3D5) recognizing two different epitopes of alpha-Syn. Both antibodies localized alpha-Syn within the nerve terminals, whereas 3D5 alone also localized it within the neuronal nuclei. alpha-Syn-immunoreactive nervous elements were widely recognized throughout rat spinal cord and in almost all the gray matter laminae. However, they appeared particularly concentrated within laminae I, II, VII and X and more scattered in the others. Double immunofluorescent labeling showed that alpha-Syn colocalized with synaptophysin in the presynaptic nerve terminals, with neuropeptide Y (NPY) in lamina I, II, IX and X, and had close relationships with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive neurons in laminae VII and X. Interestingly, the alpha-Syn-immunoreactive nerve elements, in lamina X, contained little of calbindin-28KD and calretinin-31KD. Our findings could help in understanding the genesis of some early clinical symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), such as pain and dysautonomic disorders, and indicate the spinal cord as their probable starting point, according to the ascending theory of PD, proposed by Braak.
Involvement of the local angiotensin receptor system in the central nervous system is well documented, yet its cellular localization and role in the glial cells have remained elusive. This study reports expression of angiotensin II and its receptors namely, angiotensin II receptor type 1 (AT(1)) and angiotensin II receptor type 2 (AT(2)) in the amoeboid microglial cells in the neonatal rat brain. In rats subjected to hypoxia, the amount of angiotensin II released in the corpus callosal tissue was reduced as revealed by enzyme immunoassay. Expression of AT(1) mRNA and protein was down-regulated after hypoxic exposure, but AT(2) was up-regulated. In BV-2 cells exposed to hypoxia for 4 h, expression of AT(1) mRNA was reduced but AT(2) was increased. These changes were further intensified respectively in LPS-stimulated microglia. Edaravone enhanced AT(1) expression but suppressed AT(2) expression significantly in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated cells. Neutralization of AT(2) with its antiserum significantly increased mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta but decreased that of transforming growth factor-beta1. In conclusion, the present results suggest that AT(1) may be linked to regulation of vasodilation for increase of blood flow in hypoxic conditions, while up-regulated expression of AT(2) may reduce inflammatory responses through suppression of proinflammatory cytokines and elimination of free radicals.
Nociceptive transmission from the spinal cord is controlled by supraspinal pain modulating systems that include the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM). The neuropeptide angiotensin II (Ang II) has multiple effects in the CNS and at the medulla oblongata. Here we evaluated the expression of angiotensin type 1 (AT(1)) receptors in spinally-projecting CVLM neurons, and tested the effect of direct application of exogenous Ang II in the CVLM on nociceptive behaviors. Although AT(1)-immunoreactive neurons occurred in the CVLM, only 3% of AT(1)-positive neurons were found to project to the dorsal horn, using double-immunodetection of the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B. In behavioral studies, administration of Ang II (100 pmol) in the CVLM gave rise to hyperalgesia in both the tail-flick and formalin tests. This hyperalgesia was significantly attenuated by local administration of the AT(1) antagonist losartan. The present study demonstrates that Ang II can act on AT(1) receptors in the CVLM to modulate nociception. The effect on spinal nociceptive processing is likely indirect, since few AT(1)-expressing CVLM neurons were found to project to the spinal cord. The renin-angiotensin system may also play a role in other supraspinal areas implicated in pain modulation.
It is generally assumed that cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is secreted in the brain ventricles, and so after an acute blockage of the aqueduct of Sylvius an increase in the ventricular CSF pressure and dilation of isolated ventricles may be expected. We have tested this hypothesis in cats. After blocking the aqueduct, we measured the CSF pressure in both isolated ventricles and the cisterna magna, and performed radiographic monitoring of the cross-sectional area of the lateral ventricle. The complete aqueductal blockage was achieved by implanting a plastic cannula into the aqueduct of Sylvius through a small tunnel in the vermis of the cerebellum in the chloralose-anesthetized cats. After the reconstitution of the occipital bone, the CSF pressure was measured in the isolated ventricles via a plastic cannula implanted in the aqueduct of Sylvius and in the cisterna magna via a stainless steel cannula. During the following 2 h, the CSF pressures in the isolated ventricles and cisterna magna were identical to those in control conditions. We also monitored the ventricular cross-sectional area by means of radiography for 2 h after the aqueductal blockage and failed to observe any significant changes. When mock CSF was infused into isolated ventricles to imitate the CSF secretion, the gradient of pressure between the ventricle and cisterna magna developed, and disappeared as soon as the infusion was terminated. However, when mock CSF was infused into the cisterna magna at various rates, the resulting increased subarachnoid CSF pressure was accurately transmitted across the brain parenchyma into the CSF of isolated ventricles. The lack of the increase in the CSF pressure and ventricular dilation during 2 h of aqueductal blockage suggests that aqueductal obstruction by itself does not lead to development of hypertensive acute hydrocephalus in cats.
Previous human postmortem brain tissue research has implicated abnormalities of 5-HT receptor availability in depression and suicide. Although altered abundance of 5-HT 1A, 5-HT 2A, and 5-HT 2C receptors (5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2A), and 5-HT(2C)) has been reported, the causes remain obscure. This study evaluated the availability of these three receptor subtypes in postmortem brain tissue specimens from persons with a history of major depression (MDD) and normal controls and tested the relationships to protein kinases A and C (PKA, PKC). Samples were obtained from postmortem brain tissue (Brodmann area 10) from 20 persons with a history of MDD and 20 matched controls as determined by a retrospective diagnostic evaluation obtained from family members. Levels of 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2A), and 5-HT(2C) receptor were quantitated via Western blot analyses. Basal and stimulated PKA and PKC activity were also determined. The depressed samples showed significantly increased 5-HT(2A) receptor abundance relative to controls, but no differences in 5-HT(1A) or 5-HT(2C) receptors. Basal and cyclic AMP-stimulated PKA activity was also reduced in the depressed sample; PKC activity was not different between groups. 5-HT(2A) receptor availability was significantly inversely correlated with PKC activity in controls, but with PKA activity in the depressed sample. Increased 5-HT(2A) receptor abundance and decreased PKA activity in the depressed sample are consistent with prior reports. The correlation of 5-HT(2A) receptor levels with PKA activity in the depressed group suggests that abnormalities of 5-HT(2A) receptor abundance may depend on receptor uncoupling and heterologous regulation by PKA.
The current study aimed at investigating the processing of prosodic hierarchical boundaries in Mandarin Chinese sentences using electroencephalography, mainly focused on the following questions: (1) whether prosodic boundaries at different levels could evoke the closure positive shift reflecting prosodic boundary perception; (2) what were the differences between them at latency, amplitude and topography; (3) whether this positive component was modified by the variations of acoustic cues (e.g. pause). Main results were: (1) As the previous studies indicated, intonational phrases elicited the closure positive shift as a marker of online speech structuring; (2) phonological phrases evoked the same positive effect with shorter onset latency and somewhat lower amplitude; (3) when the pauses in the vicinity of prosodic boundaries were entirely removed, the original latency difference between the two conditions disappeared, which clearly demonstrated the influence of pause on prosodic boundary processing; (4) prosodic word boundaries only induced amplitude variation waving around the baseline, which was more positive compared with the one elicited by syllable boundaries. The present results indicated that listeners were very sensitive to both intonational phrase boundaries and phonological phrase boundaries.
Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) inhibits spinal nociceptive transmission by potentiation of GABAergic tone through M(2), M(3), and M(4) subtypes. To study the signaling mechanisms involved in this unique mAChR action, GABAergic spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) of lamina II neurons were recorded using whole-cell patch clamp techniques in rat spinal cord slices. The mAChR agonist oxotremorine-M caused a profound increase in the frequency of GABAergic sIPSCs, which was abolished in the Ca(2+)-free solution. Inhibition of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels with Cd(2+) and Ni(2+) largely reduced the effect of oxotremorine-M on sIPSCs. Blocking nonselective cation channels (NSCCs) with SKF96365 or 2-APB also largely attenuated the effect of oxotremorine-M. However, the KCNQ channel blocker XE991 and the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor MDL12330A had no significant effect on oxotremorine-M-induced increases in sIPSCs. Furthermore, the phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor wortmannin or LY294002 significantly reduced the potentiating effect of oxotremorine-M on sIPSCs. In the spinal cord in which the M(3) subtype was specifically knocked down by intrathecal small interfering RNA (siRNA) treatment, SKF96365 and wortmannin still significantly attenuated the effect of oxotremorine-M. In contrast, SKF96365 and wortmannin both failed to alter the effect of oxotremorine-M on sIPSCs when the M(2)/M(4) mAChRs were blocked. Therefore, our study provides new evidence that activation of mAChRs increases synaptic GABA release through Ca(2+) influx and voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. The PI3K-NSCC signaling cascade is primarily involved in the excitation of GABAergic interneurons by the M(2)/M(4) mAChRs in the spinal dorsal horn.
Dopamine can modulate and excite spinal locomotor networks, affect afferent transmission and increase motoneuronal excitability. One of the mechanisms whereby dopamine increases motoneuronal excitability is to potentiate AMPA channel-mediated glutamatergic transmission onto motoneurons. However, it is not known which dopaminergic receptor subtypes or the intracellular mechanisms contribute to these effects. In this study, we used whole-cell patch clamp techniques to record chemically evoked AMPA currents in neonatal mouse motoneurons. Bath application of D(1)-like receptor agonist (SKF 39383) increased the AMPA current amplitude and prolonged the decay time constant. In the presence of D(1) receptor antagonist LE300, the effects of DA on AMPA currents were blocked. In contrast, bath-application of the D(2)-like receptor agonist quinpirole did not modulate AMPA currents. In the presence of D(2) receptor antagonist L-741626, dopaminergic modulation of AMPA currents was unaffected. These results suggest that augmentation of AMPA transmission by dopamine is accomplished by D(1) receptor-based mechanisms. This short-term modulation does not appear to involve cycling of AMPA receptor into the membrane, since blocking insertion with botulinum toxin C did not affect the augmentation of AMPA currents after activating D(1) receptors. On the other hand, blocking protein kinase A (PKA) with H-89 completely abolished the effects of D(1) agonists. In addition, we used cell-attached single channel recording to demonstrate that stimulating D(1) receptors increased individual AMPA channel open probability and open duration. Our data demonstrate that dopamine increases the efficacy of glutamatergic transmission onto motoneurons by increasing AMPA conductances via a D(1) PKA-based signaling system.
Enriched housing conditions (enriched environment, EE) during development has been shown to influence adult rat behavior and transmitter systems, especially dopamine function. We were interested in how different degrees of enrichment during development would affect adult rats' behavior and response to dopamine receptor challenge. Two groups of male Wistar rats (n=11-12) were raised under two different degrees of EE, i.e. &quot;high enriched&quot; and &quot;low enriched&quot; groups. A third group was kept under standard conditions and served as &quot;non-enriched&quot; control. As adults, rats were tested for anxiety (elevated plus-maze), for spatial learning (four-arm-baited eight-arm radial maze), and for motivation (breakpoint of the progressive ratio test). Finally, locomotor activity (activity box) and sensorimotor gating (prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response (ASR)) were tested with and without challenge with the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. The time spent on the open or enclosed arms of the elevated plus-maze did not differ between groups, but the high enriched group showed higher rearing activity on the open arms. The breakpoint did not differ between groups. Learning and memory in the radial maze task only differed on the first few trials, but high enriched rats run faster compared with the other groups. In contrast, in the activity box enriched groups were less active, but apomorphine had the highest effect. Between groups, no difference in PPI and startle amplitude was found, but in the high and low EE group startle amplitude was enhanced after administration of apomorphine, while the PPI deficit induced by this drug was not different between groups. Altogether, we found no evidence that different amounts of environmental enrichment without differences in social EE affect rats' cognitive, emotional or motivational behavior. However, motor activity seems to be enhanced when rats are behaviorally or pharmacologically challenged by dopamine receptor agonists.
We investigated the role of CB1 receptors in hippocampal-dependent memory consolidation mediated by polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) during contextual fear conditioning (CFC). The CB1 receptor agonist 3-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)-(-)-11-hydroxy-Delta(8)-tetrahydrocannabinol (HU-210) (0.1 mg/kg) was given immediately after training during the memory consolidation phase, and freezing behavior was measured 24 h after conditioning. Administration of HU-210 attenuated freezing behavior measured in CFC. Western blot analysis showed that CFC induced a decrease in the expression of NCAM-180, but did not change the level of NCAM-140 and increased PSA-NCAM expression measured 24 h after training in the rat hippocampus. HU-210 (0.1 mg/kg) injection did not affect the reduction in NCAM-180 levels induced by CFC, but it blocked the increase in PSA-NCAM expression. Since the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus is known to be involved in memory consolidation and expresses a high level of PSA-NCAM protein, we measured the effects of CFC and HU-210 administration on PSA-NCAM-immunoreactive (IR) cells in the DG. CFC caused an increase in the number of PSA-NCAM-IR cells in the DG, but not K(i)-67- or doublecortin (DCX)-IR cells. This increase in PSA-NCAM-IR cells was abolished by HU-210 injection. Administration of the CB1 receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM-251) (3 mg/kg immediately before HU-210) inhibited the effects of HU-210 on freezing behavior and PSA-NCAM expression in the DG. These results indicate that activation of CB1 receptors disturbs consolidation of fear memory in CFC, likely by affecting PSA-NCAM expression in the DG, which plays an important role in synaptic rearrangement during the formation of memory traces.
The age-related decline in cognitive function that is observed in normal aging monkeys and humans occurs without significant loss of cortical neurons. This suggests that cognitive impairment results from subtle, sub-lethal changes in the cortex. Recently, changes in the structural coherence in mini- or microcolumns without loss of neurons have been linked to loss of function. Here we use a density map method to quantify microcolumnar structure in both banks of the sulcus principalis (prefrontal cortical area 46) of 16 (ventral) and 19 (dorsal) behaviorally tested female rhesus monkeys from 6 to 33 years of age. While total neuronal density does not change with age in either of these banks, there is a significant age-related reduction in the strength of microcolumns in both regions on the order of 40%. This likely reflects a subtle but definite loss of organization in the structure of the cortical microcolumn. The reduction in strength in ventral area 46 correlates with cognitive impairments in learning and memory while the reduction in dorsal area 46 does not. This result is congruent with published data attributing cognitive functions to ventral area 46 that are similar to our particular cognitive battery which does not optimally tap cognitive functions attributed to dorsal area 46. While the exact mechanisms underlying this loss of microcolumnar organization remain to be determined, it is plausible that they reflect age-related alterations in dendritic and/or axonal organization which alter connectivity and may contribute to age-related declines in cognitive performance.
Neuronal nicotinic receptor alpha4 subunits associated with nicotinic alpha4beta2 receptors are phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC), but the stages of receptor formation during which phosphorylation occurs and the functional consequences of kinase activation are unknown. SH-EP1 cells transfected with DNAs coding for human alpha4 and/or beta2 subunits were incubated with (32)Pi, and PKA or PKC was activated by forskolin or phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, respectively. Immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting of proteins from cells expressing alpha4beta2 receptors or only alpha4 subunits were used to identify free alpha4 subunits, and alpha4 subunits present in immature alpha4beta2 complexes and mature alpha4beta2 pentamers containing complex carbohydrates. In the absence of kinase activation, phosphorylation of alpha4 subunits associated with mature pentamers was three times higher than subunits associated with immature complexes. PKA and PKC activation increased phosphorylation of free alpha4 subunits on different serine residues; only PKC activation phosphorylated subunits associated with mature alpha4beta2 receptors. Activation of both PKA and PKC increased the density of membrane-associated receptors, but only PKC activation increased peak membrane currents. PKA and PKC activation also phosphorylated beta2 subunits associated with mature alpha4beta2 receptors. Results indicate that activation of PKA and PKC leads to the phosphorylation alpha4beta2 receptors at different stages of receptor formation and maturation and has differential effects on the expression and function of human alpha4beta2 receptors.
In the enteric nervous system (ENS) excitatory nicotinic cholinergic transmission is mediated by neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) and is critical for the regulation of gastric motility. nAChRs are ligand-gated pentameric ion channels found in the CNS and peripheral nervous system. The expression of heteromeric nAChR and receptor subunit mRNAs was investigated in the neonatal rat ENS using receptor autoradiography with the radiolabeled ligand (125)I-epibatidine, and in situ hybridization with subtype specific probes for ligand binding alpha (alpha2, alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, alpha6) and structural beta (beta2, beta3, beta4) subunits. The results showed strong nicotine sensitive binding of (125)I-epibatidine around the stomach, and small and large intestines. The binding was partially displaced by A85380, a nicotinic ligand which differentiates between different heteromeric nAChR subtypes, suggesting a mixed receptor population. Radioactive in situ hybridization detected expression of alpha3, alpha5, alpha7, beta2 and beta4 mRNA in the myenteric plexus of the stomach, and small and large intestines. In the submucosal plexus of the small and large intestines expression of alpha3, alpha5 and beta4 was found in some ganglia. There was no signal for alpha4, alpha6 and beta3 in the ENS but positive hybridization signal for alpha2 transcripts was seen in some areas of the small intestines. However, the signal was not associated with any ganglion cells. The results confirm the presence of heteromeric nAChRs in the ENS similar to those found in the peripheral nervous system, with the majority being composed of alpha3(alpha5)beta4, and a few alpha3beta2 nAChRs. In addition, homomeric alpha7 nAChRs could be present.
Intermittent hypoxia (IH) is a major pathological factor in the development of neural deficits associated with sleep-disordered breathing. Here we demonstrate that IH lasting 2 or 30 days, but not sustained hypoxia (SH) of the same duration, was accompanied by several posttranslational modifications of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II, Rpb1, including hydroxylation of proline 1465, phosphorylation of serine 5 residues within the C-terminal domain, and nondegradative ubiquitylation. These modifications were found to occur in two regions of the brain, hippocampal region CA1 and the prefrontal cortex, but not in neocortex, brainstem and CA3 region of hippocampus. We also found that mice exposed to 14 or 30 days of IH, but not SH, demonstrated cognitive deficits in behavioral assays. Furthermore, by using the pheochromocytoma-derived PC12 cell line, we showed that, under in vitro IH conditions, induction of Rpb1 hydroxylation, phosphorylation, and ubiquitylation required that the von Hippel-Lindau protein be present. We hypothesize that the observed modifications of Rpb1 participate in regulating the expression of genes involved in mediating cognitive deficits evoked by chronic IH.
There is consensus that muscarinic and nicotinic receptors expressed in vestibular hair cells and afferent neurons are involved in the efferent modulation of the electrical activity of the afferent neurons. However the underlying mechanisms of postsynaptic control in neurons are not well understood. In our work we show that the activation of muscarinic receptors in the vestibular neurons modulates the potassium M-current modifying the activity of afferent neurons. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made on vestibular-afferent neurons isolated from Wistar rats (postnatal days 7-10) and held in primary culture (18-24 h). The M-current was studied during its deactivation after depolarizing voltage-clamp pulses. In 68% of the cells studied, those of larger capacitance, the M-current antagonists linopirdine and XE-991 reduced the amplitude of the M-current by 54%+/-7% and 50%+/-3%. The muscarinic-receptor agonist oxotremorine-M also significantly reduced the M-current by 58%+/-12% in the cells. The action of oxotremorine-M was blocked by atropine, thus indicating its cholinergic nature. The erg-channel blocker E-4031 did not significantly modify the M-current amplitude. In current-clamp experiments, linopirdine, XE-991, and oxotremorine-M modified the discharge response to current pulses from single spike to multiple spiking, reducing the adaptation of the electrical discharge. Our results indicate that large soma-size cultured vestibular-afferent neurons (most probably calyx-bearing neurons) express the M-current and that the modulation of this current by activation of muscarinic-receptor reduces its spike-frequency adaptation.
Mice lacking both alleles of the LIM-homeobox gene Lhx7 display dramatically reduced number of forebrain cholinergic neurons. Given the fact that sex differences are consistently observed in forebrain cholinergic function, in the present study we investigated whether the absence of LHX7 differentially affects water maze performance in the two sexes. Herein we demonstrate that LHX7 null mutants display a sex-dependent impairment in water maze, with females appearing more affected than males. Moreover, neurotrophin assessment revealed a compensatory increase of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin 3 in the neocortex of both male and female mutants and an increase of nerve growth factor levels only in the females. Nevertheless, the compensatory increase of cortical neurotrophin levels did not restore cognitive abilities of Lhx7 homozygous mutants. Finally, our analysis revealed that cortical neurotrophin levels correlate negatively with water maze proficiency, indicating that there is an optimal neurotrophin level for successful cognitive performance.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), such as Prozac, are used to treat mood disorders. SSRIs attenuate (i.e. desensitize) serotonin 1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor signaling, as demonstrated in rats through decreased release of oxytocin and adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) following 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation. Maximal therapeutic effects of SSRIs for treatment of mood disorders, as well as effects on hypothalamic 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling in animals, take 1 to 2 weeks to develop. Estradiol also attenuates 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling, but, in rats, these effects occur within 2 days; thus, estrogens or selective estrogen receptor modulators may serve as useful short-term tools to accelerate desensitization of 5-HT(1A) receptors in response to SSRIs if candidate estrogen receptor targets in the hypothalamus are identified. We found high levels of GPR30, which has been identified recently as a pertussis-toxin (PTX) sensitive G-protein-coupled estrogen receptor, in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of rats. Double-label immunohistochemistry revealed that GPR30 co-localizes with 5-HT(1A) receptors, corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF) and oxytocin in neurons in the PVN. Pretreatment with PTX to the PVN before peripheral injections of 17-beta-estradiol 3-benzoate completely prevented the reduction of the oxytocin response to the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, (+)-8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin (DPAT). Treatment with the selective GRP30 agonist, G-1, attenuated 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling in the PVN as measured by an attenuated oxytocin (by 29%) and ACTH (by 31%) response to DPAT. This study indicates that a putative extra-nuclear estrogen receptor, GPR30, may play a role in estradiol-mediated attenuation of 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling, and potentially in accelerating the effects of SSRIs in treatment of mood disorders.
Chronic cocaine administration causes instability in extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens that is thought to contribute to the vulnerability to relapse. A computational framework was developed to model glutamate in the extracellular space, including synaptic and nonsynaptic glutamate release, glutamate elimination by glutamate transporters and diffusion, and negative feedback on synaptic release via metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR2/3). This framework was used to optimize the geometry of the glial sheath surrounding excitatory synapses, and by inserting physiological values, accounted for known stable extracellular, extrasynaptic concentrations of glutamate measured by microdialysis and glutamatergic tone on mGluR2/3. By using experimental values for cocaine-induced reductions in cystine-glutamate exchange and mGluR2/3 signaling, and by predicting the down-regulation of glutamate transporters, the computational model successfully represented the experimentally observed increase in glutamate that is seen in rats during cocaine-seeking. This model provides a mathematical framework for describing how pharmacological or pathological conditions influence glutamate transmission measured by microdialysis.
Possible prevention of the effects of prenatal alcohol exposure has been investigated using peptides that were previously shown to be involved in neuroprotection both in vitro and in vivo. I focused in this study on investigating the neuroprotective effects of one of these peptides with regard to the determination of the downstream signaling pathways involved in neuroprotection. This peptide with the sequence NAPVSIPQ, known as NAP, a fragment of activity-dependent neuroprotective protein, demonstrated a potent protective effect against oxidative stress associated with alcohol exposure. On embryonic day 7 (E7), weight-matched C57BL/6 pregnant females were assigned the following groups: (1) Ethanol liquid diet group (ALC) 25% (4.49%, v/v) ethano-derived calories, (2) Pair-fed (PF) control group (3) Chow control group, (4) treatment groups with alcohol alongside i.p. injections of d-NAP (ALC/d-NAP, 20 or 30 microg/20 g body weight), (5) PF/d-NAP control group. On E13, fetal brains were collected and assayed for TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining, caspase-3 colorimetric assay and ELISA for cytochrome c detection. My results show that NAP significantly prevented alcohol-induced weight reduction of the fetal brain. Apoptosis was determined by TUNEL staining; NAP administration significantly prevented alcohol-induced increases in TUNEL-positive cells in primordium cingulate cortex and basal ganglia eminence. The investigation of downstream signaling pathways involving NAP neuroprotection revealed that this peptide significantly prevented alcohol-induced increase in the concentrations of caspase-3 in E13 fetal brains. Moreover, ELISA for cytochrome c shows that NAP significantly prevented both alcohol-induced increases in the level of cytosolic cytochrome c and alcohol-induced decreases in the level of mitochondrial cytochrome c. These data provide an understanding of NAP intracellular target, and the downstream mechanisms of action that will pave a path toward potential therapeutics against alcohol intoxication during prenatal stages.
The 5-HT re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine and the adrenal hormone dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) both increase the proliferation of progenitor cells in the adult hippocampus and also have antidepressant activity. This paper explores the combined ability of fluoxetine and DHEA to affect this process in the dentate gyrus of adult rats. We show that DHEA can render an otherwise ineffective dose of fluoxetine (2.5 mg/kg) able to increase progenitor cell proliferation to the same extent as doses four times higher (10 mg/kg). This synergistic action does not appear to be mediated by alterations in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene expression; or by TrkB, mineralocorticoid, glucocorticoid, or 5-HT (5HT1A) receptor expression in the dentate gyrus; or by altered levels of plasma corticosterone. In a second experiment, the synergism between DHEA and fluoxetine was replicated. Furthermore, flattening the diurnal rhythm of plasma corticosterone by implanting additional corticosterone pellets s.c. prevented the effect of fluoxetine on progenitor cell division. This was not overcome by simultaneous treatment with DHEA, despite the latter's reported anti-glucocorticoid actions. The cellular mechanism for the potentiating action of DHEA on the pro- proliferative effects of fluoxetine in the adult hippocampus remains to be revealed. Since altered neurogenesis has been linked to the onset or recovery from depression, one consequence of these results is to suggest DHEA as a useful adjunct therapy for depression.
Activation of the descending noradrenergic system inhibits nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord. Although both alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors in the spinal cord are involved in the modulation of nociceptive transmission, it is not clear how alpha(1)-adrenoceptors regulate excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission at the spinal level. In this study, inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs and EPSCs, respectively) were recorded from lamina II neurons in rat spinal cord slices. The specific alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine significantly increased the frequency of GABAergic spontaneous IPSCs in a concentration dependent manner, and this effect was abolished by the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist 2-(2,6-dimethoxyphenoxy)ethylaminomethyl-1,4-benzodioxane (WB4101). Phenylephrine also significantly reduced the amplitude of monosynaptic and polysynaptic EPSCs evoked from primary afferents. The inhibitory effect of phenylephrine on evoked monosynaptic glutamatergic EPSCs was largely blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin and, to a lesser extent, by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP55845. Furthermore, blocking T-type Ca(2+) channels with amiloride or mibefradil diminished the inhibitory effect produced by phenylephrine or the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol on monosynaptic EPSCs evoked from primary afferents. Collectively, these findings suggest that activation of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors in the spinal cord increases synaptic GABA release, which attenuates glutamatergic input from primary afferents mainly through GABA(A) receptors and T-type Ca(2+) channels. This mechanism of presynaptic inhibition in the spinal cord may be involved in the regulation of nociception by the descending noradrenergic system.
Electrophysiological and pharmacological studies have demonstrated that alpha-1 adrenergic receptor (alpha1AR) activation facilitates dopamine (DA) transmission in the striatum and ventral midbrain. However, because little is known about the localization of alpha1ARs in dopaminergic regions, the substrate(s) and mechanism(s) underlying this facilitation of DA signaling are poorly understood. To address this issue, we used light and electron microscopy immunoperoxidase labeling to examine the cellular and ultrastructural distribution of alpha1ARs in the caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, ventral tegmental area, and substantia nigra in the rat. Analysis at the light microscopic level revealed alpha1AR immunoreactivity mainly in neuropil, with occasional staining in cell bodies. At the electron microscopic level, alpha1AR immunoreactivity was found primarily in presynaptic elements, with scarce postsynaptic labeling. Unmyelinated axons and about 30-50% terminals forming asymmetric synapses contained the majority of presynaptic labeling in the striatum and midbrain, while in the midbrain a subset of terminals forming symmetric synapses also displayed immunoreactivity. Postsynaptic labeling was scarce in both striatal and ventral midbrain regions. On the other hand, only 3-6% of spines displayed alpha1AR immunoreactivity in the caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens. These data suggest that the facilitation of dopaminergic transmission by alpha1ARs in the mesostriatal system is probably achieved primarily by pre-synaptic regulation of glutamate and GABA release.
In animals, the pedunculopontine (PPN) and the sub-cuneiform (SCU) nuclei located in the upper brainstem are involved during the processing of gait. Similar functional nuclei are suspected in humans but their role in gait is unclear. Here we show that, using extra-cellular recordings of the PPN/SCU region obtained in two parkinsonian patients, the SCU neurons increased their firing rate without modifying their firing pattern during mimicked steps. We conclude that SCU neurons are activated during gait processes.
Repetitive stimulation of dopamine receptors located in the basal ganglia may lead to the manifestation of sensitized, abnormal, motor responses in dopamine-denervated rats. In order to study the role of motor behavior execution on the expression of these altered motor responses, we evaluated how &quot;priming&quot;, a phenomenon displaying neurochemical and behavioral features peculiar to a sensitized abnormal motor response in dopamine-denervated rats, depends on actual movement performance. To this end, unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats received apomorphine (0.2 mg/kg s.c.), being either allowed to move or immobilized (1 h) before, concomitantly to, or after its administration, respectively. Three days after apomorphine, the dopamine D(1) receptor agonist 1-Phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol (SKF 38393, 3 mg/kg s.c.) was administered to all animals. Rats that had performed rotational behavior following apomorphine administration displayed robust contraversive rotational behavior in response to SKF 38393, whereas rats that had been immobilized concomitantly to, but neither before nor after apomorphine, did not. To clarify whether stress, which may be increased by immobilization, mediated the results observed, additional rats received apomorphine paired with immobilization plus the corticosterone-synthesis inhibitor metyrapone (100 mg/kg i.p.), or apomorphine paired with a tail stressor, being not immobilized. Metyrapone did not affect the capacity of immobilization to prevent priming and tail stressor imposition did not affect priming magnitude, suggesting that stress has minimal or no effect on the results observed. This study demonstrates how movement performance following initial dopaminergic stimulation governs the occurrence of a sensitized, abnormal, motor response to a subsequent dopaminergic challenge in dopamine-denervated rats.
We investigated the systemic and site-specific actions of a selective CB(2) receptor agonist, A-836339 on mechanically evoked (10 g von Frey hair) and spontaneous firing of spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in neuropathic (L5 and L6 ligations) and sham rats. Systemic administration of A-836339 (0.3-3 micromol/kg, i.v.) reduced both evoked and spontaneous WDR neuronal activity in neuropathic, but not sham rats. The effects in neuropathic rats were blocked by pre-administration of a CB(2), but not a CB(1), receptor antagonist. Similar to systemic delivery, intra-spinal injection of A-836339 (0.3 and 1 nmol) also attenuated both von Frey-evoked and spontaneous firing of WDR neurons in neuropathic rats. Intra-spinal injections of A-836339 were ineffective in sham rats. Application of A-836339 (3-30 nmol) onto the ipsilateral L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of neuropathic rats reduced the von Frey-evoked activity of WDR neurons, but spontaneous firing was unaltered. All effects of A-836339 on WDR neuronal activity following either intra-spinal or intra-DRG administration were blocked by pre-administration of a CB(2) receptor antagonist. Pre-administration of a CB(1) receptor antagonist did not alter the site-specific effects of A-836339. Injection of A-836339 (300 nmol) into the neuronal receptive field on the ipsilateral hind paw did not affect evoked or spontaneous firing of WDR neurons. Thus, the current data demonstrate that modulation of spinal neuronal activity by a CB(2) receptor agonist is enhanced following peripheral nerve injury, and further delineate the contribution of spinal and peripheral CB(2) receptors to this modulation.
High-affinity glutamate transporters (GTs) play a major role in controlling the extracellular level of this excitatory neurotransmitter in the CNS. Here we have characterized, by means of in vitro patch-clamp recordings from medium spiny neurons (MSNs), the role of GTs in regulating corticostriatal glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the adult rat. Charge transfer and decay-time, but not amplitude, of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were enhanced by dl-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (TBOA), a broad inhibitor of GTs. Moreover, TBOA also potentiated currents induced by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) protocols. Interestingly, the effect of TBOA on EPSCs was lost when MSNs were clamped at +40 mV, a condition in which neuronal GTs, that are voltage-dependent, are blocked. However, in this condition TBOA was still able to enhance HFS-induced currents, suggesting that glial GT's role is to regulate synaptic transmission when glutamate release is massive. These data suggest that neuronal GTs, rather than glial, shape EPSCs' kinetics and modulate glutamate transmission at corticostriatal synapse. Moreover, the control of glutamate concentration in the synaptic cleft by GTs may play a role in a number of degenerative disorders characterized by the hyperactivity of corticostriatal pathway, as well as in synaptic plasticity.
Molecular mechanisms by which stroke increases neurogenesis have not been fully investigated. Using neural progenitor cells isolated from the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the adult rat subjected to focal cerebral ischemia, we investigated the Notch pathway in regulating proliferation and differentiation of adult neural progenitor cells after stroke. During proliferation of neural progenitor cells, ischemic neural progenitor cells exhibited substantially increased levels of Notch, Notch intracellular domain (NICD), and hairy enhancer of split (Hes) 1, which was associated with a significant increase of proliferating cells. Blockage of the Notch pathway by short interfering ribonucleic acid (siRNA) against Notch or a gamma secretase inhibitor significantly reduced Notch, NICD and Hes1 expression and cell proliferation induced by stroke. During differentiation of neural progenitor cells, Notch and Hes1 expression was downregulated in ischemic neural progenitor cells, which was coincident with a significant increase of neuronal population. Inhibition of the Notch pathway with a gamma secretase inhibitor further substantially increased neurons, but did not alter astrocyte population in ischemic neural progenitor cells. These data suggest that the Notch signaling pathway mediates adult SVZ neural progenitor cell proliferation and differentiation after stroke.
The principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTp) is larger in males than in females of several species. We previously demonstrated that in mice lacking the pro-death gene, bax, total BNSTp cell number is increased and sex differences in cell number are eliminated. This suggests that Bax-dependent cell death underlies sexual differentiation of the BNSTp. However, it is not known what cells in the BNSTp are affected by bax deletion. Here we used immunohistochemistry and stereological techniques to quantify phenotypically-identified cells in the BNSTp of adult male and female bax -/- and bax +/+ mice. Sections were thionin-stained, or double-labeled for antigen expressed in neuronal nuclei (NeuN) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) to identify mature neurons and astrocytes, respectively; an additional series was labeled for androgen receptor (AR). As previously demonstrated, sex differences in BNSTp area and overall cell number were seen in wild-type mice, but absent in bax -/- animals. In addition, sex differences (favoring males) were present in the number of NeuN+ and AR+ cells in wild-type mice. Bax gene deletion significantly increased the number of NeuN+ and AR+ cells and reduced or eliminated the sex differences in these cell types. The number of astrocytes in the BNSTp was not sexually dimorphic, nor significantly affected by bax gene status, although there was a trend for more GFAP+ cells in bax -/- mice. Overall brain weight was also greater in bax -/- animals compared with controls. We conclude that the sex differences in neuron and AR+ cell number are due at least in part to Bax-mediated cell death. Increased NeuN+ and AR+ cell number in bax -/- mice suggests that supernumerary cells in bax knockouts differentiate similarly to those in wild-type mice, and retain the capacity to respond to androgens.
Osmotic stress protein 94 (OSP94), a member of the heat shock protein 110/SSE subfamily, is expressed in certain organs such as the kidney, testis, and brain where it can act as a molecular chaperon. In general, its alteration in expression is in response to hyper-ionic and osmotic stress as well as heat shock stress. Since many cells in the inner ear are involved in active ion transportation and are constantly exposed to two ionic different environments, we hypothesize that OSP94 may be expressed in the inner ear and its expression may be influenced by loud sound stress (LSS). With immunohistochemistry combined with confocal microscopy, immunoblotting, and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction techniques, we found that OSP94 was widely expressed in various cells in the murine cochlea including the stria vascularis, the organ of Corti, the interdental cells, spiral ganglion cells, the spiral ligament, and Reissner's membrane. Under the unstressed condition, the transcription and protein level of OSP94 expression in the inner ear was quantitatively similar to that of the kidney. Furthermore, its expression in the inner ear by LSS from broadband noise at 117 dB/SPL was upregulated, but remained unchanged in the kidney. In particular, the upregulation of OSP94 in the cochlear lateral wall tissue was slowly elicited in a LSS time-dependent manner compared with the response of two other HSPs; HSP25 and HSP70 are considered to play a cytoprotective role under stressful conditions. Our results show that OSP94 is expressed in the inner ear and indicate this may be necessary for cells in a special ionic and osmotic environment such as endo-perilymphatic ion compartments. The organ-specific upregulation of OSP94 by acoustic overstimulation reveals that OSP94 in the murine inner ear is potentially important for cellular functional adaptation to LSS.
Socially housed monkeys have been used as a model to study human diseases. The present study examined behavioral, physiological and neurochemical measures as predictors of social rank in 16 experimentally nave, individually housed female cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). The two behavioral measures examined were novel object reactivity (NOR), as determined by latency to touch an opaque acrylic box placed in the home cage, and locomotor activity assessed in a novel open-field apparatus. Serum cortisol concentrations were evaluated three times per week for four consecutive weeks, and stress reactivity was assessed on one occasion by evaluating the cortisol response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) following dexamethasone suppression. Measures of serotonin (5-HT) function included whole blood 5-HT (WBS) concentrations, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of the 5-HT metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and brain 5-HT transporter (SERT) availability obtained using positron emission tomography (PET). After baseline measures were obtained, monkeys were assigned to four social groups of four monkeys per group. The two measures that correlated with eventual social rank were CSF 5-HIAA concentrations, which were significantly higher in the animals who eventually became subordinate, and latency to touch the novel object, which was significantly lower in eventual subordinate monkeys. Measures of 5-HT function did not change as a consequence of social rank. These data suggest that levels of central 5-HIAA and measures of novel object reactivity may be trait markers that influence eventual social rank in female macaques.
Interneurons expressing the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (PV) are a critical component of the inhibitory circuitry of the basolateral nuclear complex (BLC) of the mammalian amygdala. These neurons form interneuronal networks interconnected by chemical and electrical synapses, and provide a strong perisomatic inhibition of local pyramidal projection neurons. Immunohistochemical studies in rodents have shown that most parvalbumin-positive (PV+) cells are GABAergic interneurons that co-express the calcium-binding protein calbindin (CB), but exhibit no overlap with interneuronal subpopulations containing the calcium-binding protein calretinin (CR) or neuropeptides. Despite the importance of identifying interneuronal subpopulations for clarifying the major players in the inhibitory circuitry of the BLC, very little is known about these subpopulations in primates. Therefore, in the present investigation dual-labeling immunofluorescence histochemical techniques were used to characterize PV+ interneurons in the basal and lateral nuclei of the monkey amygdala. These studies revealed that 90-94% of PV+ neurons were GABA+, depending on the nucleus, and that these neurons constituted 29-38% of the total GABAergic population. CB+ and CR+ interneurons constituted 31-46% and 23-27%, respectively, of GABAergic neurons. Approximately one quarter of PV+ neurons contained CB, and these cells constituted one third of the CB+ interneuronal population. There was no colocalization of PV with the neuropeptides somatostatin or cholecystokinin, and virtually no colocalization with CR. These data indicate that the neurochemical characteristics of the PV+ interneuronal subpopulation in the monkey BLC are fairly similar to those seen in the rat, but there is far less colocalization of PV and CB in the monkey. These findings suggest that PV+ neurons are a discrete interneuronal subpopulation in the monkey BLC and undoubtedly play a unique functional role in the inhibitory circuitry of this brain region.
Following peripheral nerve sections some locomotor deficits appear which are gradually compensated for by spinal and supraspinal mechanisms. The present work is aimed at identifying contributions of both types of mechanisms. We performed a denervation of the left lateral gastrocnemius-soleus (LGS) muscles in three cats which was followed by a spinalization at the 13th thoracic segment. Three other cats were not denervated prior to spinalization (i.e. intact) and served as controls. Over the years, in our laboratory, there have been no instances in which cats did not express spinal locomotion with treadmill training and/or clonidine administration. After spinalization, cats were trained on a treadmill to express spinal locomotion. Reflexes, evoked by stimulating the left tibial nerve at the ankle, the electromyography of several hindlimb muscles, and kinematics were recorded during locomotion before and after denervation, during recovery, and following complete spinalization. Denervating the left LGS before spinalization induced considerable variability in the expression of spinal locomotion from one cat to another, which was not observed in the three controls. Variability ranged from a greater ankle yield in the denervated limb in one cat to inability to recover locomotion after spinalization in another. In the two denervated cats that recovered locomotion after spinalization, some reflex changes differed from &quot;normal&quot; spinal cats (i.e. intact at the time of spinalization), suggesting that reorganization of spinal circuits after spinalization is dissimilar to what normally takes place if denervation is performed before spinalization. First, we conclude that the transient locomotor deficits initially incurred following the LGS denervation in cats with an intact spinal cord reappear after complete spinalization indicating that supraspinal mechanisms were involved in maintaining the adapted locomotion. Second, the reappearance of locomotor deficits and/or impairment in expressing spinal locomotion suggests that spinal mechanisms were profoundly altered to compensate for the initial denervation partly because the reflex modulation is abnormal. If the same denervation is performed after spinalization only transient deficits are observed and spinal locomotion is not compromised.
In addition to protective effects within the adult central nervous system (CNS), in vivo application of N-methyl-d-aspartate inhibitors such as (+) MK-801 have been shown to induce neurodegeneration in neonatal rats over a specific developmental period. We have systematically mapped the nature and extent of MK-801-induced neurodegeneration throughout the neonatal murine brain in order to genetically dissect the mechanism of these effects. Highest levels of MK-801-induced neurodegeneration are seen in the cerebellar external germinal layer; while mature neurons of the internal granule layer are unaffected by MK-801 treatment. Examination of external germinal layer neurons by electron microscopy, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, and caspase-3 activation demonstrate that these neurons die through the process of programmed cell death soon after they exit from the cell cycle. Significantly, ablation of caspase-3 activity completely inhibited the MK-801-induced (and developmental) programmed cell death of external germinal layer neurons. Similar to caspase-3, inactivation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vivo using scopolamine inhibited MK-801-induced programmed cell death. By contrast, the GABAergic agonist diazepam, either alone or in combination with MK-801, enhanced programmed cell death within external germinal layer neurons. These data demonstrate that, in vivo, cerebellar granule neurons undergo a dramatic change in intracellular signaling in response to molecules present in the local cellular milieu during their first 24 h following exit from the cell cycle.
In this study, we examined protein-protein interactions between two neuronal receptors, low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) and sorLA/LR11, and found that these receptors interact, as indicated by three independent lines of evidence: co-immunoprecipitation experiments on mouse brain extracts and mouse neuronal cells, surface plasmon resonance analysis with purified human LRP and sorLA, and fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) on rat primary cortical neurons. Immunocytochemistry experiments revealed widespread co-localization of LRP and sorLA within perinuclear compartments of rat primary neurons, while FLIM analysis showed that LRP-sorLA interactions take place within a subset of these compartments.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the selective degeneration and death of motoneurons in the spinal cord, brainstem and motor cortex which causes progressive muscle weakness and paralysis. Although the molecular mechanisms causing the disease remain unknown, excitotoxicity and loss of trophic support have been proposed as causes of degeneration. The present study was designed to elucidate the mechanisms of motoneuron death induced by serum deprivation and the potential neuroprotective effects of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in dissociated and organotypic rat spinal cord cultures. Serum withdrawal induced apoptotic cell death in dissociated spinal cord cultures, which was prevented in the presence of VEGF. In organotypic spinal cord cultures, low serum-induced motoneuron death was mediated by the stress-related kinase p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK), as it was reversed by the p38MAPK inhibitor SB203580. In these cultures, exposure to VEGF blocked p38MAPK phosphorylation and prevented the demise of motoneurons. These effects of VEGF were mediated through the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt (PI3-K/Akt) signal transduction pathway, as they were blocked in the presence of the PI3-K inhibitor LY294002. In addition, serum deprivation induced down-regulation of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 and this effect was prevented both by SB203580 and by VEGF via the PI3-K/Akt pathway. Therefore, Bcl-2 could also play an important role in the neuroprotection induced by VEGF in spinal cord cultures. Together, these findings indicate that VEGF prevents motoneuron death induced by serum deprivation blocking the activity of p38MAPK via the PI3-K/Akt signaling pathway.
Recent evidence demonstrates that N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) trafficking contributes to synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. Phosphorylation of tyrosine residues, especially NR2B tyrosine 1472, appears to be a mechanism by which NMDAR endocytosis is prevented, suggesting that the tyrosine phosphorylation and surface expression of NMDARs are positively correlated. Previous work from our laboratory and others has confirmed that modulation of tyrosine phosphatase and kinase activity alters the surface expression of NMDARs. However, the changes in NMDAR surface expression described in those studies were in terms of total surface membrane versus intracellular receptors. Within the plasma membrane of glutamatergic synapses, distinct populations of NMDARs exist. Namely, receptors at the surface can be differentiated into synaptic and extrasynaptic pools based on their association with the post-synaptic density (PSD) and availability to glutamate. In the present study, we utilized a subcellular fractionation approach coupled with detergent extraction to prepare synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDARs from adult rat hippocampal slices. Using this method, we examined how tyrosine phosphatase and Src-family tyrosine kinase (SFK) inhibitors modulate the phosphorylation and localization of these different pools of NMDARs. We found that both synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDARs were modulated by tyrosine phosphatase and SFK inhibitors; however subunit- and residue-specific effects were observed. Specifically, phosphorylation of NR2B tyrosine 1472 was associated with enrichment of synaptic NMDARs, whereas phosphorylation of NR2B tyrosine 1336 was associated with enrichment of extrasynaptic NMDARs. Using electrophysiological methods, we also reveal that the biochemical modifications produced by these inhibitors were associated with corresponding changes in NMDAR function.
Low frequency stimulation (LFS) has an inhibitory effect on rapid perforant path kindling acquisition. In the present study the role of adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors in mediating this inhibitory effect was investigated. Rats were kindled by perforant path stimulation using rapid kindling procedures (12 stimulations per day). LFS (0.1 ms pulse duration at 1 Hz, 200 pulses, and 50-150 muA) was applied to the perforant path immediately after termination of each rapid kindling stimulation. 1,3-Dimethyl-8-cyclopenthylxanthine (CPT; 50 muM), a selective A(1) antagonist and ZM241385 (ZM, 200 muM), a selective A(2A) antagonist were daily microinjected into the lateral ventricle 5 min before kindling stimulations. LFS had an inhibitory effect on kindling development. Pretreatment of animals with CPT reduced the inhibitory effect of LFS on kindling rate and suppressed the effects of LFS on potentiation of population EPSP during kindling acquisition. In addition, CPT was able to antagonize the effects of LFS on kindling-induced increase in early (10-50 ms intervals) and late (300-1000 ms intervals) paired pulse depression. ZM pretreatment had no effect on antiepileptogenic effects of LFS in kindling acquisition. In addition, LFS prevented the kindling-induced elevation of cyclic AMP (cAMP) levels in kindled animals. Based on these results, we suggest that the antiepileptogenic effects of LFS on perforant path kindling might be mediated through activation of adenosine A(1), but not A(2A) receptors. Moreover, modulation of cAMP levels by LFS may potentially be an important mechanism which explains the anticonvulsant effects of LFS in kindled seizures.
Infants who are passively exposed to morphine or heroin through their addicted mothers usually develop neurobiological changes. The postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95) protein, a submembranous cytoskeletal specialization, is dynamically linked with N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) to form a synaptic complex in postsynaptic neurons. This complex serves important neurobiological functions, including mammalian learning and memory. However, the effects of prenatal morphine exposure on this synaptic complex are not well understood. In this study, we determined whether prenatal morphine exposure altered the synaptic complex association between PSD-95 and three major NMDAR subunits (NR1, NR2A, and NR2B), at the mRNA and protein levels, within the hippocampal CA1 subregion (an important integration area for mammalian learning and memory) of rat offspring along with the performance of long-term cognitive functions. Sprague-Dawley rat offspring from morphine-addicted mothers were studied at a younger age (postnatal day 14; P14) and at an older age (P45). Subsequently, an eight-arm radial maze task was applied to analyze the working and cued reference memory in such offspring (P45). The real-time polymerase chain reaction results showed that prenatal morphine exposure caused significant decreases in mRNA levels of the PSD-95 and three NMDAR subunits (NR1, NR2A, and NR2B) in offspring (P14 and P45). Similarly, at the protein level, immunoblotting showed that decreased whole levels of PSD-95 and NMDAR subunits were seen in offspring subjected with prenatal morphine. Furthermore, the protein interaction of the synaptic complex between the PSD-95 and NMDAR subunit, as indicated by coimmunoprecipitation, was less in prenatal morphine samples than in vehicle controls (P14 and P45). The prenatal morphine group also showed poorer performance for an eight-arm radial maze task than the vehicle-control group. These results are particularly important for a better understanding of certain opioid-mediated neurobehavioral cognitive changes in offspring associated with altered protein interaction between PSD-95 and NMDAR subunits within the developing brain.
The role protein phosphatase 2B (calcineurin, CaN) plays in learning and memory has received a significant amount of attention due to its promotion of the dephosphorylation of 3'-5'-cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB). Researchers have ascertained that overexpression of CaN is associated with memory retention deficits [Foster TC, Sharrow KM, Masse JR, Norris CM, Kumar A (2001) Calcineurin links Ca(2+) dysregulation with brain aging. J Neurosci 21:4066-4073; Mansuy IM, Mayford M, Jacob B, Kandel ER, Bach ME (1998) Restricted and regulated overexpression reveals calcineurin as a key component in the transition from short-term to long-term memory. Cell 92:39-49], while CaN inhibition enhances learning and memory [Gerdjikov TV, Beninger RJ (2005) Differential effects of calcineurin inhibition and protein kinase A activation on nucleus accumbens amphetamine-produced conditioned place preference in rats. Eur J Neurosci 22:697-705; Ikegami S, Inokuchi K (2000) Antisense DNA against calcineurin facilitates memory in contextual fear conditioning by lowering the threshold for hippocampal long-term potentiation induction. Neuroscience 98:637-646]. The present study hypothesized that infusion of a CaN inhibitor (FK506) bilaterally into the olfactory bulbs of postnatal day 6 Sprague Dawley rat pups would prolong the duration of a conditioned odor preference and retard cyclic AMP response element binding protein dephosphorylation. A 2 mg/kg s.c. injection of isoproterenol (ISO, beta-adrenoceptor agonist) was paired with a 10 min exposure to peppermint and subsequently an infusion of FK506. Immunohistochemistry for phosphorylated 3'-5'-cyclic AMP response element binding protein (pCREB) revealed that unilateral infusion of FK506 resulted in an amplification of phosphorylated CREB in the olfactory bulb 40 min after training compared with saline-infused bulbs. Pups infused bilaterally with FK506 maintained a learned preference for peppermint 48, 72 and 96 h after training. CaN inhibition also modified the conventional inverted U curve obtained when ISO is used to replace stroking, as the unconditioned stimulus. When pups were infused with FK506, learning occurred with sub- and supra-optimal doses of ISO indicating that CaN overcomes non-optimal effects ISO may have on learning. We demonstrate that CaN inhibition can extend the duration of conditioned olfactory memory and may provide a target for memory prolongation that is superior to even phosphodiesterase inhibition observed in previous studies.
Progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with chronic inflammation and microvascular alterations, which can induce impairment of brain perfusion because of vascular pathology and local acidosis. Acidosis can promote amyloidogenesis, which could further contribute to neurodegenerative changes. Nevertheless, there is also evidence that acidosis has neuroprotective effects in hypoxia models. Here we studied the effect of moderate acidosis on beta-amyloid (Abeta)-mediated neurotoxicity. We evaluated morphological changes, cell death, nitrite production and reductive metabolism of hippocampal cultures from Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to Abeta under physiological (pH 7.4) or moderate acidosis (pH 7.15-7.05). In addition, because transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) 1 is neuroprotective and is induced by several pathophysiological conditions, we assessed its presence at the different pHs. The exposure of hippocampal cells to Abeta induced a conspicuous reduction of neurites' arborization, as well as increased neuronal death and nitric oxide production. However, Abeta neurotoxicity was significantly attenuated when hippocampal cultures were kept at pH 7.15-7.05, showing a 68% reduction on lactate dehydrogenase release compared with cultures exposed to Abeta at pH 7.4 (P&lt;0.01). Similarly, 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide reduction increased 3.5-fold (P&lt;0.05), and Abeta-induced nitrite production was reduced by 65% when exposed to moderate acidosis compared with basal pH media (P&lt;0.05). At the same time, moderate acidosis decreased intracellular TGFbeta1 precursor (latency associated protein-TGFbeta1) and increased up to fourfold TGFbeta1 bioactivity, detecting a 43% increase in the active TGFbeta levels in cultures exposed to Abeta and moderate acidosis. Inhibition of TGFbeta signaling abolished the neuroprotective effect of moderate acidosis. Our results show that moderate acidosis protected hippocampal cells from Abeta-mediated neurotoxicity through the increased activation and signaling potentiation of TGFbeta.
The locus coeruleus (LC) is the largest source of norepinephrine (NE) in the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus, influencing the cognitive functions of these areas. All previous studies have studied the role of the LC-NE system on learning and memory using the irreversible lesion technique, employing either electrocoagulation or excitotoxins. However, the reversible functional inactivation of LC by means of stereotaxic local microinjection of lidocaine could measure the phases of memory processing (acquisition, consolidation and retention) without any interference with the other cognitive functions of the same structure either during earlier or later phases of the same process. The aim of this study is to investigate LC involvement in spatial reference and working memory by inducing bilateral pre-training, post-training and pre-retrieval lidocaine functional inactivation using the Morris water maze task. The reversible inactivation of LC was applied at different stages of spatial memory formation: (1) immediately before the training sessions to determine the effects on acquisition of the both reference and working memory; (2) immediately after the training session to evaluate effects on both spatial memory consolidation and retention of working memory; and (3) immediately before the 24 h retention session to analyze the effects on the retrieval process of reference memory. Our results indicate that the bilateral reversible inactivation of LC significantly impaired the acquisition of reference and working memory, while it had no effect on consolidation and/or retention of such memories in the Morris water maze (MWM) task. Therefore, the noradrenergic system of the LC may play a more important role in acquisition than in consolidation and retrieval of spatial memory in wistar rats.
In this study, we assessed the distribution of cortical neurons immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in prefrontal cortical regions of humans and nonhuman primate species. Immunohistochemical methods were used to visualize TH-immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons in areas 9 (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and 32 (anterior paracingulate cortex). The study sample included humans, great apes (chimpanzee, bonobo, gorilla, orangutan), one lesser ape (siamang), and Old World monkeys (golden guenon, patas monkey, olive baboon, moor macaque, black and white colobus, and Franois' langur). The percentage of neurons within the cortex expressing TH was quantified using computer-assisted stereology. TH-ir neurons were present in layers V and VI and the subjacent white matter in each of the Old World monkey species, the siamang, and in humans. TH-ir cells were also occasionally observed in layer III of human, siamang, baboon, colobus, and Franois' langur cortex. Cortical cells expressing TH were notably absent in each of the great ape species. Quantitative analyses did not reveal a phylogenetic trend for percentage of TH-ir neurons in these cortical areas among species. Interestingly, humans and monkey species exhibited a bilaminar pattern of TH-ir axon distributions within prefrontal regions, with layers I-II and layers V-VI having the densest contingent of axons. In contrast, the great apes had a different pattern of laminar innervation, with a remarkably denser distribution of TH-ir axons within layer III. It is possible that the catecholaminergic afferent input to layer III in chimpanzees and other great apes covaries with loss of TH-ir cells within the cortical mantle.
Aggressive behavior is widespread throughout the animal kingdom, and is a complex social behavior influenced by both genetics and environment. Animals typically fight over resources that include food, territory, and sexual partners. Of all the neurotransmitters, serotonin (5-HT) has been the most implicated in modulating aggressive behaviors in mammalian systems. In the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, the involvement of 5-HT itself in aggressive behaviors has been recently established, however, the underlying mechanisms have largely remained elusive. Here we describe the influence of different 5-HT receptor subtypes on aggressive behaviors in Drosophila. Drosophila express homologs of three mammalian 5-HT receptors: the 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2), and 5-HT(7) receptors. Significantly, these receptors mediate important behaviors in mammalian systems ranging from feeding, aggression, and sleep, to cognition. To examine the role of the 5-HT(2)Dro receptor, we utilized the selective 5-HT(2) receptor agonist (R)-1-[2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl]-2-aminopropane (DOI), and the 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist, ketanserin. To examine the role of 5-HT(1A)-like receptors we used the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT), and the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY100635. We find that activation of 5-HT(2) receptors with (R)-DOI appears to decrease overall aggression, whereas activation of 5-HT(1A)-like receptors with 8-OH-DPAT increases overall aggression. Furthermore, the different 5-HT receptor circuitries appear to mediate different aspects of aggression: 5-HT(2) receptor manipulation primarily alters lunging and boxing, whereas 5-HT(1A)-like receptor manipulation primarily affects wing threats and fencing. Elucidating the effects of serotonergic systems on aggression in the fly is a significant advancement not only in establishing the fly as a system to study aggression, but as a system relevant to elucidating molecular mechanisms underlying aggression in mammals, including humans.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF) has a neurotrophic activity on developing midbrain dopaminergic neurons. We investigated developmental effects of peripheral EGF administration on dopaminergic neurons in midbrain slice preparations containing ventral tegmental area (VTA). Subcutaneous EGF administration to mouse neonates triggered phosphorylation of EGF receptors (ErbB1 and ErbB2) in the midbrain region, suggesting its penetration through the blood-brain barrier. We repeated EGF administration in postnatal mice and examined synaptic transmission in the VTA with electrophysiological recordings. Subchronic EGF treatment increased the amplitude of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by stimulation of the anterior VTA. To analyze the EGF effect at a single cell level, dopaminergic neurons were identified by their characteristic hyperpolarizing activated currents in whole cell recording. In these dopaminergic neurons, EGF effects the amplitude of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) without affecting their frequency. In agreement, EGF also enhanced the AMPA/NMDA ratio of evoked EPSCs in the dopaminergic neurons. In contrast, EGF effects on mEPSCs of neighboring neurons not exhibiting hyperpolarizing activated currents were modest or insignificant. Thus, these results suggest that circulating EGF substantially influences the physiological properties of developing midbrain dopaminergic neurons in perinatal and postnatal mice.
During embryo neurogenesis, neurons that originate from stem cells located in the forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ) continuously migrate to the olfactory bulb (OB). However, other authors describe the occurrence of resident stem cells in the OB. In the present work we report that the absence of tumor suppressor protein p53 increases the number of neurosphere-forming cells and the proliferation of stem cells derived from 13.5-day embryo OB. Interestingly, differentiation of p53 knockout-derived neurospheres was biased toward neuronal precursors, suggesting a role for p53 in the differentiation process. Moreover, we demonstrate the relevance of p53 in maintaining chromosomal stability in response to genotoxic insult. Finally, our data show that neurosphere stem cells are highly resistant to long-term epidermal growth factor (EGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) deprivation in a p53-independent fashion, and they preserve their differentiation potential. Thus, these data demonstrate that p53 controls the proliferation, chromosomal stability and differentiation pattern of embryonic mouse olfactory bulb stem cells.
Although the hyperpolarization-activated non-specific cationic current (I(h)) plays important roles in determining the membrane characteristics of the spiral ganglion cells (SGCs), neither the exact types of the hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated, cation non-selective channel (HCN) subunits contributing to the molecular assembly of the relevant channels, nor their distribution pattern presented by the SGCs is known. In the present work immunolabeling and Western blot analysis were performed to describe the presence and distribution of all four known HCN subunits in the guinea-pig spiral ganglion. Besides determining the expression of the HCN1-HCN4 subunits by both type I and type II SGCs, the presence of possible apico-basal gradients in the expression patterns was also sought. The results indicate that both type I and type II SGCs express all four HCN subunits. The intensity of the immunolabeling of the cell surface membrane was generally strong, but it showed pronounced cell-to-cell variability. The Western blot experiments in combination with densitometry revealed that the amount of the HCN1 and HCN3 proteins was more significant in the apical than in the basal third of the guinea-pig cochlea. These findings not only imply potential heteromeric HCN channel formation of the spiral ganglion neurons, but they also offer a possible explanation of the previously reported heterogeneity of I(h) recorded in functional studies.
Tropomyosin is a coiled-coil actin binding protein that stabilizes the filament, protects it from severing, and cooperatively regulates actin's interaction with myosin. Depending on the first coding exon, tropomyosins are low molecular weight (LMW), found in the cytoskeleton and predominant in transformed cells, or high molecular weight (HMW), found in muscle and nonmuscle cells. The N- and C-terminal ends form a complex that allows tropomyosin to associate N terminus-to-C terminus along the actin filament. We determined the structure of a LMW tropomyosin N-terminal model peptide complexed with a smooth/nonmuscle tropomyosin C-terminal peptide. Using NMR and circular dichroism we showed that both ends become more helical upon complex formation but that the C-terminal peptide is partially unfolded at 20 degrees C. The first five residues of the N terminus that are disordered in the free peptide are more helical and are part of the overlap complex. NMR data indicate residues 2-17 bind to the C terminus in the complex. The data support a model for the LMW overlap complex that is homologous to the striated muscle tropomyosin complex in which the ends are oriented in parallel N terminus-to-C terminus with the plane of the N-terminal coiled coil perpendicular to the plane of the C terminus. The main difference is that the overlap spans 16 residues in the LMW tropomyosin complex compared to 11 residues in the HMW striated muscle overlap complex. We discuss the relevance of a stable but dynamic intermolecular junction for high-affinity binding to actin.
Teleradiology involving the transfer of vital patient information such as scan images is an important technology to facilitate effective and efficient provision of neurosurgical care in the setting of scarce resources and geographic isolation. We review the implementation of teleradiology initiatives in the small city state of Singapore and its potential and need in the large province of Ontario and draw parallels in their strategic implementation. Although it may seem intuitive that teleradiology has greater applications in regions of vast geographical size, the technology has universal usefulness if applied appropriately in any neurosurgical or health care system.
Potassium channel interacting proteins (KChIPs) are members of a family of calcium binding proteins that interact with Kv4 potassium (K(+)) channel primary subunits and also act as transcription factors. The Kv4 subunit is a primary K(+) channel pore-forming subunit, which contributes to the somatic and dendritic A-type currents throughout the nervous system. These A-type currents play a key role in the regulation of neuronal excitability and dendritic processing of incoming synaptic information. KChIP3 is also known as calsenilin and as the transcription factor, downstream regulatory element antagonist modulator (DREAM), which regulates a number of genes including prodynorphin. KChIP3 and Kv4 primary channel subunits are highly expressed in hippocampus, an area of the brain important for learning and memory. Through its various functions, KChIP3 may play a role in the regulation of synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. We evaluated the role of KChIP3 in a hippocampus-dependent memory task, contextual fear conditioning. Male KChIP3 knockout (KO) mice showed significantly enhanced memory 24 hours after training as measured by percent freezing. In addition, we found that membrane association and interaction with Kv4.2 of KChIP3 protein was significantly decreased and nuclear KChIP3 expression was increased six hours after the fear conditioning training paradigm with no significant change in KChIP3 mRNA. In addition, prodynorphin mRNA expression was significantly decreased six hours after fear conditioning training in wild-type (WT) but not in KO animals. These data suggest a role for regulation of gene expression by KChIP3/DREAM/calsenilin in consolidation of contextual fear conditioning memories.
&quot;Neuroprotective&quot; compounds that block dopamine cell death are expected to slow the progression of the neurologic symptoms of Parkinson disease (PD) and therefore &quot;modify&quot; the disease course. However, presently, no fully satisfying efficacy &quot;disease-modification&quot; study design exists, and no drug has yet been approved for that indication. This is inherent to the slow progression of PD with respect to the limited time for patient follow-up and exposure to placebo, the modest effects of investigated drugs, and the confounding effects of symptomatic medications used to treat patients with PD. Disease-modification trials assessing drug efficacy on PD progression are currently prospective, randomized, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, long-term (1-3 year) studies. Untreated patients with early PD represent the main target population because more neurons remain for protection, PD may progress faster, and symptomatic medications are not needed at this stage. &quot;Long lasting&quot; prevention/postponement of disability is a relevant objective for such trials and two main types of outcome and analysis are proposed: slopes analysis of cardinal clinical feature progression (Unified PD Rating Scale, UPDRS) or survival curve analysis of &quot;time to emergence&quot; of clinically relevant milestones (time to dopaminergic therapy, Hoehn and Yahr stage III, etc.). The use of biomarkers remains investigational. Wash-out and delayed-start designs have been proposed to disentangle symptomatic and neuroprotective mechanisms, although this clarification might not be so important practically, as long as the effect on disability is large and long-lasting. To observe clinically relevant changes, several years of follow-up is required, and controlled, randomized, pragmatic trials should be considered when establishing clinical development plans.
During the last 20 years, an enormous research effort and hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent attempting to develop and prove that drugs may slow the rate of progression of Parkinson disease (PD). At the time of writing, no drug has yet satisfied the rigorous criteria set by clinicians and licensing authorities for a neuroprotective agent. Despite this apparent failure, numerous important lessons have been learned, and some areas for optimism have emerged. Dopaminergic drugs have, for 40 years, been the basis for the treatment of the predominant early motor features of PD. Several of these drugs have also demonstrated an ability to protect cells, including neurons, against a range of toxins that are of relevance to the pathogenesis of PD. Some have entered clinical trials for neuroprotection, and a few have produced a positive result according to the endpoint selected. The interpretation of these trials is the subject of some debate. A pattern has emerged in these and other clinical trials, which has lead to a novel concept for neuroprotection, and that is simply to treat early rather than delay. The basis for this may lie in the support of basal ganglia compensatory mechanisms and the restoration of normal dopaminergic transmission.
The honey bee genome predicts approximately 100 peptides from 36 prohormones, but the functions of many of these peptides are unknown. We used differential isotope labeling combined with mass spectrometric analysis to quantify approximately 50% of known bee brain peptides in the context of foraging, with 8 showing robust and dynamic regulation. Some showed differences in brain abundance as a function of experience; specifically, nectar and pollen collection led to quick changes in abundance. These changes were related to the act of food collection, not ingestion, because foragers bring food back to the hive for storage rather than eating it themselves. Other peptide differences in brain abundance were seen in bees that either flew to a nectar feeder or a pollen feeder, but did not yet collect any food. These differences likely reflect well-known predispositions of some bees to collect either nectar or pollen, but not both. Tachykinin, PBAN, and sNPF were among the peptides with the strongest changes in association with nectar and pollen foraging. These peptides are known to be involved in regulating food intake in solitary insects, suggesting an evolutionary connection between that behavior and social foraging. These results demonstrate that it is now possible to use quantitative peptidomics to help determine which brain peptides are bioactive and to elucidate their function in the regulation of behavior.
Telomere integrity is maintained through end-protection proteins that block nuclease degradation and prevent telomeres from being recognized as DNA breaks. Although less well understood, end protection proteins may also play a role in facilitating telomere replication. Here, we show that overproduction (OP) of the yeast telomere capping protein Stn1 makes cells highly sensitive to the replication inhibitors hydroxyurea (HU) and methyl-methane sulfonate (MMS). Unexpectedly, this sensitivity corresponds with Stn1 OP blocking most, if not all, aspects of the S phase checkpoint. The checkpoint kinase Rad53 is phosphorylated with normal timing in Stn1 OP cells, indicating Stn1 does not interfere with signaling steps involved in activating the checkpoint. Part of the role of Stn1 in telomere integrity is mediated through the Pol12 subunit of DNA polymerase alpha (Pol alpha). We show that overproduced Stn1 generally associates with chromosomes in HU treated and untreated cells, and, remarkably, Stn1 chromosome binding and OP checkpoint defects are rescued in pol12 mutants. We propose Stn1 normally promotes Pol alpha activity at telomeres but can be recruited through Pol12 to nontelomeric sites when overproduced. During replication stress, the mislocalized Stn1 may inappropriately promote Pol alpha in a manner that interferes with Rad53 effector mechanisms controlling replication fork integrity.
Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is an inherited metabolic disease due to a deficiency of the hydroxymethylbilane synthase in the haem biosynthesis. It manifests with occasional neurovisceral crises due to overproduction of porphyrin precursors such as aminolaevulinic acid (ALA) which is released from the liver to the circulation. The majority of the acute attacks manifest as a combination of abdominal pain, mild mental symptoms and autonomic dysfunction mainly due to vagal insufficiency. However, both acute peripheral neuropathy and encephalopathy may develop if an acute attack proceeds especially due to administration of porphyrinogenic drugs. Acute porphyric neuropathy is predominantly motor and associates with a history of abdominal pain and dysautonomia, CNS involvement and mild hepatopathy. Other features include preservation of achilles reflexes while global hyporeflexia and neuropathic or myalgic pain. The pathogenesis of porphyric neuropathy is complex but overproduction of ALA via direct neurotoxicity, oxidative damage, and modification of glutamatergic release may initiate the neuronal damage. Acute encephalopathy manifests as a combination of mental symptoms, seizures, SIADH, but rarely focal CNS deficits. Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES), which has been found in patients' MRI during an acute attack with severe encephalopathy, could explain the pathogenesis of encephalopathy and seizures in AIP. Neurological manifestations are unspecific and careful interpretation of abnormal excretion of porphyrin precursors should be done before the symptoms can be related to inherited acute porphyrias and not to secondary porphyrinuria. Currently the prognosis of neuropathy and encephalopathy in AIP is good even in severe attacks, but physicians should be aware of a potentially fatal outcome of the disease.
The major cell types in the central nervous system, neurons and glial cells (astrocytes and oligodendrocytes), are generated from common neural stem cells (NSCs). However, neurogenesis precedes gliogenesis, which normally commences at later stages of fetal brain development. Recent studies have shown that epigenetic gene regulation, in concert with cues from outside the cells, plays important roles in regulating the differentiation potential and fate specification of NSCs. In this review, we discuss emerging molecular explanations for the transitions that occur during the stepwise process of NSC fate specification.
The metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a well described cluster of interrelated risk factors for developing cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. The key components of MetS are central obesity, hypertension, hyperglycaemia and dyslipidaemia. The 2005 International Diabetes Federation (IDF) consensus definition of MetS aimed to reduce confusion over criteria for MetS and to provide a simple diagnostic and clinical tool. There is considerable evidence to show that patients prescribed antipsychotic drugs are at increased risk of developing MetS. Existing clinical guidelines for metabolic screening of patients taking antipsychotics focus on diabetes rather than on the broader syndrome of MetS and are not consistent with the IDF definition of MetS. Monitoring for MetS in patients taking antipsychotics (both inpatients and outpatients) is generally poor. We present a user-friendly clinical algorithm and monitoring form, based on current evidence and using the IDF definition of MetS, to help clinicians in primary care or specialist settings to effectively monitor for MetS in these patients.
New primary data and systematic reviews have prompted the review of some long-held views about the epidemiology of schizophrenia. The incidence and prevalence of schizophrenia show prominent variation between locations. Males are more likely to develop schizophrenia than females (1.4 : 1). Migrant status, urban birth or residence, and advanced paternal age are associated with an increased risk of developing schizophrenia. Prenatal infection and nutrition are associated with an increased risk of schizophrenia. Individuals with schizophrenia have a 2-3-fold increased mortality risk compared with the general population. This differential mortality gap may have worsened in recent decades. Epidemiology is good for generating candidate exposures but poor at proving them. Cross-disciplinary projects between epidemiology and neuroscience may help us understand the pathways leading to schizophrenia.
Processing of relevant olfactory and pheromonal cues has long been known as an important process necessary for social and sexual behavior in rodents. Several nuclei that receive input from the vomeronasal projection pathway are involved in sexual behavior and show changes in immediate early gene expression after stimulation with a variety of sex-related stimuli. The nuclei in this pathway are sexually dimorphic due to the early patterning events induced by estradiol derived from testicular androgens, which developmentally defeminize and masculinize the brain and adult sexual behavior. Masculinization can be induced independently of estradiol via prostaglandin-E(2) (PGE(2)), and therefore assessed separately from defeminization. Here we examined the effects of brain defeminization and masculinization on neuronal response to sex-related odors using Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos, as an indicator of activity. Female rat pups treated with a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, to reduce PGE(2), plus estradiol, estradiol alone, and PGE(2) alone were exposed to estrous female odor as adults and the resulting Fos expression was examined in the medial amygdala, preoptic area, and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. Defeminized and/or masculinized females all showed patterns of Fos activity similar to control males and significantly different from control females. These results suggest that early exposure to estradiol and PGE(2) do not affect olfaction in females, but switch the activity pattern of sex-related nuclei in females to resemble that of males following exposure to sexually-relevant cues.
Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1854-1934) had achieved a sound school of neurobiology displaying an integrative and anatomo-functional paradigm of study of the Nervous System by integrating diverse morphological, physiological, and clinical sciences during the Second Spanish Republic. Such school flourished in the three locations of the Cajal Institute in Madrid, but was nearly lost during the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939) with the repression of the majority of the collaborators of the recently-extinct master. One part of these mature and capable researchers was able to reach sanctuary in the Americas to continue their research and teaching enterprises. Thanks to the welcoming policy of Mexican president Lzaro Crdenas several of them developed an extensive work at the National University of Mexico (UNAM) becoming pioneers, founders of research institutions, and venerable teachers of several medical and neurological sciences. Among them are neuropsychiatrist Dionisio Nieto, pathologist Isaac Costero, both pupils of Po del Ro Hortega; physiologist Jos Puche and pharmacologist Rafael Mndez, both collaborators of Juan Negrn. The work of Dionisio Nieto is especially worthy to remark as beneficiary of the Cajal School since, among many other achievements, he applied the techniques of Del Ro Hortega to study the neuropathology of epilepsy and schizophrenia since the 1950's. Besides from his legacy to Mexican psychiatry, Nieto's pupils have extended his neuroanatomical and histological work, such as Alfonso Escobar, or his psycho physiological leads, such as Augusto Fernndez-Guardiola. The latter was another Spanish War refugee who before is death in 2004 published a profound testimonial pertaining to the neurosciences of the Spanish exile in Mexico.


We report on the analyses of four unrelated patients with de novo, overlapping, hemizygous deletions of the long arm of chromosome 10. These include two small terminal deletions (10q26.2 to 10qter), a larger terminal deletion (10q26.12 to 10qter), and an interstitial deletion (10q25.3q26.13). Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) studies (Illumina 550 K) established that these deletions resulted in the hemizygous loss of approximately 6.1, approximately 6.1, approximately 12.5, and approximately 7.0 Mb respectively. Additionally, these data establish that Patients 1, 2, and 3 share common, distal, hemizygous deleted regions of 6.09 Mb containing 37 RefSeq genes. Patients 3 and 4 share a 2.52 Mb deleted region corresponding to the proximal deleted region of Patient 3 and the distal deleted region of Patient 4. This common, hemizygous region contains 20 RefSeq genes including two H6 family homeobox genes (HMX2 and HMX3). Based on previous reports that Hmx2/Hmx3 knockout mice have vestibular anomalies, we propose that hemizygous deletions of HMX2 and HMX3 are responsible for the inner ear malformations observed from CT images, vestibular dysfunction, and congenital sensorineural hearing loss found in Patients 3 and 4.
The GJB2 gene located on chromosome 13q12 and encoding the connexin 26 (Cx26) protein, a transmembrane protein involved in cell-cell attachment of almost all tissues, including the skin, causes autosomal recessive and sometimes dominant nonsyndromic sensorineural hearing loss. GJB2 mutations have also been identified in syndromic disorders exhibiting hearing loss associated with skin problems. Recently, a new mutation, p.G130V in the GJB2 gene has been reported as causative for Vohwinkel syndrome. In this case the p.G130V mutation was found in two patients (son and father) with palmoplantar keratoderma. The father also showed also skin constrictions of the 2nd and 3rd toes of the right foot. Here, we report on another family with palmoplantar keratoderma associated with a dominant form of hearing loss confirming the genotype-phenotype correlation between the mutation p.G130V and the skin abnormalities observed in syndromic disorders with hearing loss as described by [Snoeckx et al. (2005) Hum Mutat 26:60-65].

Mitf has been reported to play a crucial role in regulating the differentiation of pigment cells in homeothermal animals, i.e. the melanocytes and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). However, less is known about the functions of Mitf in the developing RPE. To elucidate such functions, we introduced wild-type and dominant-negative Mitf expression vectors into chick optic vesicles by electroporation. Over-expression of wild-type Mitf altered neural retina cells to become RPE-like and repressed the expression of neural retina markers in vivo. In contrast, dominant-negative Mitf inhibited pigmentation in the RPE. The percentage of BrdU-positive cells decreased during normal RPE development, which was followed by Mitf protein expression. The percentage of BrdU-positive cells decreased in the wild-type Mitf-transfected neural retina, but increased in the dominant-negative Mitf-transfected RPE. p27(kip1), one of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, begins to be expressed in the proximal region of the RPE at stage 16. Transfection of wild-type Mitf induced expression of p27(kip1), while transfection of dominant-negative Mitf inhibited p27(kip1) expression. We found that Mitf was associated with the endogenous p27(kip1) 5' flanking region. These results demonstrate for the first time &quot;in vivo&quot; that Mitf uniquely regulates both differentiation and cell proliferation in the developing RPE.
Vertebrate cranial neurogenic placodes are relatively simple model systems for investigating the control of sensory neurogenesis. The ophthalmic trigeminal (opV) placode, for which the earliest specific marker is the paired domain homeodomain transcription factor Pax3, forms cutaneous sensory neurons in the ophthalmic lobe of the trigeminal ganglion. We previously showed that Pax3 expression in avian opV placode cells correlates with specification and commitment to a Pax3+, cutaneous sensory neuron fate. Pax3 can act as a transcriptional activator or repressor, depending on the cellular context. We show using mouse Splotch(2H) mutants that Pax3 is necessary for the normal neuronal differentiation of opV placode cells. Using an electroporation construct encoding a Pax3-Engrailed fusion protein, which represses Pax3 target genes, we show that activation of Pax3 target genes is required cell-autonomously within chick opV placode cells for expression of the opV placode markers FGFR4 and Ngn2, maintenance of the preplacodal marker Eya2, expression of Pax3 itself (suggesting that Pax3 autoregulates), neuronal differentiation and delamination. Mis-expression of Pax3 in head ectoderm is sufficient to induce FGFR4 and Ngn2 expression, but neurons do not differentiate, suggesting that additional signals are necessary to enable Pax3+ cells to differentiate as neurons. Mis-expression of Pax3 in the Pax2+ otic and epibranchial placodes also downregulates Pax2 and disrupts otic vesicle closure, suggesting that Pax3 is sufficient to alter the identity of these cells. Overall, our results suggest that activation of Pax3 target genes is necessary but not sufficient for neurogenesis in the opV placode.
Analysis of subclass-specific germline transcription in activated peripheral B cells revealed a highly biased expression pattern of the four Igamma transcripts to signals through CD40 and IL-4. This difference was most pronounced when comparing the profile of Igamma1 and Igamma4 transcripts and was not expected given the very high degree of sequence conservation between promoters. In this report, the influence of sequence differences on the regulation of the Igamma1 and Igamma4 promoters has been investigated given the highly muted transcriptional activity of the Igamma4 promoter. Two regions were analyzed where single nucleotide differences corresponded to major changes in transcriptional activity. These regions were the previously defined CD40 response region containing three putative NF-kappaB-binding sites and the downstream 36-bp region containing CREB/activating transcription factor and kappaB6 sites. Mutation of a single nucleotide at position 6 within the Igamma4 kappaB6 site increased promoter activity to approximately 50% of the activity of the Igamma1 promoter. Furthermore, elevated promoter strength corresponded with increased binding of p50, p65, c-Rel, RelB, and p300 proteins to a level comparable with that of Igamma1. Minor nucleotide changes to both the Igamma4 CD40 response region and the 36-bp element resulted in a response undistinguishable from an Igamma1 response, suggesting cooperation between the two regulatory regions for optimal transcriptional activity. Collectively, these mutational analyses suggest that minor sequence differences contribute to the composition and affinity of transcriptional protein complexes regulating subclass-specific germline transcription, which in part impacts the overall level of class switch recombination to targeted C(H) regions.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) has been associated with low levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D). Several genetic polymorphisms of the vitamin D receptor gene (VDRG), of whom Fok-I (rs10735810) has functional consequences for receptor protein structure and the immune system, have been studied in relation to MS with variable results. The purpose of our study was to assess an association of the Fok-I VDRG polymorphism with MS, and to further unravel the interaction of this polymorphism with vitamin D metabolism. Therefore, we genotyped 212 MS patients and 289 healthy controls for the Fok-I polymorphism and determined levels of the vitamin D metabolites 25(OH)D and 1,25(OH)(2)D. No association of the Fok-I VDRG polymorphism with MS was found. The F-allele was associated with lower winter and summer serum 25(OH)D levels in our MS patients, and with lower 25(OH)D levels in healthy controls. Remarkably, the F-allele corresponded with higher 1,25(OH)(2)D levels in MS patients. In all groups, carriers of the F-allele had higher 1,25(OH)(2)D/ 25(OH)D-ratios compared to their f-allele counterparts. In conclusion, we demonstrated the importance of the Fok-I VDRG polymorphism for vitamin D metabolism. This should be taken into account in association and ultimately intervention studies on vitamin D and MS.
Interferon-alpha (IFNalpha) is a potent extracellular protein mediator of host defense and homeostasis. IFNalpha has well-established direct antiviral, antiproliferative and immunomodulatory properties. The worldwide, increasing and long-term use of IFNalpha, particularly for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection, has drawn attention to the development or exacerbation of numerous autoimmune phenomena, including a variety of neuropathy syndromes, neuromuscular junction disorders and myopathies. Management entailed withdrawal of IFNalpha therapy with supportive, immunomodulatory, and symptomatic treatment as clinically indicated. The mechanisms of IFNalpha-induced autoimmunity are incompletely understood, and likely vary depending on the inherent differences in the pathogenesis of the immune disorder on a background of patient genetic susceptibility. In addition, there is preliminary evidence from case reports and open-label studies that the immunomodulatory effects of IFNalpha may have potential as a treatment option for a spectrum of immune-mediated neuromuscular diseases, but further studies are needed.
The chemokine CXCL10 is expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) during neuroinflammatory conditions. Neurons express CXCR3, the receptor for CXCL10, and neuronal function has been shown to be altered by acute exposure to CXCL10. Little is known about the effects of chronic exposure to CXCL10 on neuronal function. Results from our studies show that chronic exposure of cultured rat hippocampal neurons to CXCL10 results in altered levels of protein for GABA and glutamate receptors and altered synaptic network activity. These effects of CXCL10 may contribute to altered CNS function that occurs in some chronic neuroinflammatory conditions.

Spinal cord involvement associated with severe copper deficiency has been reported in the last 8 years. Copper deficiency may produce an ataxic myelopathy. Clinical and neuroimaging findings are similar to the subacute combined degeneration seen in patients with vitamin B12 deficiency. Macrocytic, normocytic and microcytic anemia, leukopenia and, in severe cases, pancytopenia are well known hematologic manifestations. The most patients with copper deficiency myelopathy had unrecognized carency. Some authors suggested that early recognition and copper supplementation may prevent neurologic deterioration but clinical findings do not improve. We present a patient with copper deficiency, dorsal root ganglions and cervical dorsal columns involvement. Clinical status and neuroimaging improved after copper replacement therapy. Sensory neurons of dorsal root ganglia may be the most sensitive nervous pathway. In this case the early copper treatment allowed to improve neurologic lesions and to prevent further involvements.
Ocular motor abnormalities are frequently reported in Multiple Sclerosis (MS), the most salient of which are well represented by the commonly used clinical measure, the EDSS. However, cognitive function, which is poorly represented by this scale, may also be ascertained from ocular motor measures, suggesting that an analysis of eye movements has the potential to extend and complement this more conventional measure. The generation of single and triple-step memory-guided saccades was investigated in 25 individuals with MS and a comparable number of neurologically healthy individuals matched for age and IQ. Experimental measures were correlated with a battery of neuropsychological tests evaluating attentional, working memory and executive processes, the cognitive domains most commonly compromised in MS. For single memory-guided saccades, MS patients were less accurate and generated more erroneous responses to non-target stimuli. Saccadic latencies were also prolonged. For triple-step memory-guided saccades, MS patients were less accurate and more variable. A number of significant correlations were revealed between measures of each of these characteristics and scores on the range of neuropsychological assessments. These ocular motor measures demonstrate considerable sensitivity with respect to evaluating cognitive function in MS, particularly working memory and inhibitory control processes. This suggests that they could represent the foundation of a user-friendly surrogate marker of disease severity and progression in MS.
Neurophysiological research has explored most of the prefrontal cortex of macaque monkeys, but the relatively inaccessible frontal-pole cortex remains unexamined. Here we describe a method for gaining access to the frontal-pole cortex with moveable microelectrodes. The key innovation is a direct approach through the frontal air sinus. In addition, the small size of the frontal-pole cortex in macaques led to the design of a smaller recording chamber than typically used in behavioral neurophysiology. The method has proven successful in two subjects, with no adverse health consequences.
This study investigates time-dependent associations between source strength estimated from high-density scalp electroencephalogram (EEG) and force of voluntary handgrip contraction at different intensity levels. We first estimate source strength from raw EEG signals collected during voluntary muscle contractions at different levels and then propose a functional random-effects model approach in which both functional fixed effects and functional random-effects are considered for the data. Two estimation procedures for the functional model are discussed. The first estimation procedure is a two-step method which involves no iterations. It can flexibly use different smoothing methods and smoothing parameters. The second estimation procedure benefits from the connection between linear mixed models and regression splines and can be fitted using existing software. Functional ANOVA is then suggested to assess the experimental effects from the functional point of view. The statistical analysis shows that the time-dependent source strength function exhibits a nonlinear feature, where a bump is detected around the force onset time. However, there is the lack of significant variations in source strength on different force levels and different cortical areas. The proposed functional random-effects model procedure can be applied to other types of functional data in neuroscience.
The spike represents the fundamental bit of information transmitted by the neurons within a network in order to communicate. Then, given the importance of the spike rate as well as the spike time for coding the activity generated at the level of a cell assembly, a relevant issue in extracellular electrophysiology is the correct identification of the spike in multisite recordings from brain areas or neuronal networks. In this paper, we present a novel spike detection algorithm, named Precise Timing Spike Detection (PTSD), aimed at (i) reducing the number of false positives and false negatives, in order to optimize the rate code, and (ii) improving the time precision of the identified spike, in order to optimize the spike timing. The PTSD algorithm considers consecutive portions of the signal and looks for the Relative Maximum/Minimum whose peak-to-peak amplitude is above a defined differential threshold and responds to specific requirements. To validate the algorithm, the presented spike detection has been compared with other methods either commercially available or proposed in the literature by using two benchmarking procedures: (i) visual inspection by a group of experts of a portion of signal recorded from a rat cortical culture and (ii) detection of the spikes generated by a realistic neuronal network model. In both cases our algorithm produced the best performances in terms of efficiency and precision. The ROC curve analysis further proved that the best results are reached by the application of the PTSD.
Microglia, central nervous system (CNS) resident phagocytic cells, persistently police the integrity of CNS tissue and respond to any kind of damage or pathophysiological changes. These cells sense and rapidly respond to danger and inflammatory signals by changing their cell morphology; by release of cytokines, chemokines, or nitric oxide; and by changing their MHC expression profile. We have shown previously that microglial biosynthesis of the complement subcomponent C1q may serve as a reliable marker of microglial activation ranging from undetectable levels of C1q biosynthesis in resting microglia to abundant C1q expression in activated, nonramified microglia. In this study, we demonstrate that cultured microglial cells respond to extrinsic C1q with a marked intracellular Ca(2+) increase. A shift toward proinflammatory microglial activation is indicated by the release of interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and nitric oxide and the oxidative burst in rat primary microglial cells, an activation and differentiation process similar to the proinflammatory response of microglia to exposure to lipopolysaccharide. Our findings indicate 1) that extrinsic plasma C1q is involved in the initiation of microglial activation in the course of CNS diseases with blood-brain barrier impairment and 2) that C1q synthesized and released by activated microglia is likely to contribute in an autocrine/paracrine way to maintain and balance microglial activation in the diseased CNS tissue.
The circadian rhythm of locomotor activity of hamsters kept in constant light (LL) can split into two distinct components that, in steady state, lie 180 degrees apart. The splitting phenomenon is the result of antiphase circadian oscillations between left and right sides of the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the master circadian clock in mammals. In unsplit hamsters housed in LL, a single dark pulse produces a phase-shift of the wheel-running activity rhythm, accompanied by a transient down-regulation of clock gene expression in the SCN. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of daily 1-hr dark pulses on wheel-running activity rhythm and on the expression of clock and nonclock proteins in the SCN of Syrian hamsters exposed to LL conditions. The results show that a daily 1-hr dark pulse entrained the rhythm of wheel-running activity of unsplit hamsters. In addition, in split animals, unimodal coupling of the two locomotor activity components was produced by daily 1-hr dark pulses. In the SCN, the effects of entrainment and unimodal coupling of the two separate components by dark observed in behavior were also evident in the bilateral expression of the proteins c-FOS, p-ERK, PERIOD 1, and calbindin. These results show that the bilaterally asymmetric SCN clock, underlying split circadian behavior, can be recoupled in phase and entrained by short daily dark exposure, indicating the synchronizing potency of darkness on the main circadian clock.
The dt(sz) mutant hamster represents a unique rodent model of idiopathic paroxysmal dystonia. Previous data, collected post-mortem or in anesthetized hamsters under basal conditions, indicated the critical involvement of enhanced striatal neuronal activity. To assess the importance of an enhanced striatal neuronal activity directly during a dystonic episode, continuous monitoring of changes in brain metabolism and therefore neuronal activity indirectly in awake, freely moving animals is necessary. Determination of CNS metabolism by NADH measurement by laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy in conscious dt(sz) and nondystonic control hamsters revealed reversible decreased NADH fluorescence during dystonic episodes. The degree of change corresponded to the severity of dystonia. This study represents the first application of this innovative method in freely moving animals exhibiting a movement disorder. Our data clearly confirm that the expression of paroxysmal dystonia in dt(sz) mutant hamsters is associated with enhanced striatal neuronal activity and further underscore the versatile application of NADH fluorescence measurements in neuroscience.
Importins, also called karyopherins, belong to a large family of proteins involved in cytoplasm-to-nucleus transport. Transport machinery generally involves a complex formed by two different importin subtypes (alpha and beta). Both alpha and beta importins are expressed in the brain, and their expression and localization is regulated by physiological neuronal activity. Little is known about regulation of importin expression in brain pathological conditions. Here we studied the expression of importin beta1 (imp beta 1) in the rat hippocampus after acute and chronic seizures induced by the glutamate agonist kainic acid (KA). The overall content of imp beta 1 mRNA and protein did not change after acute KA seizures. However, acute KA seizures rapidly induced the translocation of imp beta 1 protein from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in pyramidal CA1 neurons. KA-induced imp beta 1 translocation was prevented by the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartic acid) receptor blocker MK-801. After chronic seizures, the overall levels of imp beta 1 mRNA and protein did not change in the whole hippocampus. Immunohistochemistry revealed a massive loss of imp beta 1-positive neurons in pyramidal layers (that degenerated after KA), whereas an increased number of imp beta 1-positive cells was detected in the stratum radiatum of rats with chronic seizures compared with control animals. Double-labeling experiments identified these cells as glial cells expressing the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan NG2 (neuron/glial antigen 2), a glial subtype recently shown to regulate hippocampal neuron excitability. These data show a differential regulation of imp beta 1 expression after acute and chronic seizure activity in the rat hippocampus.
Cannabinoid compounds affect synaptic activity and plasticity in numerous brain areas by activating CB1 receptors (CB1). In hippocampus, varying results have been obtained on the extent and site of cannabinoid actions on excitatory transmission, ranging from no effect to complete obliteration of synaptic responses. Here we used the rat hippocampal slice preparation to study and compare the effect of various synthetic and endogenous CB1 ligands on excitatory synaptic transmission. The full CB1 agonist WIN55212-2 (WIN2) greatly decreased excitatory synaptic transmission by 62%. The effect of WIN-2 was concentration dependent (EC50 of 200 nM) and completely prevented by CB1 antagonists. The nondegradable partial CB1 agonist R1-methanandamide (mAEA) decreased transmission by 25% and the endocannabinoids 2-arachidonylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide (AEA) had no significant effect. The action of AEA was improved by inhibiting its degradation but not its transport. The effect of 2-AG was enhanced upon inhibition of COX-2 but remained unchanged with blockade of monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL). The observed effects were prevented by CB1 antagonists regardless of the ligand used, and paired-pulse paradigms pointed to presynaptic mechanisms of cannabinoid action. Our results show that cannabinoid effects on neuronal activity differ widely according to the CB1 ligand used. We observed large differences between full (synthetic) and partial (endogenous) CB1 agonists in altering synaptic transmission, notably because of the involvement of active degradation mechanisms.

Microglial cells (brain macrophages) invade the brain during embryonic and early postnatal development, migrate preferentially along fibre tracts to their final position and transform from an amoeboid to a ramified morphology. Signals by which the invading microglia communicate with other brain cells are largely unknown. Here, we studied amoeboid microglia in postnatal corpus callosum obtained from 6- to 8-day-old mice. These cells accumulated on the surface of acute brain slices. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings revealed that the specific GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol triggered a transient increase in conductance typical for inward rectifying potassium channels in microglia. This current increase was not mediated by microglial GABA(A) receptors since microglial cells removed from the slice surface no longer reacted and cultured microglia only responded when a brain slice was placed in their close vicinity. Muscimol triggered a transient increase in extracellular potassium concentration ([K(+)](o)) in brain slices and an experimental elevation of [K(+)](o) mimicked the muscimol response in microglial cells. Moreover, in adult brain slices, muscimol led only to a minute increase in [K(+)](o) and microglial cells failed to respond to muscimol. In turn, an increase in [K(+)](o) stimulated the release of chemokine macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP1-alpha) from brain slices and from cultures of microglia but not astrocytes. Our observations indicate that invading microglia in early postnatal development sense GABAergic activities indirectly via sensing changes in [K(+)](o) which results in an increase in MIP1-alpha release.
Genetic variation in fibroblast growth factor 20 (FGF20) has been associated with risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). Functional evidence suggested the T allele of one SNP, rs12720208 C/T, altered PD risk by increasing FGF20 and alpha-synuclein protein levels. Herein we report our association study of FGF20 and PD risk in four patient-control series (total: 1,262 patients and 1,881 controls), and measurements of FGF20 and alpha-synuclein protein levels in brain samples (nine patients). We found no evidence of association between FGF20 variability and PD risk, and no relationship between the rs12720208 genotype, FGF20 and alpha-synuclein protein levels.
It has been reported that patients on pergolide and carbergoline have an increased risk of developing valvular heart disease. It is uncertain if bromocriptine, an ergot-derived dopamine agonist (DA) with partial 5-HT(2B) activity, is associated with a similar risk. We assessed the frequency of valvular heart disease in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients on bromocriptine compared to pergolide and a control group of PD patients who had not been treated on any DA. Seventy-two PD patients on bromocriptine, 21 patients on pergolide, and 47 control PD patients were recruited. Transthoracic echocardiographic studies were performed and reviewed by a blinded cardiologist. The risk for the bromocriptine group to develop any abnormal valvular regurgitation was 3.32 (adjusted OR, 95% CI: 1.11-9.92, P = 0.03) compared to controls, whereas the risk for the pergolide group was 3.66 (adjusted OR, 95% CI: 1.22-10.97, P = 0.02). When cumulative dose of bromocriptine was analyzed by quartiles, patients with a greater exposure to bromocriptine had significantly higher risk of developing both mild and moderate-severe regurgitations (P for trend, 0.005 and 0.019, respectively). This study demonstrated that bromocriptine use was associated with an increased risk of developing valvular heart disease, which occurred in a cumulative dose-dependent manner.
The fundamental problem faced by noninvasive neuroimaging techniques such as EEG/MEG(1) is to elucidate functionally important aspects of the microscopic neuronal network dynamics from macroscopic aggregate measurements. Due to the mixing of the activities of large neuronal populations in the observed macroscopic aggregate, recovering the underlying network that generates the signal in the absence of any additional information represents a considerable challenge. Recent MEG studies have shown that macroscopic measurements contain sufficient information to allow the differentiation between patterns of activity, which are likely to represent different stimulus-specific collective modes in the underlying network (Hadjipapas, A., Adjamian, P., Swettenham, J.B., Holliday, I.E., Barnes, G.R., 2007. Stimuli of varying spatial scale induce gamma activity with distinct temporal characteristics in human visual cortex. NeuroImage 35, 518-530). The next question arising in this context is whether aspects of collective network activity can be recovered from a macroscopic aggregate signal. We propose that this issue is most appropriately addressed if MEG/EEG signals are to be viewed as macroscopic aggregates arising from networks of coupled systems as opposed to aggregates across a mass of largely independent neural systems. We show that collective modes arising in a network of simulated coupled systems can be indeed recovered from the macroscopic aggregate. Moreover, we show that nonlinear state space methods yield a good approximation of the number of effective degrees of freedom in the network. Importantly, information about hidden variables, which do not directly contribute to the aggregate signal, can also be recovered. Finally, this theoretical framework can be applied to experimental MEG/EEG data in the future, enabling the inference of state dependent changes in the degree of local synchrony in the underlying network.
Neuroimaging studies have identified a common network of brain regions involving the prefrontal and parietal cortices across a variety of working memory (WM) tasks. However, previous studies have also reported category-specific dissociations of activation within this network. In this study, we investigated the development of category-specific activation in a WM task with digits, letters, and faces. Eight-year-old children and adults performed a 2-back WM task while their brain activity was measured using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Overall, children were significantly slower and less accurate than adults on all three WM conditions (digits, letters, and faces); however, within each age group, behavioral performance across the three conditions was very similar. FMRI results revealed category-specific activation in adults but not children in the intraparietal sulcus for the digit condition. Likewise, during the letter condition, category-specific activation was observed in adults but not children in the left occipital-temporal cortex. In contrast, children and adults showed highly similar brain-activity patterns in the lateral fusiform gyri when solving the 2-back WM task with face stimuli. Our results suggest that 8-year-old children do not yet engage the typical brain regions that have been associated with abstract or semantic processing of numerical symbols and letters when these processes are task-irrelevant and the primary task is demanding. Nevertheless, brain activity in letter-responsive areas predicted children's spelling performance underscoring the relationship between abstract processing of letters and linguistic abilities. Lastly, behavioral performance on the WM task was predictive of math and language abilities highlighting the connection between WM and other cognitive abilities in development.
Various acute brain pathological conditions are characterized by the presence of elevated glutamate concentrations in the brain interstitial fluids. It has been established that a decrease in the blood glutamate level enhances the brain-to-blood efflux of glutamate, removal of which from the brain may prevent glutamate excitotoxicity and its contribution to the long-lasting neurological deficits seen in stroke. A decrease in blood glutamate level can be achieved by exploiting the glutamate-scavenging properties of the blood-resident enzyme glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase, which transforms glutamate into 2-ketoglutarate in the presence of the glutamate co-substrate oxaloacetate. The present study had the aim of an evaluation of the effects of the blood glutamate scavenger oxaloacetate on the impaired long-term potentiation (LTP) induced in the 2-vessel occlusion ischaemic model in rat. Transient (30-min) incomplete forebrain ischaemia was produced 72 h before LTP induction. Although the short transient brain hypoperfusion did not induce histologically identifiable injuries in the CA1 region (Fluoro-Jade B, S-100 and cresyl violet), it resulted in an impaired LTP function in the hippocampal CA1 region without damaging the basal synaptic transmission between the Schaffer collaterals and the pyramidal neurons. This impairment could be fended off in a dose-dependent manner by the intravenous administration of oxaloacetate in saline (at doses between 1.5 mmol and 0.1 mumol) immediately after the transient hypoperfusion. Our results suggest that oxaloacetate-mediated blood and brain glutamate scavenging contributes to the restoration of the LTP after its impairment by brain ischaemia.
Serotonin 1B (5-HT(1B)) receptors may play a role in regulating motivation and reward-related behaviours. To date, no studies have investigated the effects of the highly selective 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist CP 94253, on the reward model of ventral tegmental area intracranial self-stimulation. The current study investigated the hypothesis that 5-HT(1B) receptors play an inhibitory role in ventral tegmental area ICSS. Using Sprague-Dawley rats, the effects of the selective 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist CP 94253 (0-5.0 mg/kg) and the 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor antagonist GR 127935 (10.0 mg/kg) were investigated in rats trained to respond for ventral tegmental area ICSS; results were compared using rate-frequency threshold analysis. The highest dose of CP 94253 (5.0 mg/kg) tested in ventral tegmental area ICSS produced an increase in rate-frequency thresholds without affecting maximal response rates. This effect was attenuated by GR 127935 which did not show any effects when administered alone. These results suggest that 5-HT(1B) receptors play an inhibitory role in regulating ventral tegmental area ICSS.
The human 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT(4)) receptor is encoded by a highly complex gene which gives rise to at least 10 distinct splice variants. However, the functional relevance of these variants is unknown. In rat, only three such variants have been identified, 5-HT(4a) (r5-HT(4a)), 5-HT(4b) (r5-HT(4b)) and 5-HT(4e) (r5-HT(4e)). In the current study we identify and characterise the pharmacology of a novel rat splice variant (r5-HT(4c1)) and present the first comprehensive analysis of 5-HT(4) splice variant mRNA expression levels throughout the rat gastrointestinal tract. In addition, we describe preliminary characterisation of the first 5-HT(4) splice variant specific antibodies. In transfected cells, r5-HT(4c1) receptor exhibited similar binding properties to r5-HT(4a) and r5-HT(4b). Functional studies showed that 5-HT(4) agonists prucalopride (4-amino-5-chloro-2,3-dihydro-N-[1-(3-methoxypropyl)-4-piperidinyl]-7-benzofuran carboxamide monohydrochloride and renzapride (+/-)-endo-4-amino-5-chloro-2-methoxy-N-(1-azabicyclo[3.3.1]non-4-yl)benzamide monohydrochloride) acted as partial agonists at r5-HT(4c1), but full agonists at r5-HT(4a) and r5-HT(4b). Moreover, in contrast to r5-HT(4a) and r5-HT(4b), r5-HT(4c1) was not constitutively active. TaqMan mRNA analysis showed that r5-HT(4a) expression in brain and dorsal root ganglion exceeded that in the gastrointestinal tract, whilst the reverse was true for r5-HT(4b) and r5-HT(4c1). mRNA expression of each variant also increased distally throughout the gastrointestinal tract with the highest levels in the colon. r5-HT(4a) and r5-HT(4b) specific immunoreactivity was abundant on enteric neurons in jejunum, ileum and colon as well as neurons and satellite cells of the dorsal root ganglion. Only r5-HT(4b) immunoreactivity was observed on endocrine cells in the duodenum. These data could have implications in rat models and aid understanding of 5-HT(4) splice variant function.
This study aimed to explore the validity of an experiment-based paradigm for assessing the suspicious thoughts in healthy volunteers and its corresponding neural process. Twenty-four pairs of healthy college students participated in this study and were randomly assigned to two experimental conditions: the informed (12 pairs) and the naive (12 pairs) conditions. EEG of one subject in each pair was recorded when the 'feeling of being seen through' was evoked. The findings showed a prominent positive deflection of the difference wave within the time window 200 ms-400 ms after stimuli presentation (0 ms) in the naive group. The ERP amplitude of frontal and central scalp sites was significantly different between high and low paranoia rating scores. These findings provide preliminary evidence on the use of an ERP paradigm to detect paranoid ideation or suspicious thoughts in non-clinical sample.
To determine how emotional information modulates subsequent traces for repeated stimuli, we combined simultaneous electro-encephalography (EEG) and magneto-encephalography (MEG) measures during long-lag incidental repetition of fearful, happy, and neutral faces. Repetition effects were modulated by facial expression in three different time windows, starting as early as 40-50 ms in both EEG and MEG, then arising at the time of the N170/M170, and finally between 280-320 ms in MEG only. The very early repetition effect, observed at 40-50 ms over occipito-temporo-parietal regions, showed a different MEG topography according to the facial expression. This differential response to fearful, happy and neutral faces suggests the existence of very early discriminative visual processing of expressive faces, possibly based on the low-level physical features typical of different emotions. The N170 and M170 face-selective components both showed repetition enhancement selective to neutral faces, with greater amplitude for emotional than neutral faces on the first but not the second presentation. These differential repetition effects may reflect valence acquisition for the neutral faces due to repetition, and suggest a combined influence of emotion- and experience-related factors on the early stage of face encoding. Finally, later repetition effects consisted in enhanced M300 (MEG) between 280 and 320 ms for fearful relative to happy and neutral faces that occurred on the first presentation, but levelled out on the second presentation. This effect may correspond to the higher arousing value of fearful stimuli that might habituate with repetition. Our results reveal that multiple stages of face processing are affected by the repetition of emotional information.
While axonal regeneration is more successful in peripheral nerve than in the central nervous system, it is by no means complete and research to enhance peripheral nerve regeneration is clinically important. Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are known to enhance axonal regeneration and to produce myelin after transplantation. In contrast to Schwann cells their migratory potential and ability to penetrate glial scars is higher. This study evaluated the effect of OEC transplantation on microsurgically repaired sciatic nerves. Rat sciatic nerves were transected followed by microsurgical repair and transplantation of OECs or injection of medium without cells. Twenty-one days later the nerves were removed and prepared for either histology or electrophysiological analysis. Footprint analysis was carried out at 7, 14 and 21 days. The OECs survived and integrated into the repaired nerves as indicated by eGFP-expressing cells aligned with neurofilament identified axons bridging the repair site. Moreover, regenerated axons were myelinated by the transplanted OECs and nodes of Ranvier were formed. Conduction velocity in the OEC transplant group was increased in comparison to the microsurgical repair alone, and improved stepping was observed in the transplant group. These results suggest that presentation of OECs at the time of nerve injury enhances regeneration and improves functional outcome. Even a modest improvement in nerve regeneration could have significant clinical implications for reconstructive nerve surgery.
Unapposed connexin hemichannels exhibit robust closure in response to membrane hyperpolarization and extracellular calcium. This form of gating, termed &quot;loop gating,&quot; is largely responsible for regulating hemichannel opening, thereby preventing cell damage through excessive flux of ions and metabolites. The molecular components and structural rearrangements underlying loop gating remain unknown. Here, using cysteine mutagenesis in Cx50, we demonstrate that residues at the TM1/E1 border undergo movement during loop gating. Replacement of Phe(43) in Cx50 with a cysteine resulted in small or no appreciable membrane currents. Bath application of dithiothreitol or TPEN (N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl) ethylenediamine), reagents that exhibit strong transition metal chelating activity, led to robust currents indicating that the F43C substitution impaired hemichannel function, producing &quot;lock-up&quot; in a closed or poorly functional state due to formation of metal bridges. In support, Cd(2+) at submicromolar concentrations (50-100 nm) enhanced lock-up of F43C hemichannels. Moreover, lock-up occurred under conditions that favored closure, indicating that the sulfhydryl groups come close enough to each other or to other residues to coordinate metal ions with high affinity. In addition to F43C, metal binding was also found for G46C, and to a lesser extent, D51C substitutions, positions found to be pore-lining in the open state using the substituted-cysteine accessibility method, but not for A40C and A41C substitutions, which were not found to reside in the open pore. These results indicate that metal ions access the cysteine side chains through the open pore and that closure of the loop gate involves movement of the TM1/E1 region that results in local narrowing of the large aqueous connexin pore.
Phosphatidylcholines (PCs) are the most abundant constituents of lipid in the brain. PCs function as major structural components of cell membranes and as important sources for signaling molecules. In the brain, three kinds of PCs, dipalmitoyl PC, palmitoyloleoyl PC, and stearoyloleoyl PC have been reported to be major species. They have different chemical and biological characteristics depending on the length of alkyl chains and the degree of saturation, suggesting that the abundance of PCs might be important to keep specialized membrane structures in the brain, such as myelin and synaptic membranes. However, detailed imaging of PCs in the total rat brain has not done yet. Thus, using imaging technology by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS), we investigated the total distribution of PC32:0, PC34:1, and PC36:1 in the rat brain. PC32:0 and PC34:1 were more abundantly observed in the gray matter areas than in the white matter areas throughout the central nervous system (CNS), while PC36:1 was evenly seen at low levels in both areas. In addition, we found that PC32:0 and PC34:1 were detected at very high levels in the granular layer of the olfactory bulb, piriform cortex, insular cortex, and molecular layer of the cerebellum, which are known for areas showing high neuronal plasticity. The present imaging data clearly show that various PCs are differentially distributed throughout the rat CNS, and suggest that these differential distributions of various PCs are necessary to keep normal brain functions.
Endothelin (ET)-1 is a chemical mediator released by the body at sites of injury and disease and is involved in various painful states. This study examined whether ET-1 exposure in the neonatal period alters subsequent ET-1 induced nociception and expression of the ET(B) receptor. ET-1 or saline was administered to postnatal day 7 rats. On postnatal day 11, ET-1 or saline was administered; a first exposure to ET-1 for one group, and a second exposure to ET-1 for another group. A statistically significant increase in ET-1 induced paw flinching was observed in postnatal day 11 male rats exposed to ET-1 for the second time as compared to male rats exposed to ET-1 for the first time. In contrast, a statistically significant decrease in ET-1 induced paw flinching was observed in postnatal day 11 female rats exposed to ET-1 for the second time as compared to female rats exposed to ET-1 for the first time. Furthermore, in males a positive correlation was found between ET-1 induced paw flinching on postnatal day 7 versus 11. In contrast, in females a negative correlation was found between ET-1 induced paw flinching on postnatal day 7 versus 11. Changes in behavioral sensitivity to ET-1 were accompanied by sex-specific ET-1 induced changes in expression of the ET(B) receptor on postnatal day 11 in the plantar hind paw with a statistically significant decrease and increase in ET(B) receptor expression in males and females, respectively. These findings suggest that ET-1 exposure in the neonatal period sex-specifically alters expression of the ET(B) receptor and behavioral sensitivity to ET-1 whereby males show sensitization and females show de-sensitization.
We used the [F-18]FDG micro-PET neuroimaging to examine the effects of fluoxetine on brain activity in rats and on their behavioral response in the forced swimming test (FST). In the first experiment, the rats were administered doses of fluoxetine (10 or 20mg/kg) 24, 19 and 1h before the rat brains were scanned. Fluoxetine induced strong activation of the dorsal hippocampus and the deactivation of the inferior colliculus, medulla oblongata, and prelimbic cortex in a dose-dependent manner. These results seemed to be related with the changes in 5-HT (5-hydroxytryptamine, serotonin) levels after selective serotonin reuptake-inhibitor treatments. In the second experiment, the changes in glucose metabolism in the test session were measured after fluoxetine was given between pre-test and test sessions of the FST. Fluoxetine administration significantly decreased immobility behavior compared with saline administration. At the same time, the activity of the insular/piriform cortex decreased significantly. In contrast, the extent of cerebellar activation increased. The glucose metabolism of the dorsal hippocampus also increased, which suggests that post-stress changes in the facilitation of hippocampal serotonergic neurotransmission lead to decreased immobilization in the FST.
To investigate the morphological changes of accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) neurons arising from pheromonal signals, a coculture system of AOB neurons and vomeronasal (VN) neurons had been established. Our previous study indicates that under coculture condition, the density of dendritic spines of an AOB neuron is less and the individual spine-head volume is larger than those under monoculture condition. In this study, to determine whether these differences in the dendrites of AOB neurons reflect the differences in synapse formation and synaptic properties, we observed these cultured cells by electron microscopy. Various synapses were observed under each culture condition. Synapses were classified on the basis of their postsynaptic structure and the size of postsynaptic density (PSD) was measured. Under the coculture condition with VN neurons, synapses on dendritic spines, which formed between AOB neurons, were observed frequently. In contrast, many synapses were formed on dendritic shafts under monoculture condition. The PSD of asymmetrical synapses on the spines under coculture condition was larger than that under monoculture condition. Moreover, some dendrodendritic reciprocal synapses were found only in coculture. We confirmed synapse formation between VN axons and AOB dendrites by immunohistochemical electron microscopy; thus, the characteristics of synapses between AOB neurons are considered to be modified by the synaptic contacts with VN axons.

Cowan &amp; Rouder suggest that a modification to the four-slot model of visual working memory fits the available data better than our distributed resource model. However their comparisons of statistical fit are biased in favour of the slot model. Here we compare the predictions of the two models and present further evidence against the division of visual memory into slots.
In response to the intercellular messenger ATP, P2X receptors transfer various sensory information, including pain. Here we have reconstructed the structure of the P2X(2) receptor at 15 A resolution from more than 90,000 particle images, taken with a cryo-electron microscope equipped with a helium-cooled stage. This three-dimensional depiction, presumably in a closed state, revealed an elongated vase-shaped structure 202 A in height and 160 A in major diameter. The extracellular and transmembrane domains present a two-layered structure, in which a sparse outer layer surrounds a pore-forming inner density. The decreased diameter of a putative ion-conducting pathway at the middle of the membrane was considered to be the narrowest part of the pore, which has been predicted from electrophysiological studies. The sparse, extended structure of the P2X(2) receptor indicates a loose assembly of subunits, which could be a basis for the activation-dependent pore dilation of P2X receptors.

&quot;Near-miss&quot; events, where unsuccessful outcomes are proximal to the jackpot, increase gambling propensity and may be associated with the addictiveness of gambling, but little is known about the neurocognitive mechanisms that underlie their potency. Using a simplified slot machine task, we measured behavioral and neural responses to gambling outcomes. Compared to &quot;full-misses,&quot; near-misses were experienced as less pleasant, but increased desire to play. This effect was restricted to trials where the subject had personal control over arranging their gamble. Near-miss outcomes recruited striatal and insula circuitry that also responded to monetary wins; in addition, near-miss-related activity in the rostral anterior cingulate cortex varied as a function of personal control. Insula activity to near-misses correlated with self-report ratings as well as a questionnaire measure of gambling propensity. These data indicate that near-misses invigorate gambling through the anomalous recruitment of reward circuitry, despite the objective lack of monetary reinforcement on these trials.
Attention is essential for navigating complex acoustic scenes, when the listener seeks to extract a foreground source while suppressing background acoustic clutter. This study explored the neural correlates of this perceptual ability by measuring rapid changes of spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) in primary auditory cortex during detection of a target tone embedded in noise. Compared with responses in the passive state, STRF gain decreased during task performance in most cells. By contrast, STRF shape changes were excitatory and specific, and were strongest in cells with best frequencies near the target tone. The net effect of these adaptations was to accentuate the representation of the target tone relative to the noise by enhancing responses of near-target cells to the tone during high-signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) tasks while suppressing responses of far-from-target cells to the masking noise in low-SNR tasks. These adaptive STRF changes were largest in high-performance sessions, confirming a close correlation with behavior.
Sleep is thought to consolidate changes in synaptic strength, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We investigated the cellular events involved in this process during ocular dominance plasticity (ODP)-a canonical form of in vivo cortical plasticity triggered by monocular deprivation (MD) and consolidated by sleep via undetermined, activity-dependent mechanisms. We find that sleep consolidates ODP primarily by strengthening cortical responses to nondeprived eye stimulation. Consolidation is inhibited by reversible, intracortical antagonism of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) or cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) during post-MD sleep. Consolidation is also associated with sleep-dependent increases in the activity of remodeling neurons and in the phosphorylation of proteins required for potentiation of glutamatergic synapses. These findings demonstrate that synaptic strengthening via NMDAR and PKA activity is a key step in sleep-dependent consolidation of ODP.
Synaptic vesicle (SV) fusion is a fine-tuned process requiring a concert of fusion machineries. Using cortical neurons from snapin-deficient mice, we reveal a role for Snapin in facilitating synchronous release. In addition to reduced frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mini-EPSCs) and smaller release-ready vesicle pool (RRP) size, snapin deficiency results in EPSCs with multiple peaks and increased rise and decay times, reflecting &quot;desynchronized&quot; SV fusion. These defects impair both synaptic precision and efficacy during sustained neurotransmission. Transient expression of Snapin not only rescues the slowed kinetics of EPSCs, but also further accelerates the rate found in wild-type neurons. Furthermore, expression of Snapin-C66A, a dimerization-defective mutant with impaired interactions with SNAP-25 and Synaptotagmin, reduces the RRP size but exhibits less effect on synchronized fusion. Our studies provide mechanistic insights into a dual role of Snapin in enhancing the efficacy of SV priming and in fine-tuning synchronous SV fusion.
Tastes elicit innate behaviors critical for directing animals to ingest nutritious substances and reject toxic compounds, but the neural basis of these behaviors is not understood. Here, we use a neural silencing screen to identify neurons required for a simple Drosophila taste behavior and characterize a neural population that controls a specific subprogram of this behavior. By silencing and activating subsets of the defined cell population, we identify the neurons involved in the taste behavior as a pair of motor neurons located in the subesophageal ganglion (SOG). The motor neurons are activated by sugar stimulation of gustatory neurons and inhibited by bitter compounds; however, experiments utilizing split-GFP detect no direct connections between the motor neurons and primary sensory neurons, indicating that further study will be necessary to elucidate the circuitry bridging these populations. Combined, these results provide a general strategy and a valuable starting point for future taste circuit analysis.
The dendritic morphology of neurons dictates their abilities to process and transmit information; however, the signaling pathways that regulate dendritic growth and complexity are poorly understood. Here, we show that retinoids induce the expression of the FERM Rho-GEF protein FARP1 in the developing spinal cord. FARP1 is expressed in subsets of motor neurons and is enriched in dendrites of lateral motor column (LMC) neurons that innervate the limb. FARP1 is necessary and sufficient to promote LMC dendritic growth but does not affect dendrite number or axonal morphology. We show that FARP1 serves as a specific effector of transmembrane Semaphorin6A and PlexinA4 signals to regulate LMC dendritic growth, and that its Rho-GEF domain is necessary for this function. These findings reveal that retinoid and Sema6A/PlexA4 signaling pathways intersect through FARP1 to control dendritic growth, and uncover the existence of subtype-specific signaling networks that control dendritic developmental programs in spinal motor neurons.
The ability to change behavior likely depends on the selective strengthening and weakening of brain synapses. The cellular models of synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) of synaptic strength, can be expressed by the synaptic insertion or removal of AMPA receptors (AMPARs), respectively. We here present an overview of studies that have used animal models to show that such AMPAR trafficking underlies several experience-driven phenomena-from neuronal circuit formation to the modification of behavior. We argue that monitoring and manipulating synaptic AMPAR trafficking represents an attractive means to study cognitive function and dysfunction in animal models.
Tight coupling between synaptic vesicle exocytosis and endocytosis is critical for the maintenance of neurotransmission. In this issue of Neuron, Zhu et al. reveal a surprising facet of this coupling by showing that, at low frequencies, fusion of a single vesicle leads to retrieval of two vesicles with dissimilar attributes.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II has been suggested to produce input-specific long-term potentiation of synaptic strength. This idea has been complicated by results from Rose, Jin, and Craig demonstrating that spatiotemporally restricted NMDA receptor excitation at contiguous synapses can result in the translocation of activated CaMKII throughout the dendritic arbor.
Experience-dependent plasticity is closely linked with the development of sensory function; however, there is also growing evidence for plasticity in the adult visual system. This review re-examines the notion of a sensitive period for the treatment of amblyopia in the light of recent experimental and clinical evidence for neural plasticity. One recently proposed method for improving the effectiveness and efficiency of treatment that has received considerable attention is 'perceptual learning'. Specifically, both children and adults with amblyopia can improve their perceptual performance through extensive practice on a challenging visual task. The results suggest that perceptual learning may be effective in improving a range of visual performance and, importantly, the improvements may transfer to visual acuity. Recent studies have sought to explore the limits and time course of perceptual learning as an adjunct to occlusion and to investigate the neural mechanisms underlying the visual improvement. These findings, along with the results of new clinical trials, suggest that it might be time to reconsider our notions about neural plasticity in amblyopia.
Several independent epidemiological studies indicate that chronic use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD), supporting the inflammatory cascade hypothesis. Although the first clinical trial with indomethacin, a preferential cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 inhibitor, showed beneficial effects, subsequent large clinical trials, mostly using COX-2 inhibitors, failed to show any beneficial effect in AD patients with mild to severe cognitive impairment. These combined data suggest that either an early treatment is crucial to stop the mechanisms underlying the disease before the onset of the symptoms, or that preferential COX-1 inhibition, rather than COX-2, is beneficial. Therefore, a full understanding of the physiological, pathological, and/or neuroprotective role of COX isoforms may help to develop better therapeutic strategies for the prevention or treatment of AD. In this study, we examined the effect of COX-1 genetic deletion on the inflammatory response and neurodegeneration induced by beta-amyloid. beta-amyloid (Abeta(1-42)) was centrally injected in the lateral ventricle of COX-1-deficient (COX-1(-/-)) and their respective wild-type (WT) mice. In COX-1(-/-) mice, Abeta(1-42)-induced inflammatory response and neuronal damage were attenuated compared to WT mice, as shown by Fluoro-Jade B and nitrotyrosine staining. These results indicate that inhibition of COX-1 activity may be valid therapeutic strategy to reduce brain inflammatory response and neurodegeneration.
The influences of inadequate brain oxygen supply on cognitive and sensorimotor performance are well documented. However, hemodynamic neuroimaging of brain processes under hypoxic conditions has been limited by the organisational constraints of the methodological framework. This study proposes that standardised low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA) is a suitable and feasible tool for localising brain cortical processes under hypoxic conditions. Electroencephalograms (EEG) from 21 subjects were recorded prior to, and following 40 min of, exposure to normoxic (21 kPa PIO(2)) or hypoxic (12.7 kPa PIO(2)) conditions, Changes in brain cortical activity were localised using sLORETA. Subjects showed an increase in beta-1 activity following hypoxic exposure. This increase in activity was localised in the right superior frontal gyrus (Brodmann area 10). The results are discussed in terms of the relationship between the activation of prefrontal areas under hypoxic conditions and performance deficits. Furthermore, the study demonstrates that sLORETA can be a valuable and reliable alternative for brain imaging when hemodynamic approaches, such as PET or fMRI, are not feasible.
The present study was designed to determine the degree of functional dissociation between the rat perirhinal cortex and hippocampus for reference memory performance on object and place discrimination tasks. In one experiment, 30 rats were trained on a two-pair concurrent object discrimination task in an elevated radial arm maze. Rats with a perirhinal cortex lesion needed significantly more days to attain the criterion in the relearning of a pre-operatively acquired object discrimination task than the control rats and rats with a hippocampal lesion. However, there were no significant differences between the three groups in the days to attain the criterion in learning post-operatively the original object discrimination task with new discriminanda and its relearning. The rats with a hippocampal lesion did not show any impairment in object discrimination. In a second experiment, 27 rats were trained on a place discrimination task in the same maze. Rats with a hippocampal lesion required more days to attain the criterion than the control rats to relearn the pre-operatively acquired place discrimination task, and they had fewer correct responses in the first three sessions with new discriminanda than the control rats. Rats with a perirhinal cortex lesion, on the other hand, showed mild relearning impairment. These results suggest that there is a functionally single dissociation between the perirhinal cortex and hippocampus for reference memory performance on object and place discrimination tasks. They also suggest the possible involvement of the perirhinal cortex in spatial reference memory performance.
Inconsistent observations have been reported in the literature regarding the asymmetrical contribution of higher visual areas of the left and right hemispheres to visual motion processing. In the present experiment, we tested for hemispheric asymmetry of the middle-temporal complex (V5/MT), which is a key-component of the visual motion network, by using rTMS applied over left or right V5/MT during a visual trajectory perception task. The results showed that the effect of rTMS was to enhance individual hemispheric asymmetries present when the test was performed without rTMS. The more general meaning of these results is that there are robust individual hemispheric asymmetries in motion perception but no general pattern of hemispheric differences.
We recently reported that orbitofrontal cortical (OFC) lesions impaired reversal learning of an instrumental two-lever spatial discrimination task, a deficit manifested as increased perseveration on the pre-potent response. Here we examine whether exposure to reversal learning test pre-operatively may have a beneficial effect for future reversal learning of OFC-lesioned animals. Rats were trained on a novel instrumental two-lever spatial discrimination and reversal learning task, measuring both 'cognitive flexibility' and constituent processes including response inhibition. Both levers were presented, only one of which was reinforced. The rat was required to respond on the reinforced lever under a fixed ratio 3 schedule of reinforcement. Following attainment of criterion, two reversals were introduced. Rats were then matched according to their reversal performance and subjected to bilateral excitotoxic OFC lesions. Following recovery, a series of four reversals was presented. OFC lesions impaired neither retention nor reversal phases. These data, together with the previously reported reversal deficit following OFC lesions, suggest that OFC is not needed when task experience has been gained but it is necessary when task demands are relatively high.
The monoamine hypothesis of depression is increasingly called into question by newer theories that revolve around changes in neuronal plasticity, primarily in the hippocampus, at both the structural and the functional levels. Chronic stress negatively regulates hippocampal function while antidepressants ameliorate the effects of stress on neuronal morphology and activity. Both stress and antidepressants have been shown to affect levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) whose transcription is dependent on cAMP response element binding protein (CREB). BDNF itself has antidepressant-like actions and can induce transcription of a number of molecules. One class of genes regulated by both BDNF and serotonin (5-HT) are neuropeptides including VGF (non-acryonimic) which has a novel role in depression. Neuropeptides are important modulators of neuronal function but their role in affective disorders is just emerging. Recent studies demonstrate that VGF, which is also a CREB-dependent gene, is upregulated by antidepressant drugs and voluntary exercise and is reduced in animal models of depression. VGF enhances hippocampal synaptic plasticity as well as neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus but the mechanisms of antidepressant-like actions of VGF in behavioral paradigms are not known. We summarize experimental data describing the roles of BDNF, VGF and other neuropeptides in depression and how they may be acting through the generation of new neurons and altered synaptic activity. Understanding the molecular and cellular changes that underlie the actions of neuropeptides and how these adaptations result in antidepressant-like effects will aid in developing drugs that target novel pathways for major depressive disorders.
Rats undergoing both naloxone-precipitated and spontaneous opioid withdrawal exhibit anxiogenic behaviors in the elevated plus maze (EPM). Recently, we observed an unexpected result, namely mice exhibited increased EPM open-arm time during naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal. This was surprising since this behavioral outcome is usually associated with an anxiolytic profile. This study demonstrates that mice exhibit an increase in both EPM open-arm time and % open-arm entries also during spontaneous opioid withdrawal.
Several lines of evidence suggest that exploring the neurochemical basis of reward in invertebrate species may provide clues for the fundamental behavioral and neurobiology underpinnings of drug addiction. How the presence of drug-sensitive reward relates to a decrease in drug-seeking behavior and reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in invertebrate systems is not known. The present study of a conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm in crayfish (Orconectes rusticus) explores morphine-induced reward, extinction and reinstatement. Repeated intra-circulatory infusions of 2.5 microg/g, 5.0 microg/g and 10.0 microg/g doses of morphine over 5 days serve as a reward when paired with a distinct visual or tactile environment. Morphine-induced CPP was extinguished after repeated saline injections for 5 days in the previously morphine-paired compartment. After the previously established CPP had been eliminated during the extinction phase, morphine-experienced crayfish were challenged with 2.5 microg/g, 5.0 microg/g and 10.0 microg/g, respectively. The priming injections of morphine reinstated CPP in all training doses, suggesting that morphine-induced CPP is unrelenting, and that with time, it can be reinstated by morphine following extinction in an invertebrate model just like in mammals. Together with other recent studies, this work demonstrates the advantage of using crayfish as an invertebrate animal model to investigate the basic biological processes that underline exposure to mammalian drugs of abuse.

We investigated the role of dopaminergic mechanisms in the attenuation of the acoustic startle response and prepulse inhibition (PPI) in rats by the introduction of unexpected changes in environment illumination. Experiment 1 showed that Dark-to-Light transitions robustly reduce startle responses and PPI. Experiment 2 showed that this phenomenon habituates across repeated testing sessions and reappears after an interval without testing. Experiment 3 demonstrated that haloperidol blocks the startle and PPI-reducing effect of the Dark-to-Light transition. We show how a computational model of acoustic startle response and prepulse inhibition can be extended to incorporate the empirical effects demonstrated in this study. We conclude that sensory gating as measured by prepulse inhibition is markedly attenuated in situations where novel stimuli are introduced during a test session and that dopaminergic systems may be involved in the dynamic changes evoked by the onset of illumination.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is an orexigenic and dipsogenic neuropeptide that has been reported to mediate acute behavioral and neuroendocrine stress-related responses via MCH(1) receptor activation in rodents. The purpose of the present investigation was to use the MCH(1) receptor antagonist SNAP 94847 (N-(3-{1-[4-(3,4-difluoro-phenoxy)-benzyl]-piperidin-4-yl}-4-methyl-phenyl)-isobutyramide) to determine the effects of MCH(1) receptor blockade on MCH-evoked adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) release, chronic mild stress-induced anhedonia, stress-induced hyperthermia and forced swim stress-induced immobility. The appropriate dose range for testing SNAP 94847 was determined by measuring MCH-evoked water drinking. The corresponding occupancy of MCH(1) receptors in rat striatum was also measured across a broad dose range. Orally administered (p.o.) SNAP 94847 (1-10 mg/kg) corresponds to 30-60% occupancy at MCH(1) receptors and significantly blocks water drinking induced by the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of MCH. MCH (i.c.v.) significantly elevates plasma levels of ACTH in rats, and SNAP 94847 (2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) blocks MCH-evoked ACTH release. Using the chronic mild stress paradigm, we show that repeated daily exposure to environmental stressors for 5 weeks significantly suppresses sucrose intake in rats, and that SNAP 94847 (1 mg/kg, BID) for 1-5 weeks restores baseline sucrose intake. Moreover, a single administration of SNAP 94847 attenuates stress-induced hyperthermia and the behavioral effects of forced swim stress with minimal effective doses of 2.5 and 30 mg/kg (p.o.), respectively. The regulation of ACTH release and reversal of the effects of chronic and acute stress by SNAP 94847 are suggestive of a role for MCH(1) receptor blockade in the treatment of disorders characterized by high allostatic load.
p11 (S100A10), a member of a large family of S100 proteins, interacts with serotonin receptor 1B (5-HTR1B), modulates 5-HT1B receptor signal transduction, and is required for antidepressant responses to activation of this receptor. In the current study, we investigated the specificity of the interaction between 5-HTR1B and p11 by screening brain-expressed S100 proteins against serotonin and noradrenergic receptors. The data indicate that p11 is unique among its family members for its interactions with defined serotonin receptors. We identify a novel p11-interacting receptor (5-HTR4) and characterize the interaction between p11 and 5-HTR4, demonstrating that (1) p11 and 5-HTR4 mRNA and protein are coexpressed in brain regions that are relevant for major depression, (2) p11 increases 5-HTR4 surface expression and facilitates 5-HTR4 signaling, and (3) p11 is required for the behavioral antidepressant responses to 5-HTR4 stimulation in vivo. The essential role played by p11 in modulating signaling through 5-HT4 as well as 5-HT1B receptors supports the concept that this protein may be a key determinant of vulnerability to depression.
Classical estrogen receptor-signaling mechanisms involve estradiol binding to intracellular nuclear receptors [estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) and estrogen receptor-beta (ERbeta)] to promote changes in protein expression. Estradiol can also exert effects within seconds to minutes, however, a timescale incongruent with genomic signaling. In the brain, estradiol rapidly potentiates stimulated dopamine release in the striatum of female rats and enhances spontaneous rotational behavior. Furthermore, estradiol rapidly attenuates the K(+)-evoked increase of GABA in dialysate. We hypothesize that these rapid effects of estradiol in the striatum are mediated by ERalpha located on the membrane of medium spiny GABAergic neurons. This experiment examined whether overexpression of ERalpha in the striatum would enhance the effect of estradiol on rotational behavior and the K(+)-evoked increase in GABA in dialysate. Ovariectomized female rats were tested for rotational behavior or underwent microdialysis experiments after unilateral intrastriatal injections of a recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) containing the human ERalpha cDNA (AAV.ERalpha) into the striatum; controls received either the same vector into areas outside the striatum or an AAV containing the human alkaline phosphatase gene into the striatum (AAV.ALP). Animals that received AAV.ERalpha in the striatum exhibited significantly greater estradiol-induced contralateral rotations compared with controls and exhibited behavioral sensitization of contralateral rotations induced by a low-dose of amphetamine. ERalpha overexpression also enhanced the inhibitory effect of estradiol on K(+)-evoked GABA release suggesting that disinhibition of dopamine release from terminals in the striatum resulted in the enhanced rotational behavior.
The rhythmic pyloric network of the lobster stomatogastric system approximately maintains phase (that is, the burst durations and durations between the bursts of its neurons change proportionally) when network cycle period is altered by current injection into the network pacemaker (Hooper, 1997a,b). When isolated from the network and driven by rhythmic hyperpolarizing current pulses, the delay to firing after each pulse of at least one network neuron type [pyloric (PY)] varies in a phase-maintaining manner when cycle period is varied (Hooper, 1998). These variations require PY neurons to have intrinsic mechanisms that respond to changes in neuron activity on time scales at least as long as 2 s. Slowly activating and deactivating conductances could provide such a mechanism. We tested this possibility by building models containing various slow conductances. This work showed that such conductances could indeed support intrinsic phase maintenance, and we show here results for one such conductance, a slow potassium conductance. These conductances supported phase maintenance because their mean activation level changed, hence altering neuron postinhibition firing delay, when the rhythmic input to the neuron changed. Switching the sign of the dependence of slow-conductance activation and deactivation on membrane potential resulted in neuron delays switching to change in an anti-phase-maintaining manner. These data suggest that slow conductances or similar slow processes such as changes in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration could underlie phase maintenance in pyloric network neurons.
Norepinephrine (NE) is released in excess into the extracellular space during oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in brain, increasing neuronal metabolism and aggravating glutamate excitoxicity. We used isolated rat optic nerve and spinal cord dorsal columns to determine whether the noradrenergic system influences axonal damage in white matter. Tissue was studied electrophysiologically by recording the compound action potential (CAP) before and after exposure to 60 min of OGD at 36 degrees C. Depleting catecholamine stores with reserpine was protective and improved CAP recovery after 1 h of reperfusion from 17% (control) to 35%. Adding NE during OGD decreased CAP recovery to 8%, and adding NE to reserpine during OGD eliminated the protective effect of the latter. Selective inhibitors of Na(+)-dependent norepinephrine transport desipramine and nisoxetine improved recovery to 58% and 44%, respectively. alpha2 adrenergic receptor agonists UK14,304 and medetomidine improved CAP recovery to 41% and 46% after 1 h of OGD. Curiously, alpha2 antagonists alone were also highly protective (e.g., atipamezole: 86% CAP recovery), at concentrations that did not affect baseline excitability. The protective effect of alpha2 receptor modulation was corroborated by imaging fluorescent Ca(2+) and Na(+) indicators within axons during OGD. Both agonists and antagonists significantly reduced axonal Ca(2+) and Na(+) accumulation in injured axons. These data suggest that the noradrenergic system plays an active role in the pathophysiology of axonal ischemia and that alpha2 receptor modulation may be useful against white matter injury.
The role of subcortical visual structures such as the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and the superior colliculus (SC) in the control of visual spatial attention remains poorly understood. Here, we used high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure responses in the human LGN and SC during sustained spatial attention. Subjects covertly and continuously tracked one of two segments that rotated through the visual field, composed of either moving dots or transient colored shapes. Activity in both nuclei was generally enhanced by attention, independent of the stimulus type, with the voxels responding more sensitively to stimulus contrast (those dominated by magnocellular input) exhibiting greater attentional enhancement. The LGN contained clusters of voxels exhibiting attentional enhancement or weak suppression, whereas the SC exhibited predominantly attentional enhancement, which was significantly stronger than in the LGN. The spatial distribution of the attentional effects was unrelated to the retinotopic organization in either structure. The results demonstrate that each of the major subcortical visual pathways participates in attentional selection, and their differential magnitudes of modulation suggest distinct roles.
PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten) is a lipid phosphatase that counteracts the function of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K). Loss of function of PTEN results in constitutive activation of AKT and downstream effectors and correlates with many human cancers, as well as various brain disorders, including macrocephaly, seizures, Lhermitte-Duclos disease, and autism. We previously generated a conditional Pten knock-out mouse line with Pten loss in limited postmitotic neurons in the cortex and hippocampus. Pten-null neurons developed neuronal hypertrophy and loss of neuronal polarity. The mutant mice exhibited macrocephaly and behavioral abnormalities reminiscent of certain features of human autism. Here, we report that rapamycin, a specific inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), can prevent and reverse neuronal hypertrophy, resulting in the amelioration of a subset of PTEN-associated abnormal behaviors, providing evidence that the mTORC1 pathway downstream of PTEN is critical for this complex phenotype.
Pregnancy is associated with changes in mood and anxiety level as well as with marked hormonal fluctuations. Increases in the brain concentrations of neuroactive steroids during pregnancy in rats are accompanied by changes in expression of subunits of the GABA type A receptor (GABA(A)-R) in the brain. Granule cells of the dentate gyrus (DGGCs) exhibit two components of inhibitory GABAergic transmission: a phasic component mediated by synaptic GABA(A)-Rs, and a tonic component mediated by extrasynaptic GABA(A)-Rs. Recordings of GABAergic currents were obtained from hippocampal slices prepared from rats in estrus, at pregnancy day 15 (P15) or P19, or at 2 d after delivery. Exogenous GABA or 3alpha,5alpha-THP induced an increase in tonic current in DGGCs that was significantly greater at P19 than in estrus. Neither tonic nor phasic currents were affected by pregnancy in CA1 pyramidal cells. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a marked increase in the abundance of the delta subunit of the GABA(A)-R and a concomitant decrease in that of the gamma(2) subunit in the hippocampus at P19. Expression of the alpha(4) subunit did not change during pregnancy but was increased 2 d after delivery. Treatment of rats from P12 to P18 with the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride prevented the changes in tonic current and in delta and gamma(2) subunit expression normally apparent at P19. These data suggest that the number of extrasynaptic GABA(A)-Rs is increased in DGGCs during late pregnancy as a consequence of the associated marked fluctuations in the brain levels of neuroactive steroids.
Astroglial-neuronal interactions are important in brain functions. However, roles of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in this interaction remain unclear in acute physiological processes. We explored this issue using the supraoptic nucleus (SON) in lactating rats. At first, we identified the essential role of astrocytes in the milk-ejection reflex (MER) by disabling astrocytic functions via intracerebroventricular application of l-aminoadipic acid (l-AAA). l-AAA blocked the MER and reduced GFAP levels in the SON. In brain slices, l-AAA suppressed oxytocin (OT) neuronal activity and EPSCs. Suckling reduced GFAP in immunocytochemical images and in Western blots, reductions that were partially reversed after the MER. OT, the dominant hormone mediating the MER, reduced GFAP expression in brain slices. Tetanus toxin suppressed EPSCs but did not influence OT-reduced GFAP. Protease inhibitors did not influence OT-reduced GFAP images but blocked the degradation of GFAP molecules. In the presence of OT, transient 12 mm K(+) exposure, simulating effects of synchronized bursts before the MER, reversed OT-reduced GFAP expression. Consistently, suckling first reduced and then increased the expression of aquaporin 4, astrocytic water channels coupled to K(+) channels. Moreover, GFAP molecules were associated with astrocytic proteins, including aquaporin 4, actin, and glutamine synthetase and serine racemase. GFAP-aquaporin 4 association decreased during initial suckling and increased after the MER, whereas opposite changes occurred between GFAP and actin. MER also decreased the association between GFAP and glutamine synthetase. These results indicate that suckling elicits dynamic glial neuronal interactions in the SON; GFAP plasticity dynamically reflects OT neuronal activity.
Speech and vocal sounds are at the core of human communication. Cortical processing of these sounds critically depends on behavioral demands. However, the neurocomputational mechanisms enabling this adaptive processing remain elusive. Here we examine the task-dependent reorganization of electroencephalographic responses to natural speech sounds (vowels /a/, /i/, /u/) spoken by three speakers (two female, one male) while listeners perform a one-back task on either vowel or speaker identity. We show that dynamic changes of sound-evoked responses and phase patterns of cortical oscillations in the alpha band (8-12 Hz) closely reflect the abstraction and analysis of the sounds along the task-relevant dimension. Vowel categorization leads to a significant temporal realignment of responses to the same vowel, e.g., /a/, independent of who pronounced this vowel, whereas speaker categorization leads to a significant temporal realignment of responses to the same speaker, e.g., speaker 1, independent of which vowel she/he pronounced. This transient and goal-dependent realignment of neuronal responses to physically different external events provides a robust cortical coding mechanism for forming and processing abstract representations of auditory (speech) input.
Spatiotemporal patterning of neuronal activity is considered to be an important feature of cognitive processing in the brain as well as pathological brain states, such as seizures. Here, we investigate complex interactions between intrinsic properties of neurons and network structure in the generation of network spatiotemporal patterning in the context of seizure-like synchrony. We show that membrane excitability properties have differential effects on network activity patterning for different network topologies. We consider excitatory networks consisting of neurons with excitability properties varying between type I and type II that exhibit significantly different spike frequency responses to external current stimulation, especially at firing threshold. We find that networks with type II-like neurons show higher synchronization and bursting capacity across a range of network topologies than corresponding networks with type I-like neurons. These differences in activity patterning are persistent across different network sizes, connectivity strengths, magnitudes of random external input, and the addition of inhibitory interneurons to the network, making them highly likely to be relevant to brain function. Furthermore, we show that heterogeneous networks of mixed cell types show emergent dynamical patterns even for very low mixing ratios. Specifically, the addition of a small percentage of type II-like cells into a network of type I-like cells can markedly change the patterning of network activity. These findings suggest that cellular as well as network mechanisms can go hand in hand, leading to the generation of seizure-like discharges, suggesting that a single ictogenic mechanism alone may not be responsible for seizure generation.
Mammalian circadian rhythms are orchestrated by the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus. The SCN are composed of circadian clock neurons, but the mechanisms by which these populations of neuronal oscillators encode rhythmic behavior are incompletely understood. We have used ex vivo real-time gene expression imaging of the neural correlates of circadian behavior, combined with genetic disruption of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, a key SCN signaling molecule, to examine the neural basis of circadian organization in the SCN. We show that the coherence and timing of clock neuron rhythms are correlated with the coherence and timing of behavioral rhythms within individual mice and that the degree of disruption of SCN neuronal organization correlates with the degree of behavioral disruption within individuals. Our results suggest that the SCN encode circadian phase as a temporal population vector of its constituent neurons; such that as the neuronal population becomes desynchronized, phase information becomes ambiguous.
Axon-glial interactions are critical for normal functioning of peripheral nerves, and their disruption leads to peripheral neuropathies. Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are key players in peripheral nerve regeneration after injury. We investigated the role of FGF receptor (Fgfr) signaling in Schwann cells and the consequent regulation of normal Schwann cell-axon interactions. Fgfr1 and Fgfr2 were conditionally inactivated, either singly or in combination, in myelinating and nonmyelinating Schwann cells (NMSCs) of transgenic mice. The double mutant mice displayed significant loss of thermal sensitivity accompanied by marked neuropathy of unmyelinated nociceptive sensory axons terminating in the dorsal horn of spinal cords, the primary site for integrating pain and temperature inputs. Neuropathy, although to a lesser extent, was also observed in the nociceptive C-fibers in the Remak bundles of sciatic nerves; however, there was no loss of NMSCs that ensheathe these axons. Furthermore, axons wrapped by myelinating Schwann cells and associated myelin sheaths appeared to be unaffected. Relative to the double mutants, axonal neuropathy developed much later in the Fgfr1 but not Fgfr2 single mutant, indicating a difference in signaling potential of the two receptors, with Fgfr1 being more robust than Fgfr2. These findings emphasize the importance of Fgfr1 and Fgfr2 signaling as potential mediators of axon-glial interaction in the peripheral sensory pain pathway primarily via influencing NMSC function, which in turn modulates the structure and function of unmyelinated sensory axons. This study provides a novel molecular mechanism for nociception with possible implications for pain sensitivity in peripheral sensory neuropathies.

Despite the potential impact of ageist attitudes on outcomes of central nervous system (CNS)-injured patients, little has been reported on this issue. Given this, we sought to conduct a questionnaire-based survey to assess the attitudes toward the elderly among basic and clinical neuroscientists, clinicians, and allied-health professionals whose research or medical practice is focused on neurotrauma. We also reviewed all abstracts presented in the National Neurotrauma Symposia from 1984 to 2007 and identified previous studies on the potential effects of age/aging on outcomes. The Kogan's Old People (KOP) scale was used to assess attitudes toward elderly individuals among all members of the National Neurotrauma Society (NNS). Of the 504 registered members, 137 subjects completed the survey that was re-mailed for non-respondents 4 weeks apart. There were no significant differences between respondents of the first and second mailings regarding their demographic and professional profiles or regarding their responses. These results support the validity of our findings in spite of the relatively low mail survey response rate (27.2%). Female gender was significantly associated with more positive attitudes toward old people compared to males. Clinicians showed significantly fewer negative attitudes toward old people in comparison with basic and clinical neuroscientists. Of the 4,194 abstracts reviewed, we identified only 44 studies (1.05%) that were explicitly focused on the effects of aging/old age on neurotrauma. In conclusion, our questionnaire-based survey, which appears to be representative of the population of interest, recognized significant differences in the attitudes toward old people among various professional groups and between male and female professionals. These findings may reflect a lack of knowledge and misconceptions regarding the impact of aging and old age on outcomes after CNS trauma. Further research on the impact of aging on outcomes after neurotrauma is required. Moreover, knowledge translation and mobilization appears required to positively influence attitudes among neuroscience research and clinical professionals regarding the issues of neurotrauma and the elderly.

Turmeric, an essential ingredient of culinary preparations of southeast Asia, contains a major polyphenolic compound, named curcumin or diferuloylmethane, which eliminates cancer cells derived from a variety of peripheral tissues. Although in vitro experiments have addressed its anti-tumor property, no in vivo studies have explored its anti-cancer activity in the brain. Oral delivery of this food component has been less effective because of its low solubility in water. We show that a soluble formulation of curcumin crosses the blood-brain barrier but does not suppress normal brain cell viability. Furthermore, tail vein injection, or more effectively, intracerebral injection through a cannula, blocks brain tumor formation in mice that had already received an intracerebral bolus of mouse melanoma cells (B16F10). While exploring the mechanism of its action in vitro we observed that the solubilized curcumin causes activation of proapoptotic enzymes caspase 3/7 in human oligodendroglioma (HOG) and lung carcinoma (A549) cells, and mouse tumor cells N18 (neuroblastoma), GL261 (glioma), and B16F10. A simultaneous decrease in cell viability is also revealed by MTT [3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] assays. Further examination of the B16F10 cells showed that curcumin effectively suppresses Cyclin D1, P-NF-kB, Bcl(XL), P-Akt, and VEGF, which explains its efficacy in blocking proliferation, survival, and invasion of the B16F10 cells in the brain. Taken together, solubilized curcumin effectively blocks brain tumor formation and also eliminates brain tumor cells. Therefore, judicious application of such injectable formulations of curcumin could be developed into a safe therapeutic strategy for treating brain tumors.
The transcription factor Gli3 is expressed throughout developing telencephalon. Previous studies have focused on Gli3's role in dorsal telencephalon, which is greatly reduced in size in Gli3(Xt/Xt) mutants. We examined the effects of loss of Gli3 on early development of ventral telencephalon. Ventral telencephalon was defined in both wildtypes and Gli3(Xt/Xt) mutants on the basis of its expression of Olig2, Nkx2.1, Mash1, and Foxg1 and its lack of expression of Pax6. We found that at embryonic day (E)10.5 the volume of the ventral telencephalon is about 50% greater in Gli3(Xt/Xt) mutants than in wildtypes. By E12.5, however, the volume of the ventral telencephalon is about 20% lower in Gli3(Xt/Xt) mutants than in wildtypes. We observed a significant increase in the number of both apoptotic cells and newly differentiated neurons in the E10.5 Gli3(Xt/Xt) ventral telencephalon, suggesting that increased cell death and withdrawal of cells from the cell cycle might account for the failure of the Gli3(Xt/Xt) ventral telencephalon to grow normally by E12.5. We found no changes in the lengths of the cell cycles of proliferating ventral telencephalic cells at E10.5. We used marker analysis and optical projection tomography to assess the Gli3(Xt/Xt) forebrain in three dimensions and found that the Gli3(Xt/Xt) diencephalon is shifted relatively rostrally. We conclude that in the absence of Gli3 an abnormally large portion of the newly formed telencephalon is specified to a ventral fate but this then suffers impaired growth, due to defects of cell differentiation and death, contributing to severe distortion of the forebrain.
The vertebrate rod and cone photoreceptors are highly specialized sensory neurons that transduce light into the chemical and electrical signals of the nervous system. Although the physiological properties of cones and rods are well known, only a handful of genes have been identified that regulate the specification of photoreceptor subtypes. Taking advantage of the mosaic organization of photoreceptors in zebrafish, we report the isolation of a mutation resulting in a unique change in photoreceptor cell fate. Mutation of the lots-of-rods (lor) locus results in a near one-for-one transformation of UV-cone precursors into rods. The transformed cells exhibit morphological characteristics and a gene-expression pattern typical of rods, but differentiate in a temporal and spatial pattern consistent with UV-cone development. In mutant larvae and adults, the highly ordered photoreceptor mosaic is maintained and degeneration is not observed, suggesting that lor functions after the specification of the other photoreceptor subtypes. In genetic chimeras, lor functions cell-autonomously in the specification of photoreceptor cell fate. Linkage analysis and genetic-complementation testing indicate that lor is an allele of tbx2b/fby (from beyond). fby was identified by a pineal complex phenotype, and carries a nonsense mutation in the T-box domain of the tbx2b transcription factor. Homozygous fby mutant larvae and lor/fby transheterozygotes also display the lots-of-rods phenotype. Based upon these data, we propose a previously undescribed function for tbx2b in photoreceptor cell precursors, to promote the UV cone fate by repressing the rod differentiation pathway.
The electrical gradient across the mitochondrial inner membrane (Psi(m)) is established by electron transport chain (ETC) activity and permits mitochondrial Ca(2+) sequestration. Using rhodamine-123, we determined how repetitive nerve stimulation (100 Hz) affects Psi(m) in motor terminals innervating mouse levator auris muscles. Stimulation-induced Psi(m) depolarizations in wild-type (WT) terminals were small (&lt;5 mV at 30 degrees C) and reversible. These depolarizations depended on Ca(2+) influx into motor terminals, as they were inhibited when P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels were blocked with omega-agatoxin. Stimulation-induced Psi(m) depolarization and elevation of cytosolic [Ca(2+)] both increased when complex I of the ETC was partially inhibited by low concentrations of rotenone (25-50 nmol/l). This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that acceleration of ETC proton extrusion normally limits the magnitude of Psi(m) depolarization during mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake, thereby permitting continued Ca(2+) uptake. Compared with WT, stimulation-induced increases in rhodamine-123 fluorescence were approximately 5 times larger in motor terminals from presymptomatic mice expressing mutations of human superoxide dismutase I (SOD1) that cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (SOD1-G85R, which lacks dismutase activity; SOD1-G93A, which retains dismutase activity). Psi(m) depolarizations were not significantly altered by expression of WT human SOD1 or knockout of SOD1 or by inhibiting opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore with cyclosporin A. We suggest that an early functional consequence of the association of SOD1-G85R or SOD1-G93A with motoneuronal mitochondria is reduced capacity of the ETC to limit Ca(2+)-induced Psi(m) depolarization, and that this impairment contributes to disease progression in mutant SOD1 motor terminals.
In order to test the adhesiveness of PLP-null compact myelin lamellae we soaked aldehyde-fixed CNS specimens from PLP-null and control mice overnight in distilled water, in Ringer's solution or in Ringer's solution with added 1 M sucrose. Subsequent examination of the tissue by EM showed that both PLP-null and control white matter soaked in Ringer remained largely compact. After the distilled water soak, control myelin was virtually unchanged, but PLP-null myelin showed some decompaction, i.e., separation of myelin lamellae from one another. After the sucrose/Ringer soak, normal myelin developed foci of decompaction, but the great majority of lamellae remained compact. In the PLP-null specimens, in contrast, many of the myelin sheaths became almost completely decompacted. Such sheaths became thicker overall and were comprised of lamellae widely separated from one another by irregular spaces. Thus, in normal animals, fixed CNS myelin lamellae are firmly adherent and resist separation; PLP-null myelin lamellae, in contrast, are poorly adherent and more readily separated. Mechanisms by which impaired adhesiveness of PLP-null myelin lamellae and fluctuations in osmolality in vivo might underlie slowing of conduction and axon damage are discussed.
The majority of studies support a role of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in the attentional control necessary for conflict resolution in the Stroop task; however, the time course of activation and the neural substrates underlying the Stroop task remain contentious. We used high-density EEG to record visual-evoked potentials from 16 healthy subjects while performing a manual version of the traditional Stroop colour-word task. Difference waveforms for congruent-control and incongruent-control conditions were similar in amplitude and had a similar spatial distribution in the time window of 260-430 ms post stimulus onset. Source estimation indicated particularly middle cingulate involvement in congruent-control and incongruent-control difference waveforms. In contrast, the difference waveform for the incongruent-congruent contrast was observed later (in the time window of 370-480 ms), had a different spatial distribution, and source estimation indicated that the anterior cingulate underlies this difference waveform. As congruent-control and incongruent-control differences have a similar timeframe and cingulate source, we propose that this indicates early attentional allocation processes. That is, the identification of two sources of information (the word and the colour it is printed in) and the selective attention to one. The later peak in the incongruent-congruent difference wave, originating in anterior cingulate, likely reflects identification (and subsequent resolution) of conflict in the two sources of information.
The steroidogenic enzyme CYP17 is responsible for catalyzing the production of androgenic precursors, while CYP19 converts testosterone to estradiol. De novo neurosteroidogenesis in specific brain regions influences steroid hormone dependent behaviors. In the all-female lizard species Cnemidophorus uniparens, individuals alternately display both male-like mounting and female-like receptivity. Mounting is associated with high circulating concentrations of progesterone following ovulation (PostOv), while receptivity is correlated with estrogen preceding it (PreOv). At a neuroanatomical level, the preoptic area (POA) and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) are the foci of the male-typical mounting and female-typical receptivity, respectively. In this study, we indirectly test the hypothesis that the whiptail lizard brain is capable of de novo neurosteroidogenesis by cloning fragments of the genes encoding two steroidogenic enzymes, CYP17 and CYP19, and examining their expression patterns in the C. uniparens brain. Our data indicate that these genes are expressed in the C. uniparens brain, and more importantly in the POA and VMN. Using radioactive in situ hybridization, we measured higher CYP17 mRNA levels in the POA of PostOv lizards compared to receptive PreOv animals; CYP19 mRNA levels in the VMN did not change across the ovarian cycle. To our knowledge, these are the first data suggesting that the reptilian brain is capable of de novo steroidogenesis. This study also supports the idea that non-gonadal sources of steroid hormones locally produced in behaviorally relevant brain loci are central to the mediation of behavioral output.
LAU-0901, a novel platelet-activating factor (PAF) receptor antagonist, is highly neuroprotective in a rodent model of cerebral ischemia. This study was conducted to establish whether the neuroprotection induced by LAU-0901 persists with chronic survival. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with isoflurane and subjected to 2 h of temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) induced by means of a poly-L-lisine-coated intraluminal nylon suture. Animals were treated with either LAU-0901 (60 mg/kg) or vehicle (45% cyclodextran) administered i.p. at 2 h from onset of MCAo. They received neurobehavioral examinations during MCAo (60 min) and then at 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28 days followed by histopathology at 30 days. LAU-0901 significantly improved the behavior compared to the vehicle group, beginning on day 1 (by 29%, p=0.00007) and persisting throughout a 30-day survival period (42%, p=0.0001). Compared with vehicle treatment, LAU-0901 treatment significantly increased volume of non-infarcted brain tissue loss relative to the unlesioned hemisphere (16.3 +/- 4.6% vs. 46.0 +/- 10.3%, respectively). These results establish that LAU-0901 confers enduring ischemic neuroprotection.
The effect of concreteness has been heavily studied on nouns. However, there are scant reports on the effect for verbs. The present research independently manipulated concreteness and word class of Chinese disyllabic words in tasks that required different depths of semantic processing: a lexical decision task and a semantic relatedness judgment task. The results replicated the concreteness effect for nouns, indicating that concrete nouns elicited larger N400 responses than abstract nouns with a broad distribution over the scalp, irrespective of the task demands. Similar to the findings from English unambiguous verbs, the concreteness effect for Chinese verbs was also robustly observed from fontal to posterior electrodes in both tasks. These results suggest that when Chinese nouns and verbs are typical and unambiguous in both meanings and word classes, the similar topographic distributions of the N400 components reflect the same underlying cause(s) of the concreteness effect for these two word classes.
Neurotrophins, such as nerve growth factor (NGF), are capable of binding to the transmembrane p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), which regulates a variety of cellular responses including apoptosis and axonal elongation. While the development of mutant mouse strains that lack functional p75NTR expression has provided further insight into the importance of this neurotrophin receptor, there remains a paucity of information concerning how the loss of p75NTR expression may alter neural phenotypes. To address this issue, we assessed the proteome of the cervical sympathetic ganglia from two mutant lines of mice, which were compared to the ganglionic proteome of age-matched wild type mice. The ganglionic proteome of mice possessing two mutant alleles of either exonIII or exonIV for the p75NTR gene displayed detectable alterations in levels of Lamin A, tyrosine hydroxylase, and Annexin V, as compared to ganglionic proteome of wild type mice. Decreased expression of the basic isoform of tyrosine hydroxylase may be linked to perturbed NGF signaling in the absence of p75NTR in mutant mice. Stereological measurement showed significant increases in the number of sympathetic neurons in both lines of p75NTR-deficient mice, relative to wild type mice. This enhanced survival of sympathetic neurons coincides with shifts toward the more basic isoforms of Annexin V in mutant mice. This study, in addition to providing the first comparative proteomic assessment of sympathetic ganglia, sheds new light onto the phenotypic changes that occur as a consequence of a loss of p75NTR expression in adult mice.
Messenger RNA (mRNA) transport to neuronal dendrites is crucial for synaptic plasticity, but little is known of assembly or translational regulation of dendritic messenger ribonucleoproteins (mRNPs). Here we characterize a novel mRNP complex that is found in neuronal dendrites throughout the central nervous system and in some axonal processes of the spinal cord. The complex is characterized by the LSm1 protein, which so far has been implicated in mRNA degradation in nonneuronal cells. In brain, it associates with intact mRNAs. Interestingly, the LSm1-mRNPs contain the cap-binding protein CBP80 that associates with (pre)mRNAs in the nucleus, suggesting that the dendritic LSm1 complex has been assembled in the nucleus. In support of this notion, neuronal LSm1 is partially nuclear and inhibition of mRNA synthesis increases its nuclear localization. Importantly, CBP80 is also present in the dendrites and both LSm1 and CBP80 shift significantly into the spines upon stimulation of glutamergic receptors, suggesting that these mRNPs are translationally activated and contribute to the regulated local protein synthesis.

Clinical trials with rosiglitazone, a potent agonist at peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) suggest an improvement of cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The mechanisms mediating this potential beneficial effect remain to be fully elucidated. In mice overexpressing mutant human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP), a model of AD, we found that memory impairment in the object recognition test was prevented and also reversed by chronic rosiglitazone treatment. Given the possible involvement of glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in the actions of PPARgamma-ligands, we studied the effect of chronic rosiglitazone treatment on GR levels in the hippocampus of hAPP mice. An early down-regulation of GR, not related to elevated plasma corticosterone levels, was found in different hippocampal subfields of the transgenic mice and this decrease was prevented by rosiglitazone. In parallel with behavioural studies, rosiglitazone also normalized GR levels in older animals. This effect may contribute to explain the attenuation of memory decline by PPARgamma activation in an AD mouse model.
It is now accepted that a conformational change of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) generates the prion, the infectious agent responsible for lethal neurodegenerative disorders, named transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, or prion diseases. The mechanisms of prion-associated neurodegeneration are still obscure, as is the cell role of PrP(C), although increasing evidence attributes to PrP(C) important functions in cell survival. Such a behavioral dichotomy thus enables the prion protein to switch from a benign role under normal conditions, to the execution of neurons during disease. By reviewing data from models of prion disease and PrP(C)-null paradigms, which suggest a relation between the prion protein and Ca(2+) homeostasis, here we discuss the possibility that Ca(2+) is the factor behind the enigma of the pathophysiology of PrP(C). Ca(2+) features in almost all processes of cell signaling, and may thus tell us much about a protein that pivots between health and disease.
Hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide (HCNP), which enhances acetylcholine synthesis and induces cholinergic phenotype development of the septohippocampal system, is derived from HCNP precursor protein (HCNPpp), also known as phosphatidylethanolamine binding protein (PEBP) and Raf kinase inhibitor protein (RKIP). Our previous study demonstrated that expression of HCNPpp mRNA was decreased in the hippocampi of autopsied brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, indicating the association of HCNP with the pathogenesis of AD. To clarify the involvement of gene variations in the promoter region of the gene encoding HCNPpp in this mRNA reduction, we analyzed DNA polymorphisms or mutations within this gene promoter region in AD patients by direct sequencing. The promoter was found to contain a CpG island without a TATA box, an element of housekeeping gene promoters. Moreover, no disease-specific polymorphisms or mutations were identified, suggesting that the decrease of mRNA can be ascribed to transcriptional or posttranscriptional changes in activity.
A number of reports have provided genetic evidence for an association between the DTNBP1 gene (coding dysbindin) and schizophrenia. In addition, sandy mice, which harbor a deletion in the DTNBP1 gene and lack dysbindin, display behavioral abnormalities suggestive of an association with schizophrenia. However, the mechanism by which the loss of dysbindin induces schizophrenia-like behaviors remains unclear. Here, we report that small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of dysbindin resulted in the aberrant organization of actin cytoskeleton in SH-SY5Y cells. Furthermore, we show that morphological abnormalities of the actin cytoskeleton were similarly observed in growth cones of cultured hippocampal neurons derived from sandy mice. Moreover, we report a significant correlation between dysbindin expression level and the phosphorylation level of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), which is implicated in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization. These findings suggest that dysbindin plays a key role in coordinating JNK signaling and actin cytoskeleton required for neural development.
Bone morphogenetic proteins such as BMP4 are essential for proper development of telencephalic forebrain structures and induce differentiation of telencephalic neural stem cells into a variety of cellular fates, including astrocytic, neuronal, and mesenchymal cells. Little is yet understood regarding the mechanisms that underlie the spatiotemporal differences in progenitor response to BMP4. In a screen designed to identify novel targets of BMP4 signaling in telencephalic neural stem cells, we found the mRNA levels of the previously uncharacterized factor CXXC5 reproducibly up-regulated upon BMP4 stimulation. In vivo, CXXC5 expression overlapped with BMP4 adjacent to Wnt3a expression in the dorsal regions of the telencephalon, including the developing choroid plexus. CXXC5 showed partial homology with Idax, a related protein previously shown to interact with the Wnt-signaling intermediate Dishevelled (Dvl). Indeed CXXC5 and Dvl co-localized in the cytoplasm and interacted in co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Moreover, fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) experiments verified that CXXC5 and Dvl2 were located in close spatial proximity in neural stem cells. Studies of the functional role of CXXC5 revealed that overexpression of CXXC5 or exposure to BMP4 repressed the levels of the canonical Wnt signaling target Axin2, and CXXC5 attenuated Wnt3a-mediated increase in TOPflash reporter activity. Accordingly, RNA interference of CXXC5 attenuated the BMP4-mediated decrease in Axin2 levels and facilitated the response to Wnt3a in neural stem cells. We propose that CXXC5 is acting as a BMP4-induced inhibitor of Wnt signaling in neural stem cells.
Prodrug design for brain delivery of small- and medium-sized neuropeptides was reviewed, focusing on thyrotropin-releasing hormone and structurally related peptides as examples. We have summarized our most important advances in methodology, as well as assessed the benefits and limitations of bioreversible chemical manipulation techniques to achieve targeting of the parent molecules into the central nervous system. The value of prodrug-amenable analogues as potential drug-like central nervous systems agents was highlighted.
It has been hypothesized that the right hemisphere of the brain is more sensitive to alcohol-related damage than the left hemisphere. The present study tested this hypothesis, using functional MRI to determine whether the pattern for right hemispheric activity is different for alcohol-dependent patients, compared to normal healthy individuals. Two different types of memory encoding tasks were performed separately: word and face encoding for both alcohol-dependent patients and normal healthy volunteers. The data for the normal volunteers indicate that the left prefrontal region is more active during word encoding, whereas the right parahippocampal region is more active during face encoding. The results for the patient data, however, demonstrated left lateralization in the prefrontal area during word encoding, while right lateralization in the parahippocampal region during face encoding was not observed. Therefore, alcoholism appears to have no influence on left hemispheric activity, since the activation pattern was similar to that observed for normal healthy persons. However, the absence of right hemispheric lateralization in alcohol-dependent patients is consistent with the hypothesis that the right hemisphere is more vulnerable to alcohol-related damage than the left hemisphere.
Cocaine addiction is associated with an increase in actin cycling and alterations in dendritic spines in the nucleus accumbens. Both actin polymerization and spine morphology are regulated in part by beta-(beta) integrins. Mice were administered acute or daily injections of cocaine or saline for 7 days. After 3 weeks of withdrawal, the level of beta-integrins in the postsynaptic density enriched subfraction from nucleus accumbens tissue was quantified by immunoblotting at 0, 30 or 120min following an a cocaine challenge injection. After chronic treatment and withdrawal the basal level of beta1-integrin was increased while beta3-integrin was unaltered. However, following a cocaine challenge in chronic cocaine, but not saline-treated animals, beta3-integrin was transiently up-regulated while beta1-integrin was transiently downregulated. These data demonstrate a bidirectional regulation of beta-integrins by chronic cocaine treatment that may contribute to cocaine-induced changes in actin cycling and dendrite morphology.
The effects of systemic treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on conditioned gaping in a rodent model of anticipatory nausea were examined. Stimulation of the immune system has been found to enhance, impair, or have no effect on various learning and memory tasks. The development of anticipatory nausea is formed through a classically conditioned response to a context that has been paired previously with toxin-induced nausea and/or vomiting. Rats display a distinctive conditioned gaping response when injected with a nausea-inducing drug such as LiCl. In the present study, male Long-Evans rats were injected intraperitoneally with LPS (200microg/kg) or saline (NaCl) followed 90min later by an injection of the toxin LiCl or saline before being placed in a distinctive context on four conditioning days (72h apart). On the condition test day, rats (n=6/group) were placed in the distinctive context in a drug-free state and behavioral responses were videotaped. Rats given LPS followed by LiCl were found to have significantly fewer gaping responses when compared to rats given NaCl followed by LiCl. All groups were also found to have similar levels of spontaneous ingestive behaviors suggesting that the decrease in gaping was not due to motor impairment. The present results suggest that activation of the immune system with LPS administration significantly impairs the acquisition of anticipatory nausea.
The constant cyclic respiratory activity in the brainstem requires an un-interrupted blood flow providing glucose and O(2) to neurons generating respiratory rhythm. Here we used a combination of classical vascular visualization techniques, and calcium imaging, to compare the microvascular structure and localization of active respiratory neurons in the brainstem of newborn mice at the level of the preBtzinger complex (PBC) and ventral respiratory group. The brainstem is supplied with perforating arteries, which enter primarily in the midline and in a circumscribed region mid-laterally in the medulla. Presumed arterioles then pass dorso-medially with a high density immediately lateral to the midline, and mid-laterally at approximately 60% of the midline-to-lateral edge distance. Calcium imaging, using Fluo-8, AM, showed that active PBC/VRG neurons are located in the same region where a high density of arterioles is found. We conclude that the striking co-localization of medullary arterioles and the PBC/VRG could imply that respiratory neurons may derive part of their glucose and oxygen consumption directly from arterioles, and that humoral factors affecting ventilation may reach respiratory neurons by precapillary transport mechanisms.
Rhythmic arm movement significantly suppresses H-reflex amplitude in the soleus (SOL) muscle. This is evidence of neural linkages between the arms and legs which can be exploited during locomotion and have been ascribed to the descending effects of CPGs for arm cycling. However, the generalizability of the effects of arm movement on reflex excitability within the lower leg musculature has not been confirmed, as findings have been limited solely to the ankle extensor group. Here we tested the hypothesis that rhythmic arm movement similarly modulates H-reflex amplitude in both the ankle flexors and extensors by observing responses in the SOL and tibialis anterior (TA) muscles. SOL and TA H-reflex recruitment curves were recorded bilaterally during control and 1Hz arm cycling conditions. Our results showed significant suppression in H-reflex amplitude (H(max)) in the SOL muscle in both the dominant and non-dominant legs during arm movement. However, results also revealed an unpredicted bidirectional (i.e. either suppression or facilitation) modulation of TA reflex amplitude that was not present in the SOL muscle. These findings suggest a differential regulation of ankle flexor and extensor H-reflex responses during rhythmic arm movement. This may be the result of differences in CPG output to the flexors and extensors during rhythmic movement, as well as increased involvement of cortical drive to the flexors relative to the extensors during rhythmic movement. These findings may be pertinent to future investigation of rehabilitative therapies that involve facilitative modulation of ankle flexor motor responses.
The association of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) neuropathology with Parkinson's disease (PD) and several related disorders has led to an intense research effort to develop cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)- or blood-based alpha-syn biomarkers for these types of diseases. Recent studies show that alpha-syn is present in CSF and possible to measure using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Here, we describe a novel ELISA that allows for quantification of alpha-syn in CSF down to 50pg/mL. The diagnostic value of the test was assessed using CSF samples from 66 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, 15PD patients, 15 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and 55 cognitively normal controls. PD and DLB patients and controls displayed similar CSF alpha-syn levels. AD patients had significantly lower alpha-syn levels than controls (median [inter-quartile range] 296 [234-372] and 395 [298-452], respectively, p&lt;0.001). Moreover, AD patients with mini-mental state examination (MMSE) scores below 20 had significantly lower alpha-syn than AD patients with MMSE scores of 20 or higher (p=0.02). There was also a tendency towards a negative correlation between alpha-syn levels and disease duration in the AD group (r=-0.247, p=0.06). Altogether, our results speak against CSF alpha-syn as a reliable biomarker for PD and DLB. The lower alpha-syn levels in AD, as well as the association of alpha-syn reduction with AD severity, approximated by MMSE, suggests that it may be a general marker of synapse loss, a hypothesis that warrants further investigation.
Our research group has been working for more than a decade on the cross-talk between the immune and the nervous systems. Due to the unique nature of the central nervous system (CNS) as an immune privileged site, it was commonly believed that the nervous system functions optimally without any immune intervention, and that any immune cell infiltration to the CNS is a sign of pathology. However, since the immune system constitutes the body's major defense and repair mechanism, it seemed unreasonable that the CNS would have completely lost the need for assistance from this system. This insight prompted us to revisit the entire question of whether immune cells are required for recovery from CNS injuries. We subsequently made numerous fundamental observations that led us to formulate a unified theory linking all neurodegenerative conditions; thus, we suggested that &quot;T-cell immunity to self maintains the self,&quot; at least in the CNS. According to this view, immunity to self (&quot;protective autoimmunity&quot;) provides a pivotal role in maintenance, protection, and repair of the healthy and diseased CNS. We further showed that the T cells mediate their effect, at least under pathological conditions, by controlling the recruitment of blood-borne monocytes, which play a crucial local role that cannot be replaced by the resident microglia. Boosting of such a T cell response specific for brain proteins, while carefully choosing the antigen, the carrier, timing, dosing, and regimen should be considered as a way of augmenting a physiological repair mechanism needed to ameliorate disease conditions while restoring equilibrium needed for protection, repair and renewal; such therapy is not intended to modify a single mediator of a single disease, but rather, would serve as an approach for adjusting the levels of the immune response needed to restore a lost balance.

Inflammation is crucially involved in many diseases of the CNS. Immune cells may attack the CNS, as in multiple sclerosis, and therefore be responsible for primary damage. Immune cells may also be activated by injury to the CNS, as for example in stroke or brain trauma, secondarily enhancing lesion growth. In general, CNS inflammation involves a complex interplay of pro- and anti-inflammatory cells and molecules. The blood-brain barrier loses its integrity, plasma proteins leak into the CNS parenchyma, followed by invasion of blood-borne immune cells, and activation of resident microglial cells and astrocytes. However, inflammation not only exacerbates CNS disease, it is also indispensable in containment and resolution of tissue damage, as well as repair and regeneration. The time course and the contribution of inflammatory processes to the pathophysiology of the disease depend on several factors including the type of injury and the time point after injury, and can exhibit a high individual variability. Imaging technologies that enable specific visualization of these inflammatory processes non-invasively are therefore highly desirable. They provide powerful tools to further evaluate the contribution of specific processes to the pathophysiology of CNS disease. Moreover, these technologies may be valuable in detecting and assessing disease progression, in stratifying patients for therapy, and in monitoring therapy. Among the existing non-invasive imaging methods to visualize neuroinflammation in the CNS, we here review the current status of nuclear and optical imaging techniques, with particular emphasis on the sensitivity, specificity, as well as the limitations of these approaches.
Immune cells infiltrate the CNS in many neurological diseases with a primary or secondary inflammatory component. In the CNS, immune cells employ shared mediators to promote crosstalk with neuronal cells. The net effect of this neuro-immune crosstalk critically depends on the context of the interaction. It has long been established that inflammatory reactions in the CNS can cause or augment tissue injury in many experimental paradigms. However emerging evidence suggests that in other paradigms inflammatory cells can contribute to neuroprotection and repair. This dual role of CNS inflammation is also reflected on the molecular level as it is becoming increasingly clear that immune cells can release both neurodestructive and neuroprotective molecules in CNS lesions. It is thus the balance between destructive and protective factors that ultimately determines the net result of the neuro-immune interaction.
Responses to focal cerebral ischemia by neurons and adjacent microvessels are rapid, simultaneous, and topographically related. Recent observations indicate the simultaneous appearance of proteases by components of nearby microvessels that are also expressed by neurons in the ischemic territory, implying that the events could be coordinated. The structural relationship of neurons to their microvascular supply, the direct functional participation of glial cells, and the observation of a highly ordered microvessel-neuron response to ischemia suggest that these elements are arranged in and behave in a unitary fashion, the neurovascular unit. Their roles as a unit in the stimulation of cellular inflammation and the generation of inflammatory mediators during focal cerebral ischemia have not been explored yet. However, components of the neurovascular unit both generate and respond to these influences under the conditions of ischemia. Here we briefly explore the potential inter-relationships of the components of the neurovascular unit with respect to their potential roles in ischemia-induced inflammatory responses.
Stroke and other cerebral vascular diseases are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States. Despite intensive research to identify interventions that lessen cerebrovascular injury, no major therapies exist. Development of stroke prophylaxis involves an understanding of the mechanisms of damage following cerebral ischemia, and elucidation of the endogenous mechanisms that combat further brain injury. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are critical components of the innate immune system that have been shown recently to mediate ischemic injury. Paradoxically, TLR ligands administered systemically induce a state of tolerance to subsequent ischemic injury. Herein we suggest that stimulation of TLRs prior to ischemia reprograms TLR signaling that occurs following ischemic injury. Such reprogramming leads to suppressed expression of pro-inflammatory molecules and enhanced expression of numerous anti-inflammatory mediators that collectively confer robust neuroprotection. Our findings indicate that numerous preconditioning stimuli lead to TLR activation, an event that occurs prior to ischemia and ultimately leads to TLR reprogramming. Thus genomic reprogramming of TLR signaling may be a unifying principle of tolerance to cerebral ischemia.
Neurodegeneration and signs of immune activation, with T cell infiltration, major histocompatibility complex class II expression and glial activation, occur in many neurological diseases. Although particular qualities of the inflammatory response have been proposed to be of importance, still very little is known about the exact factors that determine susceptibility to neurodegeneration. Mechanistic studies have yielded conflicting results, where inflammation is suggested both to attenuate and aggravate loss of nerve cells depending on the circumstances. In this context experimental genetic dissection in relevant rodent models such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and mechanical nerve injury can be a valuable tool to identify important genes/molecules/pathways. We here review emerging evidence using this approach that indicates different pathways related both to adaptive and local innate immune responses, which determine strain-specific susceptibility to neuroimmune inflammation and neurodegeneration. Exact positioning of genes in these types of complex traits will be important for the understanding of pathogenetic mechanisms and to direct the focus of functional studies using classical experimental tools. Ultimately, a better knowledge about the interplay between the nervous system and the local and systemic immune system can define new ways of intervention in neurodegenerative processes.
Experimental spinal cord injury (SCI) has been identified to trigger a systemic, neurogenic immune depression syndrome. Here, we have analyzed fluctuations of immune cell populations following human SCI by FACS analysis. In humans, a rapid and drastic decrease of CD14+ monocytes (&lt;50% of control level), CD3+ T-lymphocytes (&lt;20%, P&lt;0.0001) and CD19+ B-lymphocytes (&lt;30%, P=0.0009) and MHC class II (HLA-DR)+ cells (&lt;30%, P&lt;0.0001) is evident within 24 h after spinal cord injury reaching minimum levels within the first week. CD15+ granulocytes were the only leukocyte subpopulation not decreasing after SCI. A contributing, worsening effect of high dose methylprednisolone cannot be excluded with this pilot study. We demonstrate that spinal cord injury is associated with an early onset of immune suppression and secondary immune deficiency syndrome (SCI-IDS). Identification of patients suffering spinal cord injury as immune compromised is a clinically relevant, yet widely underappreciated finding.
Extensive evidence implicates inflammation in multiple phases of stroke etiology and pathology. In particular, there is growing awareness that inflammatory events outside the brain have an important impact on stroke susceptibility and outcome. Numerous conditions, including infection and chronic non-infectious diseases, that are established risk factors for stroke are associated with an elevated systemic inflammatory profile. Recent clinical and pre-clinical studies support the concept that the systemic inflammatory status prior to and at the time of stroke is a key determinant of acute outcome and long-term prognosis. Here, we provide an overview of the impact of systemic inflammation on stroke susceptibility and outcome. We discuss potential mechanisms underlying the impact on ischemic brain injury and highlight the implications for stroke prevention, therapy and modeling.

Following injury to the nervous system, the activation of macrophages, microglia, and T-cells profoundly affects the ability of neurons to survive and to regenerate damaged axons. The primary visual pathway provides a well-defined model system for investigating the interactions between the immune system and the nervous system after neural injury. Following damage to the optic nerve in mice and rats, retinal ganglion cells, the projection neurons of the eye, normally fail to regenerate their axons and soon begin to die. Induction of an inflammatory response in the vitreous strongly enhances the survival of retinal ganglion cells and enables these cells to regenerate lengthy axons beyond the injury site. T cells modulate this response, whereas microglia are thought to contribute to the loss of retinal ganglion cells in this model and in certain ocular diseases. This review discusses the complex and sometimes paradoxical actions of blood-borne macrophages, resident microglia, and T-cells in determining the outcome of injury in the primary visual pathway.
We have all at some time experienced the non-specific symptoms that arise from being ill following a systemic infection. These symptoms, such as fever, malaise, lethargy and loss of appetite are often referred to as &quot;sickness behavior&quot; and are a consequence of systemically produced pro-inflammatory mediators. These inflammatory mediators signal to the brain, leading to activation of microglial cells, which in turn, signal to neurons to induce adaptive metabolic and behavioral changes. In normal healthy persons this response is a normal part of our defense, to protect us from infection, to maintain homeostasis and causes no damage to neurons. However, in animals and patients with chronic neurodegenerative disease, multiple sclerosis, stroke and even during normal aging, systemic inflammation leads to inflammatory responses in the brain, an exaggeration of clinical symptoms and increased neuronal death. These observations imply that, as the population ages and the number of individuals with CNS disorders increases, relatively common systemic infections and inflammation will become significant risk factors for disease onset or progression. In this review we discuss the underlying mechanisms responsible for sickness behavior induced by systemic inflammation in the healthy brain and how they might be different in individuals with CNS pathology.
Despite encounter of novel brain antigens by the systemic immune system following stroke, autoimmune responses to these antigens do not seem to occur. In rats, a systemic inflammatory response at the time of stroke, however, provokes changes that increase the likelihood of developing detrimental autoimmunity. These findings may help to explain why infections in the post-stroke period are associated with worse outcome. In addition, data suggest that the immune response can be manipulated in an antigen specific fashion to improve stroke outcome. Together these data argue that the nature of the post-ischemic immune response influences neurological recovery from stroke.
Activation of the complement system occurs in a variety of neuroinflammatory diseases and neurodegenerative processes of the CNS. Studies in the last decade have demonstrated that essentially all of the activation components and receptors of the complement system are produced by astrocytes, microglia, and neurons. There is also rapidly growing evidence to indicate an active role of the complement system in cerebral ischemic injury. In addition to direct cell damage, regional cerebral ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) induces an inflammatory response involving complement activation and generation of active fragments, such as C3a and C5a anaphylatoxins, C3b, C4b, and iC3b. The use of specific inhibitors to block complement activation or their mediators such as C5a, can reduce local tissue injury after I/R. Consistent with therapeutic approaches that have been successful in models of autoimmune disorders, many of the same complement inhibition strategies are proving effective in animal models of cerebral I/R injury. One new form of therapy, which is less specific in its targeting of complement than monodrug administration, is the use of immunoglobulins. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) has the potential to inhibit multiple components of inflammation, including complement fragments, pro-inflammatory cytokine production and leukocyte cell adhesion. Thus, IVIG may directly protect neurons, reduce activation of intrinsic inflammatory cells (microglia) and inhibit transendothelial infiltration of leukocytes into the brain parenchyma following an ischemic stroke. The striking neuroprotective actions of IVIG in animal models of ischemic stroke suggest a potential therapeutic potential that merits consideration for clinical trials in stroke patients.
The transcription factor NF-kappaB is a key regulator of hundreds of genes involved in cell survival and inflammation. There is ample evidence that NF-kappaB is activated in cerebral ischemia, mainly in neurons. Despite its well known role as an antiapoptotic factor, in cerebral ischemia NF-kappaB contributes to neuronal cell death, at least if the ischemia is severe enough to lead to irreversible brain damage. In contrast, NF-kappaB also seems to be responsible for the preconditioning effect of a transient and sublethal ischemia, perhaps by dampening its own subsequent full activation. Among the five NF-kappaB subunits, RelA and p50 are responsible for the detrimental effect in cerebral ischemia. Activation of NF-kappaB signaling is mediated by the upstream kinase inhibitor of kappaB kinase and is triggered by hypoxia, reactive oxygen species, and several inflammatory mediators. Interestingly, the complex NF-kappaB signaling pathway provides drug targets at several levels. Modulation of NF-kappaB signaling has the potential to interrupt multiple inflammatory and apoptotic mechanisms through one specific molecular target.
Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) in mammals causes widespread glial activation and recruitment to the CNS of innate (e.g. neutrophils, monocytes) and adaptive (e.g. T and B lymphocytes) immune cells. To date, most studies have sought to understand or manipulate the post-traumatic functions of astrocytes, microglia, neutrophils or monocytes. Significantly less is known about the consequences of SCI-induced lymphocyte activation. Yet, emerging data suggest that T and B cells are activated by SCI and play significant roles in shaping post-traumatic inflammation and downstream cascades of neurodegeneration and repair. Here, we provide neurobiologists with a timely review of the mechanisms and implications of SCI-induced lymphocyte activation, including a discussion of different experimental strategies that have been designed to manipulate lymphocyte function for therapeutic gain.
In the adult mammalian brain, neurogenesis from neural stem/progenitor cells continues in two regions: the subgranular zone in the dentate gyrus and the subventricular zone lining the lateral ventricles. The generated neuroblasts migrate to their appropriate location and differentiate to mature granule cells and olfactory bulb interneurons, respectively. Following injury such as stroke, neuroblasts generated in the subventricular zone migrate also into areas which are not normally neurogenic, e.g. striatum and cerebral cortex. In the initial studies in rodents, brain inflammation and microglia activation were found to be detrimental for the survival of the new hippocampal neurons early after they had been born. The role of inflammation for adult neurogenesis has, however, turned out to be much more complex. Recent experimental evidence indicates that microglia under certain circumstances can be beneficial and support the different steps in neurogenesis, progenitor proliferation, survival, migration, and differentiation. Here we summarize the current knowledge on the role of inflammation and in particular of microglia in adult neurogenesis in the intact and injured mammalian brain. We conclude that microglia activation, as an indicator of inflammation, is not pro- or antineurogenic per se but the net outcome is dependent on the balance between secreted molecules with pro- and antiinflammatory action.
Inflammation plays a central role in the pathophysiology of numerous disorders of the nervous system, but is also pivotal for repair processes like peripheral nerve regeneration. In this review we summarize recent advances in cellular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) while nuclear imaging methods to visualize neuroinflammation are covered by Wunder et al. [Wunder A, Klohs J, Dirnagl U (2009) Non-invasive imaging of central nervous system inflammation with nuclear and optical imaging. Neuroscience, in press]. Use of iron oxide-contrast agents allows assessment of inflammatory processes in living organisms. Upon systemic application, circulating small (SPIO) and ultrasmall particles of iron oxide (USPIO) are preferentially phagocytosed by monocytes before clearance within the reticuloendothelial system of the liver, spleen and lymph nodes. Upon acute migration into the diseased nervous system these iron oxide-laden macrophages become visible on MRI by the superparamagnetic effects of iron oxide resulting in a signal loss on T2-w and/or bright contrast on T1-w MRI. There is an ongoing controversy, however, to what extent SPIO/USPIO also diffuses passively into the brain after disruption of the blood-brain barrier pretending macrophage invasion. Other confounding factors include circulating SPIO/USPIO particles within the blood pool, local hemorrhages, and intrinsic iron oxide-loading of phagocytes. These uncertainties can be overcome by in vitro preloading of cells with iron oxide contrast agents and consecutive systemic application into animals. Iron oxide-contrast-enhanced MRI allowed in vivo visualization of cellular inflammation during wallerian degeneration, experimental autoimmune neuritis and encephalomyelitis, and stroke in rodents, but also in patients with multiple sclerosis and stroke. Importantly, cellular MRI provides additional information to gadolinium-DTPA-enhanced MRI since cellular infiltration and breakdown of the blood-brain barrier are not closely linked. Coupling of antibodies to iron oxide particles opens new avenues for molecular MRI and has been successfully used to visualize cell adhesion molecules guiding inflammation.
Microglial cells are of hematopoietic origin, populate the CNS during early development and form the brain's innate immune cell type. Besides their well-known role in immune defense, microglia have an active and homeostatic function in the normal CNS based on high motility of their ramified processes and endocytic clearance of apoptotic vesicular material. During development microglia contribute to the reorganization of neuronal connections, however microglia have also pivotal roles during acute and chronic neurodegeneration. Microglia become attracted to site of injury by nucleotides released from damaged neurons. Scavenger receptors expressed on microglia bind to debris and microglial phagocytic receptors signal via immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM)--containing adaptor proteins to promote phagocytosis of extracellular material. Insufficient clearance by microglia appears to be prevalent in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
Regulation of the extracellular matrix by proteases and protease inhibitors is a fundamental biological process for normal growth, development and repair in the CNS. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and the tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) are the major extracellular-degrading enzymes. Two other enzyme families, a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM), and the serine proteases, plasminogen/plasminogen activator (P/PA) system, are also involved in extracellular matrix degradation. Normally, the highly integrated action of these enzyme families remodels all of the components of the matrix and performs essential functions at the cell surface involved in signaling, cell survival, and cell death. During the inflammatory response induced in infection, autoimmune reactions and hypoxia/ischemia, abnormal expression and activation of these proteases lead to breakdown of the extracellular matrix, resulting in the opening of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), preventing normal cell signaling, and eventually leading to cell death. There are several key MMPs and ADAMs that have been implicated in neuroinflammation: gelatinases A and B (MMP-2 and -9), stromelysin-1 (MMP-3), membrane-type MMP (MT1-MMP or MMP-14), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha converting enzyme (TACE). In addition, TIMP-3, which is bound to the cell surface, promotes cell death and impedes angiogenesis. Inhibitors of metalloproteinases are available, but balancing the beneficial and detrimental effects of these agents remains a challenge.

The profound damage to the CNS caused by ischemic lesions has been well documented. Yet, relatively little is known about the contribution to and effects on the immune system during stroke. We have focused on both early and late events in the peripheral immune system during stroke in mice and have observed an early activation of splenocytes that conceivably could result in immune-mediated damage in the developing CNS lesion, followed by global immunosuppression that affects the spleen, thymus, lymph nodes and circulation. While this second immunosuppressive phase may not directly enhance infarction size, it without doubt leads to an inability to respond to antigenic challenges, thereby enhancing the risk for crippling systemic infection and septicemia in stroke survivors. These novel findings advocate the need to develop or effectively utilize agents that can block early neural splenic activation and modulate immune cells specific for brain antigens as a means to prevent mobilization of T and B cells carrying a cytokine death warrant to the brain. Equally important for the recovering stroke patient are approaches that can derail the second phase of immune dysfunction and restore the ability to mount a defense against systemic infectious insults.
The lateral-line system is a unique mechanosensory facility of aquatic animals that enables them not only to localize prey, predator, obstacles, and conspecifics, but also to recognize hydrodynamic objects. Here we present an explicit model explaining how aquatic animals such as fish can distinguish differently shaped submerged moving objects. Our model is based on the hydrodynamic multipole expansion and uses the unambiguous set of multipole components to identify the corresponding object. Furthermore, we show that within the natural range of one fish length the velocity field contains far more information than that due to a dipole. Finally, the model we present is easy to implement both neuronally and technically, and agrees well with available neuronal, physiological, and behavioral data on the lateral-line system.



A role for glutamatergic signaling in the nucleus accumbens (NA) in both the expression and extinction of cocaine seeking has been suggested. The effects of extinction following cocaine self-administration on the expression and synaptosomal distribution of GluR1 and NMDAR1 glutamate receptor subunits in the NA shell and core and the dorsolateral striatum were examined. Rats self-administered cocaine or had access to saline for 14 days followed by a period of extinction training, home-cage exposure, or placement in the self-administration chambers with levers retracted in the absence of discrete cues. Self-administration followed by home-cage exposure reduced GluR1 expression in the NA shell and NMDAR1 expression in the dorsolateral striatum without affecting expression in the NA core. These effects were not observed following extinction. Extinction training increased synaptosomal GluR1 in the NA shell and core and NMDAR1 in the dorsolateral striatum while decreasing synaptosomal NMDAR1 in the shell. Extinction but not home-cage exposure was associated with altered expression and synaptosomal content of the scaffolding proteins PICK1 and PSD95. Following extinction, synaptosomal PICK1 was increased in the NA core and --&gt;decreased in the dorsolateral striatum while total PICK1 expression was increased in the shell.The synaptosomal PSD95 was decreased in the NA shell, while total PSD95 expression was increased in the core. These data suggest that extinguished cocaine seeking is associated with changes in GluR1 and NMDAR1 expression and subcellular distribution that are region-specific and consist of both a reversal of cocaine-induced adaptations as well as emergent extinction-related alterations that include receptor subunit redistribution and may involve alterations in scaffolding proteins.
The loss of Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) causes Fragile X syndrome, the most common inherited mental retardation and single gene cause of autism. Although postsynaptic functions for FMRP are well established, potential roles at the presynaptic apparatus remain largely unexplored. Here, we characterize the expression of FMRP and its homologs, FXR1P and FXR2P, in the developing, mature and regenerating rodent nervous system, with a focus on presynaptic expression. As expected, FMRP is expressed in the somatodendritic domain in virtually all neurons. However, FMRP is also localized in discrete granules (Fragile X granules; FXGs) in a subset of brain regions including frontal cortex, hippocampal area CA3 and olfactory bulb glomeruli. Immunoelectron microscopy shows that FMRP is localized at presynaptic terminals and in axons within these FXG-rich regions. With the exception of the olfactory bulb, FXGs are prominent only in the developing brain. Experiments in regenerating olfactory circuits indicate that peak FXG expression occurs 2-4 weeks after neurogenesis, a period that correlates with synapse formation and refinement. Virtually all FXGs contain FXR2P, while region-selective subsets harbor FMRP and/or FXR1P. Genetic studies show that FXR2P is essential for FXG expression, while FMRP regulates FXG number and developmental profile. These findings suggest that Fragile X proteins play a distinct, presynaptic role during discrete developmental epochs in defined circuits of the mammalian CNS. We propose that the neurological defects in Fragile X syndrome, including the autistic features, could be due in part to the loss of FMRP function in presynaptic compartments.
The first event in light perception is absorption of a photon by the retinaldehyde chromophore of an opsin pigment in a rod or cone photoreceptor cell. This induces isomerization of the chromophore, rendering the bleached pigment insensitive to light. Restoration of light sensitivity requires chemical reisomerization of retinaldehyde via a multistep enzyme pathway, called the visual cycle, in cells of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). Interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) is present in the extracellular space between photoreceptors and the RPE. IRBP is known to bind visual retinoids. Previous studies on irbp(-/-) mice suggested that IRBP plays an insignificant role in opsin-pigment regeneration. However, the mice in these studies were uncontrolled for a severe mutation in the rpe65 gene. Rpe65 catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the visual cycle. Here, we examined the phenotype in irbp(-/-) mice homozygous for the wild-type (Leu450) rpe65 gene. We show that lack of IRBP causes delayed transfer of newly synthesized chromophore from RPE to photoreceptors. Removal of bleached chromophore from photoreceptors is also delayed in irbp(-/-) retinas after light exposure. It was previously shown that rods degenerate in irbp(-/-) mice. Here, we show that cones and rods degenerate at similar rates. However, cones are more affected functionally and show greater reductions in outer segment length than rods in irbp(-/-) mice. The disproportionate reductions in cone function and outer-segment length appear to result from mistrafficking of cone opsins due to impaired delivery of retinaldehyde chromophore, which functions as a chaperone for cone opsins but not rhodopsin.
Theta (4-10 Hz) oscillations in the hippocampus are thought to be important for plasticity, temporal coding, learning, and memory. The hippocampal system has been postulated to have two (or more) rhythmic sources of theta oscillations, but little is known about the behavior-dependent interplay of theta oscillations in different subregions and layers of the hippocampus. We tested rats in a hippocampus-dependent delayed spatial alternation task on a modified T-maze while simultaneously recording local field potentials from dendritic and somatic layers of the dentate gyrus, CA3, and CA1 regions using high-density, 96-site silicon probes. We found that while theta oscillations were generally coherent throughout the hippocampus, the power, coherence, and phase of theta oscillations fluctuated in a layer-specific manner, confirming the presence of multiple interdependent dipoles. Layer-dependent changes in the power and coherence of theta oscillations varied with aspects of both the memory and control (non-mnemonic) tasks, but only a small fraction of the variance could be explained by running speed or acceleration. Furthermore, the phase lag between theta oscillations in the CA3 and CA1 pyramidal layers was significantly smaller on the maze arm approaching the T-junction than on other arms of the alternation task or on comparable segments of control tasks. Overall, our findings reveal a consortium of layer-specific theta dipoles (current sinks and sources) generated by the rhythmic flow of ions into and out of hippocampal cells. Moreover, our data suggest that these different theta generators flexibly coordinate hippocampal regions and layers to support behavioral task performance.
Understanding how striatal neurons integrate glutamatergic and GABAergic inputs is essential for understanding the control of movement and the formation of striatal-based memories. Here we show that GABAergic synapses on striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) are more sensitive than glutamatergic synapses on the same cells to endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling, and that protocols that induce short-lasting cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB(1)R)-dependent depression at glutamatergic synapses are sufficient to induce long-term depression (LTD) at GABAergic synapses. We also show that the frequency and duration of glutamatergic input are strong determinants of the net effect of eCB signaling, and key factors in determining if LTD has a net disinhibitory or inhibitory action in striatum. Plastic changes in net output from striatal MSNs are thus a complex function of disinhibitory and inhibitory LTD combined with other forms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation at excitatory synapses.
The plasma membrane dopamine transporter (DAT) takes extracellular dopamine back up into dopaminergic neurons. Although the number of DATs at the cell surface is regulated by endocytosis and recycling, the molecular mechanisms that control this endocytic trafficking of DAT are not defined. To map the sequence motifs that are involved in constitutive DAT endocytosis, mutagenesis of human DAT tagged with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and an extracellular HA epitope was performed. Removal of the entire N terminus of DAT resulted in accumulation of the resulting DAT mutant (YFP-HA-DeltaN-DAT) in early and recycling endosomes in HeLa and PAE cells, and in primary rat mesencephalic-striatal neuronal cocultures. This endosomal accumulation was due to rapid constitutive internalization of YFP-HA-DeltaN-DAT by the clathrin-dependent pathway. Small deletions and multialanine substitutions in the N terminus revealed two molecular determinants within the membrane proximal residues 60-65 that are important for preventing rapid internalization of DAT. First, mutations of Arg60 or Trp63, leading to disruption of the &quot;outward facing&quot; DAT conformation, correlated with an increased pool of mobile DATs in the plasma membrane and accelerated constitutive internalization of the DAT mutants. Second, mutation of Lys65 also correlated with elevated endocytosis. While none of these mutations alone recapitulated the marked endocytic phenotype of YFP-HA-DeltaN-DAT, simultaneous elimination of both the outward conformation of DAT and Lys65 resulted in DAT mutants that were rapidly internalized. Thus, our studies reveal a new link between DAT endocytosis and conformation-dependent uptake activity that represents a novel mode for regulating DAT function.
Oxytocin receptors in the nucleus accumbens have been implicated in the regulation of alloparental behavior and pair bond formation in the socially monogamous prairie vole. Oxytocin receptor density in the nucleus accumbens is positively correlated with alloparenting in juvenile and adult female prairie voles, and oxytocin receptor antagonist infused into the nucleus accumbens blocks this behavior. Furthermore, prairie voles have higher densities of oxytocin receptors in the accumbens than nonmonogamous rodent species, and blocking accumbal oxytocin receptors prevents mating-induced partner preference formation. Here we used adeno-associated viral vector gene transfer to examine the functional relationship between accumbal oxytocin receptor density and social behavior in prairie and meadow voles. Adult female prairie voles that overexpress oxytocin receptor in the nucleus accumbens displayed accelerated partner preference formation after cohabitation with a male, but did not display enhanced alloparental behavior. However, partner preference was not facilitated in nonmonogamous meadow voles by introducing oxytocin receptor into the nucleus accumbens. These data confirm a role for oxytocin receptor in the accumbens in the regulation of partner preferences in female prairie voles, and suggest that oxytocin receptor expression in the accumbens is not sufficient to promote partner preferences in nonmonogamous species. These data are the first to demonstrate a direct relationship between oxytocin receptor density in the nucleus accumbens and variation in social attachment behaviors. Thus, individual variation in oxytocin receptor expression in the striatum may contribute to natural diversity in social behaviors.

The rat basolateral amygdala is important for emotional learning; this is modulated by noradrenaline and corticosterone. We report that the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol markedly enhances synaptic plasticity induced in the basolateral amygdala by a weak stimulation paradigm but is ineffective with stronger protocols. Simultaneous application of corticosterone gradually reversed the facilitatory effect of isoproterenol. When corticosterone was briefly applied several hours prior to isoproterenol, facilitatory effects of the beta-agonist were entirely suppressed. This suggests that in the basolateral amygdala, beta-adrenergic influences promote synaptic plasticity; this is gradually normalized by corticosterone, preventing the network from overshooting.
Despite major advances in our understanding of the initiating factors that trigger many neurodegenerative disorders, to date, no novel disease-modifying therapies have been shown to provide significant benefit for patients who suffer from these devastating disorders. As most neurodegenerative disorders are late-onset, slowly progressive, and appear to have long relatively asymptomatic prodromal phases, it is possible that therapies optimally targeting the triggers of these disorders may have limited benefit when treatment is initiated in the symptomatic patient. Such therapies may work in the prodromal phase, or when given prophylactically, but in the symptomatic patient there simply may be too much damage to the neuronal networks to restore functionality by reducing or even eliminating the primary stressor. As functional neuronal demise and overt neuronal death are almost certainly the key factors that mediate the functional impairment, it is clear that preventing neuronal death and dysfunction will have a huge clinical benefit. Unfortunately, we lack a detailed understanding of neuronal death pathways in almost all neurodegenerative disorders. To rationally develop new disease modifying therapies that target steps in the degenerative cascade downstream of the disease trigger will require a number of factors. First, we need to refocus our basic research efforts on identifying the precise steps in the pathological cascade that lead to neuronal death in each neurodegenerative disease and, if possible, determine the relative placement of those events within a potentially very complex cascade. Second, we will need to determine which of these steps are potentially targetable. Finally, we will need to develop novel therapies that interfere with these steps and demonstrate that such therapies alone, or in combination with therapies that target the trigger of these devastating diseases, have clinical benefit.

Intraventricular injections of 192 IgG saporin in 7-day-old rat severely reduced hippocampal cholinergic innervation as reflected by both decreased acetylcholinesterase staining and immunoreactivity for the p75 neurotrophin receptor. It was determined if this altered the effects of environmental enrichment on spatial learning, hippocampal CA1 cell cytoarchitecture as reflected by the Golgi stain, and neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus as indicated by doublecortin immunoreactivity. At weaning, lesioned and control rats were either group housed in large, environmentally enriched cages or housed two per standard cage for 42 days. When subsequently assessed with a working-memory spatial navigation task, both lesioned and control rats showed enhanced learning as a result of enrichment. Quantitative analysis of Golgi stained sections indicated that enrichment did not affect CA1 dendritic branching, total dendritic length or dendritic spine density. However, the lesion reduced the number of apical branches, spine density on intermediate to distal apical dendrites, and the length of basal branches. It also reduced the number of doublecortin immunoreactive neurons in the dentate gyrus and appeared to prevent their increase due to environmental enrichment. It is concluded that developmental cholinergic lesioning does not attenuate neurobehavioral plasticity, at least as reflected by the behavioral consequences of enrichment. It does, however, attenuate neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, like adult-inflicted cholinergic lesions. As previously found for cortical neurons, it also reduces CA1 pyramidal cell dendritic complexity and spine density in adulthood. The results have implications for the loss of synapses that occurs in both developmental and aging-related brain disorders involving cholinergic dysfunction.
The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between subjective fatigue and brain function. Twenty-three healthy young volunteers participated in this study. Relationships were investigated between subjective fatigue assessed using visual-analogue scale (VAS) score and sleep duration, and cerebral cortex reactivity during a verbal fluency task by 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). The VAS score negatively correlated with oxygenated hemoglobin concentration ([oxy-Hb]) increases in the bilateral channels over the regions from the ventrolateral part of the frontal lobe to the upper part of the temporal lobe during the verbal fluency task. Sleep duration in the previous night positively correlated with [oxy-Hb] increases in the bilateral channels over the dorsolateral prefrontal lobe also during the verbal fluency task. No significant correlations between the VAS score and sleep duration in the previous night with [oxy-Hb] increases were found during a control task, the left-finger-tapping task. The subjective feeling of psychological fatigue is related to decreased reactivities in the lateral frontal and superior temporal cortices and is unrelated to sleep duration in the previous night, which is reflected in the reactivity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortices. These results suggest that transient hypofunction and persistent dysfunction in the lateral prefrontal and temporal lobes are among the brain substrates of fatigue. These also demonstrate the advantage of NIRS for investigating brain function during subjective phenomena such as fatigue because it enables examination in a natural setting.
Fetal exposure to ethanol is highly predictive of the propensity to ingest ethanol during adolescence and in utero chemosensory plasticity has been implicated as a contributing factor in this process. Recent rodent studies have shown that fetal ethanol exposure results in a tuned unconditioned sniffing and neurophysiological olfactory response to ethanol odor in infant animals. Importantly, a significant proportion of increased ethanol avidity at this age can be attributed to the tuned behavioral response to ethanol odor. These effects are absent in adults. Using behavioral methods and comprehensive gene expression profiling to screen for robust transcriptional differences induced in the olfactory bulb, we examined whether ethanol exposure via maternal diet results in an altered responsiveness to ethanol odor that persists into late adolescence and, if so, the molecular mechanisms that may be associated with such effects. Compared to controls, fetal exposure altered: the adolescent sniffing response to ethanol odor consistent with the previously observed changes in infant animals; and the expression of genes involved in synaptic transmission and plasticity as well as neuronal development (both cell fate and axon/neurite outgrowth). These data provide evidence for a persistence of olfactory-mediated responsiveness to ethanol into the period of adolescence. Further, they provide insight into an important relationship between fetal exposure to ethanol, adolescent odor responsiveness to the drug and potential underlying molecular mechanisms for the odor-guided behavioral response.
The myelin-associated inhibitory proteins (Nogo-A, MAG and OMgp) that prevent axon regeneration in adult CNS, mediate their effects via a receptor referred as NgR1. Beside their inhibitory role in the adult CNS, Nogo-A and NgR1 might also be functionally involved in the developing nervous system. At the present time, no detailed study is available regarding either the onset of NgR1 expression during development or its spatio-temporal pattern of expression relative to the presence of Nogo-A. Two homologs of NgR1, NgR2 and NgR3, have been recently identified, but their function in the nervous system is still unknown in adult as well as during development. We have examined the spatio-temporal expression pattern of both NgR1, NgR2 and NgR3 mRNAs and corresponding proteins in the developing rat olfactory system using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. From E15-E16 onwards, NgR1 mRNA was expressed by differentiating neurons in both the olfactory epithelium and the olfactory bulb. At all developmental stages, including adult animals, NgR1 protein was preferentially targeted to olfactory axons emerging from the olfactory epithelium. Using double-immunostainings in the postnatal olfactory mucosa, we confirm the neuronal localization of NgR1 and its preferential distribution along the olfactory axons. The NgR2 and NgR3 transcripts and their proteins display similar expression profiles in the olfactory system. Together, our data suggest that, in non-pathological conditions, NgR1 and its homologs may play a role in axon outgrowth in the rat olfactory system and may be relevant for the confinement of neural projections within the developing olfactory bulb.
MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) is a popular recreational drug among adolescents. The present study aimed to determine the effects of repeated intermittent administration of 10 mg/kg MDMA during adolescence on behavioral (Experiment 1) and neuroendocrine (Experiment 2) responses of rats to the 5-HT(2A/2C) agonist 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) and on [(3)H]ketanserin binding to 5-HT(2A) receptors. In the first experiment, MDMA pretreatment increased the frequency of head twitches and back muscle contractions, but not wet-dog shakes, to a high-dose DOI challenge. In the second experiment, both the prolactin and corticosterone responses to DOI were potentiated in MDMA-pretreated animals. No changes were found in 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in the hypothalamus or other forebrain areas that were examined. These results indicate that intermittent adolescent MDMA exposure enhances sensitivity of 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors in the CNS, possibly through changes in downstream signaling mechanisms.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterised by progressive muscular paralysis reflecting degeneration of motor neurones in the primary motor cortex, corticospinal tracts, brainstem and spinal cord. Incidence (average 1.89 per 100,000/year) and prevalence (average 5.2 per 100,000) are relatively uniform in Western countries, although foci of higher frequency occur in the Western Pacific. The mean age of onset for sporadic ALS is about 60 years. Overall, there is a slight male prevalence (M:F ratio approximately 1.5:1). Approximately two thirds of patients with typical ALS have a spinal form of the disease (limb onset) and present with symptoms related to focal muscle weakness and wasting, where the symptoms may start either distally or proximally in the upper and lower limbs. Gradually, spasticity may develop in the weakened atrophic limbs, affecting manual dexterity and gait. Patients with bulbar onset ALS usually present with dysarthria and dysphagia for solid or liquids, and limbs symptoms can develop almost simultaneously with bulbar symptoms, and in the vast majority of cases will occur within 1-2 years. Paralysis is progressive and leads to death due to respiratory failure within 2-3 years for bulbar onset cases and 3-5 years for limb onset ALS cases. Most ALS cases are sporadic but 5-10% of cases are familial, and of these 20% have a mutation of the SOD1 gene and about 2-5% have mutations of the TARDBP (TDP-43) gene. Two percent of apparently sporadic patients have SOD1 mutations, and TARDBP mutations also occur in sporadic cases. The diagnosis is based on clinical history, examination, electromyography, and exclusion of 'ALS-mimics' (e.g. cervical spondylotic myelopathies, multifocal motor neuropathy, Kennedy's disease) by appropriate investigations. The pathological hallmarks comprise loss of motor neurones with intraneuronal ubiquitin-immunoreactive inclusions in upper motor neurones and TDP-43 immunoreactive inclusions in degenerating lower motor neurones. Signs of upper motor neurone and lower motor neurone damage not explained by any other disease process are suggestive of ALS. The management of ALS is supportive, palliative, and multidisciplinary. Non-invasive ventilation prolongs survival and improves quality of life. Riluzole is the only drug that has been shown to extend survival.
Learning-related reductions of the postburst afterhyperpolarization (AHP) in hippocampal pyramidal neurons have been shown ex vivo, after trace eyeblink conditioning. The AHP is also reduced by many neuromodulators, such as norepinephrine, via activation of protein kinases. Trace eyeblink conditioning, like other hippocampus-dependent tasks, relies on protein synthesis for consolidating the learned memory. Protein kinase A (PKA) has been shown to be a key contributor for protein synthesis via the cAMP-response element-binding pathway. Here, we have explored a potential involvement of PKA and protein kinase C (PKC) in maintaining the learning-related postburst AHP reduction observed in CA1 pyramidal neurons. Bath application of isoproterenol (1 muM), a beta-adrenergic agonist that activates PKA, significantly reduced the AHP in CA1 neurons from control animals, but not from rats that learned. This occlusion suggests that PKA activity is involved in maintaining the AHP reduction measured ex vivo after successful learning. In contrast, bath application of the PKC activator, (-) indolactam V (0.2 muM), significantly reduced the AHP in CA1 neurons from both control and trained rats, indicating that PKC activity is not involved in maintaining the AHP reduction at this point after learning.


The olfactory system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). To examine this issue and identify the pattern of TSE agent spread after intranasal administration, we inoculated a high-infectious dose of neurotropic scrapie strain 263K into the nasal cavity of Syrian hamsters. All animals allowed to survive became symptomatic with a mean incubation period of 162.4 days. Analysis at different time points revealed deposition of the pathological prion protein (PrP(TSE)) in nasal-associated lymphoid tissues in the absence of brain involvement from 80 days post-infection (50% of the incubation period). Olfactory-related structures and brainstem nuclei were involved from 100 days post-inoculation (62% of the incubation period) when animals were still asymptomatic. Intriguingly, vagal or trigeminal nuclei were identified as early sites of PrP(TSE) deposition in some pre-symptomatic animals. These findings indicate that the 263K scrapie agent is unable to effectively spread from the olfactory neuroepithelium to the olfactory-related structures and that, after intranasal inoculation, neuroinvasion occurs through olfactory-unrelated pathways.

With a lifetime risk of 1% and 700 new cases per year, Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is the seventh most frequent type of cancer in Denmark. The incidence of NHL has increased considerably in Western countries over the last decades; consequently, NHL is an increasing clinical problem. Ophthalmic lymphoma, (lymphoma localized in the ocular region, i.e. eyelid, conjunctiva, lacrimal sac, lacrimal gland, orbit, or intraocularly) is relatively uncommon, accounting for 5%-10% of all extranodal lymphomas. It is, however, the most common orbital malignancy. The purpose of this thesis was to review specimens from all Danish patients with a diagnosis of ophthalmic lymphoma during the period 1980-2005, in order to determine the distribution of lymphoma subtypes, and the incidence- and time trends in incidence for ophthalmic lymphoma. Furthermore, an extended analysis of the most frequent subtype, extranodal marginal zone lymphoma (MALT lymphoma), was done to analyse clinical factors and cytogenetic changes with influence on prognosis. A total of 228 Danish patients with a biopsy-reviewed verified diagnosis of ocular adnexal-, orbital-, or intraocular lymphoma were identified. We found that more than 50% of orbital- and ocular adnexal lymphomas were of the MALT lymphoma subtype, whereas diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) predominated intraocularly (Sjo et al. 2008a). Furthermore, lymphoma arising in the lacrimal sac was surprisingly predominantly DLBCL (Sjo et al. 2006). Incidence rates were highly dependent on patient age. There was an increase in incidence rates for the whole population from 1980 to 2005, corresponding to an annual average increase of 3.4% (Sjo et al. 2008a). MALT lymphoma arising in the ocular region was found in 116 patients (Sjo et al. 2008b). One third of patients had a relapse or progression of disease after initial therapy and relapses were frequently found at extra-ocular sites. Overall survival, however, was not significantly poorer for patients with relapse. Furthermore, we found that the frequency of translocations involving the MALT1- and IGH-gene loci is low in ocular region MALT lymphoma (2 of 42, 5%), but may predict increased risk of relapse (Sjo et al. 2008b). In conclusion the incidence of ophthalmic lymphoma is increasing at a high rate in Denmark. Ophthalmic lymphoma consists primarily of MALT lymphoma. The molecular pathogenesis of MALT lymphoma arising in the ocular region rarely involves translocations in the MALT1- and IGH-gene loci.

This study provides a critical review of the literature on depressive symptoms of partial androgen deficiency (PADAM) and their treatment with Testosterone (T). PADAM in aging males is responsible for a variety of behavioral symptoms, such as weakness, decreased libido and erectile dysfunction, lower psychological vitality, depressive mood, anxiety, insomnia, difficulty in concentrating, and memory impairment. The psychological and behavioural aspects of PADAM may overlap with signs and symptoms of major depression. Evidence of the relationship between androgen deficiency and male depression comes from studies that have assessed depression in hypogonadal subjects, the association between low T level and male depressive illness, and the antidepressant action of androgen replacement. The etiology of depressive symptoms of PADAM is multifactorial, and results from the interaction of the biological and psychosocial changes that take place during the mid-life transition. Although data derived from androgen treatment trials and androgen replacement do not support T treatment or replacement as more efficacious than placebo for major depressive disorder (MDD), the clinical impression is that, in some sub-threshold depressive syndromes, T may lead to antidepressant benefits.
Late-life mood disorders and cognitive aging are the most common reasons for using complementary and alternative therapies. The amount of rigorous scientific data to support the efficacy of complementary therapies in the treatment of depression or cognitive impairment is extremely limited. The areas with the most evidence for beneficial effects are exercise, herbal therapy (Hypericum perforatum), the use of fish oil, and, to a lesser extent, acupuncture and relaxation therapies. There is a need for further research involving randomized, controlled trials to investigate the efficacy of complementary and alternative therapies in the treatment of depression and cognitive impairment in late-life. This research may lead to the development of effective treatment and preventive approaches for these serious conditions.
The goal of the current study was to identify potential individual and environmental protective factors for sex risk behavior among homeless youth. We explored gender differences in the prediction of unprotected sex and number of sex partners. Data were collected from 192 sexually active, homeless youth who were 14-21 years old. High rates of sex risk behavior were reported. Significant gender differences were found in STD rates with 19% of females and 2% of males reporting an STD diagnosis during the previous three months. Findings indicated that positive expectations for the future were associated with fewer sex partners for both genders, whereas decision making skills predicted a lower percentage of unprotected sex for males and fewer sex partners for females. For females, univariate analyses indicated that self-esteem and having a natural mentor may reduce the likelihood of unprotected sex, whereas multivariate analysis indicated that being employed or in school may play a protective role with respect to number of sex partners.

Delayed-rectifier Kv2.1 channels are the principal component of voltage-sensitive K+ currents (I(K)) in hippocampal neurons and are critical regulators of somatodendritic excitability. In a recent study, we demonstrated that surface trafficking and phosphorylation of Kv2.1 channels is modulated by NMDA-type glutamate receptors and that astroglial excitatory amino acid transporters 2 (EAAT2) regulate the coupling of NMDA receptors and Kv2.1 channels. Because ethanol is known to acutely inhibit NMDA receptors, we sought to determine if NMDA receptor and astroglial EAAT2 modulation of Kv2.1 channels is impaired by ethanol in the rodent hippocampus. As expected, bath application of NMDA to hippocampal cultures reduced the size of Kv2.1 clusters and produced a hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage-dependent activation of I(K) that was associated with dephosphorylated Kv2.1 channels. Ethanol, applied acutely, prevented the hyperpolarizing shift in activation of I(K) induced by NMDA and restored Kv2.1 clustering and phosphorylation to near control levels. Ethanol also attenuated the dephosphorylation of Kv2.1 channels produced by the EAAT2 selective inhibitor dihydrokainic acid. These data demonstrate that acute ethanol disrupts changes in Kv2.1 channels that follow NMDA receptor activation and impairs astroglial regulation of the functional coupling between NMDA receptors and Kv2.1 channels.



The SCN5A-encoded Na(v)1.5 Na(+) channel is expressed in interstitial cells of Cajal and smooth muscle in the circular layer of the human intestine. Patients with mutations in SCN5A are more likely to report gastrointestinal symptoms, especially abdominal pain. Twin and family studies of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) suggest a genetic basis for IBS, but no genes have been identified to date. Therefore, our aims were to evaluate SCN5A as a candidate gene involved in the pathogenesis of IBS and to determine physiological consequences of identified mutations. Mutational analysis was performed on genomic DNA obtained from 49 subjects diagnosed with IBS who reported at least moderately severe abdominal pain. One patient hosted a loss-of-function missense mutation, G298S, that was not observed in &gt;3,000 reference alleles derived from 1,500 healthy control subjects. Na(+) currents were recorded from the four common human SCN5A transcripts in transfected HEK-293 cells. Comparing Na(v)1.5 with G298S-SCN5A versus wild type in HEK cells, Na(+) current density was significantly less by 49-77%, and channel activation time was delayed in backgrounds that also contained the common H558R polymorphism. Single-channel measurements showed no change in Na(v)1.5 conductance. Mechanosensitivity was reduced in the H558/Q1077del transcript but not in the other three backgrounds. In conclusion, the G298S-SCN5A missense mutation caused a marked reduction of whole cell Na(+) current and loss of function of Na(v)1.5, suggesting SCN5A as a candidate gene in the pathophysiology of IBS.
Lubiprostone, a bicyclic fatty acid chloride channel activator, is efficacious in treatment of chronic constipation and constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. The study aim was to compare effects of lubiprostone and placebo on colonic sensory and motor functions in humans. In double-blind, randomized fashion, 60 healthy adults received three oral doses of placebo or 24 microg lubiprostone per day in a parallel-group, placebo-controlled trial. A barostat-manometry tube was placed in the left colon by flexible sigmoidoscopy and fluoroscopy. We measured treatment effects on colonic sensation and motility with validated methods, with the following end points: colonic compliance, fasting and postprandial tone and motility indexes, pain thresholds, and sensory ratings to distensions. Among participants receiving lubiprostone or placebo, 26 of 30 and 28 of 30, respectively, completed the study. There were no overall effects of lubiprostone on compliance, fasting tone, motility indexes, or sensation. However, there was a treatment-by-sex interaction effect for compliance (P = 0.02), with lubiprostone inducing decreased fasting compliance in women (P = 0.06) and an overall decreased colonic tone contraction after a standard meal relative to fasting tone (P = 0.014), with greater effect in women (P &lt; 0.01). Numerical differences of first sensation and pain thresholds (P = 0.11 in women) in the two groups were not significant. We concluded that oral lubiprostone 24 microg does not increase colonic motor function. The findings of decreased colonic compliance and decreased postprandial colonic tone in women suggest that motor effects are unlikely to cause accelerated colonic transit with lubiprostone, although they may facilitate laxation. Effects of lubiprostone on sensitivity deserve further study.
Marmosets, as do many other primates, live in forest environments, are group living and constantly at risk of predation. Retaining contact with one another is therefore a matter of survival. We ask here whether their contact calls (phee and twitter vocalizations) are in some way ordered acoustically by sex or age and whether the calls of older marmosets elicit different responses than those of younger marmosets. In our study, marmosets (2-14 years) were visually isolated from conspecifics and the vocal responses to each isolated caller by other marmosets in the colony were recorded. Vocal responses to phee calls largely consisted of phee calls and, less commonly, twitter calls. No differences between the responses to calls by males and females were apparent. However, we found a strong positive and significant correlation between the caller's age and the percentage of its phee calls receiving a phee response, and a significant negative correlation between the caller's age and the percentage of its phee calls receiving a twitter response. The older the marmoset, the more antiphonal calling occurred. Two-syllable phee calls were emitted more often by older marmosets (10-14 years) than by younger ones (2-6 years). Hence, we have found age-dependent differences in phee-call production and a consistent change in the response received across the adult life-span. This age-dependent effect was independent of kinship relations. This is the first evidence that marmosets distinguish age by vocal parameters alone and make social decisions based on age.
With the death of Evelyn Satinoff, psychology has lost not only a preeminent researcher and teacher but also a real character. As a professor and pioneer in the field of thermoregulation, she could be intimidating; as a friend, she was warm and loving. Evelyn was born in Brooklyn, New York, on April 25, 1937. She graduated from Brooklyn College in 1958 and received a doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania in 1963. She then remained there, first as a National Institutes of Health postdoctoral fellow and then as a research associate. Much of her early research focused on the neural control of behavioral thermoregulation. More than anyone she is credited with demonstrating that behavioral thermoregulation can be as important in maintaining body temperature as are physiological mechanisms. Evelyn was active in several professional organizations, particularly APA Division 6 (now Behavioral Neuroscience and Comparative Psychology). She was diagnosed with lung cancer in 2006 and after a valiant fight, she lost the battle, dying in her beloved Manhattan on January 29, 2008. Love her or hate her, Evelyn was unforgettable, and the world is poorer for her passing.
A preeminent researcher in the field of early experience and brain development, Victor H. Denenberg contributed hundreds of articles and chapters, and several texts, to the field of behavioral neuroscience during his lifetime. Denenberg was born April 3, 1925, in Chicago, Illinois. He attended college on the GI Bill and graduated from Bucknell University in 1949 with a bachelor's degree in psychology. He went on to receive a doctorate in 1953 in experimental psychology at Purdue University, with minors in statistics, industrial psychology, and physiology. In 1954, Denenberg was appointed assistant professor of psychology at Purdue University, where he was tenured and remained for 15 years. Over the course of his career, Denenberg published nearly 400 scholarly papers and chapters, including a dozen articles in Science or Nature. Denenberg received many honors during his lifetime, including a Carnegie Fellowship and appointment to the National Academy of Sciences Committee on Brain Sciences. He was also appointed to numerous executive committees of the American Psychological Association (APA) and served as a Board member for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Fellowship Committee. Victor H. Denenberg died July 19, 2008. He will be remembered as an outstanding mentor and scientific influence by numerous former students, who carry on his work and influences through their independent research careers.
We prospectively investigated pathological modifications in the corticospinal tract (CST), by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in 14 patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 12 healthy volunteers. We used a validated automated method to accurately measure the in vivo thickness of the cerebral cortex. We found a reduction of precentral cortical ribbon thickness in ALS patients with respect to control subjects. DTI metrics demonstrated disorganization of the CST, as characterized by decreased fractional anisotropy (FA) and increased Apparent Diffusion Coefficient in ALS patients with respect to control subjects. Decreased mean FA values along the CST significantly correlated with clinical measures of pyramidal and bulbar impairment. Quantitative analysis of MR data shows that thinning of the motor cortex coexists with CST damage in ALS patients.
The measurement of mitochondrial activity in living cells is usually not straightforward, even though it is quite important in physiological and pathophysiological processes. We describe a high-throughput method for measurement of mitochondrial oxygen consumption in living cells, based on the Becton-Dickinson Biosensor plates.

One of the central issues in neuroscience today is the study of the mechanisms of neuronal survival. Since the discovery of nerve growth factor (almost 60 years ago), many groups have clearly demonstrated the central role of neurotrophins on the regulation of neuronal cell survival during developmental stages as well as during adult life. However, neurotrophins are not alone in regulating neuronal survival, and many groups have demonstrated the effect of different cytokines on this phenomenon. In this brief review we will address the effect of interleukins (IL), particularly IL-2, IL-6, and IL-4, on the survival of neuronal cells.

Recent advances in molecular biology, neurobiology, genetics, and imaging have demonstrated important insights about the nature of neurological diseases. However, a comprehensive understanding of their pathogenesis is still lacking. Although reductionism has been successful in enumerating and characterizing the components of most living organisms, it has failed to generate knowledge on how these components interact in complex arrangements to allow and sustain two of the most fundamental properties of the organism as a whole: its fitness, also termed its robustness, and its capacity to evolve. Systems biology complements the classic reductionist approaches in the biomedical sciences by enabling integration of available molecular, physiological, and clinical information in the context of a quantitative framework typically used by engineers. Systems biology employs tools developed in physics and mathematics such as nonlinear dynamics, control theory, and modeling of dynamic systems. The main goal of a systems approach to biology is to solve questions related to the complexity of living systems such as the brain, which cannot be reconciled solely with the currently available tools of molecular biology and genomics. As an example of the utility of this systems biological approach, network-based analyses of genes involved in hereditary ataxias have demonstrated a set of pathways related to RNA splicing, a novel pathogenic mechanism for these diseases. Network-based analysis is also challenging the current nosology of neurological diseases. This new knowledge will contribute to the development of patient-specific therapeutic approaches, bringing the paradigm of personalized medicine one step closer to reality.

Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is recognized as a neuromodulator as well as neuroprotectant in the brain. H2S can be produced from cysteine by enzymes such as cystathionine beta-synthase. However, a mechanism for releasing H2S under physiologic conditions has not been identified. Here we show that H2S is released from bound sulfur, an intracellular store of sulfur, in neurons and astrocytes of mice and rats in the presence of physiologic concentrations of endogenous reducing substances glutathione and cysteine. The highest pH to release H2S from another sulfur store, acid-labile sulfur, which is localized mainly in mitochondria, is 5.4. Because mitochondria are not in the acidic condition, acid-labile sulfur may not be a physiologic source of H2S. Free H2S is immediately absorbed and stored as bound sulfur. Our novel method, using silver particles to measure free H2S, shows that free H2S is maintained at a low level in basal conditions. Alkalinization of the cytoplasm is required for effective release of H2S from bound sulfur, and this condition is achieved in astrocytes by the high concentrations of extracellular K+ that are normally present when nearby neurons are excited. These data present a new perspective on the regulation of H2S in the brain.
A special interest group of the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine [ACRM; Mild Traumatic Brain Injury Committee. (1993). Definition of mild traumatic brain injury. Journal of Head Trauma Rehabilitation, 8 (3), 86-87.] was the first organized interdisciplinary group to advocate four specific criteria for the diagnosis of a mild traumatic brain injury (TBI). More recently, the World Health Organization (WHO) Collaborative Center Task Force on Mild Traumatic Brain Injury [Carroll, L. J., Cassidy, J. D., Holm, L., Kraus, J., &amp; Coronado, V. G. (2004). Methodological issues and research recommendations for mild traumatic brain injury: the WHO Collaborating Centre Task Force on Mild Traumatic Brain Injury. Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine, (Suppl. 43), 113-125.] conducted a comprehensive review of the definitions utilized in evidence-based studies with mild TBI patients. Based on this review, the WHO task force maintained the same four criteria but offered two modifications. The similarities and differences between these two definitions are discussed. The authors of the ACRM and the WHO definitions do not provide guidelines or specific recommendations for diagnosing the four criteria. Thus, we provide recommendations for assessing loss of consciousness, retrograde and post-traumatic amnesia, disorientation and confusion as well as clarification of the neurologic signs that can be indicative of a diagnosis of mild TBI. Finally, confounding factors mentioned in both definitions that should exclude a mild TBI diagnosis are summarized.
Education significantly impacts cognitive performance of older adults even in the absence of dementia. Some cognitive tests seem less vulnerable to the influence of education and thus may be more suitable for cognitive assessment of older adults with heterogeneous backgrounds. The objective of this study was to investigate which tests in a cognitive battery were less influenced by educational levels in a sample of cognitively unimpaired older Brazilians. In addition, we evaluated the impact of very high educational levels on cognitive performance. The cognitive battery consisted of the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Cambridge Cognitive Test (CAMCOG), Clock Drawing Test, Short Cognitive Performance Test (SKT), Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test (RBMT), Fuld Object Memory Evaluation (FOME), Verbal Fluency Test (VF) fruit category, Trail Making Test A and B, WAIS-R Vocabulary, and Block Design. Education did not exert a significant influence on the RBMT, FOME, and VF (p &lt; .05). Subjects with very high educational levels had similar performance on the latter tests when compared with those with intermediate and low levels of education. In conclusion, the RBMT, FOME, and VF fruit category seem to be appropriate tools for the assessment of cognitive function in elderly Brazilians with varying degrees of educational attainment.






Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory central nervous system (CNS) disorder characterized by T cell-mediated demyelination. In MS, prolonged T cell survival and increased T cell proliferation have been linked to disease relapse and progression. Recently, the autophagy-related gene 5 (Atg5) has been shown to modulate T cell survival. In this study, we examined the expression of Atg5 using both a mouse model of autoimmune demyelination as well as blood and brain tissues from MS cases. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis of RNA isolated from blood samples of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mice revealed a strong correlation between Atg5 expression and clinical disability.Analysis of protein extracted from these cells confirmed both upregulation and post-translational modification of Atg5, the latter of which was positively correlated with EAE severity. Analysis of RNA extracted from T cells isolated by negative selection indicated that Atg5 expression was significantly elevated in individuals with active relapsing-remitting MS compared to non-diseased controls. Brain tissue sections from relapsing-remitting MS cases examined by immunofluorescent histochemistry suggested that encephalitogenic T cells are a source of Atg5 expression in MS brain samples. Together these data suggest that increased T cell expression of Atg5 may contribute to inflammatory demyelination in MS.
Heterogeneous rat strains appear to be particularly sensitive to the sedative effects of ethanol as adults and insensitive to ethanol's stimulant effects. Recently, the authors found that ethanol induces stimulant effects in preweanling Sprague-Dawley rats. In adult mice, these effects seem to be governed by the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic pathway, which can be modulated by means of GABA B agonist (baclofen) or opioid antagonist (naloxone) treatments. This study tested whether these pharmacological treatments might reduce the activating effect of ethanol in preweanling Sprague-Dawley rats. Twelve-day-old pups given naloxone (Experiment 1A) or baclofen (Experiment 1B) before ethanol administration were tested in terms of locomotor activity in a novel environment. Naloxone and baclofen significantly reduced the stimulating effect of ethanol but had no effect on locomotor activity patterns in water-treated controls. Blood ethanol levels were not affected by naloxone or baclofen (Experiment 2). During the preweanling period, opioid and GABA B receptors seem to be involved in the stimulating effect of ethanol.
In previous studies the cerebellar interpositus (IP) nucleus, but not the hippocampus, was shown to be necessary both for initial learning and retention and for long-term retention of the standard delay eyeblink conditioned response (CR). However, in the trace eyeblink CR procedure, the hippocampus is also necessary for initial learning and retention, but not for long-term retention. Here the authors evaluate the role of the IP nucleus in both initial learning and retention, and in long-term retention of the trace eyeblink CR, using muscimol infusion to reversibly inactivate the IP nucleus. For the short-term study, there were two subgroups, the first sequentially passed through acquisition, inactivation, and reacquisition phases, whereas the second subgroup went through inactivation, acquisition, and inactivation phases. For the long-term study, the rabbits acquired the CR and then rested for a month. Next, they were distributed into two subgroups: with or without retention training, and finally went through inactivation and reacquisition phases. The results showed that the prelearning IP nucleus inactivation prevented the acquisition of the trace CR, whereas the postlearning inactivation reversibly abolished the expression of both the short- and long-term CR.
Outbred Long-Evans rats exhibit wide variation in their locomotor response to cocaine. Here, we investigated the relationship between these individual differences and interoceptive effects of cocaine in low cocaine responder (LCR) and high cocaine responder (HCR) phenotypes. Rats were trained to discriminate cocaine (10.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) from saline by repeated pairings of injections with one of two response levers. In subsequent tests for stimulus generalization to other cocaine doses (1.25-15.0 mg/kg), LCRs exhibited partial-to-full generalization at 1.85 and 2.5 mg/kg cocaine, respectively, whereas HCRs did not. When the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine (5.0 mg/kg) was coadministered with saline or different cocaine doses, we observed similar upward shifts in dose-response in both phenotypes. In contrast, coadministration of the 5-HT2A/2C agonist (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI; 0.3 mg/kg) led to partial substitution of DOI for cocaine and enhancement of the stimulus properties of 1.25 mg/kg cocaine in LCRs only. Finally, a retest of cocaine-induced locomotion after discrimination testing revealed marked behavioral sensitization in LCRs and modest changes in behavior in HCRs. Taken together, these results suggest that initial sensitivity to the locomotor-stimulant effects of cocaine is inversely related to its interoceptive properties and that differences in 5-HT systems may contribute to the phenotypic differences observed.
Vertebrate phototransduction is mediated by cGMP, which is generated by retGC (retinal guanylate cyclase) and degraded by cGMP phosphodiesterase. Light stimulates cGMP hydrolysis via the G-protein transducin, which directly binds to and activates phosphodiesterase. Bright light also causes relocalization of transducin from the OS (outer segments) of the rod cells to the inner compartments. In the present study, we show experimental evidence for a previously unknown interaction between G(alphat) (the transducin alpha subunit) and retGC. G(alphat) co-immunoprecipitates with retGC from the retina or from co-transfected COS-7 cells. The retGC-G(alphat) complex is also present in cones. The interaction also occurs in mice lacking RGS9 (regulator of G-protein signalling 9), a protein previously shown to associate with both G(alphat) and retGC. The G(alphat)-retGC interaction is mediated primarily by the kinase homology domain of retGC, which binds GDP-bound G(alphat) stronger than the GTP[S] (GTPgammaS; guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate) form. Neither G(alphat) nor G(betagamma) affect retGC-mediated cGMP synthesis, regardless of the presence of GCAP (guanylate cyclase activating protein) and Ca2+. The rate of light-dependent transducin redistribution from the OS to the inner segments is markedly accelerated in the retGC-1-knockout mice, while the migration of transducin to the OS after the onset of darkness is delayed. Supplementation of permeabilized photoreceptors with cGMP does not affect transducin translocation. Taken together, these results suggest that the protein-protein interaction between G(alphat) and retGC represents a novel mechanism regulating light-dependent translocation of transducin in rod photoreceptors.
In the last few years, several research groups have reported that neuroinflammation is one feature common to several neurodegenerative diseases and that similar, although perhaps less profound, neuroinflammatory changes also occur with age. Age is the greatest risk factor in many neurodegenerative diseases, and the possibility exists that the underlying age-related neuroinflammation may contribute to this increased risk. Several animal models have been used to examine this possibility, and it is now accepted that, under experimental conditions in which microglial activation is up-regulated, responses to stressors are exacerbated. In the present article, these findings are discussed and data are presented from in vitro and in vivo experiments which reveal that responses to Abeta (amyloid beta-peptide) are markedly up-regulated in the presence of LPS (lipopolysaccharide). These, and previous findings, point to a vulnerability associated with inflammation and suggest that, even though inflammation may not be the primary cause of neurodegenerative disease, its treatment may decelerate disease progression.
Neuroscience is a rapidly developing area of science which has benefitted from the blurring of interdisciplinary boundaries. This was apparent in the range of papers presented at this year's Neuroscience Ireland Conference, held in Galway during August 2008. The event was attended by academics, postdoctoral and postgraduate researchers, scientists from industry and clinicians. The themes of this year's conference, neurodegeneration, neuroregeneration, pain, glial cell biology and psychopharmacology, were chosen for their reflection of areas of strength in neuroscience within Ireland. In addition to basic science, translational research also featured strongly.
The mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signalling pathway functions as a nutrient sensor, both in individual cells and, more globally, in organs such as the fat body in Drosophila and the hypothalamus in the rat. The activity of placental amino acid transporters is decreased in IUGR (intrauterine growth restriction), and recent experimental evidence suggests that these changes contribute directly to the restricted fetal growth. We have shown that mTOR regulates the activity of the placental L-type amino acid transporter system and that placental mTOR activity is decreased in IUGR. The present review summarizes the emerging evidence implicating placental mTOR signalling as a key mechanism linking maternal nutrient and growth factor concentrations to amino acid transport in the human placenta. Since fetal growth is critically dependent on placental nutrient transport, placental mTOR signalling plays an important role in the regulation of fetal growth.
A tetracycline inducible transfectant cell line (3D5) capable of producing soluble and sarkosyl-insoluble assemblies of wild-type human alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) upon differentiation with retinoic acid was used to study the impact of alpha-Syn accumulation on protein phosphorylation and glycosylation. Soluble proteins from 3D5 cells, with or without the induced alpha-Syn expression were analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and staining of gels with dyes that bind to proteins (Sypro ruby), phosphoproteins (Pro-Q diamond) and glycoproteins (Pro-Q emerald). Phosphoproteins were further confirmed by binding to immobilized metal ion affinity column. alpha-Syn accumulation caused differential phosphorylation and glycosylation of 16 and 12, proteins, respectively, whose identity was revealed by mass spectrometry. These proteins, including HSP90, have diverse biological functions including protein folding, signal transduction, protein degradation and cytoskeletal regulation. Importantly, cells accumulating alpha-Syn assemblies with different abilities to bind thioflavin S displayed different changes in phosphorylation and glycosylation. Consistent with the cell-based studies, we demonstrated a reduced level of phosphorylated HSP90 alpha/beta in the substantia nigra of subjects with Parkinson's disease as compared to normal controls. Together, the results indicate that alpha-Syn accumulation causes complex cellular responses, which if persist may compromise cell viability.
HIV-Encephalopathy (HIVE) is a common neurological disorder associated with HIV-1 infection and AIDS. The activity of the HIV trans-activating protein Tat is thought to contribute to neuronal pathogenesis. While Tat proteins from primary virus isolates consist of 101 or more amino acids, 72 and 86 amino acids forms of Tat are commonly used for in vitro studies. Although Tat72 contains the minimal domain required for viral replication, other activities of Tat appear to vary according to its length, sub-cellular localization, cell type and the stage of cellular differentiation. In this study, we investigated the stability of intracellular Tat101 during proliferation and differentiation of neuronal cells in culture. We have utilized rat neuronal progenitors as a model of neuronal cell proliferation and differentiation, as well as rat primary cortical neurons as a model of fully differentiated cells. Our results indicate that, upon internalization, Tat101 was degraded more rapidly in proliferating cells than in cells which either underwent neuronal differentiation or were fully differentiated. Intracellular degradation of Tat was prevented by the calpain 1 inhibitor, ALLN, in both proliferating and differentiated cells. Inhibition of calpain 1 by calpastatin peptide also prevented Tat cleavage. In vitro calpain digestion and mass spectrometry analysis further demonstrated that the sequence of Tat sensitive to calpain cleavage was located in the C-terminus of this viral protein, between amino acids 68 and 69. Moreover, cleavage of Tat101 by calpain 1 increased neurotoxic effect of this viral protein and presence of the calpain inhibitor protected neuronal cells from Tat-mediated toxicity.


Because youth with aggressive conduct disorder (CD) often inflict pain on others, it is important to determine if they exhibit atypical empathic responses to viewing others in pain. In this initial functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, eight adolescents with aggressive CD and eight matched controls with no CD symptoms were scanned while watching animated visual stimuli depicting other people experiencing pain or not experiencing pain. Furthermore, these situations involved either an individual whose pain was caused by accident or an individual whose pain was inflicted on purpose by another person. After scanning, participants rated how painful the situations were. In both groups the perception of others in pain was associated with activation of the pain matrix, including the ACC, insula, somatosensory cortex, supplementary motor area and periaqueductal gray. The pain matrix was activated to a specific extent in participants with CD, who also showed significantly greater amygdala, striatal, and temporal pole activation. When watching situations in which pain was intentionally inflicted, control youth exhibited signal increase in the medial prefrontal cortex, lateral orbitofrontal cortex, and right temporo-parietal junction, whereas youth with CD only exhibited activation in the insula and precentral gyrus. Furthermore, connectivity analyses demonstrated that youth with CD exhibited less amygdala/prefrontal coupling when watching pain inflicted by another than did control youth. These preliminary findings suggest that youth with aggressive CD exhibit an atypical pattern of neural response to viewing others in pain that should be explored in further studies.
The main goal of this study was to assess cortical functioning as indexed by the postimperative negative variation (PINV) induced by uncontrollable stress. Sixty-six persons were randomly assigned to three groups who underwent different sequences of stressor controllability. Within an S1-S2 paradigm, one group had initial control over aversive stimulation followed by loss of control and restitution of control. The other groups initially experienced either uncontrollability or controllability followed by a condition of control. Uncontrollable stress significantly enhanced PINV magnitudes independent of preceding control. However, control over aversive stimulation prior to loss of control normalized PINVs during restitution of control. Persons not experiencing prior control showed enhanced PINVs, longer reaction times, and more errors during restitution of control. We conclude that cortical activation changes are linked to the evaluation of instrumental contingencies. However, the exact determination of brain regions involved in the processing of uncontrollable stress needs further investigation.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a common outcome of traffic accidents and trauma with severe consequences. There has been no cure for such a condition. We performed experiments to evaluate the feasibility of implanting a chitosan tube filled with semifluid type I collagen into the site of surgically induced SCI to facilitate functional recovery. After a segment of the spinal cord, 4mm in length and 2/3 of the spinal cord across its width, at the ninth thoracic level of an adult rat was dissected and removed, the biodegradable chitosan tube was implanted into the lesioned site. One year later, we found that axons from the proximal spinal cord regenerated, traversed the dissected area inside the tube and reentered the distal spinal cord, leading to functional restoration of the essentially paralyzed hind limbs. The nerve regeneration and functional recovery were confirmed by immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, nerve tracing and Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan behavioral evaluation. Such beneficial outcomes were not observed in the control groups, in which either no tube was implanted or the implanted tube had no collagen filling. We conclude that the newly designed tube implant promotes both axon regeneration and functional recovery following SCI. A similar approach may have clinical implications in humans.
Lead optimisation starting from the previously reported selective quinoline NK(3) receptor antagonists talnetant 2 (SB-223412) and 3 (SB-222200) led to the identification of 3-aminoquinoline NK(3) antagonist 10 (GSK172981) with excellent CNS penetration. Investigation of a structurally related series of sulfonamides with reduced lipophilicity led to the discovery of 20 (GSK256471). Both 10 and 20 are high affinity, potent NK(3) receptor antagonists which despite having different degrees of CNS penetration produced excellent NK(3) receptor occupancy in an ex vivo binding study in gerbil cortex.

Intracranial intraparenchymal Schwannomas are very rare. Twenty-eight cases of frontal intraparenchymal Schwannomas have been reported so far. These generally present with seizures, raised intracranial pressure, nasal stuffiness and epistaxis. We present a patient with frontal intraparenchymal Schwannoma who underwent frontal craniotomy and excision. At follow-up the patient is seizure free and is relieved of his symptoms.
Epidermoid tumours are rare intracranial tumours. They are commonly found in the cerebellopontine angle and the suprasellar region. However, they are also known to occur in other locations. Anterior interhemispheric fissure epidermoid cysts are rarer still, and calcification among epidermoids is considered unusual and dystrophic in nature. We present here an unusual case of an anterior interhemispheric epidermoid with near-complete calcification, which presented with long-standing seizures and was amenable to total surgical excision.
Although the dominant approach to drug development is the design of compounds selective for a given target, compounds targeting more than one biological process may have superior efficacy, or alternatively a better safety profile than standard selective compounds. Here, this possibility has been explored with respect to the endocannabinoid system and pain. Compounds inhibiting the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), by increasing local endocannabinoid tone, produce potentially useful effects in models of inflammatory and possibly neuropathic pain. Local increases in levels of the endocannabinoid anandamide potentiate the actions of cyclooxygenase inhibitors, raising the possibility that compounds inhibiting both FAAH and cyclooxygenase can be as effective as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs but with a reduced cyclooxygenase inhibitory 'load'. An ibuprofen analogue active in models of visceral pain and with FAAH and cyclooxygenase inhibitory properties has been identified. Another approach, built in to the experimental analgesic compound N-arachidonoylserotonin, is the combination of FAAH inhibitory and transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 antagonist properties. Although finding the right balance of actions upon the two targets is a key to success, it is hoped that dual-action compounds of the types illustrated in this review will prove to be useful analgesic drugs.



Mutations in fukutin related protein (FKRP) are responsible for a common group of muscular dystrophies ranging from adult onset limb girdle muscular dystrophies to severe congenital forms with associated structural brain involvement, including Muscle Eye Brain disease. A common feature of these disorders is the variable reduction in the glycosylation of skeletal muscle alpha-dystroglycan. In order to gain insight into the pathogenesis and clinical variability, we have generated two lines of mice, the first containing a missense mutation and a neomycin cassette, FKRP-Neo(Tyr307Asn) and the second containing the FKRP(Tyr307Asn) mutation alone. We have previously associated this missense mutation with a severe muscle-eye-brain phenotype in several families. Homozygote Fkrp-Neo(Tyr307Asn) mice die soon after birth and show a reduction in the laminin-binding epitope of alpha-dystroglycan in muscle, eye and brain, and have reduced levels of FKRP transcript. Homozygous Fkrp(Tyr307Asn) mice showed no discernible phenotype up to 6 months of age, contrary to the severe clinical course observed in patients with the same mutation. These results suggest the generation of a mouse model for FKRP related muscular dystrophy requires a knock-down rather than a knock-in strategy in order to give rise to a disease phenotype.
Axonal loss and degeneration are major factors in determining long-term outcome in patients with peripheral nerve disorders or injury. Following loss of axonal continuity, the isolated nerve stump distal to the lesion undergoes Wallerian degeneration in several phases. In the initial 'latent' phase, action potential propagation and structural integrity of the distal segment are maintained. The aim of this study was to investigate in vivo the changes in membrane function of motor axons during the 'latent' phase of Wallerian degeneration. Multiple indices of axonal excitability of the tibial nerve at ankle distal to axotomy were monitored by 'threshold-tracking'. The plantar compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) were recorded under anesthesia in three animal models: 8-week-old wild-type mice, 8-week-old slow Wallerian degeneration mutant mice and 3-year-old cats. We found that the progressive decrease in CMAP following crush injury was associated with slowing of conduction and marked abnormalities in excitability: increased peak threshold deviations during both depolarizing and hyperpolarizing threshold electrotonus, enhanced superexcitability during the recovery cycle and increased rheobase. In the context of decreased current-threshold slope and increased chronaxie, these deviations in excitability were consistent with a decrease in voltage-dependent Na(+) and K(+) conductances. Our data suggest that during the 'latent phase' of Wallerian degeneration there is a gradual disruption in ion-channel function leading to abnormalities in excitability that precede conduction failure and axonal disintegration. These findings may have clinical relevance and should be taken into consideration in interpretation of the specificity of abnormalities in excitability measures in disorders characterized by axonal degeneration.
Transient epileptic amnesia (TEA) is a recently recognised form of epilepsy of which the principle manifestation is recurrent, transient episodes of isolated memory loss. In addition to the amnesic episodes, many patients describe significant interictal memory difficulties. Performance on standard neuropsychological tests is often normal. However, two unusual forms of memory deficit have recently been demonstrated in TEA: (i) accelerated long-term forgetting (ALF): the excessively rapid loss of newly acquired memories over a period of days or weeks and (ii) remote autobiographical memory loss: a loss of memories for salient, personally experienced events of the past few decades. The neuroanatomical bases of TEA and its associated memory deficits are unknown. In this study, we first assessed the relationship between subjective and objective memory performance in 41 patients with TEA. We then analysed MRI data from these patients and 20 matched healthy controls, using manual volumetry and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to correlate regional brain volumes with clinical and neuropsychological data. Subjective memory estimates were unrelated to performance on standard neuropsychological tests but were partially predicted by mood, ALF and remote autobiographical memory. Manual volumetry identified subtle hippocampal volume loss in the patient group. Both manual volumetry and VBM revealed correlations between medial temporal lobe atrophy and standard anterograde memory scores, but no relation between atrophy and ALF or remote autobiographical memory. These results add weight to the hypothesis that TEA is a syndrome of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Furthermore, they suggest that although standard anterograde memory test performance is related to the degree of mesial temporal lobe damage, this is not true for ALF and autobiographical amnesia. It is possible that these unusual memory deficits have a more diffuse physiological basis rather than being a consequence of discrete structural damage.
Neural networks for processing language often are reorganized in patients with epilepsy. However, the extent and location of within and between hemisphere re-organization are not established. We studied 45 patients, all with a left hemisphere seizure focus (mean age 22.8, seizure onset 13.3), and 19 normal controls (mean age 24.8) with an fMRI word definition language paradigm to assess the location of language processing regions. Individual patient SPM maps were compared to the normal group in a voxel-wise comparison; a voxel was considered to be significant if its z-value exceeded mid R:2mid R:. Subsequently, we used principal component analysis with hierarchical clustering of variance patterns from individual difference maps to identify four patient sub-groups. One did not differ from normal controls; one had increased left temporal activation on the margin of regions activated in controls; two others had recruitment in right inferior frontal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus and temporal cortex. Right hemisphere activation in these two groups occurred in homologues of left hemisphere regions that sustained task activation. Our study used novel data driven methods to find evidence for constraints on inter-hemispheric reorganization of language in recruitment of right homologues, and, in a subpopulation of patients, evidence for intra-hemispheric reorganization of language limited to the margins of typical left temporal regional activation. These methods may be applied to investigate both normal and pathological variance in other developmental disorders and cognitive domains.
Arteriopathies are the commonest cause of arterial ischaemic stroke (AIS) in children. Repeated vascular imaging in children with AIS demonstrated the existence of a 'transient cerebral arteriopathy' (TCA), characterized by lenticulostriate infarction due to non-progressive unilateral arterial disease affecting the supraclinoid internal carotid artery and its proximal branches. To further characterize the course of childhood arteriopathies, and to differentiate TCA from progressive arterial disease, we studied the long-term evolution of unilateral anterior circulation arteriopathy, and explored predictors of stroke outcome and recurrence. From three consecutive cohorts in London, Paris and Utrecht, we reviewed radiological studies and clinical charts of 79 previously healthy children with anterior circulation AIS and unilateral intracranial arteriopathy of the internal carotid bifurcation, who underwent repeated vascular imaging. The long-term evolution of arteriopathy was classified as progressive or TCA. Clinical and imaging characteristics were compared between both groups. Logistic regression modelling was used to determine possible predictors of the course of arteriopathy, functional outcome and recurrence. After a median follow-up of 1.4 years, 5 of 79 children (6%) had progressive arteriopathy, with increasing unilateral disease or bilateral involvement. In the others (94%), the course of arteriopathy was classified as TCA. In 23% of TCA patients, follow-up vascular imaging showed complete normalization, the remaining 77% had residual arterial abnormalities, with improvement in 45% and stabilization in 32%. Stroke was preceded by chickenpox in 44% of TCA patients, and in none of the patients with progressive arteriopathies. Most infarcts were localized in the basal ganglia. In 14 (19%) of TCA patients, transient worsening of the arterial lesion was demonstrated before the arteriopathy stabilized or improved. Thirteen TCA patients (18%) had a recurrent stroke or TIA. Thirty TCA patients (41%) had a good neurological outcome, compared with none of the five patients with progressive arteriopathy. Arterial occlusion, moyamoya vessels and ACA involvement were more frequent in progressive arteriopathies. Cortical infarct localization was significantly associated with poor neurological outcome (OR 6.14, 95% CI 1.29-29.22, P = 0.02), while there was a trend for occlusive arterial disease to predict poor outcome (OR 3.00, 95% CI 0.98-9.23, P = 0.06). Progressive arteriopathy was associated with recurrence (OR 18.77, 95%CI 1.94-181.97, P = 0.01). The majority of childhood unilateral intracranial anterior circulation arteriopathies (94%) have a course that is consistent with TCA, in which transient worsening is common. Although the arterial inflammation probably causing TCA is 'transient', most children are left with permanent arterial abnormalities and residual neurological deficits.
Previous studies have shown that serotonin neurons play an important role in the induction and maintenance of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in animals with lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine system. Patients with Parkinson's disease that receive transplants of foetal ventral mesencephalic tissue, the graft cell preparation is likely to contain, in addition to dopamine neurons, serotonin neurons that will vary in number depending on the landmarks used for dissection. Here, we have studied the impact of grafted serotonin neurons--alone or mixed with dopamine neurons--on the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in rats with a partial 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the host nigrostriatal projection. In these rats, which showed only low-level dyskinesia at the time of transplantation, serotonin grafts induced a worsening in the severity of dyskinesia that developed during continued L-DOPA treatment, while the dopamine-rich graft had the opposite, dampening effect. The detrimental effect seen in animals with serotonin neuron grafts was dramatically increased when the residual dopamine innervation in the striatum was removed by a second 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Interestingly, rats with grafts that contained a mixture of dopamine and serotonin neurons (in approximately 2:1) showed a marked reduction in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia over time, and the appearance of severe dyskinesia induced by the removal of the residual dopamine innervation, seen in the animals with transplants of serotonin neurons alone, was blocked. FosB expression in the striatal projection neurons, which is associated with dyskinesias, was also normalized by the dopamine-rich grafts, but not by the serotonin neuron grafts. These data indicate that as long as a sufficient portion, some 10-20%, of the dopamine innervation still remains, the increased host serotonin innervation generated by the grafted serotonin neurons will have limited effect on the development or severity of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. At more advanced stages of the disease, when the dopamine innervation of the putamen is reduced below this critical threshold, grafted serotonin neurons are likely to aggravate l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in those cases where the dopamine re-innervation derived from the grafted neurons is insufficient in magnitude or do not cover the critical dyskinesia-inducing sub-regions of the grafted putamen. We conclude that it is not the absolute number of serotonin neurons in the grafts, but the relative densities of dopamine and serotonin innervations in the grafted striatum that is the critical factor in determining the long-term effect of foetal tissue graft, beneficial or detrimental, on dyskinesia in grafted Parkinson's disease patients.
Morphine-induced glial proinflammatory responses have been documented to contribute to tolerance to opioid analgesia. Here, we examined whether drugs previously shown to suppress glial proinflammatory responses can alter other clinically relevant opioid effects; namely, withdrawal or acute analgesia. AV411 (ibudilast) and minocycline, drugs with distinct mechanisms of action that result in attenuation of glial proinflammatory responses, each reduced naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. Analysis of brain nuclei associated with opioid withdrawal revealed that morphine altered expression of glial activation markers, cytokines, chemokines, and a neurotrophic factor. AV411 attenuated many of these morphine-induced effects. AV411 also protected against spontaneous withdrawal-induced hyperactivity and weight loss recorded across a 12-day timecourse. Notably, in the spontaneous withdrawal study, AV411 treatment was delayed relative to the start of the morphine regimen so to also test whether AV411 could still be effective in the face of established morphine dependence, which it was. AV411 did not simply attenuate all opioid effects, as co-administering AV411 with morphine or oxycodone caused three-to-five-fold increases in acute analgesic potency, as revealed by leftward shifts in the analgesic dose response curves. Timecourse analyses revealed that plasma morphine levels were not altered by AV411, suggestive that potentiated analgesia was not simply due to prolongation of morphine exposure or increased plasma concentrations. These data support and extend similar potentiation of acute opioid analgesia by minocycline, again providing converging lines of evidence of glial involvement. Hence, suppression of glial proinflammatory responses can significantly reduce opioid withdrawal, while improving analgesia.
There is much debate on how immune activation affects cognitive processing. Research has shown that stimulation of the immune system can significantly impair, have no adverse effects, or enhance learning and memory processes in animals. The present experiment evaluated the effects of the bacterial endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on the acquisition of a rapidly acquired conditioned taste aversion using a toxin-containing food. Male Long Evans rats were fitted with intraoral cannulae and habituated to the taste reactivity procedure. Rats received two conditioning days, 72 h apart, in which they were injected systemically with LPS (200, 100, or 50 microg/kg) or NaCl (0.9% vehicle) and 90 min later placed in the taste reactivity test chamber. Rats were given 5 brief (1 min) intraoral infusions of either a LiCl-adulterated sucrose solution (0.15M LiCl+0.3M sucrose) or NaCl-sucrose solution (0.15M NaCl+0.3M sucrose) across a 1h period. On the test day (72 h after the last conditioning trial), rats were given a 2 min intraoral infusion of the respective taste in a drug-free state. Individual taste reactivity responses were recorded and analyzed. Results demonstrate that rats treated with LPS dose-dependently increased ingestive responding to the LiCl-sucrose flavor while at the same time showing reduced rejection response frequency on the two conditioning days. LPS treatment did not alter taste reactivity responding to the NaCl-sucrose solution. On the test day, the LPS groups again displayed a dose dependent increase in ingestive responses and a decrease in rejection responses to the LiCl-sucrose taste. The present results suggest that LPS-induced immune system activation, significantly impairs the rapid acquisition of a conditioned taste aversion.
Studies examining immune dysfunction in schizophrenia have reported decreased type-1 T-helper cell specific immunity (Th1) and increased type-2 T-helper cell specific immunity (Th2) and related abnormalities in inflammatory system. Beta2-Microglobulin (beta2M) influences the development of dendritic cells, which play a significant role in regulating the differentiation of naive CD4+ T cells into Th1 or Th2 lineages. The present study examined serum beta2M in antipsychotic-nave schizophrenia patients (n=43) in comparison with age, sex, handedness and socioeconomic status matched healthy controls (n=43). Serum beta2M was significantly higher in schizophrenia patients (1692.6+/-354.4 ng/mL) than healthy controls (1409.6+/-246.9 ng/mL) (t=4.3; p&lt;0.0001). There was a significant positive correlation between beta2M level and total psychopathology score (r=0.32; p=0.035). These novel observations suggest that beta2M abnormalities might have a potential association with the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Neural activity associated with self-referential processing of emotional stimuli was investigated using whole brain functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Fifteen healthy subjects underwent fMRI scanning while making judgments about positive and negative trait words in four conditions (self-reference, other-reference, semantic processing, and letter processing). Significant activity was observed in the right ventral anterior cingulate gyrus and the right amygdala in the negative-word/self-reference condition, and in the left amygdala in the positive-word/self-reference condition. Compared with the semantic-processing condition, the self-reference conditions showed significantly more activity in the medial prefrontal and temporal gyri, posterior cingulate gyrus, and precuneus. These results suggest that the medial prefrontal gyrus, posterior cingulate gyrus, and precuneus are associated with a self-referential processing, and the ventral anterior cingulate gyrus is involved in self-referential processing of negative emotional stimuli. The results also suggest that the amygdala is associated with self-referential processing of both positive and negative emotional stimuli.
People differ with regard to how they perceive, experience, and express negative affect. While trait negative affect reflects a stable, sustained personality trait, state negative affect represents a stimulus limited and temporally acute emotion. So far, little is known about the neural systems mediating the relationship between negative affect and acute emotion processing. To address this issue we investigated in a healthy female sample how individual differences in state negative affect are reflected in changes in blood oxygen level-dependent responses during passive viewing of emotional stimuli. To assess autonomic arousal we simultaneously recorded changes in skin conductance level. At the psychophysiological level we found increased skin conductance level in response to aversive relative to neutral pictures. However, there was no association of state negative affect with skin conductance level. At the neural level we found that high state negative affect was associated with increased left insular activity during passive viewing of aversive stimuli. The insula has been implicated in interoceptive processes and in the integration of sensory, visceral, and affective information thus contributing to subjective emotional experience. Greater recruitment of the insula in response to aversive relative to neutral stimuli in subjects with high state negative affect may represent increased processing of salient aversive stimuli.
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and n-back tasks we investigated whether, in 11-13-year-old children, spatial (location) and nonspatial (color) information is differentially processed during visual attention (0-back) and working memory (WM) (2-back) tasks and whether such cognitive task performance, compared to a resting state, results in regional deactivation. The location 0-back task, compared to the color 0-back task, activated segregated areas in the frontal, parietal and occipital cortices whereas no differentially activated voxels were obtained when location and color 2-back tasks were directly contrasted. Several midline cortical areas were less active during 0- and 2-back task performance than resting state. The task-induced deactivation increased with task difficulty as demonstrated by larger deactivation during 2-back than 0-back tasks. The results suggest that, in 11-13-year-old children, the visual attentional network is differently recruited by spatial and nonspatial information processing, but the functional organization of cortical activation in WM in this age group is not based on the type of information processed. Furthermore, 11-13-year-old children exhibited a similar pattern of cortical deactivation that has been reported in adults during cognitive task performance compared to a resting state.
Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) is a multisystem genetic disorder with variable phenotypic expression, due to a mutation in one of the two genes, TSC1 and TSC2, and a subsequent hyperactivation of the downstream mTOR pathway, resulting in increased cell growth and proliferation. The central nervous system is consistently involved in TSC, with 90% of individuals affected showing structural abnormalities, and almost all having some degree of CNS clinical manifestations, including seizures, cognitive impairment and behavioural problems. TSC is proving to be a particularly informative model for studying contemporary issues in developmental neurosciences. Recent advances in the neurobiology of TSC from molecular biology, molecular genetics, and animal model studies provide a better understanding of the pathogenesis of TSC-related neurological symptoms. Rapamycin normalizes the dysregulated mTOR pathway, and recent clinical trials have demonstrated its efficacy in various TSC manifestations, suggesting the possibility that rapamycin may have benefit in the treatment of TSC brain disease.
Central nervous system (CNS) histoplasmosis is one of the important endemic mycoses in America and Africa. Although the incidence of CNS histplasmosis in non-endemic areas is increasing, the diagnosis of isolated CNS histoplasmosis in these areas remains challenging. Since the diagnosis is often missed, the outcome of CNS histoplasmosis is occasionally poor. One of the important complications of this condition is hydrocephalus, which may be identified before meningitis is diagnosed. Antigen or serological tests are useful for the diagnosis of CNS histoplasmosis; however, it should be noted that false positive results may be obtained because of cross reactions due to infections by other fungi. Further, repeated culture with a large volume of cerebrospinal fluid is essential because of the low sensitivity of culture. Thus, it is recommended that tests for CNS histplasmosis be repeated, even if negative results are obtained initially. Liposomal amphotericin B is the usual initial therapy for CNS histoplasmosis. However, the rate of failure of initial treatment is high and relapse can occur in the next few years, which calls for careful management of patients with CNS histoplasmosis. Continued therapy with antifungal agents such as fluconazole or itraconazole is often required. We report a case of a patient with chronic meningitis in whom the tests for other causes were negative for about 10 years, and who was eventually diagnosed with CNS histoplasmosis. Treatment with fluconazole was initiated, and the patient's symptoms gradually improved. Further cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis and brain computed tomography (CT) during the follow-up period of 2 years and 9 months did not reveal recurrence of meningitis or hydrocephalus, thereby indicating the successful treatment of CNS histoplasmosis with fluconazole. CNS histoplasmosis should always be included in the differential diagnoses of chronic meningitis in non-endemic areas even in the case of immunocompetent individuals.
Rats with bilateral neurotoxic reuniens (RE), mediodorsal (MD), hippocampal (HIPP) or sham (SH) lesions were tested in a standard watermaze task, together with unoperated rats. RE-rats and SH-controls readily learned to swim directly to a hidden platform. In contrast, MD-rats displayed a transient deficit characterized initially by thigmotaxis. Like in previous studies, HIPP-rats had long latencies throughout training and displayed more random swims than the other groups. In a memory probe test with the platform removed, SH- and RE-rats approached the correct location relatively directly but, whereas SH-controls persistently searched in the training quadrant, RE-rats switched to searching all over the pool. The MD-group swam in loops to the platform, but then displayed persistent searching in the training quadrant. The HIPP-group performed at chance. These distinct patterns indicate that, although their search strategies were different, RE- and MD-rats had acquired sufficient knowledge about the platform location and could recall information in the probe test. All groups performed well in a subsequent cue test with a visible platform, with RE-rats initially escaping faster than the SH- and HIPP-groups, and MD-rats improving from an initially poorer level of performance to control level. This indicates that there were no sensorimotor or motivational deficits associated with any of the lesions. In conclusion, while the RE and MD nuclei seem not to be critical for the learning and memory of a standard watermaze task, they may contribute to non-mnemonic strategy shifting when animals are challenged in ways that do not occur during training.
Dopaminergic (DA) inputs to the basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLC) are critical for several important functions, including reward-related learning, drug-stimulus learning, and fear conditioning. Despite the importance of the DA projection to the BLC, very little is known about which neuronal subpopulations are innervated. The present study utilized dual-labeling immunohistochemistry at the electron microscopic level to examine DA inputs to pyramidal cells in the anterior basolateral amygdalar nucleus (BLa) in the rat. DA axon terminals and BLa pyramidal cells were labeled using antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK), respectively. Serial section reconstructions of TH-positive (TH+) terminals were performed to determine the extent to which these axon terminals formed synapses versus non-synaptic appositions in the BLa. Our results demonstrate that at least 77% of TH+ terminals form synapses in the BLa, and that 90% of these synapses are with pyramidal cells. The distal dendritic compartment received the great majority of these synaptic contacts, with CaMK+ distal dendrites and spines receiving one-third and one-half, respectively, of all synaptic inputs to pyramidal cells. Many spines receiving innervation from TH+ terminals also received asymmetrical synaptic inputs from putative excitatory terminals. In addition, TH+ terminals often formed non-synaptic appositions with axon terminals, most of which were putatively excitatory in that they were CaMK+ and/or made asymmetrical synapses. Thus, using CaMK as a marker, the present study demonstrates that pyramidal cells, especially their distal dendritic compartments, are the primary targets of dopaminergic inputs to the basolateral amygdala.
Chaperone members of the protein disulfide isomerase family can catalyze the thiol-disulfide exchange reaction with pairs of cysteines. There are 14 protein disulfide isomerase family members, but the ability to catalyze a thiol disulfide exchange reaction has not been demonstrated for all of them. Human endoplasmic reticulum protein chaperone thio-oxidoreductase (ERp18) shows partial oxidative activity as a protein disulfide isomerase. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the participation of ERp18 in gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor (GnRHR) expression at the plasma membrane. Cos-7 cells were cultured, plated, and transfected with 25 ng (unless indicated) wild-type human GnRHR (hGnRHR) or mutant GnRHR (Cys14Ala and Cys200Ala) and pcDNA3.1 without insert (empty vector) or ERp18 cDNA (75 ng/well), pre-loaded for 18 h with 1 microCi myo-[2-3H(N)]-inositol in 0.25 mL DMEM and treated for 2 h with buserelin. We observed a decrease in maximal inositol phosphate (IP) production in response to buserelin in the cells co-transfected with hGnRHR, and a decrease from 20 to 75 ng of ERp18 compared with cells co-transfected with hGnRHR and empty vector. The decrease in maximal IP was proportional to the amount of ERp18 DNA over the range examined. Mutants (Cys14Ala and Cys200Ala) that could not form the Cys14-Cys200 bridge essential for plasma membrane routing of the hGnRHR did not modify maximal IP production when they were co-transfected with ERp18. These results suggest that ERp18 has a reduction role on disulfide bonds in wild-type hGnRHR folding.
The superior temporal lobe is currently at the focus of intensive research in infantile autism, a psychopathologic disorder apparently representing the severest failure of access to intersubjectivity, i.e. the ability to accept that others exist independently of oneself. Access to intersubjectivity seems to involve the superior temporal lobe, which is the seat of several relevant functions such as face and voice recognition and perception of others' movements, and coordinates the different sensory inputs that identify an object as being &quot;external&quot;. The psychoanalytic approach to infantile autism and recent cognitive data are now converging, and intersubjectivity is considered to result from &quot;mantling&quot; or comodalization of sensory inputs from external objects. Recent brain neuroimaging studies point to anatomic and functional abnormalities of the superior temporal lobe in autistic children. Dialogue is therefore possible between these different disciplines, opening the way to an integrated view of infantile autism in which the superior temporal lobe holds a central place--not necessarily as a primary cause of autism but rather as an intermediary or a reflection of autistic functioning

The G(i)-coupled M(4) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) has recently been shown to stimulate the survival of PC12 cells through the PI3K/Akt/tuberin pathway. Since mTOR and p70S6K are critical components in activating translation which lie downstream of tuberin, we examined the ability of M(4) mAChR to regulate these targets in PC12 cells. Carbachol (CCh) dose-dependently stimulated both mTOR and p70S6K phosphorylations and these responses were abolished by pertussis toxin pretreatment, indicating the involvement of the G(i)-coupled M(4) mAChR. Phosphorylations of both mTOR and p70S6K were effectively blocked upon inhibition of PI3K by wortmannin. As compared to similar responses elicited by the nerve growth factor (NGF), the M(4) mAChR-induced activation of Akt/tuberin/mTOR/p70S6K occurred in a relatively transient manner. Although inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A by okadaic acid augmented the transient effects of CCh on Akt/tuberin phosphorylations, it failed to significantly prolong these responses. The total protein level of PTEN (tumor suppressor gene phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome ten) was attenuated upon NGF, but not CCh treatment. This indicates that downregulation of PTEN may help to sustain the phosphorylation of Akt/tuberin by NGF. Collectively, these findings suggest that PP2A and PTEN may be involved in fine tuning the regulation of Akt/tuberin/mTOR/p70S6K in PC12 cells by M(4) mAChR and TrkA, respectively.
Pur-alpha is a ubiquitous multifunctional protein that is strongly conserved throughout evolution, binds to both DNA and RNA and functions in the initiation of DNA replication, control of transcription and mRNA translation. In addition, it binds to several cellular regulatory proteins including the retinoblastoma protein, E2F-1, Sp1, YB-1, cyclin T1/Cdk9 and cyclin A/Cdk2. These observations and functional studies provide evidence that Puralpha is a major player in the regulation of the cell cycle and oncogenic transformation. Puralpha also binds to viral proteins such as the large T-antigen of JC virus (JCV) and the Tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) and plays a role in the cross-communication of these viruses in the opportunistic polyomavirus JC (JCV) brain infection, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The creation of transgenic mice with inactivation of the PURA gene that encodes Puralpha has revealed that Puralpha is critical for postnatal brain development and has unraveled an essential role of Puralpha in the transport of specific mRNAs to the dendrites and the establishment of the postsynaptic compartment in the developing neurons. Finally, the availability of cell cultures from the PURA knockout mice has allowed studies that have unraveled a role for Puralpha in DNA repair.
Prothymosin-alpha (ProTalpha) causes a switch in cell death mode from necrosis to neurotrophin-reversible apoptosis in primary cultured cortical neurons. In the present study, post-ischemic administration (3 or 24 h, intravenously) of recombinant mouse ProTalpha without neurotrophins completely prevented ischemia-induced retinal damage accompanying necrosis and apoptosis, as well as dysfunction assessed by electroretinogram. Treatments with anti-erythropoietin (EPO) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) immunoglobulin G (IgG) reversed ProTalpha-induced inhibition of apoptosis. ProTalpha upregulated retinal EPO and BDNF levels in the presence of ischemia. Moreover, intravitreous administration of anti-ProTalpha IgG or an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for ProTalpha accelerated ischemia-induced retinal damage. We also observed that ischemia treatment caused a depletion of ProTalpha from retinal cells. Altogether, these results suggest that the systemic administration of ProTalpha switches ischemia-induced necrosis to apoptosis, which in turn is inhibited by neurotrophic factors upregulated by ProTalpha and ischemia. ProTalpha released upon ischemic stress was found to have a defensive role in retinal ischemia.
Recent investigations suggest that the effects of neural agrin might not be limited to neuromuscular junction formation and maintenance and that other aspects of muscle development might be promoted by agrin. Here we tested the hypothesis that agrin induces a change in the excitability properties in primary cultures of non-innervated human myotubes. Electrical membrane properties of human myotubes were recorded using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Cell incubation with recombinant chick neural agrin (1 nM) led to a more negative membrane resting potential. Addition of strophanthidin, a blocker of the Na(+)/K(+) ATPase, depolarized agrin-treated myotubes stronger than control, indicating, in the presence of agrin, a higher contribution of the Na(+)/K(+) ATPase in establishing the resting membrane potential. Indeed, larger amounts of both the alpha1 and the alpha2 isoforms of the Na(+)/K(+) ATPase protein were expressed in agrin-treated cells. A slight but significant down-regulation of functional apamin-sensitive K(+) channels was observed after agrin treatment. These results indicate that neural agrin might act as a trophic factor promoting the maturation of membrane electrical properties during differentiation, confirming the role of agrin as a general promoter of muscle development.

Interstitial cells of Cajal in the subserosa (ICC-SS) of the guinea-pig proximal colon were studied by immunohistochemistry for c-Kit receptors and by transmission electron microscopy. These cells were distributed within a thin layer of connective tissue space immediately beneath the mesothelium and were multipolar with about five primary cytoplasmic processes that divided further into secondary and tertiary processes to form a two-dimensional network. Ultrastructural observations revealed that ICC-SS were connected to each other via gap junctions. They also formed close contacts and peg-and-socket junctions with smooth muscle cells. Three-dimensional analysis of confocal micrographs revealed that the cytoplasmic processes of ICC-SS had contacts with interstitial cells in the longitudinal muscle layer. Taking account of the location and peculiar arrangement of the ICC-SS and the main functions of the proximal colon, i.e. the absorption and transport of fluids, we suggest that the superficial network of ICC-SS acts as a stretch receptor to detect circumferential expansion and swelling of the colon wall and triggers the contraction of the longitudinal muscle to accelerate the drainage of fluids from the colon.
