Biochemical and structural abnormalities have been reported in hippocampus of subjects with mood disorders. This study examined the organization of mossy fibers in anterior hippocampus of subjects obtained from the Stanley Neuropathology Consortium. Frozen postmortem hippocampal sections from subjects with major depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and non-psychiatric controls were stained using the Neo-Timm procedure, which selectively stains mossy fibers. Increased Timm staining in the supragranular layer was found in subjects with bipolar disorder relative to control subjects. These results are suggestive of neuronal sprouting in hippocampus of subjects with bipolar disorder. There were no significant associations between supragranular Timm staining and suicide, length illness or drug treatment at the time of death.
The recently discovered endogenous mu-selective opioid peptide, endomorphin-2, and the endogenous delta-selective opioid peptide, Leu-enkephalin, were tested for their ability to affect spatial learning in the Morris water task. It was found that microinjection of 10 nmol endomorphin-2 into the CA3 region of the rat hippocampus significantly impaired spatial learning. However, the two lower doses tested, 3.3 and 1 nmol, had no effect in this test. Leu-enkephalin did not have any effect on spatial learning at the two doses tested (10 and 3.3 nmol). Neither peptide had any effect on motor performance as measured by swim speed. The results indicate that mu-receptors in the CA3 region of the rat hippocampus are more relevant than delta-receptors for spatial learning.

Mature nodose and petrosal ganglia neurons (placodally derived afferent neurons of the vagal and glossopharyngeal nerves) contain TrkA and TrkC, and transport specific neurotrophins [nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), neurotrophin-4 (NT-4)]. This study evaluated neurotrophin influences on the presence of neuropeptides and/or neurotransmitter enzymes in these visceral sensory neurons. NGF, NT-3 and NT-4 (10-100 ng/ml) were applied (5 days) to dissociated, enriched, cultures of mature nodose/petrosal ganglia neurons, and the neurons processed for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and neurofilament (NF-200) immunocytochemistry. Addition of NGF to nodose/petrosal ganglia neuron-enriched cultures significantly increased the number of TH-immunoreactive (ir) neurons, decreased the number of VIP-ir neurons in the cultures, and did not affect the numbers of CGRP-ir neurons. The addition of an NGF neutralizing antibody attenuated the effects of NGF on TH and VIP-ir neurons. NT-3 increased the number of VIP-ir neurons in the nodose/petrosal ganglia cultures and did not alter the numbers of TH-, or CGRP-ir neurons. The addition of an NT-3 neutralizing antibody attenuated the effects of NT-3 on VIP-ir neurons. NT-4 had no significant effects on the numbers of TH, VIP and CGRP-ir neurons. The absence of neurotrophin-induced changes in the numbers of NF-200-ir neurons in culture showed the lack of neurotrophin-mediated changes in survival of mature vagal afferent neurons. These data demonstrate that specific neurotrophins influence the numbers of neurons labeled for specific neurochemicals in nodose/petrosal ganglia cultures. These data, coupled with previous evidence for the presence of TrkA and TrkC mRNA and of the retrograde transport of NGF and NT-3, suggest important roles for NGF and NT-3 in the maintenance of transmitter phenotype of these mature visceral afferent neurons.
Previously published data have shown an allele-specific variation in the in vitro binding of apolipoprotein E (apoE) to tau, which prompted the hypothesis that apoE binding may protect tau from phosphorylation, apoE3 being more efficient than apoE4. We have, therefore, investigated the effects of apoE on tau phosphorylation in vitro by the proline-directed kinase, glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3 beta. The phosphopeptide maps of tau alone, of tau with apoE3 and of tau with apoE4 were very similar. When apoE2 was present a further four spots were evident. Additionally, of the 15 peptides phosphorylated in the presence or absence of apoE, subtle differences, some isoform-specific, in the relative amounts of phosphorylation were observed.
Immunoreactivity (IR) for synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) was examined in axons of autonomic vasoconstrictor and vasodilator neurons innervating the lingual and uterine arteries of guinea-pigs. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting of protein extracts demonstrated a SNAP-25-IR band at 25 kDa in both arteries. Quantitative confocal microscopy demonstrated significantly higher levels of SNAP-25-IR in varicosities with IR for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) than in adjacent axons with IR for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Levels of SNAP-25-IR in TH-IR axons, relative to adjacent VIP-IR axons, were significantly higher in the lingual artery than the uterine artery. These differences in IR for SNAP-25, a protein considered essential for calcium-dependent exocytosis of neurotransmitters, raise the possibility that mechanisms of transmitter release may vary between different classes of autonomic neurons.
This work was designed to examine whether brain endomorphins (EM1 and EM2), the endogenous mu-opioid ligands, are involved in electroacupuncture (EA)-induced analgesia in the mice. C57BL/6J mice were given EA for 30 min and the effect of EA-induced analgesia was assessed by radiant heat tail flick latency (TFL). Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of mu-opioid receptor antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Tyr-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTOP), or antiserum against EM1 or EM2 was performed to see whether EA analgesia could be blocked. The results showed that: (1) i.c.v. injection of CTOP at 25-100 ng dose-dependently antagonized the analgesia induced by EA of 2 Hz, but not 100 Hz. (2) Intracerebroventricular injection of EM1 antiserum (5 ml, 1:1 or 1:10 dilution) dose-dependently antagonized 2 Hz, but not 100 Hz EA analgesia. (3) EM2 antiserum showed similar effect at 1:1 dilution. The results are interpreted to mean that endogenously released EM1 and EM2 and the cerebral mu-receptors are involved in mediating 2 Hz but not 100 Hz EA analgesia in the mice.
In animal models, injected stem cells travel to tissue injured by stroke, Alzheimer's-like plaques, contusions, or spinal cord bruises, sometimes traversing long distances. Several teams reported these surprising results this month at the Society for Neuroscience annual meeting. No one knows exactly how stem cells detect these different kinds of damage, but researchers hope that the cells' migratory powers can be harnessed to either replace dead tissue or deliver therapeutics right where they're needed.
An enduring controversy in neuroscience concerns how the brain &quot;binds&quot; together separately coded stimulus features to form unitary representations of objects. Recent evidence has indicated a close link between this binding process and 40-hertz (gamma-band) oscillations generated by localized neural circuits. In a separate line of research, the ability of young infants to perceive objects as unitary and bounded has become a central focus for debates about the mechanisms of perceptual development. Here we demonstrate that binding-related 40-hertz oscillations are evident in the infant brain around 8 months of age, which is the same age at which behavioral and event-related potential evidence indicates the onset of perceptual binding of spatially separated static visual features.
Although extracellular application of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) has been extensively documented to produce a variety of cellular responses through a family of specific G protein-coupled receptors, the in vivo organismal role of LPA signaling remains largely unknown. The first identified LPA receptor gene, lp(A1)/vzg-1/edg-2, was previously shown to have remarkably enriched embryonic expression in the cerebral cortex and dorsal olfactory bulb and postnatal expression in myelinating glia including Schwann cells. Here, we show that targeted deletion of lp(A1) results in approximately 50% neonatal lethality, impaired suckling in neonatal pups, and loss of LPA responsivity in embryonic cerebral cortical neuroblasts with survivors showing reduced size, craniofacial dysmorphism, and increased apoptosis in sciatic nerve Schwann cells. The suckling defect was responsible for the death among lp(A1)((-/-)) neonates and the stunted growth of survivors. Impaired suckling behavior was attributable to defective olfaction, which is likely related to developmental abnormalities in olfactory bulb and/or cerebral cortex. Our results provide evidence that endogenous lysophospholipid signaling requires an lp receptor gene and indicate that LPA signaling through the LP(A1) receptor is required for normal development of an inborn, neonatal behavior.
Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder in which familial-linked genes have provided novel insights into the pathogenesis of this disorder. Mutations in Parkin, a ring-finger-containing protein of unknown function, are implicated in the pathogenesis of autosomal recessive familial Parkinson's disease. Here, we show that Parkin binds to the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating human enzyme 8 (UbcH8) through its C-terminal ring-finger. Parkin has ubiquitin-protein ligase activity in the presence of UbcH8. Parkin also ubiquitinates itself and promotes its own degradation. We also identify and show that the synaptic vesicle-associated protein, CDCrel-1, interacts with Parkin through its ring-finger domains. Furthermore, Parkin ubiquitinates and promotes the degradation of CDCrel-1. Familial-linked mutations disrupt the ubiquitin-protein ligase function of Parkin and impair Parkin and CDCrel-1 degradation. These results suggest that Parkin functions as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase through its ring domains and that it may control protein levels via ubiquitination. The loss of Parkin's ubiquitin-protein ligase function in familial-linked mutations suggests that this may be the cause of familial autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease.
The regional distribution of ionotropic (AMPA and NMDA) and metabotropic (mGluR1alpha) glutamate receptor subunits was examined in the brain stem and cerebellum of the pond turtle, Chrysemys picta, by using immunocytochemistry and light microscopy. Subunit-specific antibodies that recognize NMDAR1, GluR1, GluR4, and mGluR1alpha were used to identify immunoreactive nuclei in the brain stem and cerebellum. Considerable immunoreactivity in the turtle brain stem and cerebellum was observed with regional differences occurring primarily in the intensity of staining with the antibodies. The red nucleus, lateral reticular nucleus and cerebellum labeled intensely for NMDAR1 and moderately for GluR1. The cerebellum also labeled strongly for mGluR1alpha. All of the cranial nerve nuclei labeled intensely for NMDAR1 and to varying degrees for GluR1, GluR4, and mGluR1alpha. Counterstaining revealed the presence of neuronal somata where there were no immunoreactive neurons in individual nuclei. This finding suggests that there are subpopulations of immunoreactive neurons within a given nucleus that bear different glutamate receptor subunit compositions. The results suggest that the glutamate receptor subunit distribution in the brain stem and cerebellum of turtles is similar to that reported for rats. Additionally, there is considerable colocalization of NMDA and AMPA receptors as revealed by light microscopy. These results have implications for the organization of neural circuits that control motor behavior in turtles, and, generally, for the function of brain stem and cerebellar neural circuits in vertebrates.
The mitochondria in the axons and dendrites of neurons are highly motile, but the mechanism of these movements is not well understood. It has been thought that the transport of membrane-bounded organelles in axons, and perhaps also in dendrites, depends on molecular motors of the kinesin and dynein families. However, recent evidence has suggested that some organelle transport, including that of mitochondria, may proceed along actin filaments as well. The present study sought to determine the extent to which mitochondrial movements in neurons depend on microtubule-based and actin-based transport systems. The mitochondria in cultured hippocampal neurons were labeled with a fluorescent dye and the cells were treated with either nocodazole, a drug that disrupts the microtubule network or cytochalasin D or latrunculin B, drugs which disrupt the actin network. The movement of the mitochondria in the axons and dendrites of neurons after each of these drug treatments was then examined with time-lapse microscopy. Treatment with nocodazole, which depolymerizes microtubules, stopped most mitochondrial movements in both axons and dendrites. Treatment with cytochalasin D, which aggregates actin filaments, also inhibited most movements of mitochondria, but latrunculin B, which depolymerizes actin filaments, had virtually no effect. Together, these data suggest that most of the mitochondrial movements in both axons and dendrites are microtubule-based, but in each domain there may also be some movement along actin filaments.
Mitochondria generate ATP and are involved in the regulation of cytoplasmic calcium levels. It is thought that local demand for mitochondria differs between axons and dendrites. Moreover, it has been suggested that the distribution of both energy need and calcium flux in dendrites changes with patterns of synaptic activation, whereas the distribution of these demands in axons is stable. The present study sought to determine whether there are differences in mitochondrial movements between axons and dendrites that may relate to differences in local mitochondrial demand. We labeled the mitochondria in cultured hippocampal neurons with a fluorescent dye and used time-lapse microscopy to examine their movements. In both axons and dendrites, approximately one-third of the mitochondria were in motion at any one time. In both domains, approximately 70% of the mitochondria moved in the anterograde direction, whereas the remainder moved in the retrograde direction. The velocity of the movements in each direction in each domain ranged from 0.1 microm/sec to approximately 2 microm/sec, and the means and distributions of the velocities were similar. Only one difference in the behavior of mitochondria between axons and dendrites emerged from this analysis. Mitochondria in axons were more likely to move with a consistently rapid velocity than were those in dendrites. As a result, mitochondria in axons tended to travel farther than mitochondria in dendrites. These results suggest that the transport of mitochondria in axons and dendrites is similar despite any differences in mitochondrial demand between the two domains.
Estrogen influences the development of memory function in humans and rodents and can modulate memory in adults. In these studies we examined the role of the estrogen receptors alpha (ERalpha) and beta (ERbeta) in mediating performance on a hippocampal-dependent, hormone-sensitive task, inhibitory avoidance (IA). Ovariectomized (OVX) estrogen receptor-alpha-knockout (ERalphaKO) mice displayed impaired performance on the IA task and OVX heterozygotic (HET) mice exhibited performance that was intermediate between ERalphaKO and wild-type (WT) mice. Impaired performance by ERalphaKO mice was rescued by E(2) treatment. The ER antagonist, tamoxifen, did not block enhancement of retention by E(2) suggesting that E(2) mediated modulation of memory is not caused by known genomic receptor mechanisms. In contrast to ERalphaKO mice, IA performance by OVX estrogen receptor-beta-knockout (ERbetaKO) mice was not compromised. The results indicate an important role for ERalpha, relative to ERbeta, in the establishment of cognitive function and suggest that E(2) modulates memory function via a novel estrogenic mechanism.
We analyzed the distribution and the morphological characteristics of neurons expressing AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1 and GluR2) in the superficial partition (stratum zonale (SZ), stratum griseum superficiale (SGS) and stratum opticum (SO)) of the rat superior colliculus. GluR1-expressing neurons had round or ovoid somata in SGS and round or fusiform somata and primary dendrites extending tangential or horizontal side in SO. On the other hand, GluR2-expressing neurons mainly corresponded to vertical fusiform cells with vertically oriented dendrites in SGS and medium-sized stellate or ovoid cells with many primary dendrites in SO. The results suggest that the expressions of GluR1 and GluR2 are differentially regulated in individual neurons of the superficial partition. To analyze the effect of retinal deafferentation on the expression of the GluRs, we performed unilateral orbital enucleations in rats within a week after birth. Thirty days after retinal lesioning, lower expression of GluR2 mRNA was observed in the neurons of the contralateral side as compared with that of the ipsilateral side in SO, but not in SGS. These results indicate that GluR2 expression in the SO neurons is regulated by the correct afferentation from the retina.
The density of dendritic spines, the postsynaptic sites of most excitatory synapses, increases during the first 2 postnatal months in rat hippocampus. Significant alterations in hippocampal levels of serotonin and norepinephrine impact synaptic development during this time period. In the present study, dendritic spine density was studied in the hippocampus (CA1) and dentate gyrus of juvenile rats acutely and chronically exposed to antidepressant drugs that act on serotonin and norepinephrine. One group of 21-day-old rats was given a single injection of a serotonin specific re-uptake inhibitor (fluoxetine or fluvoxamine), a norepinephrine-specific re-uptake inhibitor (desipramine), or saline and killed after 24 h. A second group of rats was injected daily, beginning on postnatal day (PN) 21, for 3 weeks. This group was further subdivided into rats that were killed 1 day or 21 days after the last injection. Golgi analysis showed that a single injection of fluvoxamine produced a significant increase in dendritic spine density in stratum radiatum of CA1 and in the dentate gyrus. Further, acute treatment with all three antidepressants increased the total length of secondary dendrites in CA1, with fluoxetine and desipramine increasing the number of secondary dendrites as well. In fluoxetine-treated animals killed on days 42 or 62 (1 or 21 days post-treatment, respectively), dendritic spine density remained at levels present in CA1 at 21 days. These results show that acute antidepressant treatment can impact dendritic length and spine density, and raise the possibility that chronic fluoxetine treatment arrests spine development into young adulthood.
Continuous intracerebroventricular or intrathecal infusions of neurotrophic factors have been reported to prevent neuronal degeneration, stimulate axonal sprouting and ameliorate behavioral deficits in various models of CNS injury and aging. In the present study, the ability of intrathecal infusions of recombinant human nerve growth factor (NGF) to reduce functional deficits following spinal cord ischemia was investigated. Adult rabbits underwent intrathecal cannulation and continuous infusions of either 300 microg/ml recombinant human NGF or artificial CSF (vehicle) at a rate of 143 microl/day for 7 days prior to induction of spinal cord ischemia. Continuous infusions were maintained after induction of ischemia. Four days later, both NGF-treated and vehicle-infused subjects showed a significant amelioration of functional motor deficits compared to lesioned, non-infused subjects (P&lt;0.05). The average duration of tolerated ischemia increased from 23.4+/-1.8 min in lesioned, non-infused subjects to 35.5+/-3.1 min in lesioned, artificial CSF-infused subjects and 35.6+/-4.7 min in NGF-infused subjects (mean+/-S.E.M.). Significantly elevated NGF protein levels were attained within the spinal cords of both NGF-treated subjects and artificial CSF-infused subjects, although levels were substantially higher in NGF-treated subjects (9.8+/-3.8 ng/g in NGF-infused vs. 2.0+/-0.4 ng/g in vehicle-infused and only 0.4+/-0.2 ng/g in lesioned, non-infused animals). These findings indicate that the process of intrathecal cannulation and fluid infusion elicits alterations in the spinal cord environment that are neuroprotective, including spontaneous elevations in NGF levels.
The effects of baclofen, an agonist at GABA(B) receptors, were evaluated in rats trained to discriminate 10.0 mg/kg of cocaine or 1. 0 mg/kg of methamphetamine from saline under a fixed-ratio 10 schedule of food delivery. Baclofen (0.56-5.6 mg/kg) did not attenuate the discriminative-stimulus effects of the training dose of cocaine or methamphetamine and did not produce any shift in the cocaine and methamphetamine dose-response curves. Higher baclofen doses (3.0-5.6 mg/kg), however, markedly depressed or completely eliminated food-maintained responding. This suggests that previous reports of baclofen-induced decreases in cocaine self-administration behavior are connected, in some way, with either a general suppression of appetitive behaviors or with sedation and locomotor depression, rather than with any pharmacologically specific effect, and not accompanied by changes in subjective response to cocaine, as assessed by discriminative-stimulus measures.
Sigma (sigma) receptors have been implicated in psychosis, cognition, neuroprotection, and locomotion in the central nervous system. The signal transduction mechanisms for sigma receptors have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we examined the possible coupling between sigma(1) receptors and heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) in rodent brain. In sigma(1) receptor-rich cerebellar membrane preparations, the competitive binding curves of two sigma(1) agonists, (+)pentazocine and 1S,2R-(-)-cis-N-[2-(3, 4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexylamine (BD737), were unaffected by the addition of 10 microM guanosine-5'-O-(gamma-thio)-triphosphate (GTPgammaS). Neither (+)pentazocine (1-100 microM) nor BD737 (0.01-10 microM) stimulated GTPase activities significantly above basal levels in agonist-stimulated GTPase activity assays in cerebellar membranes. Furthermore, when using the method of agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding as assessed by autoradiography, we did not observe significant stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding in rat brain sections by either (+)pentazocine or BD737. The above results demonstrate that the sigma(1) receptor is not likely be directly coupled to G proteins.
The studies reported here address the molecular events underlying the interactions of arrestins with the M(2) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR). In particular, we focused on the role of receptor phosphorylation in this process. Agonist-dependent phosphorylation of the M(2) mAChR can occur at clusters of serines and threonines at positions 286-290 (site P1) or 307-311 (site P2) in the third intracellular loop (Pals-Rylaarsdam, R., and Hosey, M. M. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 14152-14158). Phosphorylation at either P1 or P2 can support agonist-dependent internalization. However, phosphorylation at P2 is required for receptor interaction with arrestins (Pals-Rylaarsdam, R., Gurevich, V. V., Lee, K. B., Ptasienski, J. A., Benovic, J. L., and Hosey, M. M. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 23682-26389). The present study investigated the role of acidic amino acids between P1 and P2 in regulating receptor phosphorylation, internalization, and receptor/arrestin interactions. Mutation of the acidic amino acids at positions 298-300 (site A1) and/or 304-305 (site A2) to alanines had significant effects on agonist-dependent phosphorylation. P2 was identified as the preferred site of agonist-dependent phosphorylation, and full phosphorylation at P2 required the acidic amino acids at A1 or their neutral counterparts. In contrast, phosphorylation at site P1 was dependent on site A2. In addition, sites A1 and A2 significantly affected the ability of the wild type and P1 and P2 mutant receptors to internalization and to interact with arrestin2. Substitution of asparagine and glutamine for the aspartates and glutamates at sites A1 or A2 did not influence receptor phosphorylation but did influence arrestin interaction with the receptor. We propose that the amino acids at sites A1 and A2 play important roles in agonist-dependent phosphorylation at sites P2 and P1, respectively, and also play an important role in arrestin interactions with the M(2) mAChR.
An antibiotic once used to treat traveler's diarrhea might battle Alzheimer's disease as well, researchers announced here last week at the Society for Neuroscience's annual meeting. The drug dissolves Alzheimer's-like plaques in mouse brains, apparently by trapping the copper and zinc that stud these deposits. A clinical trial to test whether the drug helps people with Alzheimer's is already under way.
The modular structure of philanthotoxins was exploited for construction of the first combinatorial library of these compounds using solid-phase parallel synthesis. (S)-Tyrosine and (S)-3-hydroxyphenylalanine were used as amino acid components, spermine, 1,12-dodecanediamine, and 4,9-dioxa-1,12-dodecanediamine as amine components, and butanoyl, phenylacetyl, and cyclohexylacetyl as N-acyl groups. Following automated preparative HPLC, the resulting 18 compounds were isolated as the S-forms in 40-70% yields. The purity of the products was determined by HPLC with evaporative light scattering detection and by (1)H and (13)C NMR. The thus obtained philanthotoxins were tested electrophysiologically for their antagonist properties on human muscle-type nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) expressed in TE671 cells and on rat brain non-NMDA glutamate receptors (non-NMDAR) expressed in Xenopus oocytes. 4-Hydroxy analogues lacking the secondary amino groups (PhTX-12 and 4,9-dioxa-PhTX-12 and their analogues) were inactive on non-NMDAR, whereas the potency of the spermine derivatives (PhTX-343 and its analogues) increased with steric bulk of the N-acyl group. The analogue of PhTX-343 in which the N-butanoyl group was replaced by phenylacetyl group had IC(50) of 15 +/- 4 nM on non-NMDAR. Increasing the steric bulk of the N-acyl group was not advantageous for activity at nAChR, and a sharp decrease in potency with increased steric bulk was observed with the derivatives of PhTX-12. 3-Hydroxy analogues generally exhibited lower activity and different response to alterations of the N-acyl groups as compared to the 4-hydroxy analogues. Since the acyl group alterations in PhTX-343 and 4,9-dioxa-PhTX-12 have a similar effect on potency, which is distinctly different from that observed for PhTX-12, the two former compounds may bind to nAChR in a similar fashion but differently from that of PhTX-12. The combinatorial library approach described in this work represents a prototype methodology for future exploration of structure-activity relationships of philanthotoxins.

Mitochondrial dysfunction and degeneration are associated with many neurodegenerative disorders. A dysfunctional mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) impairs ATP production and accelerates the generation of free radicals. To evaluate mitochondrial function, reliable methods are needed. Conventional spectrophotometric assays may not eliminate interference from nonspecific enzyme activities and do not measure quantities of specific ETC complexes. Blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE) has been used to resolve mitochondrial ETC complexes. Combined with histochemical staining, it has also been applied to measure ETC enzyme activities in muscles. The current study is to determine (1) whether BN-PAGE can be used to detect ETC complexes from different regions of the central nervous system (CNS) and (2) the quantitative range of BN-PAGE in measuring the amounts and activities of different ETC complexes. By systematically varying the protein amount and the time of histochemical reactions, we have found linear ranges comparable to spectrophotometric assays for measuring enzyme activities of several ETC complexes. In addition, we found linear ranges for measuring protein quantities in several ETC complexes. These results demonstrate that BN-PAGE can be used to measure the amount and activity of the ETC enzymes from the nerve tissues and, thus, can be applied to evaluate the functional changes of mitochondria in neurodegenerative disorders.
A 5-arm maze has been developed to provide parallel tests of sustained visuo-spatial attention and spatial working memory in mice. C57Bl/6 mice were trained to select, either by immediate response (attention) or by delayed-matching response (working memory), one target arm among the five open arms. For attention testing, mice were first trained to acquire the basic task in which one randomly selected baited arm remained lit until a choice was made. Criterion of &gt;80% correct with a response latency &lt;5 s was attained in 52-56 trials. Following this, attention was tested by using trials wherein light signal durations of 2, 1 or 0.5 s were intermixed to vary attentional load. In the working memory test, mice were submitted to a forced visit to a randomly selected baited arm during a presentation phase. Following a variable retention interval (R.I.), mice were replaced into the maze and rewarded for choosing this arm. Criterion of &gt;80% correct was attained in 35-40 trials and mice exhibited high levels of retention for R.I.s up to 4 h. Results validate the 5-arm maze for evaluation of both sustained visuo-spatial attention and spatial working memory in mice. Both the tasks are rapidly acquired and the 20% chance level provides high resolution for evaluating performance. This comparative strategy allows to dissociate attention and memory and to reveal deficits in these processes during ageing or in knockout strains. The high level of retention performance over R.I.s of 4 h enables studies using pharmacological treatments differentially affecting the acquisition, encoding, retention or retrieval phases of working memory. Furthermore, functional brain imaging studies may be used to identify neuronal networks which are differentially activated during these distinct phases.
Oxidative stress occurs in brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. A major question in AD research is whether the oxidative stress is just secondary to neurodegeneration. To test whether oxidative stress is an inherent property of AD tissues, the ability of cultured fibroblasts bearing the AD Presenilin-1 246 Ala--&gt;Glu mutation to handle reactive oxygen species (ROS) was compared to controls. Although ROS in cells from AD subjects were only slightly less than cells from controls under basal conditions (-10%) or after exposure to H(2)O(2) (-16%), treatment with antioxidants revealed clear differences. Pretreatment with DMSO, a hydroxyl radical scavenger, reduced basal and H(2)O(2)-induced ROS levels significantly more in cells from controls (-22%, -22%) than in those from AD subjects (-4%, +14%). On the other hand, pretreatment with Trolox diminished H(2)O(2)-induced ROS significantly more in cells from AD (-60%) than control subjects (-39%). In summary, cells from AD patients have greater Trolox sensitive ROS and less DMSO sensitive ROS than controls. The results demonstrate that fibroblasts bearing this PS-1 mutation have altered means of handling oxidative stress and appear useful for determining the mechanism underlying the altered redox metabolism.
Work over the past four decades has suggested that neural activity edits synaptic connections throughout the developing nervous system. Synaptic editing is shaped in large part by competitive interactions among different inputs innervating the same target cell that profoundly influence synaptic strength and structure. While competition plays out among presynaptic inputs that anterogradely influence their targets, postsynaptic target cells also modulate competition, in part through retrograde interactions that modulate presynaptic neurotransmitter release. One of the most useful synapses for studying how neural activity mediates synaptic editing is the connections between spinal motor neurons and skeletal muscle fibers, called neuromuscular junctions. Here we review current ideas about the role of activity in editing neuromuscular synaptic connections. The mechanisms by which activity mediates synaptic competition at these peripheral synapses are relevant to understanding how neural circuits in the central nervous system are continually altered by experience throughout life.
The zebrafish neuromuscular system has been an exemplary model for studying motor axon guidance since its detailed characterization almost two decades ago. In particular, characterization and detailed analysis has focused on the development and axogenesis of early developing primary motoneurons. During the first day of development, neuromuscular connections are limited to three primary motoneurons per spinal cord hemisegment innervating three discreet myotome territories. Observations of dye labeled primary motor axons in living embryos revealed that axogenesis is highly stereotyped with each primary motor axon extending along specific pathways and displaying particular characteristics. Exploiting the unique attributes of zebrafish, notably the ability to analyze motoneurons in living embryos and the capability to induce mutations, has allowed a comprehensive cellular, molecular and genetic approach to discerning the mechanisms that control the formation of neuromuscular connectivity. Knowledge gained from this body of work not only relates to zebrafish, but to vertebrate axon guidance in general.
The development of the neural control circuitry underlying different patterns of behavior is rapidly expanding area of interest in neuroscience. New important insights have been gained over the last few years at different molecular, cellular, network, and behavioral levels. Based primarily on the issues presented in the review articles in this issue, I have added some reflections as to what I find most challenging and important.
Increased generation of neurotoxic lipid peroxidation products is proposed to contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Current antioxidant therapies are directed at limiting propagation of brain lipid peroxidation. Another approach would be to scavenge the reactive aldehyde products of lipid peroxidation. N(alpha)-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) and aminoguanidine (AG) react rapidly and irreversibly with 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) in vitro, and both have been proposed as potential scavengers of HNE in biological systems. We have compared NAC, AG, and a series of congeners as scavengers of HNE and as neuroprotectants from HNE. Our results showed that while both NAC and AG had comparable chemical reactivity with HNE, only NAC and its congeners were able to block HNE-protein adduct formation in vitro and in neuronal cultures. Moreover, NAC and its congeners, but not AG, effectively protected brain mitochondrial respiration and neuronal microtubule structure from the toxic effects of HNE. We conclude that NAC and its congeners, but not AG, may act as neuroprotectants from HNE.
The cell-cycle regulator p16 inhibits the complex cdk4-cyclin D1 and controls G1-S transition. In human tumors, p16 inactivation is often accomplished by homozygous deletion (HD) of its encoding gene, CDKN2A. Methylation of the 5' CpG island promoter has been proposed as an alternative mechanism of inactivation. Expression of p16, CDKN2A HD and 5' CDKN2A CpG island methylation was studied in 25 oligodendrogliomas by immunohistochemistry and PCR amplification. Ten oligodendrogliomas were p16-immunonegative, and CDKN2A HD was determined in 8 of these cases. In the 2 immunonegative cases without HD, no CpG island methylation was found. The absence of CpG island methylation in the p16-immunonegative cases without HD suggests either non-genetic regulation of p16 or different genetic changes. CDKN2A HD did not correlate with histological grading (p = n.s.); however, it showed a correlation with survival (p = 0.03), supporting an important role of CDKN2A in the prognosis of oligodendrogliomas.
Results from neuroimaging studies have led to competing theories regarding the contributions of prefrontal regions to memory formation and retrieval. To investigate this issue, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess prefrontal activation during encoding and retrieval of pictures of objects. Responses to studied and unstudied objects at retrieval were compared between two tests with differing demands for the specificity of information to be retrieved (source vs old-new recognition). Results showed that bilateral ventral [Brodmann's areas (BA) 44, 45, and 47] and right dorsal (BA 9) prefrontal regions were activated during both encoding and retrieval, but activity in these regions was not reliably modulated by the specificity of information to be retrieved. A region in left anterior prefrontal cortex (BA 10/46) was reliably activated during retrieval trials, and activation in this region increased with demands to retrieve perceptually detailed information about studied objects. Our results show that left anterior prefrontal cortex is engaged during the monitoring and evaluation of specific memory characteristics at retrieval-a process critical for accurate episodic remembering.
Chronic alcohol consumption produces a painful peripheral neuropathy for which there is no reliably successful therapy, attributable to, in great part, a lack of understanding of the underlying mechanisms. We tested the hypothesis that neuropathic pain associated with chronic alcohol consumption is a result of abnormal peripheral nociceptor function. In rats maintained on a diet to simulate chronic alcohol consumption in humans, mechanical hyperalgesia was present by the fourth week and maximal at 10 weeks. Thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia were also present. Mechanical threshold of C-fibers in ethanol fed rats was lowered, and the number of action potentials during sustained stimulation increased. The hyperalgesia was acutely attenuated by intradermal injection of nonselective protein kinase C (PKC) or selective PKCepsilon inhibitors injected at the site of nociceptive testing. Western immunoblot analysis indicated a higher level of PKCepsilon in dorsal root ganglia from alcohol-fed rats, supporting a role for enhanced PKCepsilon second-messenger signaling in nociceptors contributing to alcohol-induced hyperalgesia.
Behavioral studies of learning and memory in both humans and animals support a role for sleep in the consolidation and integration of memories. The present study explored possible physiological mechanisms of sleep-dependent behavioral plasticity by examining the relationship between learning and state-dependent phasic signs of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Cortical electroencephalogram, electromyogram, eye movement, hippocampal theta-wave, and pontine-wave (P-wave) measures were recorded simultaneously in freely moving rats after a session of conditioned avoidance learning or a control session. After learning trials, rats spent 25.5% more time in REM sleep and 180.6% more time in a transitional state between slow-wave sleep and REM sleep (tS-R) compared with that in control trials. Both REM sleep and tS-R behavioral states are characterized by the presence of P-waves. P-wave density was significantly greater in the first four episodes of REM sleep after the learning session compared with the control session. Furthermore, the P-wave density change between the first and third REM sleep episodes was proportional to the improvement of task performance between the initial training session and the post-sleep retest session. These findings show that the increase in P-wave density during the post-training REM sleep episodes is correlated with the effective consolidation and retention of avoidance task learning.
Neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) respond preferentially to stimuli with distinct orientations and spatial frequencies. Although the organization of orientation selectivity has been thoroughly described, the arrangement of spatial frequency (SF) preference in V1 is controversial. Several layouts have been suggested, including laminar, columnar, clustered, pinwheel, and binary (high and low SF domains). We have reexamined the cortical organization of SF preference by imaging intrinsic cortical signals induced by stimuli of various orientations and SFs. SF preference maps, produced from optimally oriented stimuli, were verified using targeted microelectrode recordings. We found that a wide range of SFs is represented independently and mostly continuously within V1. Domains with SF preferences at the extremes of the SF continuum were separated by no more than (3/4) mm (conforming to the hypercolumn description of cortical organization) and were often found at pinwheel center singularities in the cortical map of orientation preference. The organization of cortical maps permits nearly all combinations of orientation and SF preference to be represented in V1, and the overall arrangement of SF preference in V1 suggests that SF-specific adaptation effects, found in psychophysical experiments, may be explained by local interactions within a given SF domain. By reanalyzing our data using a different definition of SF preference than is used in electrophysiological and psychophysical studies, we can reproduce the different SF organizations suggested by earlier studies.
Neostriatal cholinergic interneurons produce spontaneous tonic firing in the absence of synaptic input. Perforated patch recording and whole-cell recording combined with calcium imaging were used in vitro to identify the intrinsic membrane properties underlying endogenous excitability. Spontaneous firing was driven by the combined action of a sodium current and the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)), which together ensured that there was no zero current point in the subthreshold voltage range. Blockade of sodium channels or I(h) established a stable subthreshold resting membrane potential. A tetrodotoxin-sensitive region of negative slope conductance was observed between approximately -60 mV and threshold (approximately -50 mV) and the h-current was activated at all subthreshold voltages. Calcium imaging experiments revealed that there was minimal calcium influx at subthreshold membrane potentials but that action potentials produced elevations of calcium in both the soma and dendrites. Spike-triggered calcium entry shaped the falling phase of the action potential waveform and activated calcium-dependent potassium channels. Blockade of big-conductance channels caused spike broadening. Application of apamin, which blocks small-conductance channels, abolished the slow spike afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and caused a transition to burst firing. In the absence of synaptic input, a range of tonic firing patterns are observed, suggesting that the characteristic spike sequences described for tonically active cholinergic neurons (TANs) recorded in vivo are intrinsic in origin. The pivotal role of the AHP in regulating spike patterning indicates that burst firing of TANs in vivo could arise from direct or indirect modulation of the AHP without requiring phasic synaptic input.
The epsilon4 genotype of apolipoprotein E (apoE4) is the most established predisposing factor in Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, it remains unclear how apoE4 contributes to the pathophysiology. Here, we report that the apoE4 protein (ApoE4) evokes apoptosis in neuronal cells through the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) and heterotrimeric GTPases. We examined neuron/neuroblastoma hybrid F11 cells and found that these cells were killed by 30 microg/ml ApoE4, but not by 30 microg/ml ApoE3. ApoE4-induced death occurred with typical features for apoptosis in time- and dose-dependent manners, and was observed in SH-SY5Y neuroblastomas, but not in glioblastomas or non-neuronal Chinese hamster ovary cells. Activated, but not native, alpha2-macroglobulin suppressed this ApoE4 toxicity. Suppression by the antisense oligonucleotide to LRP and inhibition by low nanomolar concentrations of LRP-associated protein RAP provided evidence for the involvement of LRP. The involvement of heterotrimeric GTPases was demonstrated by the findings that (1) ApoE4-induced death was suppressed by pertussis toxin (PTX), but not by heat-inactivated PTX; and (2) transfection with PTX-resistant mutant cDNAs of Galpha(i) restored the toxicity of ApoE4 restricted by PTX. We thus conclude that one of the neurotoxic mechanisms triggered by ApoE4 is to activate a cell type-specific apoptogenic program involving LRP and the G(i) class of GTPases and that the apoE4 gene may play a direct role in the pathogenesis of AD and other forms of dementia.
We tested the hypothesis that extracellular membrane-bound carbonic anhydrase (CA) type IV is responsible for the regulation of interstitial pH (pH(o)) transients in brain. Rat hippocampal slices were incubated in phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC), which cleaves the link of CA IV to the external face of plasma membranes. Then evoked alkaline pH(o) shifts were studied in a recording chamber, using pH microelectrodes. Incubation fluid was saved for later analysis. The ability to buffer a rapid alkaline load was reduced markedly in PI-PLC-treated tissue as compared with adjacent, paired control slices. The effect of benzolamide (a poorly permeant CA inhibitor) on evoked pH(o) shifts was diminished greatly in the PI-PLC-treated tissue, consistent with the washout of interstitial CA. Treatment of the incubation fluid with SDS abolished nearly all of the CA activity in fluid from controls, whereas an SDS-insensitive component remained in the fluid from PI-PLC-treated slices. These data suggested that CA type II (which is blocked by SDS) leaked from injured glial cells in both slice preparations, whereas CA type IV (which is insensitive to SDS) was liberated selectively into the fluid from PI-PLC-treated tissue. Western blot analysis was consistent with this interpretation, demonstrating a predominance of CA IV in the incubation fluid from PI-PLC-treated tissue and variable amounts of CA II in fluid from PI-PLC-treated and control slices. These results demonstrate that interstitial CA activity brain is attributable principally to membrane-bound CA IV.
In vivo neocortical neurons fire apparently random trains of action potentials in response to sensory stimuli. Does this randomness represent a signal or noise around a mean firing rate? Here we use the timing of action potential trains recorded in vivo to explore the dendritic consequences of physiological patterns of action potential firing in neocortical pyramidal neurons in vitro. We find that action potentials evoked by physiological patterns of firing backpropagate threefold to fourfold more effectively into the distal apical dendrites (&gt;600 microm from the soma) than action potential trains reflecting their mean firing rate. This amplification of backpropagation was maximal during high-frequency components of physiological spike trains (80-300 Hz). The disparity between backpropagation during physiological and mean firing patterns was dramatically reduced by dendritic hyperpolarization. Consistent with this voltage dependence, dendritic depolarization amplified single action potentials by fourfold to sevenfold, with a spatial profile strikingly similar to the amplification of physiological spike trains. Local blockade of distal dendritic sodium channels substantially reduced amplification of physiological spike trains, but did not significantly alter action potential trains reflecting their mean firing rate. Dendritic electrogenesis during physiological spike trains was also reduced by the blockade of calcium channels. We conclude that amplification of backpropagating action potentials during physiological spike trains is mediated by frequency-dependent supralinear temporal summation, generated by the recruitment of distal dendritic sodium and calcium channels. Together these data indicate that the temporal nature of physiological patterns of action potential firing contains a signal that is transmitted effectively throughout the dendritic tree.
Activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition may contribute to excitotoxic neuronal death (Ankarcrona et al., 1996; Dubinsky and Levi, 1998). However, cyclosporin A (CsA), a potent inhibitor of the permeability transition in liver mitochondria, only protects against neuronal injury by limited doses of glutamate and selected ischemic paradigms. The lack of consistent CsA inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition was analyzed with the use of isolated brain mitochondria. Changes in the permeability of the inner mitochondrial membrane were evaluated by monitoring mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi), using the distribution of tetraphenylphosphonium, and by monitoring mitochondrial swelling, using light absorbance measurements. Metabolic impairments, large Ca(2+) loads, omission of external Mg(2+), or low doses of palmitic acid or the protonophore FCCP exacerbated Ca(2+)-induced sustained depolarizations and swelling and eliminated CsA inhibition. BSA restored CsA inhibition in mitochondria challenged with 50 microm Ca(2+), but not with 100 microm Ca(2+). CsA failed to prevent Ca(2+)-induced depolarization or to repolarize mitochondria when mitochondria were depolarized excessively. Similarly, CsA failed to prevent mitochondrial swelling or PEG-induced shrinkage after swelling when the Ca(2+) challenge produced a strong, sustained depolarization. Thus in brain mitochondria CsA may be effective only as an inhibitor of the permeability transition and the Ca(2+)-activated low permeability state under conditions of partial depolarization. In contrast, ADP plus oligomycin inhibited both permeabilities under all of the conditions that were tested. In situ, the neuroprotective action of CsA may be limited to glutamate challenges sufficiently toxic to induce the permeability transition but not so severe that mitochondrial depolarization exceeds threshold.
Most techniques used for the study of the fiber connectivity in the central nervous system produce results which are visualized in the conventional light microscope or fluorescence microscope. Although in some cases this may be sufficient, often proof is necessary that fibers which enter a particular brain area indeed terminate here. Alternatively, it may be necessary to determine whether the axon terminals of traced fibers form synapses with specific processes of specific neurons. With the latter neurons all cellular elements are meant which can be labeled in some way. Evidence of synaptic connectivity necessitates visualization at a higher level of resolution, that is at the electron-microscopic level. In this contribution to the Special Issue we discuss several methods currently available to visualize individual tracers, and methods developed to visualize two different markers, that is one marker attached to a fiber or an axon terminal, and the second marker attached to a presumed pre- or postsynaptic neuronal element.
We have shown previously that retrogradely-transported cholera toxin B (CTB)-saporin has eliminated sympathetic preganglionic neurons by 7 days after injection (Llewellyn-Smith, I.J., Martin, C.L., Arnolda, L.F., Minson, J.B., 1999. NeuroReport 10, 307). To ascertain whether this tracer-toxin can kill other types of neurons that transport CTB retrogradely with a similar time course, we injected CTB-saporin into the facial nerves of rats and allowed them to survive for 7 days. Facial motoneurons were counted ipsilateral and contralateral to the injected nerves in sections of perfused medulla processed to reveal immunoreactivity for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). There was a statistically significant decrease in the number of ChAT-immunoreactive neurons ipsilateral to the injected nerve in three out of nine rats. Inadequate injections were probably the reason that most rats showed no decrease in motoneurons numbers after treatment with CTB-saporin, since the staining intensity and numbers of facial motoneurons that showed CTB-immunoreactivity varied markedly between rats after retrograde tracing with unconjugated CTB. These results show that CTB-saporin can eliminate motoneurons as well as sympathetic preganglionic neurons, indicate that protocols for the injection of tracer-toxins should be optimized to ensure maximum neuronal death and support our contention that CTB-saporin should kill any central neuron that expresses GM1 ganglioside, the membrane component to which CTB binds.
The ability of selected neurotropic viruses to move transneuronally in the central nervous system makes them particularly well suited for use as tracers in experimental neuroanatomy. Recently, techniques have been developed for using rabies virus as a transneuronal tracer. Several features of rabies infection make the virus particularly useful for this purpose. We examined transneuronal transport of rabies in the central nervous system of primates after intracortical and intramuscular injections. Rabies was transported in a time-dependent manner to infect synaptically-connected chains of neurons. Transport occurred exclusively in the retrograde direction. At the survival times we used, rabies infection was restricted to neurons and did not cause cell lysis. There are several methodological and safety issues that must be considered when designing studies that use rabies as a transneuronal tracer. When appropriate protocols and laboratory practices have been established, transneuronal transport of rabies can be a safe and efficient tool for revealing the organization of multi-synaptic circuits in the central nervous system.
In the last three decades of research in neuroscience, fluorescent probes have gone from technical tools in the studies of physicochemical reactions, to being versatile tools in developmental neurobiology, neuroanatomy, angiography, neuromorphology, connectivity, cell death and even photodynamic therapy. Fluorescent dyes belong to heterogeneous groups of substances, but the feature to emit light of a certain wavelength depends on the energy status of the corresponding chemical bond. Therefore, light emission can range from the blue to the infrared spectrum, thus allowing multiple stains of the same cell, or event. The heterogeneity in their structure allows application of some fluorescent dyes for anterograde long-tract labelling, whereas others can be used for retrograde tracing. Lipophilic dyes are suitable for intramembraneous diffusion along cell membranes post-mortem, whereas hydrophilic stains seem more suitable for genealogic cell studies over several cell divisions. In the same time, less attention has been paid by most researchers to the use of fluorescent dyes to monitor neuroglial interactions and glioanatomy in the healthy and diseased brain. Studies of cell-cell-interactions during apoptosis can now be carried out with sequestration and subsequent phagocytosis of intracellular dyes. The present review focuses on recent developments that include the use of fluorescent probes. These probes make it possible to transneuronally assess functions of glial cells during programmed cell death, or induced degeneration. The high variety of available dyes, and their particular accumulation within subcellular compartments, is promising to shed light on some glial cell geometry and functions. The lessons obtained from the vast number of studies in neurons are of increasing importance for cells too, as their functions are not directly accessible. In short, some glial-glial and neuroglial negotiations will be analysed in near future by developing new, or by modifying existing fluorescent probes.
Human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC) may have pluripotent function because they are formed from the epiblast cells at the 8th day of fertilization. Previously, we reported that HAEC have the capacity to synthesize and release acetylcholine and catecholamine associated with the binding sites of catecholamine receptors. We show the neurotrophic function of a conditioned medium from HAEC using cultured cortical neurons of E18 rats. Extensive analyses with various techniques demonstrated that HAEC and immortalized HAEC synthesize and release brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and nerve growth factor (NGF). Other neurotrophic factors were not detected in a cultured medium of HAEC by enzyme immunoassay. Various neurotrophic factors or growth factors did not show neurotrophic effects on E18 rat neuron except for EGF. Because EGF was not detected in the conditioned medium of HAEC, these data indicate an unidentified neurotrophic factor presently that is synthesized and released from HAEC. The amniotic membrane may have a significant role in supplying neurotrophic factors to the amniotic fluid as well as neurotransmitters, suggesting an important function to the early stages of neural development in the embryo.
Truncated polypeptides containing expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) stretches tend to form cytoplasmic or nuclear aggregates in cultured cells, leading to cell death. Although it has been shown recently that caspase-8 coaggregates with polyQ and is activated during polyQ-mediated cell death, little is known of the location and timing of caspase-8 activation by nuclear polyQ aggregates. Also, the relationship between nuclear polyQ aggregate-mediated cell death and activation of other caspases is unclear. In P19 embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells, which can be made to differentiate into neuronal cells, polyQ72 repeats preferentially aggregate in the nucleus. Nuclear aggregates of polyQ72 induced P19 EC cell death, with a high frequency of cells exhibiting morphology characteristic of apoptosis (i.e., roundness, cell shrinkage, chromatin condensation) and DNA fragmentation. In the present study, we used antisera that specifically recognized the active forms of caspase-8, -3, and -9 but not their proforms, and showed that only caspase-8 and -3 were activated during the generation of polyQ72 aggregates in P19 EC cell nuclei. Furthermore, we showed that the caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk inhibited DNA fragmentation, but only partially inhibited the appearance of apoptotic morphology. Thus, caspase activation, including caspase-8 and -3, is necessary for polyQ-mediated DNA fragmentation but not sufficient for polyQ-mediated cell death in P19 EC cells.
Extracellular space (ECS) diffusion parameters were studied in isolated frog spinal cord grey matter and filum terminale (FT), that is predominantly composed of glial cells and axons. We compared the cell swelling induced by K(+) application, hypotonic stress and tetanic stimulation of afferent input. The ECS diffusion parameters, volume fraction alpha (alpha = ECS volume/total tissue volume), tortuosity lambda (lambda(2) = free/apparent diffusion coefficient in the tissue) and non-specific cellular uptake k', were determined by the real-time iontophoretic method using TMA(+)-selective microelectrodes. Stimulation-evoked changes in extracellular K(+) concentration ([K(+)](e)) were measured by K(+)-selective microelectrodes. Histological analysis revealed that in the central region of the FT, the cell density was lower than in SC, neurons and oligodendrocytes were scarce, GFAP-positive astrocytes were abundant, and they showed thicker and more densely stained processes than in spinal cord. In the FT, alpha was 58% higher and lambda significantly lower than in the spinal cord. In 50 mM K(+), alpha in spinal cord decreased from about 0.19 to 0.09, i.e., by 53%, whereas in FT from about 0.32 to 0.20, i.e., by only 38%; lambda increased significantly more in FT than in spinal cord. Hypotonic solution (175 mmol/kg(-1)) resulted in similar decreases in alpha, and there were no changes in lambda in either spinal cord or FT. Stimulation of VIII or IX dorsal root (DR) by 30 Hz evoked an increase in [K(+)](e) from 3 to 11-12 mM in spinal cord, but to only 4-5 mM in FT. In the spinal cord this stimulation led to a 30% decrease in alpha and a small increase in lambda whereas in the FT the decrease in alpha was only about 10% and no increase in lambda was found. We conclude that in spinal cord, a complex tissue with a higher density of cellular elements than the FT, 50 mM K(+), hypotonic stress as well as DR stimulation evoked a greater decrease in ECS volume than in FT. Nevertheless, the K(+)-induced increase in tortuosity was higher in FT, suggesting that a substantial part of the K(+)-evoked increase in lambda was due to astrocytic swelling.
1. Intermittent hypoxia elicits long-term facilitation (LTF) of phrenic motor output in anaesthetized rats. We tested the hypothesis that an equal cumulative duration of continuous hypoxia would not elicit phrenic LTF. 2. Integrated phrenic nerve activity was recorded in urethane-anaesthetized, vagotomized, paralysed and ventilated rats exposed to: (1) 3 X 3 min hypoxic episodes (inspired O2 fraction (FI, O2) = 0.11) separated by 5 min hyperoxia (FI,O2 = 0.5; n = 6), (2) 9 min continuous hypoxia (n = 6), or (3) 20 min continuous hypoxia (n = 7). Isocapnia was maintained throughout the protocol. 3. Consistent with previous studies, phrenic amplitude was significantly elevated for at least 1 h following intermittent hypoxia (78 +/- 15% 60 min post-hypoxia; P &lt; 0.05) with an associated increase in burst frequency (11 +/- 2.1 bursts min-1; P &lt; 0.05). In contrast, 9 or 20 min continuous hypoxia did not elicit LTF of either phrenic amplitude (4.7 +/- 5.1 and 10.1 +/- 10.2% 60 min post-hypoxia, respectively; P &gt; 0.05) or frequency (4.6 +/- 1.3 and 5.1 +/- 2 bursts min-1 60 min post-hypoxia, respectively; P &gt; 0.05). 4. The results indicate that hypoxia-induced long-term facilitation of phrenic motor output is sensitive to the pattern of hypoxic exposure in anaesthetized rats.
The superior olivary complex conveys information about binaural time and intensity to higher centers in the auditory pathway. This information is sent primarily to the subdivisions of the inferior colliculus and to the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus. Olivary projections are the predominant afferents to the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus. Electron microscopic observations of axonal endings in the central nucleus suggest that the ipsilateral medial superior olive and contralateral lateral superior olive make excitatory synapses. In contrast, the axons from the ipsilateral lateral superior olive to the central nucleus contain glycine and have a morphology consistent with inhibitory synapses. Little is known about the transmitter types used by olivary projections to the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus, but they are presumed to be similar to the collicular projections. Olivary ascending efferents are tonotopically organized and terminate in laminae in the inferior colliculus. They combine with other laminar afferents and postsynaptic neurons to create fibro-dendritic laminae in the colliculus. The key to the functional organization of the olivary efferents is the possible segregation of excitatory olivary efferents from each other in &quot;synaptic domains&quot; located on the laminae. This segregation may be the major determinant of response properties in the colliculus. Olivary efferents may converge with other non-olivary afferents on the same postsynaptic neurons in the colliculus. Inhibitory efferents from the lateral superior olive are essential in shaping the response properties of neurons in the colliculus. Olivary efferents to the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus are also key components of ascending pathways that inhibit neurons in the midbrain.
Autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia is genetically heterogeneous, with at least five loci identified by linkage analysis. Recently, mutations in spastin were identified in SPG4, the most common locus for dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia that was previously mapped to chromosome 2p22. We identified five novel mutations in the spastin gene in five families with SPG4 mutations from North America and Tunisia and showed the absence of correlation between the predicted mutant spastin protein and age at onset of symptoms.



The action of nitric oxide (NO) and the distribution of putative nitric oxide synthase-containing cells in the pelagic pteropod mollusc Clione limacina were studied using nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry and conventional microelectrode techniques in the isolated central nervous system and in semi-intact preparations. The majority of NADPH-d-reactive neuronal somata were restricted to the cerebral ganglia. The labeled cells were small in diameter (20-30 microm) and were located in the medial areas of the ganglia. A pair of symmetrical neurons was found in the peripheral &quot;olfactory organ.&quot; NADPH-d-reactive non-neuronal cells were detected in the periphery and were mainly associated with secretorylike cells and organs of the renopericardial system. The NO donor, diethylamine NO complex sodium salt (10-100 microM), activated neurons from both feeding and locomotory circuits. The cGMP analog, 8-Br-cGMP, mimicked the effects of NO on neurons. We suggest that NO is an endogenous neuromodulator involved in the control of some aspects of feeding and locomotor behavior of Clione.
Dopamine levels within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) can be manipulated by selective inhibitors of the serotonin transporter (SERT). However, the cellular mechanisms underlying these effects are not clear. The present study sought to examine the distribution of immunogold-silver labeling for SERT (SERT-ir) in the rat prelimbic PFC and to describe its ultrastructural spatial relationship to dopamine axons labeled by immunoperoxidase staining for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH-ir). SERT was localized to axonal profiles that ranged in size from fine caliber fibers containing dense SERT-ir, primarily along the membrane, and rarely forming synapses to large, spherical varicosities exhibiting less dense staining, mainly within the cytoplasm, and more commonly forming synapses. Synaptic contacts of SERT profiles were typically asymmetric, axospinous, and more frequent in superficial (38%) than deep (19%) layers. For TH-ir profiles, only 24% were within the same 13.8 microm(2) microenvironment as SERT-ir profiles. Furthermore, TH-ir and SERT-ir profiles were rarely directly apposed to each other or convergent onto common dendritic structures. Instead, these two profiles were typically separated by an average distance of 1.30 microm in the coronal plane, a value that did not vary with the size of SERT-ir axons, the amount of SERT labeling, or the cortical layer examined. These results are consistent with two populations of SERT profiles within the rat prelimbic PFC that may arise from different raphe nuclei or that represent varicose and intervaricose portions of the same axons. Moreover, the functional interactions between cortical serotonin and dopamine systems that may contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of antidepressant drugs are likely to occur over distances greater than 1 microm.
The three Nobel laureates Arvid Carlsson, Paul Greengard and Eric Kandel have made pioneering discoveries concerning slow synaptic transmission between neurons. As common theme, for which the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 2000 is given, the Nobel Assembly chose 'signal transduction in the nervous system'. The work of Carlsson led to the discovery of dopamine as transmitter in the brain and opened the way for the development of the levodopa therapy of patients suffering from Parkinson's disease. His later work concentrated on the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia and the rationale for the mechanism of action of antipsychotics. Greengard pioneered the field of receptor-mediated phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of brain proteins. He was the first to describe the cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase in the brain and the activation of this kinase following dopamine receptor activation. A substrate enriched in cells that bear dopamine receptors is 'dopamine- and cyclic-AMP-regulated phosphoprotein' (DARPP-32). Phosphorylation by the cyclic-AMP-dependent kinase influences its protein phosphatase inhibiting capacity and, as such, DARPP-32 is an important 'feed-forward activator' in the dopamine signal transduction cascade. Kandel received the prize for his contributions to our understanding of the neural substrate of learning and memory. Most of his work was carried out in the sea slug Aplysia in which he was able to relate three psychologically defined forms of learning--habituation, sensitisation, and classical conditioning--to subcellular processes and intercellular signalling. Kandel is known all over the world for his eminent textbook Principles of Neural Science which inspired generations of young neuroscientists. It seems that it is not so much the signal transduction that joins these laureates but their outstanding conceptual approach to, in fact, three different themes of the neurosciences during the second part of the last century.
It has been well established that inspiratory neurons of the dorsal respiratory group (DRG) are classified into two types based on whether they receive inputs from slowly-adapting pulmonary stretch receptors (SARs) or not. Inspiratory neurons with SAR inputs are called Ibeta and the others are called Ialpha neurons. In this study, we identified a novel group of inspiratory neurons in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially-ventilated rats. (1) These DRG inspiratory neurons were activated characteristically by lung deflation. (2) They were orthodromically activated by electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve at a low intensity just above the threshold for afferents from SARs or rapidly-adapting pulmonary stretch receptors (RARs). (3) The orthodromic latencies (ranged from 1.9 to 2.5 ms) indicated that they receive direct inputs from low-threshold vagal afferents. (4) Unlike Ibeta neurons, they hardly responded to lung inflation and never exhibited tonic firing in response to maintained lung inflation. (5) The majority (92%) of them were antidromically activated by electrical stimulation of the cervical spinal cord. These deflation-sensitive inspiratory neurons clearly form a distinct group, and their firing pattern is consistent with the hypothesis that they receive inputs from RAR afferents as well as the central inspiratory drive. The results indicating that DRG inspiratory neurons are classified into at least three groups provide new insights into the organization and role of the DRG.
Here we report the molecular cloning of the chicken (Gallus gallus) neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor Y2, the first non-mammalian Y2 receptor. It displays 75-80% identity to mammalian Y2 and has a surprisingly divergent cytoplasmic tail. Expression of the receptor protein in a cell line showed that the receptor did not bind the mammalian Y2 selective antagonist BIIE0246. Furthermore, porcine [Leu(31), Pro(34)]NPY, which binds poorly to mammalian Y2, exhibited an unexpectedly high affinity for chicken Y2. In situ hybridisation revealed expression in the hippocampus. Thus, the chicken Y2 receptor exhibits substantial differences with regard to sequence and pharmacological profile in comparison to mammalian Y2 receptors, while the expression pattern in the central nervous system resembles that observed in mammals.
Signals transmitted by class II major histocompatibility complex are important regarding cell function related to antigen presentation. We examined effects of DR-mediated signaling on Ig production from B cells. Cross-linking HLA-DR molecules on B cells by solid-phase anti-HLA-DR monoclonal antibodies, led to an increased production of IgM, without proliferation or apoptosis. This event was accompanied by an enhanced expression of both membrane- and secretory-type IgM heavy chain mRNA. When peptide-pulsed B cells were co-incubated with an HLA-DR-restricted T cell clone treated by the protein synthesis inhibitor emetine, peptide-induced de novo expression of lymphokines and cell-surface molecules on T cells can be neglected. CD40-CD154 interaction was not involved in IgM enhancement, in such a system. The protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitors and the Syk inhibitor piceatannol, but not the Src inhibitor PP2 had a marked inhibitory effect on IgM secretion. Furthermore, ligation of HLA-DR on B cells using the F(ab')2 fragment of anti-DR monoclonal antibody, enhanced Syk activity. Our data suggest that HLA-DR on B cells not only present antigenic peptides to T cells, but also up-regulate IgM production, in association with Syk activation and without the involvement of Src kinases, hence the possible physiological relevance of Src-independent Syk activation.
The expression of the human presenilin-1 cellular gene is suppressed by the p53 protooncogene. The rapid kinetic of the down-regulation has suggested that it may result from a primary mechanism. We show here that p53 also suppresses the transcription of a presenilin-1 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter synthetic gene in transient infection assays in neuroblastoma (SK-N-SH) and hepatoma (HepG2) cell lines. Only a minimum promoter including sequences from -35 to + 6 from the transcription initiation is sufficient to confer down-regulation. We have previously defined a crucial DNA element controlling 90% of the expression of the gene within the same short area, and the identification of the transcription factors involved should also provide insights into the regulation of PS1 by p53. This region contains an Ets transcription factor binding motif, and a 2-base pair alteration within the core sequence (GGAA to TTAA) of the Ets consensus also reduced transcription by more than 90%. We now show that Ets1 and Ets2 indeed transactivate a PS1 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter including the (-35 to +6) fragment. Furthermore, in vitro translated Ets2 binds specifically to the -10 Ets motif in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Therefore, Ets1/2 factors bind specifically to the -10 Ets element and activate PS1 transcription. We also show that the coactivator p300 enhances the activation by Ets1 and Ets2 as well as the repression by p53. p300 is known to interact with p53 as well as with Ets1 and Ets2. We show that p53 does not bind directly to the PS1 promoter. Hence the repression of PS1 transcription by p53 is likely to be mediated through protein-protein interactions.
Increased oxidative stress is believed to be an important factor in the development of diabetic complications. In this study, the effect of diabetes on the susceptibility of synaptosomes to oxidative stress, induced by the oxidizing system ascorbate/Fe2+, on the activity of antioxidant enzymes and on the levels of glutathione and vitamin E was investigated. Synaptosomes were isolated from brain of 29-weeks-old Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats, a model of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and from normal Wistar rats. Synaptosomes isolated from GK rats displayed a lower susceptibility to lipid peroxidation, as assessed by quantifying thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), than normal rats (5.33 +/- 0.79 and 7.58 +/- 0.7 nmol TBARS/mg protein, respectively). In the absence of oxidants, no significant differences were found between the levels of peroxidation in synaptosomes of diabetic or control rats. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities were unaltered in the brain of diabetic rats. There were no statistically significant differences in fatty acid composition of total lipids and reduced glutathione levels in synaptosomes of diabetic and control rats. The decreased susceptibility to membrane lipid peroxidation of diabetic rats synaptosomes correlated with a 1.3-fold increase in synaptosomal vitamin E levels. Vitamin E levels in plasma were also higher in diabetic rats (21.32 micromol/l) as compared to normal rats (15.13 micromol/l). We conclude that the increased resistance to lipid peroxidation in GK rat brain synaptosomes may be due to the increased vitamin E content, suggesting that diabetic animals might develop enhanced defense systems against brain oxidative stress.
In this month's essay, Eric R. Kandel and Larry R. Squire chronicle how brain research has migrated from the peripheries of biology and psychology to assume a central position within those disciplines. The multidiscipline of neuroscience that emerged from this process now ranges from genes to cognition, from molecules to minds.


The Fe65s and X11s are two families of adaptor proteins that bind to the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP). Although both the X11s and Fe65s bind to similar regions of APP, they have opposing effects on Abeta production and hence may represent novel therapeutic targets. However, there is no evidence that the Fe65s and X11s are present within the same cell type or cell compartment and are thus capable of competing for binding to APP. Here we show that in neurones and transfected cells, APP, Fe65 and X11beta show overlapping subcellular distributions. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Fe65 and X11beta compete for binding to APP.
When observing ourselves in a mirror, we see our body and adjacent objects (e.g. a comb or razor) projecting the image of distant objects. Are these recoded by the brain as reflecting stimuli in peripersonal space? To address this, we exploited the neuropsychological phenomenon of crossmodal, visual-tactile extinction, as shown by patient BV following right-hemisphere stroke. In such crossmodal extinction, a right visual event impairs the perception of a simultaneous left tactile event. In BV, the right visual stimulus (an LED flash) induced more extinction of touch on the contralesional left hand when presented near the ipsilesional right hand, than when distant from it. This agrees with previous data in patients and monkeys showing that visual-tactile interactions are strongest within peripersonal space. Crucially, we also found that an ipsilesional flash produced more extinction when observed as the distant mirror-reflection of an LED that lay close to the ipsilesional hand, rather than as a distant LED flash projecting an equivalent visual image directly. This suggests that in BV, seeing his own hand via a mirror activates a representation of peripersonal space around that hand, not of the extrapersonal space suggested by the distant visual image in the mirror. We discuss the possible neural basis of interpreting mirror reflections.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) has been reported in tangle-bearing neurons of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and can be induced by tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha). High CNS levels of TNFalpha are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as AD, where neurons dependent on neurotrophins such as nerve growth factor (NGF) are particularly affected. In this study we determined the effect of TNFalpha on iNOS in NGF-responsive pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. We found that while TNFalpha and NGF alone were unable to induce iNOS, their simultaneous addition resulted in iNOS induction and the release of nitric oxide. Our results suggest that synergistic iNOS induction by TNFalpha and NGF may occur in selective population of NGF-responsive neurons in the presence of elevated CNS levels of TNFalpha.
Blind (previously sighted) subjects are able to analyse, describe and graphically represent a number of high-contrast visual images translated into musical form de novo. We presented musical transforms of a random assortment of photographic images of objects and urban scenes to such subjects, a few of which depicted architectural and other landmarks that may be useful in navigating a route to a particular destination. Our blind subjects were able to use the sound representation to construct a conscious mental image that was revealed by their ability to depict a visual target by drawing it. We noted the similarity between the way the visual system integrates information from successive fixations to form a representation that is stable across eye movements and the way a succession of image frames (encoded in sound) which depict different portions of the image are integrated to form a seamless mental image. Finally, we discuss the profound resemblance between the way a professional musician carries out a structural analysis of a musical composition in order to relate its structure to the perception of musical form and the strategies used by our blind subjects in isolating structural features that collectively reveal the identity of visual form.
The receptive fields for simple cells in visual cortex show a strong preference for edges of a particular orientation and display adjacent excitatory and inhibitory subfields. These subfields are projections from ON-center and OFF-center lateral geniculate nucleus cells, respectively. Here we present a single-cell model using ON and OFF channels, a natural scene environment, and synaptic modification according to the Bienenstock, Cooper, and Munro (BCM) theory. Our results indicate that lateral geniculate nucleus cells must act predominantly in the linear region around the level of spontaneous activity, to lead to the observed segregation of ON/OFF subfields.
Cortical maps express experience-dependent plasticity. However, the underlying cellular mechanisms remain unclear. We have recently shown that sensory deprivation results in large changes of the short-term dynamics of excitatory synapses at the junction of deprived and spared somatosensory (barrel) cortex, which may contribute to map reorganization. A key issue is whether the alterations in short-term synaptic dynamics are driven by a loss of sensory input or by competition between deprived and spared inputs. Here, we report that short-term dynamics of horizontal pathways in the middle of uniformly deprived cortex change only modestly. Vertical intracortical pathways were unaffected by deprivation. Our results suggest that uniform loss of sensory activity has a limited effect on short-term synaptic dynamics. We concluded that competition between sensory inputs is necessary to produce large-scale changes in synaptic dynamics after sensory deprivation.
Deposition of aggregated protein into neurofilament-rich cytoplasmic inclusion bodies is a common cytopathological feature of neurodegenerative disease. How-or indeed whether-protein aggregation and inclusion body formation cause neurotoxicity are presently unknown. Here, we show that the capacity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) to aggregate into biochemically distinct, high molecular weight, insoluble protein complexes (IPCs) is a gain of function associated with mutations linked to autosomal dominant familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. SOD IPCs are detectable in spinal cord extracts from transgenic mice expressing mutant SOD several months before inclusion bodies and motor neuron pathology are apparent. Sequestration of mutant SOD into cytoplasmic inclusion bodies resembling aggresomes requires retrograde transport on microtubules. These data indicate that aggregation and inclusion body formation are mechanistically and temporally distinct processes.
Memory is one of the most fundamental mental processes. Neuroscientists study this process by using extremely diverse strategies. Two different approaches aimed at understanding learning and memory were introduced in this symposium. The first focuses on the roles played by synaptic plasticity, especially in long-term depression in the cerebellum in motor learning, and its regulatory mechanism. The second approach uses an elegant chick-quail transplantation system on defined brain regions to study how neural populations interact in development to form behaviorally important neural circuits and to elucidate neurobiological correlates of perceptual and motor predispositions.
Previous studies suggest that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors facilitates phasic firing and spike clustering displayed by magnocellular neuroendocrine cells (MNCs) of the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Osmotic stimulation produces similar activity patterns which, in turn, can lead to enhanced release of vasopressin and oxytocin from MNCs. Our laboratory has shown that dehydration regulates the expression of the NMDA receptor subunits, NR1 and NR2B, in the SON and PVN, suggesting their involvement in osmoregulation. In the present study, we examined the cellular localization of NR2B, one of the glutamate-binding subunits of the NMDA receptor, with an NR2B-specific antibody. Using double-label immunohistochemistry and three different detection methods with metallic, peroxidase, and fluorescence markers, it was found that both vasopressin and oxytocin-producing MNC populations synthesize NR2B. The incidence of NR2B colocalization with vasopressin-neurophysin in the SON and lateral magnocellular PVN (PVL) was 0.95 and 0.91, respectively. For oxytocin-neurophysin, the corresponding values were 0.97 and 0.95, respectively. Furthermore, the extent of colocalization in MNCs of the SON, PVL, retrochiasmatic SON, and accessory neurosecretory nuclei was similar. Astrocytes associated with the SON, and identified with antibodies targeting glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) or vimentin, were not colabeled with NR2B. Our results demonstrate that NR2B protein is expressed by almost all MNCs and that it is equally prevalent in vasopressinergic and oxytocinergic populations of various magnocellular neuroendocrine nuclei supporting a role of NMDA receptors in MNC-mediated neurosecretory processes. Although NR2B may form part of functional NMDA receptors on MNCs, it is probably not present on astrocytes associated with nearby MNCs.
Neonatal lesions of primary visual cortex (areas 17, 18 and 19; VC) in cats lead to significant changes in the organization of visual pathways, including severe retrograde degeneration of retinal ganglion cells of the X/beta class. Cells in posteromedial lateral suprasylvian (PMLS) cortex display plasticity in that they develop normal receptive-field properties despite these changes, but they do not acquire the response properties of striate neurons that were damaged (e.g., high spatial-frequency tuning, low contrast threshold). One possibility is that the loss of X-pathway information, which is thought to underlie striate cortical properties in normal animals, precludes the acquisition of these responses by cells in remaining brain areas following neonatal VC damage. Previously, we have shown that monocular enucleation at the time of VC lesion prevents the X-/beta-cell loss in the remaining eye. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether this sparing of retinal X-cells leads to the development of striate-like response properties in PMLS cortex. We recorded the responses of PMLS neurons to visual stimuli to assess spatial-frequency tuning, spatial resolution, and contrast threshold. Results indicated that some PMLS cells in animals with a neonatal VC lesion and monocular enucleation displayed a preference for higher spatial frequencies, had higher spatial resolution, and had lower contrast thresholds than PMLS cells in cats with VC lesion alone. Taken together, these results suggest that preserving X-pathway input during this critical period leads to the addition of some X-like properties to PMLS visual responses.
Microglial response factor-1 is a newly isolated microglial gene, which encodes a Ca(2+) binding protein MRF-1 expressed in microglia and macrophages. We induced 1 h of focal cerebral ischemia or 10 min of global cerebral ischemia in the rat, and investigated the expression of MRF-1 immunoreactivity following ischemia. MRF-1 was present in resting microglia and was upregulated in response to microglial activation. MRF-1 was localized to all the cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system (microglia, monocytes, and perivascular cells) that appeared in the ischemic brain.
The presence and potential origin of the neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) was determined in cardiac ganglia of the mudpuppy, Necturus maculosus. Although PACAP has been implicated in the regulation of cardiac function in several mammalian species, the presence of this peptide in the autonomic nervous system (ANS) of other species is unclear. Thus, this study is the first to characterize this highly conserved peptide in the ANS of a non-mammalian species. PACAP-immunoreactivity was observed in nerve fibers throughout the mudpuppy cardiac ganglia and often was co-localized with the sensory neuropeptides substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide. Removal of all extrinsic inputs to the ganglia by organ culture eliminated PACAP-immunoreactivity in the cardiac ganglia, whereas bilateral vagotomies only partially reduced PACAP-labeling. PACAP-immunoreactive neurons were observed in both high thoracic dorsal root ganglia and in vagal sensory ganglia. While no PACAP-positive neurons were observed in caudal medulla brainstem regions, PACAP-containing nerve fibers were found in the region of the nucleus solitarius. These results suggest that, in the mudpuppy, PACAP is found primarily in visceral afferent fibers, originating from cells in either the dorsal root ganglia or vagal sensory ganglia. Based on their anatomic localization, these afferent fibers may function to transmit important sensory information to cardiovascular centers in the brain as well as serving as local reflex inputs to modulate postganglionic parasympathetic output within the cardiac ganglion itself.
The number and distribution of mitotic epithelial cells in the ocular surface during homeostasis and in response to abrasion of the mammalian cornea were determined. Normal rats and those receiving a 3 mm diameter centrally located epithelial defect, received an intraperitoneal injection of colchicine 6 h prior to sacrifice. Mitosis in the basal epithelium during homeostasis was comparable in magnitude across the ocular surface epithelium, with the exception of a few mitotic figures in the midline. Thirty percent of the mitotic figures were in the basal layer (layer 1), and 70% were in layer 2; the cells in layer 2 were often noted to retain connection to the basal lamina by cytoplasmic stalks. Mitosis was rarely noted in the regenerating epithelium. However, summation of M phase cells in both the basal and suprabasal epithelium adjacent to the wound showed increases of 3- and 5-fold at 30 and 36 h after abrasion, respectively, from levels at homeostasis and the time of injury. In striking contrast to homeostatic epithelium, 80% of the mitotic cells were located in layer 1 of the corneal epithelium, with normal distribution observed by 72 h. Mitosis in the limbus and conjunctiva was increased 3-fold at 30 h and 24 h, respectively, from values at homeostasis and the time of debridement. These results, using rigorous statistical analysis and precise topographic assessment, showed that mitosis is not impeded - but rather often accelerated - following denuding of the corneal epithelium and that the spatial distribution of mitotic cells is correlated with wounding. The data revealed that re-epithelialization of the corneal epithelium is not dependent on mitosis in the regenerating epithelium, but rather in the adjacent unwounded epithelium of the cornea, with most cells being located in the basal layer until re-epithelialization is completed. Mitotic cells in the limbus and conjunctiva may be related to replenishment of ocular surface epithelial cells used in the repair process rather than directly supplying the abraded surface.
Intracerebroventricular injection of senktide, a selective agonist for neurokinin B receptor (NK3), induced Fos expression in many neurons of the rat hypothalamus. Fos-positive neurons were predominantly present in the supraoptic and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei, and some of them were seen in the lateral preoptic area, lateral hypothalamic area, arcuate nucleus, perifornical region, posterior hypothalamic area, circular nucleus, and along relatively large blood vessels (lateral hypothalamic perivascular nucleus) in the anterior hypothalamus. A double labeling study was performed to examine if vasopressin-containing neurons in the hypothalamus could be activated by the treatment. Neurons with both Fos-like immunoreactivity (-LI) and vasopressin-LI were found in the paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, circular nucleus and lateral hypothalamic perivascular nucleus. In the supraoptic nucleus, about 87% of vasopressin-containing neurons exhibited Fos-LI, which corresponded to about 64% of Fos-positive neurons in the nucleus. In the paraventricular nucleus, about 80% of vasopressin-like immunoreactive neurons exhibited Fos-LI, which constituted about 51% of the total population of Fos-positive neurons in the region. The results suggest that NK3 receptor may be involved in the modulation of release of vasopressin from the hypothalamus in the rat.
Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) inhibits the population spike (PS) evoked by Schaffer collateral stimulation in hippocampal slices. Proposed mechanisms underlying this effect include generation of hydroxyl radicals (.OH) and inhibition of presynaptic Ca(2+) entry. We have examined these possible mechanisms in rat hippocampal slices. Inhibition of the evoked PS by H(2)O(2) was sharply concentration-dependent: 1.2 mM H(2)O(2) had no effect, whereas 1.5 and 2.0 mM H(2)O(2) reversibly depressed PS amplitude by roughly 80%. The iron chelator, deferoxamine (1 mM), and the endogenous.OH scavenger, ascorbate (400 microM), prevented PS inhibition, confirming.OH involvement. Isoascorbate (400 microM), which unlike ascorbate is not taken up by brain cells, also prevented PS inhibition, indicating an extracellular site of.OH generation or action. We then investigated whether H(2)O(2)-induced PS depression could be overcome by prolonged stimulation, which enhances Ca(2+) entry. During 5-s, 10-Hz trains under control conditions, PS amplitude increased to over 200% during the first three-four pulses, then stabilized. In the presence of H(2)O(2), PS amplitude was initially depressed, but began to recover after 2.5 s of stimulation, finally reaching 80% of the control maximum. In companion experiments, we assessed the effect of H(2)O(2) on presynaptic Ca(2+) entry by monitoring extracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](o)) during train stimulation in the presence of postsynaptic receptor blockers. Evoked [Ca(2+)](o) shifts were apparently unaltered by H(2)O(2), suggesting a lack of effect on Ca(2+) entry. Taken together, these findings suggest new ways in which reactive oxygen species (ROS) might act as signaling agents, specifically as modulators of synaptic transmission.
Rats were given bilateral lesions of the motor cortex on the day of birth (P1), tenth day of life (P10), or in adulthood. They were trained on several motor tasks (skilled forelimb reaching, beam traversing, tongue extension), general motor activity, and a test of spatial learning (Morris water task). Although all lesion groups were impaired at skilled reaching, the P10 group was less impaired than either of the other two lesion groups. Furthermore, on the other motor tests the P10 group did not differ from controls whereas both P1 and adult groups were impaired. Only the P1 lesion group was impaired at the acquisition of the Morris water task. Anatomical analyses revealed that the P1 and P10 rats had smaller brains than the other two groups as well as having a generalized decrease in cortical thickness. Dendritic analysis of layer III pyramidal cells in the parietal cortex revealed a decrease in apical arbor in the lesion groups and an increase in the basilar arbor of the P1 and adult lesion animals. The P1 and adult operated groups showed an increase in spine density in the basilar dendrites of layer V pyramidal cells. Finally, analysis of the pattern of corticospinal projections revealed that the P1 animals had a markedly wider field of corticospinal projection neurons than any of the other groups. The widespread anatomical changes in all lesion groups versus the relatively better behavioral recovery after P10 lesions suggests that day 10 represents an optimal period for adapting to brain damage and subsequent brain reorganization.
Previous studies have demonstrated that vestibular compensation, the process of behavioural recovery which occurs following unilateral deafferentation of the vestibular labyrinth (UVD), is correlated with changes in in vitro phosphorylation of various protein substrates in the brainstem vestibular nucleus complex (VNC). The aim of the present study was to investigate the possible causal relationship between protein kinase activity and the induction of the vestibular compensation process, by delivering inhibitors of protein kinase C (PKC) or Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) into the ipsilateral VNC at the time of the UVD and determining their effects on three static symptoms of UVD, spontaneous nystagmus (SN), yaw head tilt (YHT) and roll head tilt (RHT) in guinea pigs. Infusion of the PKC inhibitor, 3-[1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-4-(1H-indol-3-yl)-1H-pyrr ole-2,5-dione, HCl (bisindolylmaleimide I, HCl/GF 109203X, HCl) ('Bis I'), at a concentration of 5 or 50 microM, significantly increased SN frequency at the earliest time points (6 and 8 h post-UVD) compared to vehicle controls and the less selective analogue, 2,3-bis(1H-indol-3-yl)-N-methylmaleimide (bisindolylmaleimide V) ('Bis V'). However, the compensation of YHT and RHT was unaffected by the PKC inhibitor. By contrast, the cell-permeable CaMKII inhibitor, myristoylated autocamtide-2 related inhibitory peptide (N-Myr-Lys-Lys-Ala-Leu-Arg-Arg-Gln-Glu-Ala-Val-Asp-Ala-Leu-OH) ('myr-AIP') or the cell-impermeable analogue, autocamtide-2 related inhibitory peptide (N-Lys-Lys-Ala-Leu-Arg-Arg-Cln-Glu-Ala-Val-Asp-Ala-Leu-OH) ('AIP'), failed to alter the compensation of SN, YHT or RHT at any dose compared to vehicle controls. These results implicate PKC-, but not CaMKII-, signal transduction pathways in the initiation of SN compensation in guinea pig.
Doublecortin (DCX) missense mutations are found in two clusters in patients with defective cortical neuronal migration. Although DCX can function as a microtubule-associated protein (MAP), the potential relationship between its MAP activity and neuronal migration is not understood. Here we show that the two clusters of patient mutations precisely define an internal tandem repeat. Each repeat alone binds tubulin, whereas neither repeat is sufficient for co-assembly with microtubules. The two tandem repeats are sufficient to mediate microtubule polymerization, and representative patient missense mutations lead to impaired polymerization both in vitro and in vivo as well as impaired microtubule stabilization. Furthermore, each repeat is predicted to have the secondary structure of a beta-grasp superfold motif, a motif not found in other MAPs. The patient mutations are predicted to disrupt the structure of the motif, suggesting that the motif may be critical for the DCX-tubulin interaction. These data provide both genetic and biochemical evidence that the interaction of DCX with microtubules is dependent upon this novel repeated tubulin-binding motif.
To test the hypothesis that there is cross-talk between the protein kinase C (PKC) and protein kinase A (PKA) pathways in the regulation of the Na,K-ATPase, we measured its phosphorylation in mammalian cell cultures. Phosphorylation of the PKC site, Ser-18, appeared to be due to the activation of the alpha isoform of the kinase. In NRK-52E and L6 cells, this phosphorylation was reduced by prior activation of a cAMP-dependent signaling pathway with forskolin. In principle this would be consistent with direct interaction between the two phosphorylation sites, but further investigation suggested a more indirect mechanism. First, phosphorylation of Ser-938, the PKA site, could not be detected despite the presence of active PKA. Second, there was a major reduction in the phosphorylation of unrelated phosphoproteins as a consequence of elevation of cAMP, suggesting generalized reduction of kinase activity or activation of phosphatase activity. In NRK-52E and L6, phosphorylation of the Na, K-ATPase at Ser-18 paralleled this global change. In C6 cells, in contrast, there was no cAMP effect on Na,K-ATPase phosphorylation at Ser-18 and no global cAMP effect on other phosphoproteins. The cross-talk is evidently mediated by events occurring at the cellular level.
During neurotransmitter release, exocytosed neurotransmitter vesicles are recycled by endocytosis, which involves the assembly of a complex of endocytic proteins. Assembly of endocytic proteins into a functional complex depends on their dephosphorylation by calcineurin, a calcium-sensitive protein phosphatase and the inhibitory target of immunosuppressive drugs cyclosporin A and FK506. Cain is a recently identified protein inhibitor of calcineurin. We now provide evidence that cain is a component of the endocytic protein complex. The proline-rich region of cain forms a stable association with the SH3 domain of amphiphysin 1. Using a transferrin uptake assay, we found that overexpression of cain in HEK293 cells blocks endocytosis as potently as expression of a dominant negative dynamin 1 construct. The use of other calcineurin inhibitors such as cyclosporin A and FK506 also blocks endocytosis. Since binding of cain to amphiphysin 1 does not affect amphiphysin's interaction with other endocytic proteins, our results suggest that cain negatively regulates synaptic vesicle endocytosis by inhibiting calcineurin activity, rather than sterically interfering with the assembly of the endocytic protein complex.
We have cloned a bovine adrenal cortical (bKv1.4) K(+) channel cDNA whose expression is rapidly inhibited by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). The 4386-nucleotide cDNA is homologous to other voltage-gated, rapidly inactivating Kv1.4 channels, and includes a 1986-nucleotide coding region and large 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions. Bovine Kv1.4-specific mRNA from adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells was rapidly and potently reduced by ACTH, with a t(12) of approximately 1 h and an IC(50) of 1.2 pm. The membrane-permeable cAMP analog 8-pcpt-cAMP also reduced bKv1.4 mRNA expression with kinetics similar to that observed with ACTH. Reduction of bKv1.4 mRNA expression by ACTH and 8-pcpt-cAMP was only partially inhibited by the selective protein kinase A antagonist H-89. Consistent with their effect on bKv1.4 mRNA, ACTH and 8-pcpt-cAMP both dramatically reduced the expression of bKv1.4-associated A-type current measured over 72 h. These results demonstrate that bovine AZF cells synthesize a Kv1.4-type channel whose expression is inhibited at the pretranslational level by ACTH and 8-pcpt-cAMP by a mechanism that is partially dependent on the activation of protein kinase A. The rapid, potent reduction of bKv1.4 mRNA produced by ACTH and 8-pcpt-cAMP indicates that the expression of this K(+) channel is under tonic inhibitory control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. The basic electrical properties of AZF cells might be tightly regulated at the transcriptional level by the normal diurnal pattern of ACTH secretion, and altered during bouts of stress by the enhanced release of this pituitary peptide. Under conditions of prolonged stress or adrenal insufficiency, persistent ACTH-induced changes in the electrical properties of AZF cells could be coupled to parallel changes in cortisol secretion.
The decomposition of beta-amidozinc reagent 4 by beta-elimination has been shown to be a unimolecular process in both THF and DMF as solvent, with relative rates of 4:1 at room temperature, and activation parameters have been determined. These results indicate the beta-elimination is a syn-process. NMR experiments reveal that as little as 2 equiv of DMF can have a significant stabilizing influence on reagent 4. Use of a mixture of DMA and toluene as the bulk solvent, in place of DMF, has allowed successful palladium-catalyzed cross-coupling reactions of both 4 and the homologous reagent 5 with acid chlorides to yield unsymmetrical ketones (nine examples).
Using patch clamp methods we have investigated the deactivation properties of the T-type Ca(2+) channel generated by expression of the rat alpha(1I) subunit in HEK293 cells. The amplitude of the repolarisation-induced tail current was strongly correlated (R=0. 998) with the current amplitude immediately prior to repolarisation. The rate of deactivation was voltage-dependent between -120 mV (tau(deact)=0.9+/-0.0 ms) and -60 mV (tau(deac)=3.3+/-0.5 ms). Interestingly, the rate of deactivation observed at -80 mV was clearly dependent on the level of inactivation induced immediately prior to repolarisation, with greater inactivation producing significantly slower deactivation. In contrast, the rate of deactivation appeared completely independent of the level of steady-state inactivation. Together these data indicate the presence of a tight relationship between the recent induction of inactivation of this T-type channel and its subsequent rate of deactivation.
Dendrotoxins, important pharmacological tools for studying K(+) channels, are potently convulsant in the central nervous system and evidence suggests that different members of the dendrotoxin family may act at pre- or post-synaptic sites. Using a combination of intrahippocampal infusion, microdialysis and electroencephalograph (EEG) recording, we have compared the effects of alpha-dendrotoxin and dendrotoxin K on extracellular levels of excitatory amino acids in anaesthetised rats. Our findings show that although infusion of 35 pmol of both peptides was associated with elevated extracellular aspartate and glutamate, these increased levels were more sustained with dendrotoxin K. Furthermore, there was EEG evidence of an associated transient functional change consistent with an action on pre-synaptic K(+) channels. In contrast, infusion of alpha-dendrotoxin produced only a brief effect on amino acid levels and no evidence of a functional consequence.

Forty-four patients suffering a stroke for the first time were examined within 10 h of the onset of symptoms; the tests performed on their admission to hospital, and thereafter on the third and seventh day, were 24-h Holter EKG with spectral analysis of heart rate variability, evaluation of arterial blood pressure and the levels of catecholamine in the blood and 24-h urine. The dynamic EKG on admission revealed that 31 (70.5%) out of the 44 patients already had arrhythmia. These alterations were observed in 9 (75%) out of 12 haemorrhagic patients with a significant (P &lt; 0.05) prevalence compared to 22 (68.8%) of the 32 ischaemic ones. Arrhythmia showed up in 16 (76.2%) out of 21 cases with right hemisphere lesions and in 12 (63.2%) out of 19 cases of left hemisphere lesions; this difference was also significant (P&lt;0.05). Arrhythmia was still present in 19 (43.2%) patients after 3 days and only in 2 (6.5%) patients after 7 days. The spectral analysis parameters on admission and after 3 days were significantly (P &lt; 0.05) modified in patients with stroke plus arrhythmia, compared to patients with stroke alone and to control subjects, whereas no further differences were observed on the seventh day. Moreover, the percentage of patients with arterial hypertension and high levels of catecholamine greatly decreased from the third day onwards. A transient autonomic nervous system imbalance with prevalent sympathetic activity may justify this cardiovascular impairment during the hyperacute phase of stroke.
Telencephalin (TLN), a telencephalon-specific glycoprotein, is exclusively expressed in neurons of the mammalian telencephalon. In the normally developing human brain, TLN immunoreactivity appeared and increased from 35 gestational weeks (GW) in the temporal cortex, and reached adult level at 5 months of postnatal age, being strong in the molecular layer, and weak in the external and internal granular layers. TLN expression corresponded with the development of neuronal dendrites and synapses. In brains with holoprosencephaly TLN immunoreactivity was already strong from as early as 28 GW. Staining was weak in the molecular layer, but strong in the external sparse and middle cellular layers in most cases. Notably, TLN was abundant in the glomerular structures in the internal pyramidal and multiform layers of fetal brains with alobar holoprosencephaly, which disappeared with increasing age. These results indicate premature and ectopic development of the dendrites and synaptic network in holoprosencephaly.



Recently, we have shown that rats repeatedly treated with ethanol and/or cocaine have decreased kappa-opioid receptor mRNA levels in the mesolimbic system. The aim of the present study was to investigate the short- and long-term effects of repeated ethanol administration on opioid peptide concentrations in brain tissue of male Sprague-Dawley rats. Dynorphin B (1-13) (Dyn B) and Met-enkephalinArg(6)Phe(7) (MEAP), endogenous ligands to kappa- and delta-opioid receptors, respectively, were measured using radioimmunoassays. The rats were given either ethanol [intraperitoneal (ip), twice daily, 2 g/kg bw/dose] or saline for 13 consecutive days. Thirty minutes after the last ethanol dose on Day 13, the Dyn B tissue concentration was significantly decreased in the cingulate cortex. The MEAP tissue concentration was decreased in the hippocampus 5 days after the last ethanol injection as compared to saline-treated controls. Furthermore, the Dyn B and the MEAP concentrations were increased in the periaqueductal grey area (PAG) at this time point. Of particular interest were the significant increases in Dyn B tissue concentrations found in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) at 30 min and at 21 days after the last ethanol dose. The results suggest that repeated ethanol administration induces both short- and long-term changes in the tissue concentrations of opioids in certain brain regions associated with motivation and reward.
The whole cell patch-clamp technique was used to investigate whether there were inwardly rectifying K(+) (K(ir)) channels in the longitudinal muscle of cat esophagus. Inward currents were observable on membrane hyperpolarization negative to the K(+) equilibrium potential (E(k)) in freshly isolated esophageal longitudinal muscle cells. The current-voltage relationship exhibited strong inward rectification with a reversal potential (E(rev)) of -76.5 mV. Elevation of external K(+) increased the inward current amplitude and positively shifted its E(rev) after the E(k), suggesting that potassium ions carry this current. External Ba(2+) and Cs(+) inhibited this inward current, with hyperpolarization remarkably increasing the inhibition. The IC(50) for Ba(2+) and Cs(+) at -60 mV was 2.9 and 1.6 mM, respectively. Furthermore, external Ba(2+) of 10 microM moderately depolarized the resting membrane potential of the longitudinal muscle cells by 6.3 mV while inhibiting the inward rectification. We conclude that K(ir) channels are present in the longitudinal muscle of cat esophagus, where they contribute to its resting membrane potential.
Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) is altered by vestibular otolith stimulation. This study examined interactive effects of the vestibular system and baroreflexes on MSNA in humans. In study 1, MSNA was measured during 4 min of lower body negative pressure (LBNP) at either -10 or -30 mmHg with subjects in prone posture. During the 3rd min of LBNP, subjects lowered their head over the end of a table (head-down rotation, HDR) to engage the otolith organs. The head was returned to baseline upright position during the 4th min. LBNP increased MSNA above baseline during both trials with greater increases during the -30-mmHg trial. HDR increased MSNA further during the 3rd min of LBNP at -10 and -30 mmHg (Delta32% and Delta34%, respectively; P &lt; 0.01). MSNA returned to pre-HDR levels during the 4th min of LBNP when the head was returned upright. In study 2, MSNA was measured during HDR, LBNP, and simultaneously performed HDR and LBNP. The sum of MSNA responses during individual HDR and LBNP trials was not significantly different from that observed during HDR and LBNP performed together (Delta131 +/- 28 vs. Delta118 +/- 47 units and Delta340 +/- 77 vs. Delta380 +/- 90 units for the -10 and -30 trials, respectively). These results demonstrate that vestibular otolith stimulation can increase MSNA during unloading of the cardiopulmonary and arterial baroreflexes. Also, the interaction between the vestibulosympathetic reflex and baroreflexes is additive in humans. These studies indicate that the vestibulosympathetic reflex may help defend against orthostatic challenges in humans by increasing sympathetic outflow.
The purpose of this experiment was to examine the effects of the endogenous opioid system on forearm muscle pain and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) during dynamic fatiguing exercise. Twelve college-age men (24 +/- 4 yr) performed graded (1-min stages; 30 contractions/min) handgrip to fatigue 1 h after the ingestion of either 60 mg codeine, 50 mg naltrexone, or placebo. Pain (0-10 scale) and exertion (0-10 and 6-20 scales) intensities were measured during the last 15 s of each minute of exercise and every 15 s during recovery. MSNA was measured continuously from the peroneal nerve in the left leg. Pain threshold occurred earlier [1.8 +/- 1, 2. 2 +/- 1, 2.2 +/- 1 J: codeine, naltrexone, and placebo, respectively] and was associated with a lower rating of perceived exertion (RPE) (2.7 +/- 2, 3.6 +/- 2, 3.8 +/- 2: codeine, naltrexone, and placebo, respectively) in the codeine condition compared with either the naltrexone or placebo conditions. There were no main effects (i.e., drugs) or interaction (i.e., drugs x time) for either forearm muscle pain or RPE during exercise [pain: F (2, 22) = 0.69, P = 0.51]. There was no effect of drug on MSNA, heart rate, or blood pressure during baseline, exercise, or recovery. Peak exercise MSNA responses were 21 +/- 1, 21 +/- 2.0, and 21 +/- 2.0 bursts/30 s for codeine, naltrexone, and placebo conditions, respectively. Peak mean arterial pressure responses were 135 +/- 4, 131 +/- 3, and 132 +/- 4 mmHg for codeine, naltrexone, and placebo conditions, respectively. It is concluded that neither 60 mg codeine nor 50 mg naltrexone has an effect on forearm muscle pain, exertion, or MSNA during high- intensity handgrip to fatigue.



The ascendance of emotion theory, recent advances in cognitive science and neuroscience, and increasingly important findings from developmental psychology and learning make possible an integrative account of the nature and etiology of anxiety and its disorders. This model specifies an integrated set of triple vulnerabilities: a generalized biological (heritable) vulnerability, a generalized psychological vulnerability based on early experiences in developing a sense of control over salient events, and a more specific psychological vulnerability in which one learns to focus anxiety on specific objects or situations. The author recounts the development of anxiety and related disorders based on these triple vulnerabilities and discusses implications for the classification of emotional disorders.

There is a growing body of robot-based research that makes a serious claim to be a new methodology for biology. Robots can be used as models of specific animal systems to test hypotheses regarding the control of behaviour. At levels from learning algorithms to specific dendritic circuits, implementing a proposed controller in a robotic device tests it against real environments in a way that is difficult to simulate. This often provides insight into the true nature of the problem. It also enforces complete specifications and combines bodies of data. Current work can sometimes be criticized for drawing unjustified conclusions given the limited evaluation and inevitable inaccuracies of robot models. Nevertheless, this approach has led to novel hypotheses for animal behaviour and seems likely to provide fruitful results in the future. Copyright 2000 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.
Bombesin (BN)-like peptides and receptors for these peptides are widely distributed in mammalian peripheral tissues and the central nervous system. The physiological and behavioural functions of these peptides have been clarified by both in vivo and in vitro studies. In spite of intensive investigations, the functions of endogenous BN-like peptides remain unclear. In order to specify these functions, our group and another laboratory generated by gene targeting mutant mice that lack one of the three BN-like peptide receptors found in mammals, ie neuromedin B receptor (NMB-R; BB1), gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRP-R; BB2), or bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS-3; BB3). Using these mutant mouse, we have found unexpected phenotypes, such as hyperphagia and obesity in the BRS-3-deficient mouse, and abnormal social behaviour in the GRP-R-deficient mouse. In the present study, we present our most recent findings in addition to previous studies and discuss the functions of BN-like peptides related to feeding and social behaviour from the point of view of knock-out mice studies.
Recent reports of mitochondrial disease in infants whose mothers were treated in pregnancy with nucleoside analogues are of concern. Chronic nucleoside analogue treatment of adults has long been known to cause mitochondrial DNA depletion with the risk of multisystem disease. Combination nucleoside analogue treatment regimens may have the greatest risk of toxicity. This paper briefly presents the underlying biochemical etiologies and phenotypes of some common genetic mitochondrial diseases in order to provide a comparison with reports of infant toxicity. A standardized method for the diagnosis and evaluation of mitochondrial disease is discussed. A hypothesis, with predictions of the effects of antenatal nucleoside analogue treatment on the fetus, is presented and future directions for research on this problem are suggested.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is caused by expansion of a (GCG)n trinucleotide repeat in the poly(A) binding protein 2 (PABP2) gene. The pathological hallmark of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is the accumulation of intranuclear inclusions in muscle fibers. To test whether the polyalanine expansion of PABP2 directly leads to the formation of the nuclear aggregates, both normal and expanded PABP2 cDNAs were expressed in COS-7 cells. We find that expression of mutated PABP2 protein is sufficient for its accumulation as intranuclear inclusions.
We have previously reported that invasiveness of mouse glioma G-26, which expresses CD44 adhesion molecule, was inhibited in vitro following treatment with anti-CD44 antibody or mouse interferon alpha/beta (MuIFN alpha/beta). Here, we evaluated whether the expression of transmembrane CD44 adhesion molecule and/or secretion of extracellular matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) were affected when glioma cell invasion was inhibited. Flow cytometric evaluation of CD44 adhesion molecule expression in G-26 glioma using anti-CD44 antibody, confirmed that G-26 cells were CD44+. Following 3-day treatment with MuIFN alpha/beta at 8 x 10(2) or 8 x 10(3) IU/ml of glioma cells, the expression of CD44 was not significantly affected as reflected by CD44+ cell number and fluorescence intensity. The pretreatment of glioma cells for 1 day with anti-CD44 antibody resulted in a 30-60% decrease of CD44 expression. This coincided with significantly (p &lt; 0.05) lower cell activity as judged by MTT assay for mitochondrial activity. The zymographic evaluation of MMP activity in the G-26 glioma cell culture showed a high level of the active form of MMP-2. This level of MMP-2 was decreased following 3 day treatment of G-26 glioma cells with either 8 x 10(2) or 8 x 10(3) IU/ml of MuIFN alpha/beta but only the latter concentration produced statistically significant 55% decrease. However, following a 1 day treatment of G-26 glioma cells with anti-CD44 antibody, the level of active MMP-2 form was not significantly affected. These findings indicate that while the inhibitory effect of IFN on glioma invasion was accompanied by a decreased level of the active form of MMP-2 released extracellularly, the expression of the transmembrane CD44 adhesion molecule was not affected. Conversely, anti-CD44 antibody pretreatment of G-26 glioma, which led to the inhibition of glioma invasion, resulted in decreased CD44 expression and lower cell activity but had no effect on the MMP-2.




Single, biocytin filled neurons in combination with immunocytochemistry and retrograde tracing as well as material with traditional double-immunolabeling were used at the light and electron microscopic levels to study the neural circuitry within the basal forebrain. Cholinergic neurons projecting to the frontal cortex exhibited extensive local collaterals terminating on non-cholinergic, (possible GABAergic) neurons within the basal forebrain. Elaborate axon arbors confined to the basal forebrain region also originated from NPY, somatostatin and other non-cholinergic interneurons. It is proposed that putative interneurons together with local collaterals from projection neurons contribute to regional integrative processing in the basal forebrain that may participate in more selective functions, such as attention and cortical plasticity.
Previous studies have shown that ethanol produces conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice when injections are given immediately before exposure to the conditioned stimulus (CS). Paradoxically, however, injection of ethanol immediately after the CS produces conditioned place aversion (CPA). Four experiments were conducted to characterize the parametric boundaries of CPA produced by post-CS ethanol exposure. Experiment 1 showed that CPA is positively related to ethanol dose, with significant CPA at 2 and 4 g / kg, but not at 1 g / kg. Experiment 2 revealed an inverse relationship between CPA and trial duration, i.e. significant CPA occurred when the trial duration was 5, 15 or 30 min, but not when it was 60 or 90 min. Experiment 3 indicated that ethanol pre-exposure (eight daily injections) significantly reduced subsequent development of CPA. Finally, experiment 4 showed that repeated exposure to the CS alone (six 30 min exposures to each CS) after CS-ethanol pairings produced complete extinction of CPA. The same extinction procedure also completely eliminated CPP induced by pre-CS injections of ethanol. Overall, these studies demonstrate that CPA induced by post-CS ethanol injection is influenced by many of the same variables that affect CPP produced by pre-CS ethanol injection in mice. However, these findings do not resolve the issue of whether the 'before-versus-after' effect in ethanol place conditioning is better explained by assuming ethanol produces only rewarding effects or by assuming that ethanol produces both rewarding and aversive effects.

A substantial challenge in epileptology consists of reliable seizure anticipation ahead in time (minutes). We propose a procedure which derives from our demonstrating here that seizure outbreak shares the pretransitional behaviour characterizing nonequilibrium phase transitions with instabilities found in a number of domains. We investigated stereo-electroencephalograms, using chronically implanted cerebral electrodes, and found preictal (that is, preseizure) slowing. The method employed rests on reconstructing a high-dimensional phase orbit, projecting the orbit back to a scalar time series, namely Lerner's density function which is shown here to play the role of an order parameter, and Fourier-transforming the latter. This reduces the problem to comparing spectral characteristics of interictal and preictal states. The preictal states behaved alike for temporal-lobe and frontal-lobe partial seizures, as well as for the one subclinical temporal-lobe seizure studied. These signs of universality are in accordance with nonequilibrium phase-transitions being in essence the amplification up to a macroscopic size of fluctuations, which may be conjectured here to consist of synchronized neuronal assemblies.
Recent reports from our laboratory have shown that extracellular adenosine levels selectively increase in basal forebrain during prolonged wakefulness in cats and rats. Furthermore, microdialysis perfusion of adenosine into the basal forebrain (BF) increased sleepiness and decreased wakefulness in both the species, whereas perfusion of the A(1)-receptor-selective antagonist, cyclopentyl-1, 3-dimethylxanthine resulted in increased wakefulness, an observation similar to that found with caffeine or theophylline administration. The selective participation of the A(1) subtype of the adenosine receptor in mediating the effects of adenosine in the BF was further examined by the technique of single unit recording performed in conjunction with microdialysis perfusion of selective agonists and antagonists. Perfusion of the A(1) agonist cyclohexyladenosine, inhibited the activity of wake-active neurons in the basal forebrain. The effect of prolonged wakefulness-induced increases in adenosine levels were further investigated by determining the changes in the BF in the levels of A(1) receptor binding and the levels of its mRNA. We observed that A(1) receptor mRNA levels increase after 6 h of sleep deprivation. One of the transcription factors that showed increased DNA-binding activity was nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) and may regulate the expression of A(1) mRNA. We observed, using a gel shift assay, that the DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB increased following 3 h of sleep deprivation. This was further supported by the increased appearance of NF-kappaB protein in the nuclear extracts and the consequent disappearance of cytoplasmic protein inhibitor kappaB (I-kappaB). Together our results reviewed in this report suggest that the somnogenic effects of adenosine in the BF area may be mediated by the A(1) subtype of adenosine receptor, and its expression might be regulated by induction in the NF-kappaB protein as its transcription factor. This positive feedback might mediate some of long-duration effects of sleep deprivation, including 'sleep debt'.
Intercellular channels formed by connexins (gap junctions) are sensitive to the application of transjunctional voltage (V(j)), to which they gate by the separate actions of their serially arranged hemichannels (Harris, A. L., D. C. Spray, and M. V. L. Bennett. 1981. J. Gen. Physiol. 77:95-117). Single channel studies of both intercellular and conductive hemichannels have demonstrated the existence of two separate gating mechanisms, termed &quot;V(j)-gating&quot; and &quot;loop gating&quot; (Trexler, E. B., M. V. L. Bennett, T. A. Bargiello, and V. K. Verselis. 1996. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 93:5836-5841). In Cx32 hemichannels, V(j)-gating occurs at negative V(j) (Oh, S., J. B. Rubin, M. V. L. Bennett, V. K. Verselis, and T. A. Bargiello. 1999. J. Gen. Physiol. 114:339-364; Oh, S., C. K. Abrams, V. K. Verselis, and T. A. Bargiello. 2000. J. Gen. Physiol. 116:13-31). A negative charge substitution at the second amino acid position in the N-terminus reverses the polarity of V(j)-gating of Cx32 hemichannels (Verselis, V. K., C. S. Ginter, and T. A. Bargiello. 1994. Nature. 368:348-351;. J. Gen. Physiol. 116:13-31). We report that placement of a negative charge at the 5th, 8th, 9th, or 10th position can reverse the polarity of Cx32 hemichannel V(j)-gating. We conclude that the 1st through 10th amino acid residues lie within the transjunctional electric field and within the channel pore, as in this position they could sense changes in V(j) and be largely insensitive to changes in absolute membrane potential (V(m)). Conductive hemichannels formed by Cx32*Cx43E1 containing a negatively charged residue at either the 8th or 10th position display bi-polar V(j)-gating; that is, the open probability of hemichannels formed by these connexins is reduced at both positive and negative potentials and is maximal at intermediate voltages. In contrast, Cx32*Cx43E1 hemichannels with negative charges at either the 2nd or 5th positions are uni-polar, closing only at positive V(j). The simplest interpretation of these data is that the Cx32 hemichannel can adopt at least two different open conformations. The 1st-5th residues are located within the electric field in all open channel conformations, while the 8th and 10th residues lie within the electric field in one conformation and outside the electric field in the other conformation.
A cell-adhesive protein of the human serum, 90K binds galactin-3, beta1-integrins, collagens, and fibronectin, and it is of importance in cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix adhesion. Serum 90K levels in 137 patients with lymphoma were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Compared with healthy controls, pretreatment serum 90K levels in patients with lymphoma were elevated (P &lt;.001). Of 97 patients who showed objective response to treatment, 20 (21%) had pretreatment 90K levels above the normal cutoff compared with 17 (53%) of 32 patients who did not respond (P =.002). When used as a plastic-immobilized substrate, 90K caused a significant reduction in chemotherapy-induced apoptosis of Jurkat T lymphoma cells. This finding could explain the lack of response in lymphoma patients with high 90K serum levels.
1. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from rat striatal cholinergic interneurones in slices of brain tissue in vitro. Bath application of histamine (EC(50) 6.3 microM) was found to rapidly and reversibly depolarize these neurones through the induction of an inward current at -60 mV. 2. The effects of histamine were mimicked by the H(1) receptor agonist 2-thiazolylethylamine (50 microM) and selectively inhibited by pre-incubation with the H(1) receptor antagonist triprolidine (1 microM). 3. Ion substitution experiments under voltage clamp conditions revealed that the histamine activated current was comprised of two components. One component was sensitive to the concentration of extracellular Na(+), whilst the other component was inhibited by intracellular Cs(+) or extracellular Ba(2+). 4. In situ hybridization experiments revealed that the majority of cholinergic interneurones in the rat striatum express the histamine H(1) receptor but few neurones express H(2) receptors. These findings were confirmed using single cell RT - PCR. 5. It is concluded that histamine depolarizes cholinergic interneurones in the rat striatum via a H(1)-receptor mediated mechanism.
1. Ventricular arrhythmias are rare but life-threatening side effects of therapy with the second-generation H(1) receptor antagonists terfenadine and astemizole. Blockade of the K(+) channels encoded by the Human Ether--go-go-Related Gene 1 (HERG1) K(+) channels, which is the molecular basis of the cardiac repolarizing current I(Kr), by prolonging cardiac repolarization, has been recognized as the mechanism underlying the cardiac toxicity of these compounds. 2. In the present study, the potential blocking ability of the novel second-generation H(1) receptor antagonist mizolastine of the HERG1 K(+) channels heterologously expressed in Xenopus oocytes and in HEK 293 cells or constitutively present in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells has been examined and compared to that of astemizole. 3. Mizolastine blocked HERG1 K(+) channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes with an estimated IC(50) of 3.4 microM. Mizolastine blockade was characterized by a fast dissociation rate when compared to that of astemizole; when fitted to a monoexponential function, the time constants for drug dissociation from the K(+) channel were 72.4+/-11.9 s for 3 microM mizolastine, and 1361+/-306 s for 1 microM astemizole. 4. In human embryonic kidney 293 cells (HEK 293 cells) stably transfected with HERG1 cDNA, extracellular application of mizolastine exerted a dose-related inhibitory action on I(HERG1), with an IC(50) of 350+/-76 nM. Furthermore, mizolastine dose-dependently inhibited HERG1 K(+) channels constitutively expressed in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma clonal cells. 5. The results of the present study suggest that the novel second-generation H(1) receptor antagonist mizolastine, in concentrations higher than those achieved in vivo during standard therapy, is able to block in some degree both constitutively and heterologously expressed HERG1 K(+) channels, and confirm the heterogeneity of molecules belonging to this therapeutical class with respect to their HERG1-inhibitory action.
1. The aim of this study was to characterize the pharmacological profile of the GABA(B1)/GABA(B2) heterodimeric receptor expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. We have compared receptor binding affinity and functional activity for a series of agonists and antagonists. 2. The chimeric G-protein, G(qi5), was used to couple receptor activation to increases in intracellular calcium for functional studies on the Fluorimetric Imaging Plate Reader (FLIPR), using a stable GABA(B1)/GABA(B2)/G(qi5) CHO cell line. [(3)H]-CGP-54626 was used in radioligand binding studies in membranes prepared from the same cell line. 3. The pharmacological profile of the recombinant GABA(B1/B2) receptor was consistent with that of native GABA(B) receptors in that it was activated by GABA and baclofen and inhibited by CGP-54626A and SCH 50911. 4. Unlike native receptors, the GABA(B1)/GABA(B2)/G(qi5) response was not inhibited by high microMolar concentration of phaclofen, saclofen or CGP 35348. 5. This raises the possibility that the GABA(B1)/GABA(B2)/G(qi5) recombinant receptor may represent the previously described GABA(B) receptor subtype which is relatively resistant to inhibition by phaclofen.
The pharmacological profile of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation of phospholipase D (PLD), and the associated signalling pathways, were examined in rat cerebrocortical synaptosomes. The assay was conducted using a transphosphatidylation reaction in synaptosomes which were pre-labelled with either [(3)H]-arachidonic acid or [(32)P]-orthophosphate. The mGluR agonists (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S, 3R-ACPD) and (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), both activated PLD, while phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) treatment caused receptor-independent activation of PLD and had an additive effect on 1S,3R-ACPD induced PLD activity. A protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, GF109203X, failed to antagonize mGluR receptor-coupled PLD activity. We could not detect any increase in the products of PI (phosphoinositide)-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC), inositol(1,4, 5)trisphosphate or diacylglycerol, by 1S, 3R-ACPD at 15 s. However, diacylglycerol increased monophasically in response to mGluR agonists and remained elevated for at least 15 min. Phosphatidic acid phosphohydrolase (PAP) activity, which converts PA to DAG, was present in the synaptosomes. These data suggest that, in rat cerebrocortical synaptosomes, the 1S,3R-ACPD-sensitive mGluR is coupled to PLD through a mechanism that is independent of both PKC and PI-PLC.
On a gambling task that models real-life decisions, patients with bilateral lesions of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VM) opt for choices that yield high immediate gains in spite of higher future losses. In this study, we addressed three possibilities that may account for this behaviour: (i) hypersensitivity to reward; (ii) insensitivity to punishment; and (iii) insensitivity to future consequences, such that behaviour is always guided by immediate prospects. For this purpose, we designed a variant of the original gambling task in which the advantageous decks yielded high immediate punishment but even higher future reward. The disadvantageous decks yielded low immediate punishment but even lower future reward. We measured the skin conductance responses (SCRs) of subjects after they had received a reward or punishment. Patients with VM lesions opted for the disadvantageous decks in both the original and variant versions of the gambling task. The SCRs of VM lesion patients after they had received a reward or punishment were not significantly different from those of controls. In a second experiment, we investigated whether increasing the delayed punishment in the disadvantageous decks of the original task or decreasing the delayed reward in the disadvantageous decks of the variant task would shift the behaviour of VM lesion patients towards an advantageous strategy. Both manipulations failed to shift the behaviour of VM lesion patients away from the disadvantageous decks. These results suggest that patients with VM lesions are insensitive to future consequences, positive or negative, and are primarily guided by immediate prospects. This 'myopia for the future' in VM lesion patients persists in the face of severe adverse consequences, i.e. rising future punishment or declining future reward.
We present a single case study of a patient, HG, who was severely impaired on routine everyday tasks, such as cleaning his teeth and preparing a cup of tea. We used the Action Coding System developed by Schwartz et al. (1991) to provide quantitative and qualitative measures of his performance in a number of experimental manipulations: (a) with task-congruent objects only, (b) with task-congruent objects and semantic distractors, (c) with a set of written commands to follow, (d) when he was given one command at a time, (e) when he was shown how the task should be performed before starting himself, and (f) when the task was divided into smaller subgoals. In general, the majority of HG's errors were step omissions, perseverations, sequence errors, and semantic errors. These semantic errors are particularly interesting since HG was able to name, gesture to, and define all the objects when they were presented in isolation or in task-congruent arrays. We suggest that semantic errors may arise for a number of reasons: (1) impaired access from semantic memory to a network representing action schema, (2) degradation of stored schema, and (3) behavior that is abnormally driven by the goal, by preceding actions, or by salient objects rather than by an appropriate association between these elements in working memory.
Intuitively, one can assume that imitating a movement is an easier task than responding to a symbolic stimulus like a verbal instruction. Support for this suggestion can be found in neuropsychological research as well as in research on stimulus-response compatibility. However controlled experimental evidence for this assumption is still lacking. We used a stimulus-response compatibility paradigm to test the assumption. In a series of experiments, it was tested whether observed finger movements have a stronger influence on finger movement execution than a symbolic or spatial cue. In the first experiment, we compared symbolic cues with observed finger movements using an interference paradigm. Observing finger movements strongly influenced movement execution, irrespective of whether the finger movement was the relevant or the irrelevant stimulus dimension. In the second experiment, effects of observed finger movements and spatial finger cues were compared. The observed finger movement dominated the spatial finger cue. A reduction in the similarity of observed and executed action in the third experiment led to a decrease of the influence of observed finger movement, which demonstrates the crucial role of the imitative relation of observed and executed action for the described effects. The results are discussed in relation to recent models of stimulus-response compatibility. Neurocognitive support for the strong relationship between movement observation and movement execution is reported.
The purpose of the present issue of Brain and Cognition is to demonstrate that the strength of neuroscience is in its multidisciplinary approach to understand events. Here we are concerned with the domain of action recognition and production. Seven articles have been selected as representative studies of actions carried out in different areas of neuroscience such as neuropsychology, neurophysiology, and cognitive science. Although each addresses different questions within the field, the articles share a common neuroscientific knowledge, as can be readily gathered from the references cited in each article.
The current protocol can be used to examine selective attention. It has been used to acquire behavioral performance data in neurologically healthy normal control subjects and schizophrenic patients. A modified version, also described here, has been used to acquire functional neuroimaging data in normal subjects using positron emission tomography. Subject response accuracy and reaction times are recorded while subjects detect visual stimuli in either hemifield (left vs. right of a fixation point) or along the vertical meridian (above or below fixation). The lateralized presentation of stimuli permits the study of hemispheric specialization for selective attentional processes. Attentional load is manipulated by presenting larger-sized target stimuli alone (i.e., the letter 'O') or smaller-sized target stimuli surrounded by flanking letters. This protocol report includes a description of subject exclusion criteria, procedural details, relevant experimental conditions and variables, suggestions for data analysis, expected results, and a discussion of the protocol's significance for attentional research along with suggestions for future research.
This paper presents an RT-PCR in situ histochemistry (RT-ISH) method for the detection and localisation of isoforms of the GABA(A) receptor in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded brain sections. RT-ISH was performed using PCR conditions already established in our laboratory for the amplification of the alpha(1-3) and beta(1-3) subunits of the GABA(A) receptor [2,5]. Initial experiments determined whether mRNA isolated from such sections was suitable for use in RT-PCR. Transcripts encoding both the alpha- and beta-subunits of the GABA(A) receptor were successfully amplified. RT-ISH, a one-step RT-PCR method, was used to amplify the transcripts and digoxigenin-labeled nucleotides were directly incorporated into the amplified products during cycling. RT-PCR products were detected using anti-digoxigenin antibody conjugated to alkaline-phosphatase and signal was visualised using light microscopy. This protocol may be used to study the expression of GABA(A) receptor isoforms in vivo and examine alterations in receptor composition during development and disease states.

The etiology of Alzheimer's disease has been suggested to be linked to the neurodegeneration induced by beta-amyloid protein (AbetaP), however, the mechanism underlying the latter remains unknown. We have previously shown the direct incorporation of AbetaP into neuronal membranes of immortalized hypothalamic neurons (GT1-7 cells) associated with the formation of calcium-permeable pores, and the elevation of the intracellular calcium concentrations in the GT1-7 cells. Taking together our results and those of numerous other studies, we hypothesize that the disruption of calcium homeostasis by AbetaP-channels may be the molecular basis of the neurotoxicity of AbetaP, and the development of Alzheimer's disease. It is also proposed that the constituents of membrane lipids may play important roles in the process of this channel formation. Our hypothesis may also explain the mechanism of development of other 'conformational diseases', such as prion disease or type 2 diabetes mellitus, which share some common features with Alzheimer's disease.
Intrinsic Purkinje cell death in heterozygous Lurcher (Grid2Lc/+) mice is accompanied by the target-related death of granule cells and olivary neurons. The expression of pro-caspase-3 is increased in Grid2Lc/+ Purkinje cells and activated caspase-3 is detected in all three cell types before their death. Bax inactivation in Grid2Lc/+ mutants rescues granule cells but not Purkinje cells. Here, we show that, while Bax inactivation inhibits caspase-3 activation in both cell types, p53 inactivation does not affect caspase-3 activation and neuronal loss in Grid2Lc/+ mice. The up-regulation of pro-caspase-3 in Grid2Lc/+ Purkinje cells is Bax and p53 independent. These results suggest that Grid2Lc/+ granule cell death is dependent on Bax and caspase-3 activation, whereas several pathways can mediate Grid2Lc/+ Purkinje cell death.
The study of olfactory lateralization in human subjects has given rise to many publications, but the findings have often been contradictory. Most research used either birhinal or monorhinal stimulations, but rarely a comparison between these two types of olfactory input. The aim of this study was to investigate variations in psychophysiological measurements and test each side of the nose and binasal performances. This work used bilateral electrodermal recordings and compared the skin conductance responses (SCRs) for a pleasant odorant (isoamyl acetate) and an unpleasant odorant (triethylamine) in a suprathreshold concentration on 30 dextral subjects (16 females and 14 males). First, the results reported no differences between the two nostrils but differences in electrodermal activity (EDA) in relation to the odorant: 1) higher amplitude in response to unpleasant versus pleasant odorant; 2) no differences between monorhinal and birhinal stimulations for the unpleasant odour but higher amplitude in response to birhinal versus monorhinal for the pleasant odour. Second, the results showed constant bilateral differences in EDA recordings and are discussed in terms of hemispheric asymmetry activation.



Alteplase for acute ischemic stroke may be the first stroke intervention to have a significant public health impact. In February 1999, this therapy was conditionally licensed in Canada for acute ischemic stroke within three hours of symptom onset. However, considerable controversy exists regarding its safety, its wider applicability outside clinical trials, and its ultimate availability. In this article we review the thrombolytic literature, attempt to answer many of the concerns, provide new guidelines for its use, and cite the need for more information about whom we should and should not be treating with this therapy.


An important challenge in the study of Ca2+ signalling is to understand the dynamics of intracellular Ca2+ levels during and after physiological stimulation. While extensive information is available regarding the structural and biophysical properties of Ca2+ channels, pumps and exchangers that control cellular Ca2+ movements, little is known about the quantitative properties of the transporters that are expressed together in intact cells or about the way they operate as a system to orchestrate stimulus-induced Ca2+ signals. This lack of information is particularly striking given that many qualitative properties of Ca2+ signals (e.g. whether the Ca2+ concentration within a particular organelle rises or falls during stimulation) depend critically on quantitative properties of the underlying Ca2+ transporters (e.g. the rates of Ca2+ uptake and release by the organelle). This monograph describes the in situ characterization of Ca2+ transport pathways in sympathetic neurons, showing how mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake and release systems define the direction and rate of net Ca2+ transport by this organelle, and how the interplay between mitochondrial Ca2+ transport and Ca+2 transport across the plasma membrane contribute to depolarization-evoked Ca2+ signals in intact cells.
We aimed to estimate primary sensory evoked potential (EP) amplitude, amplitude-intensity functions and habituation in migraine patients compared with healthy control subjects and to investigate the possible relation to check size, sound and light discomfort thresholds, and the time to the next attack. Amplitudes of cortical visual evoked potentials (VEP, check size 8' and 33'), cortical long latency auditory evoked potential (AEP NIP1; 40, 55 and 70 dB SL tones) and brainstem auditory evoked potential (BAEP wave IV-V; 40, 55 and 65 dB SL clicks) were recorded and analysed in a blind and balanced design. The difference between the response to the first and the second half of the stimulus sequence was used as a measure of habituation. Twenty-one migraine patients (16 women and five men, mean age 39.3 years, six with aura, 15 without aura) and 22 sex- and age-matched healthy control subjects were studied (18 women and four men, mean age 39.5 years). Low sound discomfort threshold correlated significantly with low levels of BAEP wave IV-V amplitude habituation (r = -0.30, P = 0.05). VEP an AEP amplitudes, habituation, and amplitude-intensity function (ASF) slopes did not differ between groups when ANOVA main factors were considered. Control group VEP habituation was found for small check stimuli (P = 0.04), while potentiation was observed for medium sized checks (P = 0.02). The eight migraine patients who experienced headache within 24 h after the test tended to have increased BAEP wave IV-V ASF slopes (P = 0.08). This subgroup did also have a significant VEP habituation to small checks (P = 0.04). No correlation was found between different modalities. These results suggest that: (i) VEP habituation/potentiation state and brainstem activatio state may depend on the attack-interval cycle in migraine; (ii) VEP habituation/ potentiation may depend on spatial stimulus frequency; (iii) phonophobia (and possibly photophobia) may depend more on subcortical (brainstem) function than on cortical mechanisms; (iv) low cortical preactivation in migraine could not be confirmed; (v) EP habituation and ASF analysis may reflect sensory modality-specific, not generalized, central nervous system states in migraine and healthy control subjects.
Synchronous neuronal activity with millisecond precision has been postulated to contribute to the process of visual perceptual grouping. We have performed multineuron recordings in striate cortex of two alert macaque monkeys to determine if the occurrence and properties of this form of activity are consistent with the minimal requirements of this theory. We find that neuronal synchronization with millisecond precision is a prevalent and robust feature of stimulus-evoked activity in striate cortex. It occurs among adjacent cells recorded by the same electrode (&lt;120 microm), among cells recorded at separate but nearby sites (300-400 microm) and between cells recorded at locations separated by 3-4 mm. The magnitude and probability of synchronous firing is inversely related to the spatial separation between the cells and it occurs within and between groups of cells that are both tuned and untuned for stimulus orientation and direction. Among those tuned for orientation, cell pairs separated by &lt;400 microm showed no clear dependence of correlated firing on orientation preference. The occurrence of gamma-band (20-70 Hz) oscillations in the cellular firing patterns was a strong predictor of synchronous firing at each of the spatial scales. Nearly 90% of the cell pairs showing significant correlation also showed oscillatory firing in one or both cells of the pair. These results are consistent with some, but not all, of the previous reports of synchronous activity in striate cortex of both cat and primates. The similarities in the properties of synchronous oscillations in the monkey and cat suggest that this form of neuronal activity is a general property of mammalian striate cortex. The relation between correlation and oscillation suggests that neuronal rhythmicity is an important mechanism contributing to synchronization.
Using single and multiunit recordings in the striate cortex of alert macaque monkeys, we find that gamma-band (20-70 Hz) oscillations in neuronal firing are a prominent feature of V1 neuronal activity. The properties of this rhythmic activity are very similar to those previously observed in the cat. Gamma-band activity is strongly dependent on visual stimulation, largely absent during spontaneous activity and, under the conditions of our experiment, not time-locked to the vertical refresh of the computer monitor (80 Hz) used to present the stimuli. In our sample, 61% of multiunit activity (MUA) and 46% of single-unit activity (SUA) was significantly oscillatory, with mean frequencies of 48+/-9 and 42+/-13 Hz, respectively. Gamma-band activity was most likely to occur when cells were activated by their optimal stimuli, but still occurred, although less often and with lower amplitude, in response to nonoptimal stimuli. The frequency of gamma-band activity also reflected stimulus properties, with drifting gratings evoking higher-frequency oscillations than stationary gratings. As in the cat, the spike trains of single cells showing gamma-band oscillations often displayed a pattern of repetitive burst firing, with intraburst firing rates of 300-800 Hz. The overall similarity of rhythmic neuronal activity in the primary visual cortex of cats and monkeys suggests that the phenomenon is not species-specific. The stimulus-dependence of the rhythmic activity is consistent with a functional role in visual perception.
It is generally believed that the supranuclear innervation of the hypoglossal nucleus is bilateral and symmetrical. The aim of this work is to study the frequency and clinical characteristics of supranuclear tongue palsy in unilateral stroke. 300 patients with acute unilateral ischaemic motor strokes (excluding those in the lower brainstem) and an equal number of normal controls were studied for the presence of tongue deviation in a standardised manner. 29% of stroke patients and 5% of controls had tongue deviation (p &lt; 0. 00001). Deviation was always to the side of the limb weakness. In patients with a history of stroke, it occurred more frequently in those with previous stroke on the contralateral side. Tongue deviation was most common in patients with clinical features of the non-lacunar stroke subtype (56%) or in those with cortical or large subcortical infarctions on brain CT scan (55 and 45%, respectively). All tongue deviations were associated with supranuclear 7th nerve palsy. Dysphagia and dysarthria occurred in 43 and 90% of patients with tongue deviation. Weakness of the arm was significantly associated with presence of tongue deviation. Tongue deviation in unilateral stroke most likely results from asymmetrical supranuclear control of the 12th cranial nerve in many individuals. The finding that it occurs relatively commonly in large (non-lacunar) infarcts and its association with dysphagia may have clinical utility.
Infants of 5 to 6 months of age can retrieve a free-standing object, but fail to retrieve the same object from atop a slightly larger object. The accepted explanation has been that the infants do not understand that an object continues to exist independently when placed upon another. Predictions based on that explanation were tested against the hypothesis that infants' problem consists of lack of precision in visually guided reaching and lack of ability to inhibit reflexive reactions to touch. Twelve infants each at 5 and 7 months of age were tested on 16 trials. More 5-month-olds succeeded, in less time, and with fewer touches to an edge of the base, on trials more forgiving of an imprecise reach than on less forgiving trials. Success in retrieving objects close in size and fully contiguous with their bases was seen even at 5 months when the demands on skill in reaching were reduced. It is proposed that when 5-month-old infants fail to retrieve one object placed upon another, it is not because of a lack of conceptual understanding, but because they lack the skill to reach to the top object without accidentally touching an edge of the base en route.
The vertebral artery (VA), whose embryogenesis differs from that of any other vessel, is characterized by a great variety of malformations and anomalies. Some of the malformations are truly pathological (that is symptomatic); the anomalies are either found by chance postmorten or by angiography. All of these should be kept in mind by the surgeon approaching the deep cervical and craniospinal regions as well as by the interventional radiologist. In the context of a literature review we discuss the width and length anomalies of the VA, tortuosity and kinking, course anomalies, duplication and fenestration, persistence of primitive arteries, and anomalies of collateral branches. Other pathologies of the cervical VA associated exclusively with genetic diseases, such as spontaneous aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulae in neurofibromatosis type 1 are also considered.
We have previously shown that (RS)-2-amino-3-[3-hydroxy-5-(2-methyl-2H-tetrazol-5-yl)isoxazol -4-yl] propionic acid (2-Me-Tet-AMPA) is a selective agonist at (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazol-4-yl)propionic acid (AMPA) receptors, markedly more potent than AMPA itself, whereas the isomeric compound 1-Me-Tet-AMPA is essentially inactive. We here report the enantiopharmacology of 2-Me-Tet-AMPA in radioligand binding and cortical wedge electrophysiological assay systems, and using cloned AMPA (GluR1-4) and kainic acid (KA) (GluR5, 6, and KA2) receptor subtypes expressed in Xenopus oocytes. 2-Me-Tet-AMPA was resolved using preparative chiral HPLC. Zwitterion (-)-2-Me-Tet-AMPA was assigned the (R)-configuration based on an X-ray crystallographic analysis supported by the elution order of (-)- and (+)-2-Me-Tet-AMPA using four different chiral HPLC columns and by circular dichroism spectra. None of the compounds tested showed detectable affinity for N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor sites, and (R)-2-Me-Tet-AMPA was essentially inactive in all of the test systems used. Whereas (S)-2-Me-Tet-AMPA showed low affinity (IC(50) = 11 microM) in the [(3)H]KA binding assay, it was significantly more potent (IC(50) = 0.009 microM) than AMPA (IC(50) = 0.039 microM) in the [(3)H]AMPA binding assay, and in agreement with these findings, (S)-2-Me-Tet-AMPA (EC(50) = 0.11 microM) was markedly more potent than AMPA (EC(50) = 3.5 microM) in the electrophysiological cortical wedge model. In contrast to AMPA, which showed comparable potencies (EC(50) = 1.3-3.5 microM) at receptors formed by the AMPA receptor subunits (GluR1-4) in Xenopus oocytes, more potent effects and a substantially higher degree of subunit selectivity were observed for (S)-2-Me-Tet-AMPA: GluR1o (EC(50) = 0.16 microM), GluR1o/GluR2i (EC(50) = 0.12 microM), GluR3o (EC(50) = 0.014 microM) and GluR4o (EC(50) = 0.009 microM). At the KA-preferring receptors GluR5 and GluR6/KA2, (S)-2-Me-Tet-AMPA showed much weaker agonist effects (EC(50) = 8.7 and 15.3 microM, respectively). It is concluded that (S)-2-Me-Tet-AMPA is a subunit-selective and highly potent AMPA receptor agonist and a potentially useful tool for studies of physiological AMPA receptor subtypes.

We have investigated the comparative antioxidant capacity of a range of anaesthetics (inhaled and intravenous) and perioperative neurosurgical drugs (at clinically relevant concentrations) using different radical species and assay methods in vitro. The highest levels of antioxidant activity against the ABTS(.+) radical were obtained with propofol (100 mmol/LTE) and dopamine (1080 mmol/LTE), respectively. However, only dopamine (12 mmol/l) showed antioxidant activity in protecting proteins in normal brain tissue from oxidative damage (assessed via SDS-PAGE analysis) induced by OH(.) or O(2)(-.) generated radiolytically in vitro. Neither dopamine nor propofol showed antioxidant activity against O(2)(-.) generated chemically via reaction between xanthine and xanthine oxidase in vitro. From these data, together with data on the relative antioxidant properties of anaesthetics/drugs obtained by other research groups which we have reviewed, we conclude that the apparent antioxidant activity of a given compound may depend entirely on the free radical species and/or the method of generation or assay employed. Finally, we suggest that on the basis of data obtained showing protection of brain proteins from oxidative damage induced by OH(.), or O(2)(-.) in vitro, further investigation into the in vivo antioxidant therapeutic potential of dopamine (or its analogues) on neurosurgical patients may be warranted.
1. The tachykinins are neuropeptides found in both the central and peripheral nervous systems that play a role in inflammation and pain mechanisms and some autonomic reflexes and behaviours. 2. Although the distribution of the tachykinin receptors has been described in the brains of various animal species, little is known about the distribution of the NK1 and NK3 receptors in the human brain. 3. The present paper examines the distribution of the NK1 and NK3 receptors in the prefrontal cortex of formalin-fixed postmortem human brain tissue by immunohistochemical techniques. 4. The majority of NK1 receptor immunoreactivity appeared as a thin band of punctate staining at the pial surface, with dark brown dots of NK1 receptor immunoreactivity predominantly scattered across the mid to upper cortical layers. 5. The NK3 receptor immunoreactivity was found in the glia limitans at the pial surface, where astrocytes and beaded fibres were intensely stained. Dots of NK3 receptor immunoreactivity were scattered across all cortical layers. In the white matter, astrocytes and beaded fibres displayed NK3 receptor immunoreactivity, particularly in areas surrounding blood vessels.



In a prospective, controlled study the skin microcirculation and transcutaneous oxygen tension were evaluated in 28 elderly patients (85 +/- 0.8 years) with grade 2 and 3 pressure ulcer. Laser Doppler fluxmetry and transcutaneous oxymetry techniques were used together in a combined probe to simultaneously evaluate the influence of heat stress at 44 degrees C, at the same time and in the same area of the ulcer edge. Total skin microcirculation was already increased at rest before heating, and increased even more during a fast and then a more gradually heat-induced hyperaemia response compared with undamaged skin. The increase showed a biphasic manner. On the other hand, the oxygen diffusibility from the capillaries to the skin surface was significantly reduced, compared with undamaged skin. One hypothesis may be that in ageing skin the main part of the increased skin microcirculation in a pressure ulcer were passing through thermoregulatory vessels in subpapillary tissue layers. Interactions between the increased blood flow and metabolic activity at the ulcer edge might be oxygen-consuming, leading to reduced oxygen content passing through the capillaries and contributing to tissue ischaemia. Disturbances of the local skin microcirculation and tissue oxygenation will influence the ulcer healing rate and may affect the healing progress.

The goal of care of the traumatic brain-injured patient is to prevent secondary injury. Technology gives the caregivers information as to the cause and severity of injury and can guide appropriate management of the patient. Use of multimodality monitoring increases the complexity of care but may allow for better targeted therapy. This article will discuss the current state of technology, the physiology and pathophysiology that it assesses, the normal and abnormal values obtained, and how care will be impacted.
CP-101606 is a potent, selective NMDA receptor (NR2B subunit) antagonist under development by Pfizer for its potential as a neuroprotectant in head injury and neurodegenerative disease. It is in phase II trials in the US and in phase I in Japan for the potential treatment of head injury [267139], [320737], [378812]. As of March 2000, CP-101606 had completed US phase I trials successfully and was well tolerated with a good safety profile. Results of an open-label study in patients treated with CP-101606 (24 to 72 h infusion) following severe head trauma showed that 80% of patients had good recovery at the 3-month follow-up stage [360864]. In August 2000, Merrill Lynch predicted that the phase II trials program could be complete by the end of 2000 with the possibility of a filing based on its results if positive [379892]. The drug lacks the amnesic side effects of other NMDA receptor antagonists and it has no effects on long-term potentiation (LTP) [347642]. According to presenters at the 1999 Society for Neuroscience meeting, this may result from a novel activity-dependent or NR2B-selective mechanism of action [345079]. It is thought to act by inhibiting the damaging influx of Ca2+ across neuronal cell membranes following glutamate release triggered by tissue injury, e.g., stroke [300847]. CP-101606 prevents glutamate-induced toxicity in cultured hippocampal neurons when given during or immediately after glutamate perfusion, (IC50 = 11 and 35 nM, respectively). In contrast, CP-101606 does not protect against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in cultured cerebellar neurons, up to a dose of 10 microM. These results are consistent with CP-101606 being a potent NMDA antagonist, selective for the type of NMDA receptor associated with the hippocampus [195435]. CP-101606 is a single isomer analog of CP-98113 (Pfizer Inc) [254010]. CP-101581 (Pfizer Inc) is an isomer of CP-101606 [254010]. In December 1998, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter predicted sales of US $5 million in 2001, rising to US $80 million by 2005 [315350].
The bilateral C. elegans neuroblasts QL and QR are born in the same anterior/posterior (A/P) position, but polarize and migrate left/right asymmetrically: QL migrates toward the posterior and QR migrates toward the anterior. After their migrations, QL but not QR switches on the Hox gene mab-5. We find that the UNC-40/netrin receptor and a novel transmembrane protein DPY-19 are required to orient these cells correctly. In unc-40 or dpy-19 mutants, the Q cells polarize randomly; in fact, an individual Q cell polarizes in multiple directions over time. In addition, either cell can express MAB-5. Both UNC-40 and DPY-19, as well as the Trio/GTPase exchange factor homolog UNC-73, are required for full polarization and migration. Thus, these proteins appear to participate in a signaling system that orients and polarizes these migrating cells in a left/right asymmetrical fashion during development. The C. elegans netrin UNC-6, which guides many cells and axons along the dorsoventral axis, is not involved in Q cell polarization, suggesting that a different netrin-like ligand serves to polarize these cells along the anteroposterior axis.
We have previously shown that cultured trunk neural crest cell populations irreversibly lose neurogenic ability when dispersal is prevented or delayed, while the ability to produce other crest derivatives is retained (Vogel, K. S. and Weston, J. A. (1988) Neuron 1, 569-577). Here, we show that when crest cells are prevented from dispersing, cell death is increased and neurogenesis is decreased in the population, as a result of high cell density. Control experiments to characterize the effects of high cell density on environmental conditions in culture suggest that reduced neurogenesis is the result of cell-cell interactions and not changes (conditioning or depletion) of the culture medium. Additionally, we show that the caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk, which blocks developmentally regulated cell death, rescues the neurogenic ability of high density cultures, without any apparent effect on normal, low-density cultures. We conclude, therefore, that increased cell interaction at high cell densities results in the selective death of neurogenic precursors in the nascent crest population. Furthermore, we show that neurogenic cells in cultured crest cell populations that have dispersed immediately are not susceptible to contact-mediated death, even if they are subsequently cultured at high cell density. Since most early migrating avian crest cells express Notch1, and a subset expresses Delta1 (Wakamatsu, Y., Maynard, T. M. and Weston, J. A. (2000) Development 127, 2811-2821), we tested the possibility that the effects of cell contact were mediated by components of a Notch signaling pathway. We found that neurogenic precursors are eliminated when crest cells are co-cultured with exogenous Delta1-expressing cells immediately after they segregate from the neural tube, although not after they have previously dispersed. We conclude that early and prolonged cell interactions, mediated at least in part by Notch signaling, can regulate the survival of neurogenic cells within the nascent crest population. We suggest that a transient episode of cell contact-mediated death of neurogenic cells may serve to eliminate fate-restricted neurogenic cells that fail to disperse promptly in vivo.
Hair cell fate determination in the inner ear has been shown to be controlled by specific genes. Recent loss-of-function and gain-of-function experiments have demonstrated that Math1, a mouse homolog of the Drosophila gene atonal, is essential for the production of hair cells. To identify genes that may interact with Math1 and inhibit hair cell differentiation, we have focused on Hes1, a mammalian hairy and enhancer of split homolog, which is a negative regulator of neurogenesis. We report here that targeted deletion of Hes1 leads to formation of supernumerary hair cells in the cochlea and utricle of the inner ear. RT-PCR analysis shows that Hes1 is expressed in inner ear during hair cell differentiation and its expression is maintained in adulthood. In situ hybridization with late embryonic inner ear tissue reveals that Hes1 is expressed in supporting cells, but not hair cells, of the vestibular sensory epithelium. In the cochlea, Hes1 is selectively expressed in the greater epithelial ridge and lesser epithelial ridge regions which are adjacent to inner and outer hair cells. Co-transfection experiments in postnatal rat explant cultures show that overexpression of Hes1 prevents hair cell differentiation induced by Math1. Therefore Hes1 can negatively regulate hair cell differentiation by antagonizing Math1. These results suggest that a balance between Math1 and negative regulators such as Hes1 is crucial for the production of an appropriate number of inner ear hair cells.
This study was designed to test the hypothesis that poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) plays a role in the repair of damage to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). A rat insulinoma cell line was transfected with a PARP antisense vector that was under the control of a dexamethasone promoter. Transfected cells were selected for stable integration of the antisense vector. Several cell lines containing the antisense vector were isolated. For these studies, one of these lines (clone 5) was chosen for further evaluation. When cells were treated with dexamethasone for 72 h, PARP activity was diminished by 60%. Western blot analysis revealed a concomitant reduction in PARP protein. When clone 5 cells were exposed to the simple methylating agent methylnitrosourea (MNU) without previous treatment with dexamethasone, repair of lesions in mtDNA was found to be similar to that seen in wild-type cells or in wild-type cells treated with dexamethasone. However, when clone 5 cells were pretreated with dexamethasone for 72 h, repair of MNU-induced damage was significantly inhibited. To ascertain whether the PARP activity that was inhibited by the antisense treatment was the same as that found in the nucleus, repair studies were performed on fibroblasts derived from PARP knockout mice and their normal wild-type controls. Attenuated repair was also seen in the cells in which the gene for PARP was inactivated. These are the first studies to demonstrate that PARP can facilitate the repair of simple alkylation damage to mtDNA.
The propagation pattern of individual pressure waves in the gastroduodenal area in IBS is unexplored. We performed antroduodenojejunal manometry on 26 patients with IBS--13 with diarrhea predominant IBS (IBS-D) and 13 with constipation predominant IBS (IBS-C)--and 32 healthy controls. Neuropathic-like motor abnormalities were found in 38% of the patients with conventional manometric evaluation. With high-resolution analysis additional abnormalities were observed in the majority of the patients, with increased frequency of retrograde pressure waves postprandially in both IBS subgroups and in phase II in IBS-D. A correlation between subjective gastrointestinal symptoms and the frequency of retrograde pressure waves in phase II in IBS-D was demonstrated. Motility indices and the number of long clusters were also higher in patients compared to controls. To conclude, an abnormal propagation pattern of individual duodenal pressure waves in IBS patients was demonstrated and found to be related to symptom severity in diarrhea-predominant IBS. High-resolution analysis adds information to standard manometry.

The present article provides a concise overview of progress in our understanding of neuropeptides, their receptors and the current and potential ways in which they may be targeted for clinical use. Neuropeptide systems offer certain characteristics that distinguish them from those utilizing classic neurotransmitters and thus make them increasingly attractive for drug targeting. A key example of the highly successful use of neuropeptide receptor ligands is that of opioid receptor agonists for the treatment of pain. More recently, classically identified neuropeptide receptors, including those for substance P, cholecystokinin and neurotensin, have been singled out for development of antagonists by several pharmaceutical companies, for various therapeutic indications. These examples can be categorized as having been identified using classic methods; that is, the neuropeptide(s) and/or their function(s) were established prior to molecular identification of their receptor(s). Modern methodologies being widely applied in the industry today have somewhat reversed the need for this ordering in drug discovery. Technologies based upon bioinformatics, molecular, proteomic and transgenic approaches have accelerated the identification of putative receptor targets and the generation of information on their involvement in physiological and pathophysiological processes. Now research and development teams are in a position to best select targets from this rapidly expanding catalogue. This article seeks to outline aspects of these procedures and additionally summarize recent data which have important implications for drug development in this field. Consideration has been given to potential targets and how these may ultimately lead to clinical benefit.

Leptin is a weight-reducing hormone produced by adipose tissue, which reduces food intake via hypothalamic leptin receptors and the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. In vivo studies have shown that leptin activates specifically STAT3 in the hypothalamus. We have studied the cellular localization of STAT3 messenger RNA (mRNA) and STAT3 protein in the mouse mediobasal hypothalamus using, respectively, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Strong STAT3 mRNA and STAT3 immunoreactivity was demonstrated in neurons located in the ventral part of the mouse arcuate nucleus. Comparison of STAT3 mRNA levels in the arcuate nucleus of lean control mice and obese leptin-deficient ob/ob mice showed that the levels of STAT3 mRNA in the arcuate nucleus were significantly lower (31% less in ob/ob mice), compared with control mice. Hybridization with a probe specific for STAT3alpha mRNA showed that the down-regulated STAT3 expression in the arcuate nucleus of ob/ob mice is represented by STAT3alpha. There was a marked difference in numbers and intensity of STAT3-immunoreactive cell bodies, with virtually no STAT3-immunoreactive cell bodies in the mediobasal hypothalamus of ob/ob mice, compared with control mice. Direct double-labeling immunofluorescence histochemistry of sections from control mice, combining a goat antiserum raised against a peptide sequence present in all leptin receptor isoforms (Ob-R) or a guinea pig anti-serum generated to a peptide sequence specific for Ob-Rb with rabbit STAT3 antiserum, demonstrated colocalization of STAT3 and Ob-R as well as colocalization of STAT3 and Ob-Rb, in many cell bodies of the arcuate nucleus. The results suggest that circulating leptin acts via leptin receptor-/STAT3-containing neurons in the ventral arcuate nucleus and that congenital leptin deficiency, as seen in obese ob/ob mice, results in a down-regulation of STAT3 mRNA and protein levels.


Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a T-cell-mediated autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, associated with an altered cytokine network. We previously assayed peripheral blood T-lymphocyte binding for two prototypic cytokines, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), and found that T cells from MS patients had significantly more TNF-alpha and IL-6 receptors than those from healthy controls. In the present work, paralleling a previous one on T-cell TNF-alpha binding, we studied the effect of interferon (IFN)-beta-1b treatment on T-lymphocyte IL-6 binding in patients with relapsing-remitting MS. T cells from MS patients had significantly (P &lt; 0.001) higher amounts of IL-6 receptors than those from controls [292 +/- 6 vs. 228 +/- 8 (mean +/- SEM) receptors per cell, respectively], whereas the ligand-receptor affinity values were similar in the two groups [26.2 +/- 0.7 and 25.7 +/- 0.4 (mean +/- SEM) pmoles/l, respectively]. After a 3-month IFN-beta-1b treatment, they showed a significant decrease in IL-6 binding [266 +/- 7 (mean +/- SEM) receptors per cell]. After 6 and 9 months, T-cell IL-6 B(max) values were even lower [258 +/- 8 and 251 +/- 8 (mean +/- SEM) receptors per cell]. Since an increased IL-6 binding might be linked to a lymphocyte activation, our data give further support for an enhanced immune response in patients with MS. Our data seem to demonstrate that the major effects of IFN-beta-1b treatment result in a decrease of T-cell activation.

High frequency stimulation (130 Hz) of the subthalamic nucleus has dramatic beneficial motor effects in severe parkinsonian patients. However, the mechanisms underlying these clinical results remain obscure. The objective of the present work was to study the neurochemical changes induced in rats by high frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus by using intracerebral microdialysis within its target structures. Our results show that high frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus induces a significant increase of extracellular glutamate levels in the ipsilateral globus pallidus and substantia nigra while GABA was augmented only in the substantia nigra. These data suggest that functional effects induced by high frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus might imply distal mechanisms involving the synaptic relationships with the subthalamic efferences. They question the current view that the direct inhibition of the subthalamic neurons is induced by high frequency stimulation.
Carbachol (&gt; 20 microM) and kainate (100 nM) induce, in the in vitro CA3 region, synchronized neuronal population oscillations at approximately 40 Hz having distinctive features: (i) the oscillations persist for hours; (ii) interneurons in kainate fire at 5-20 Hz and their firing is tightly locked to field potential maxima (recorded in s. radiatum); (iii) in contrast, pyramidal cells, in both carbachol and kainate, fire at frequencies as low as 2 Hz, and their firing is less tightly locked to field potentials; (iv) the oscillations require GABAA receptors, AMPA receptors and gap junctions. Using a network of 3072 pyramidal cells and 384 interneurons (each multicompartmental and containing a segment of unmyelinated axon), we employed computer simulations to examine conditions under which network oscillations might occur with the experimentally determined properties. We found that such network oscillations could be generated, robustly, when gap junctions were located between pyramidal cell axons, as suggested to occur based on studies of spontaneous high-frequency (&gt; 100 Hz) network oscillations in the in vitro hippocampus. In the model, pyramidal cell somatic firing was not essential for the oscillations. Critical components of the model are (i) the plexus of pyramidal cell axons, randomly and sparsely interconnected by gap junctions; (ii) glutamate synapses onto interneurons; (iii) synaptic inhibition between interneurons and onto pyramidal cell axons and somata; (iv) a sufficiently high rate of spontaneous action potentials generated in pyramidal cell axons. This model explains the dependence of network oscillations on GABA(A) and AMPA receptors, as well as on gap junctions. Besides the existence of axon-axon gap junctions, the model predicts that many of the pyramidal cell action potentials, during sustained gamma oscillations, are initiated in axons.
We examined the influence of extensive overtraining (75 trials) of auditory fear conditioning on the expression of conditional stimulus (CS)-elicited spike firing in lateral amygdala (LA) neurons. Single units were recorded from chronic multichannel electrodes implanted in the LA of conscious and freely moving rats. In sequential training sessions, the rats received either five or 70 fear conditioning trials, which consisted of a white-noise CS and a coterminating footshock unconditional stimulus (US). Unpaired (sensitization) controls received the same number of trials, but the CS and US were explicitly unpaired. Paired CS-US presentations yielded robust increases in CS-elicited spike firing in LA neurons after both five and 70 conditioning trials, and the magnitude of the spike firing increases was correlated with the expression of conditional freezing to the CS. After 75 training trials, maximal conditioning-related increases in LA firing were exhibited within 20 ms of CS onset, indicating that this increase is mediated by direct thalamo-amygdala projections. There was no significant increase in CS-elicited spike firing or freezing behaviour in the unpaired group. These results complement amygdala lesion studies [e.g. Maren, S. (1999a) J. Neurosci., 19, 8696-8703] and support the view that the basolateral complex of the amygdala is involved in the encoding and storage of fear memories even after extensive overtraining.
It has been shown that striatal adenosine A2A receptors can antagonistically interact with dopamine D2 receptors at the membrane level leading to a decrease in the affinity and efficacy of D2 receptors. Extracellular recordings and rotational behaviour were employed to obtain a correlate to these findings in an animal model of Parkinson's disease (PD). The recordings were performed in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced catecholamine depletion. While recording in the dopamine-depleted striatum, local applications of the dopamine D2 agonist quinpirole reduced neuronal activity. However, when the adenosine A2A antagonist MSX-3 was applied simultaneously with quinpirole, the inhibition of neuronal firing seen after quinpirole alone was significantly potentiated (P&lt; 0.001, n = 11). In contrast, local application of CGS 21680 attenuated the effect of quinpirole. The doses of MSX-3 and CGS 21680 used to achieve the modulation of quinpirole action had no effect per se on striatal neuronal firing. Furthermore, rotational behaviour revealed that MSX-3 dose-dependently increased the number of turns when administrated together with a threshold dose of quinpirole while no enhancement was achieved when MSX-3 was combined with SKF 38393. MSX-3 alone did not induce rotational behaviour. In conclusion, this study shows that low ineffective doses of MSX-3 enhance the effect of quinpirole on striatal firing rate, while the A2A agonist exerts the opposite action. This mechanism gives a therapeutic potential to A2A antagonists in the treatment of PD by enhancing D2 receptor function.
Neurotrophins exert short- and long-term effects on synaptic transmission. The mechanism underlying these forms of synaptic plasticity is unknown although it is likely that intracellular Ca2+ and presynaptic Ca2+ channels play a critical role. Here we show that BDNF, NGF and NT-3 (10-100 ng/mL) exhibit a selective long-term up-regulation of voltage-gated Ca2+ current densities in developing hippocampal neurons of 6-20 days in culture. NGF and NT-3 appear more effective in up-regulating L-currents, while BDNF predominantly acts on non-L-currents (N, P/Q and R). The effects of the three neurotrophins were time- and dose-dependent. The EC50 was comparable for BDNF, NGF and NT-3 (10-16 ng/mL) while the time of half-maximal activation was significantly longer for NGF compared to BDNF (58 vs. 25 h). Despite the increased Ca2+ current density, the neurotrophins did not alter the voltage-dependence of channel activation, the kinetics parameters or the elementary properties of Ca2+ channels (single-channel conductance, probability of opening and mean open time). Neurotrophin effects were completely abolished by coincubation with the nonspecific Trk-receptor inhibitor K252a, the protein synthesis blocker anisomycin and the MAP-kinase inhibitor PD98059, while cotreatment with the PLC-gamma blocker, U73122, was without effect. Immunocytochemistry and Western blotting revealed that neurotrophins induced an increased MAP-kinase phosphorylation and its translocation to the nucleus. The present findings suggest that on a long time scale different neurotrophins can selectively up-regulate different Ca2+ channels. The action is mediated by Trk-receptors/MAP-kinase pathways and induces an increased density of newly available Ca2+ channels with unaltered gating activity.
High pressure induces CNS hyperexcitability while markedly depressing synaptic transmitter release. We studied the effect of pressure (up to 10.1 MPa) on the parallel fibre (PF) synaptic response in biplanar cerebellar slices of adult guinea pigs. Pressure mildly reduced the PF volley amplitude and to a greater extent depressed the excitatory field postsynaptic potential (fPSP). The depression of the PF volley was noted even at supramaximal stimulus intensities, indicating an effect of pressure on the amplitude of the action potential in each axon. Low concentrations of TTX mimicked the effects of pressure on the PF volley without affecting the fPSP. Application omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx) reduced the synaptic efficacy by 34.3+/-2.7%. However, in the presence of omega-CgTx the synaptic depression at pressure was significantly reduced. Reduced Ca2+ entry by application of Cd2+ or low [Ca2+]o did not have a similar influence on the effects of pressure. Application of omega-AGA IVA, omega-AGA TK and Funnel-web spider toxin did not affect the synaptic response in concentrations that usually block P-type Ca2+ channels, whilst the N/P/Q-type blocker omega-conotoxin MVIIC reduced the response to 52.7+/-5.0% indicating the involvement of Q-type channels and R-type channels in the non-N-type fraction of Ca2+ entry. The results demonstrate that N-type Ca2+ channels play a crucial role in the induction of PF synaptic depression at pressure. This finding suggests a coherent mechanism for the induction of CNS hyperexcitability at pressure.
Adult dorsal root ganglia (DRG) have been shown to express a wide range of voltage-gated sodium channel alpha-subunits. However, of the auxiliary subunits, beta1 is expressed preferentially in only large- and medium-diameter neurons of the DRG while beta2 is absent in all DRG cells. In view of this, we have compared the distribution of beta1 in rat DRG and spinal cord with a novel, recently cloned beta1-like subunit, beta3. In situ hybridization studies demonstrated high levels of beta3 mRNA in small-diameter c-fibres, while beta1 mRNA was virtually absent in these cell types but was expressed in 100% of large-diameter neurons. In the spinal cord, beta3 transcript was present specifically in layers I/II (substantia gelatinosa) and layer X, while beta1 mRNA was expressed in all laminae throughout the grey matter. Since the pattern of beta3 expression in DRG appears to correlate with the TTX-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel subunit PN3, we co-expressed the two subunits in Xenopus oocytes. In this system, beta3 caused a 5-mV hyperpolarizing shift in the threshold of activation of PN3, and a threefold increase in the peak current amplitude when compared with PN3 expressed alone. On the basis of these results, we examined the expression of beta-subunits in the chronic constriction injury model of neuropathic pain. Results revealed a significant increase in beta3 mRNA expression in small-diameter sensory neurons of the ipsilateral DRG. These results show that beta3 is the dominant auxiliary sodium channel subunit in small-diameter neurons of the rat DRG and that it is significantly upregulated in a model of neuropathic pain.
Here we studied whether glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), given as a single bolus injection before an intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion, can protect the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons against the toxin-induced damage and preserve normal motor functions in the lesioned animals. GDNF or vehicle was injected in the striatum (25 microg), substantia nigra (25 microg) or lateral ventricle (50 microg) 6 h before the 6-OHDA lesion (20 microg/3 microL). Motor function was evaluated by the stepping and drug-induced motor asymmetry tests. Lesioned animals given vehicle alone showed a clear ipsilateral-side bias in response to amphetamine (13 turns/min), a moderate contralateral-side bias to apomorphine (4.5 turns/min) and a moderate to severe stepping deficit on the contralateral forepaw (three to four steps, as compared with 11-13 steps on the unimpaired side). Injection of GDNF into the striatum had a significant protective effect both on nigrostriatal function (1-2 turns/min in the rotation tests and seven to eight steps in the stepping test), and the integrity of the nigrostriatal pathway, seen as a protection of both the cell bodies in the substantia nigra and the dopamine innervation in the striatum. Injection of GDNF in the nigra had a protective effect on the nigral cell bodies, but not the striatal innervation, and failed to provide any functional benefit. In contrast, intranigral GDNF had deleterious effects on both the striatal TH-positive fibre density and on drug-induced rotation tests. Intraventricular injection had no effect. We conclude that preservation of normal motor functions in the intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesion model requires protection of striatal terminal innervation, and that this can be achieved by intrastriatal, but not nigral or intraventricular, administration of GDNF.
The Suicide Assessment Scale (SUAS), a scale constructed to measure suicidality over time, was administered to 191 suicide attempters. Its predictive validity was tested. SUAS ratings were compared to ratings from other scales, and related to age and psychiatric diagnoses including co-morbidity. Eight patients committed suicide within 12 months after the SUAS assessment. Apart from advanced age, high scores in the SUAS were significant predictors of suicide. From a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, we identified cutoff SUAS scores which alone and in combination with certain diagnostic and demographic factors are of apparent value in the clinical evaluation of suicide risk after a suicide attempt.
As opposed to other psychiatric populations, subjects with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) smoke less than the general population. The present study aims at further investigating the relationship between smoking in OCD subjects and personality traits. Sixty-four subjects with OCD were interviewed concerning their smoking habits. Personality traits were evaluated using the Karolinska Scales of Personality, and specific obsessive-compulsive personality traits were elicited through self-report questionnaires. Non-smokers were more easily fatigued, more inclined to worry, more remorseful, less self-confident, less impulsive and became uneasy more frequently when urged to speed up, than smokers with OCD. Additionally, non-smokers fulfilled significantly more obsessive-compulsive personality disorder criteria as compared to the smokers (P &lt; 0.001). We propose a clinical subtype of OCD related to non-smoking, psychasthenia, anxiety, and pronounced obsessive-compulsive personality disorder traits.
Prehension is an object-oriented behavior consisting of four components: reach, grasp, manipulation, and release. To determine how such actions are represented in primary somatosensory (S-I) and posterior parietal cortex (PPC), we used digital video to synchronize spike trains of neurons recorded in Brodmann's areas 3b, 1, 2, 5, and 7 with the hand kinematics as monkeys performed a prehension task. Statistical analyses indicated that one-third of task-modulated neurons showed significantly depressed firing rates during object acquisition and/or manipulation. This population was dominated by neurons innervated by deep receptors that sensed extension movements of the fingers, or by tactile receptors in hairy skin sensing stretch. Grasp-inhibited responses were the most common type. Tonic firing rates of these cells dropped significantly during approach as the hand was preshaped for grasping, or at contact when grasp was initiated, and persisted until hand motion ceased or as the grip relaxed. Maximum suppression of firing occurred at grasp completion. Their lack of specificity for particular hand behaviors formed the inhibitory counterpart of broadly tuned cells that fired prolonged bursts during grasp and manipulatory stages of prehension. The remainder of the task-inhibited population showed biphasic responses. Firing rates were significantly depressed during grasping and manipulation when the hand interacted directly with the object, but were enhanced prior to contact, when the hand was preshaped (approach-tuned), or upon relaxation of grasp and release of the object from the hand (loweror relax-tuned). Grasp-inhibited responses occurred primarily in S-I, whereas biphasic inhibitory activity was recorded mainly in PPC. Suppression of activity within these populations may thereby increase the saliency of excitatory responses to acquisition and manipulation of objects. Reduction of firing during prehension might also signal the flexed postures used to retain objects in the hand, rather than a generalized gating of sensory information. The similarity of responses to active and passive extension movements suggests that the inhibitory responses may provide important postural and motor information about the hand kinematics when performing skilled tasks.
Laminin is a potent stimulator of neurite outgrowth in a variety of primary neurons and neuronal cell lines. Here, we investigate the role of nitric oxide in the signaling mechanism of laminin-mediated neurite outgrowth in the PC12 cell line. Within 8 s of exposure to laminin, PC12 cells produce nitric oxide. Peak laminin-induced nitric oxide levels reach 8 nM within 12 s of exposure to laminin and constitutive nitric oxide production is sustained for 1 min. A neurite outgrowth promoting synthetic peptide (AG73), derived from the laminin-1-alpha globular domain, also stimulated nitric oxide release. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, 1-NAME, prevents the formation of nitric oxide and here, 1-NAME inhibited both laminin-mediated and AG73-mediated neurite outgrowth by 88 and 95%, respectively. In contrast, C16, a synthetic peptide derived from the laminin-1-gamma chain, is shown here to promote PC12 cell attachment, but not neurite outgrowth. Interestingly, the C16 peptide did not activate nitric oxide release, suggesting that laminin-induced nitric oxide release in PC12 cells is associated only with neurite outgrowth promoting laminin domains and signals. In addition, the data here show that the nitric oxide released by PC12 cells in response to laminin is required as a part of the mechanism of laminin-mediated neurite outgrowth.
Clinical researchers have become increasingly interested in considering the role of normal and impaired executive functioning in psychopathology. The concept of executive functions is, however, often used as a metaphor for a wide range of operations that may, on the one hand, be distinct from one another, but also may be integrated in various ways under different information-processing conditions. A clinician's perspective of executive functioning should take full advantage of the rich body of data and theory that has developed in contemporary cognitive neuroscience around functions such as forms of inhibition and controlled (in contrast to automatic) functions, in a variety of cognitive domains such as making decisions and tracking performance.
P. R. Giancola's (2000) macroconstruct framework of executive functions (EF) characterizes how cognitive processes work together to inhibit aggressive responding in provocative situations, and how alcohol intoxication increases the likelihood of aggression by disrupting these processes. His framework can be considered within contemporary controversies in cognitive neuroscience research: how interrelated EF operate, which brain areas are involved in cognitive control, the specificity of EF impairment to different behaviors, and how to operationalize EF to examine different questions. Giancola highlighted the use of one broad, multidimensional, EF construct for predicting aggressive behavior. His macroconstruct framework can also be used to examine component information-processing operations. Component-process approaches may facilitate integrative research at multiple levels and add to the specificity of EF impairment-aggression linkages.
Mild metabolic stress can increase resistance of neurons in the brain to subsequent more severe insults, as exemplified by the beneficial effects of heat shock and ischemic preconditioning. Studies of Alzheimer's disease and other age-related neurodegenerative disorders indicate that dysfunction and degeneration of synapses occur early in the cell death process, and that oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are central events in this pathological process. It was recently shown that administration of 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2DG), a nonmetabolizable glucose analog that induces metabolic stress, to rats and mice can increase resistance of neurons in the brain to excitotoxic, ischemic, and oxidative injury. We now report that administration of 2DG to adult rats (daily i.p. injections of 100 mg/kg body weight) increases resistance of synaptic terminals to dysfunction and degeneration induced by amyloid beta-peptide and ferrous iron, an oxidative insult. The magnitude of impairment of glucose and glutamate transport induced by amyloid beta-peptide and iron was significantly reduced in cortical synaptosomes from 2DG-treated rats compared to saline-treated control rats. Mitochondrial dysfunction, as indicated by increased levels of reactive oxygen species and decreased transmembrane potential, was significantly attenuated after exposure to amyloid beta-peptide and iron in synaptosomes from 2DG-treated rats. Levels of the stress proteins HSP-70 and GRP-78 were increased in synaptosomes from 2DG-treated rats, suggesting a mechanism whereby 2DG protects synaptic terminals. We conclude that 2DG bolsters cytoprotective mechanisms within synaptic terminals, suggesting novel preventative and therapeutic approaches for neurodegenerative disorders.
High expression of the growth-associated protein GAP-43 in neurons is correlated with developmental and regenerative axon growth. It has been postulated that during development and after injury, GAP-43 expression is elevated due to the unavailability of a target-derived repressive signal, but that GAP-43 expression then declines upon target contact. Here we examine the cyclic AMP second messenger signaling pathway to determine if it might mediate retrograde transmission of a signal which represses GAP-43 expression and inhibits growth. Cultures of adult rat dorsal root ganglia were chronically exposed to membrane-permeable analogs of cyclic AMP and activators of adenyl cyclase. These treatments caused GAP-43 protein levels to decrease in a dose-dependent manner, although neuronal survival was not affected. GAP-43 mRNA was also decreases by cyclic AMP. GAP-43 protein levels were not repressed by neurotrophins, cytokines, or other agents. Surprisingly, cyclic AMP caused an increase in the rate of neurite outgrowth, even though the neurons were partially depleted of GAP-43. Growth stimulation was quickly inducible and reversible, could occur in the presence of transcription inhibitors, and did not entail alterations in branching pattern. These findings suggest that axon growth involving high levels of GAP-43 is distinct from the growth stimulation which is rapidly induced by cyclic AMP.
The genes defective in familial Alzheimer's disease encode the proteins presenilin 1 and 2 (PS1 and 2). Expression of presenilins (PSs) and their proteolytic processing are regulated during neuronal development. Even though these proteins are detected and regulated mainly in Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum, their subcellular distribution during the development is not known. The present study aimed to investigate the localization of PSs and their role during early developmental stage using mouse embryo model. At preimplantation stage, PSs were detected not only in cytoplasm, but also in the nucleus from oocyte to 2.5 dpc (day postcoitum), then disappeared in the nucleus at blastocyst stage (3.5 dpc). Antisense against PS1 and PS2 decreased the transition to blastocyst stage, whereas each antisense alone had no effect. Treatment with lactacystin (26S proteosome inhibitor), which arrest cell cycle at M phase, redistributed PSs into centrosome-kinetochore microtubule. PS2 overexpression in HEK 293 cell arrested cell cycle at S phase. These data suggest that PSs play key roles in cell division and differentiation during early development.
The cytoprotective effect of vinpocetine [14-ethoxycarbonyl-(3alpha, 16alpha-ethyl)-14,15-eburnamine] was investigated on PC12 cells treated with the amyloid beta-peptides (Abeta) for 24 hours. Vinpocetine was shown to protect cells from the inhibition in redox status induced by exposure to Abeta25-35 and Abeta1-40, the maximal protection being achieved at a vinpocetine concentration of 40 microM. At this concentration, vinpocetine blocked the inhibition of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes II-III and IV and completely abolished the depletion of pyruvate levels induced by toxic concentrations of Abeta peptides. Furthermore, the accumulation of ROS in cells exposed to Abeta25-35 and Abeta1-40 evaluated using the fluorescent probe 2',7'-dichlorofluorescin (DCF), was reduced in the presence of 40 microM vinpocetine. Taken together, the data presented herein demonstrate that vinpocetine protects cells from Abeta toxicity, preventing the generation of oxidative stress due to the excessive accumulation of ROS. This study suggests that vinpocetine can exert neuroprotective properties which might be of importance and contribute to its clinical efficacy in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease or other neurodegenerative disorders in which oxidative stress is involved.
Epilepsy is a major public health issue, not least because of the aging population in many developed nations and the known increase in the frequency of epilepsy and seizures in later life. Despite the massive scale of the problem and much research, epilepsy remains poorly understood. Despite more than 20 approved drugs in the developed nations and several non-pharmacological options, up to 30% of patients are still refractory to treatment. Despite over a century of pharmacotherapy and neuroscience research, rational design of anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) is only now starting to yield results, because of the heterogeneity of the disease and our still limited understanding of it. Discovery and development of AEDs has been especially difficult, because of the regulatory issues of satisfactorily proving safety and efficacy, ethical constraints on placebo-controlled trial designs, the fact that seizures are typically widely spaced in time, and the fact that the person undergoing the seizure is typically in no state to remember, let alone assess, what happened. Several non-pharmacological therapies have been developed: brain surgery was first used more than a century ago; the ketogenic diet was first developed 80 years ago; and the vagus nerve stimulator was introduced recently. Pharmacotherapy remains the mainstay of treatment and is effective in most patients. AEDs can be roughly divided according to their time on the market. The first generation extends from the bromides and the barbiturates (the first of which was phenobarbital), to sodium valproate and carbamazepine. The second generation begins with felbamate and includes drugs approved from 1993 to 2000. &quot;Next generation&quot; drugs are still in clinical development and may reach the marketplace in the near future. Intensive research is being conducted both by pharmaceutical and biotech companies and by academic scientists and clinicians; our understanding of the condition is advancing rapidly but many challenges remain in discovering and developing better AEDs.

Two African rodents, Taterillus gracilis and Steatomys caurinus, native to regions of alternate dry and wet seasons, were studied under laboratory conditions. These species differ in estivation behavior, one undergoing pseudoestivation and the other strong estivation. One group of animals of each species was provided with unlimited access to seed and vegetables rich in water, mimicking the food availability of the wet season (control group). A second group of animals of each species was subjected to water restriction for 8 days, mimicking the natural drought that occurs during the dry-hot season. The effects of water restriction on osmoregulation and body water content were assessed from hematocrit, and plasma and urinary osmolalities (PO, UO). Whether the natriuretic peptide system was modified by the osmoregulator adaptation to aridity of these semidesert rodents was examined from measurements of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) levels in plasma, atria, and ventricles, in parallel with morphological studies. In both species, UO was increased by water restriction. In water-deprived T. gracilis, ANP levels were about twice (right atria: 1.08 +/- 0.16 microg/mg protein vs control: 0.40 +/- 0.06 microg/mg protein) and plasma concentrations half (0.28 +/- 0.06 ng/ml vs control: 0.64 +/- 0.07 ng/ml) those in control animals. In S. caurinus these variables were not affected by water availability (right atria water restricted: 2. 20 +/- 0.15 microg/mg protein vs control: 2.86 +/- 0.37 microg/mg protein; plasma ANP water restricted: 0.80 +/- 0.12 ng/ml vs control: 0.90 +/- 0.16 ng/ml). Consistent with these quantitative results, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations showed an increase in immunostaining for both the N- and the C-terminal ANP and a larger number of granules in the atria of T. gracilis following water restriction, whereas there was no visible change in S. caurinus. Thus, water restriction induced a decrease in ANP secretion in T. gracilis, increasing cardiac storage alongside a reduced urine production. In contrast, in S. caurinus, the natriuretic system was not affected by an 8-day period of water restriction.
The aim of the study was to compare the management of suicide attempts by patients in Sweden and Italy with a view to providing a perspective on differences in treatment. Two consecutive samples of suicide attempters from Huddinge (n=97) and Padua (n=100) were studied in terms of sociodemographic characteristics, previous care, referral, medical and psychiatric care, hospitalization, aftercare, and short-term compliance. In Italian somatic management of acute suicidal crises, there are more physicians specializing in anesthesia or internal medicine working in ambulances and emergency wards, and there is a heavier emphasis on somatic care. Swedish management procedures seem to entail more medical examinations and biohumoral tests. Moreover, the procedures at the Swedish hospital give priority to early psychiatric intervention, and admission to psychiatric inpatient care is more frequent. However, it is not normal practice in emergency psychiatric care at either of the centers for specialists to serve in the immediate liaison consultation. There are differences in assessment and treatment between the two countries that may provide a perspective on their procedures, implying that current procedures for managing patients belonging to groups identified as &quot;high-risk&quot; in terms of suicide may be modified.


To better understand the development of the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL), intrinsic membrane properties and synaptic responses of DNLL neurons in brain slice preparations were examined. Intracellular recordings were taken from DNLL neurons of rat pups at postnatal days 4-8 (early group), 10-12 (intermediate group) and 16-18 (late group). In response to positive current injection, neurons in the early group displayed firing with lower frequency and a longer action potential duration in comparison to the intermediate and late groups. The action potential amplitude of DNLL neurons increased during development. Postsynaptic potentials (PSPs), with excitatory predominance, were elicited by electrical stimulation of the lateral lemniscus and commissure of Probst throughout the three age groups. Neurons showed a longer latency and rise time of the PSPs in the early group in comparison with those in the intermediate and late groups. These results suggest that the early DNLL neurons display physiological characteristics associated with immature neurons, while the other two groups tend to illustrate mature-like neuronal properties. Furthermore, it seems that the neurons at day 10-12 are in a transitional period of development, which coincides with the onset of hearing.
The Zwicker tone (ZT) is an auditory after-image, i.e. a tonal sensation that occurs following the presentation of notched noise. In the present study, the hypothesis that neural lateral inhibition is involved in the generation of this auditory illusion was investigated in humans through differences in perceptual detection thresholds measured following broadband noise, notched noise, and low-pass noise stimulation. The detection thresholds were measured using probe tones at several frequencies, within as well as outside the suppressed frequency range of the notched noise, and below as well as above the corner frequency of the low-pass noise. Thresholds measured after broadband noise using a sequence of four 130-ms probe tones (with a 130-ms inter-burst interval) proved to be significantly smaller that those measured using the same probe tones after notched noise at frequencies falling within the notch, but larger for frequencies on the outer edges of the noise. Thresholds measured following low-pass noise using the same sequence of probe tones were found to be smaller at frequencies slightly above the corner, but larger at lower, neighboring frequencies. This pattern of results is consistent with the hypothesis that the changes in auditory sensitivity induced by stimuli containing sharp spectral contrasts reflect lateral inhibition processes in the auditory system. The potential implications of these findings for the understanding of the mechanisms underlying the generation of auditory illusions like the ZT or tinnitus are discussed.
Darkening of postorbital skin in Anolis carolinensis occurs during stressful situations and is stimulated by sympathetic activation of beta(2)-adrenergic receptors via adrenal catecholamines. This eyespot forms more rapidly in dominant males during social interaction. Eyespot darkening (green to black) appears to function as a social signal communicating sympathetic activation and limiting aggressive interaction. To assess the value of the eyespot as a social signal, males were painted postorbitally with green, black, or red paint. Each male was exposed to a mirror following acclimation to the cage. The total number of aggressive displays toward the mirror image was greatest when eyespots were masked by green paint. In contrast, black or red artificial eyespots, regardless of size, inhibited biting behavior toward the mirror image. The most aggressive males, those who saw a reflected opponent with no eyespot (hidden with green paint), had significantly higher levels of all plasma catecholamines. These results suggest that A. carolinensis use information from the eyespot to assess their opponent's readiness to fight and thereby determine whether to be aggressive. Darkened eyespots are capable of inhibiting aggression, whereas aggressive displays from an opponent in the mirror without darkened eyespots do not. Darkened eyespots reflect rapid changes in plasma NE, DA, and Epi that may signal dominant social status.
In this article we describe a new method, using SPM99, that searches explicitly for bilateral structural abnormalities. Children with bilateral pathology have a poorer prognosis than children with unilateral damage. After brain injury or disease in childhood, it is thought that rescue of function is only possible if the neuronal substrates of that function are preserved and operational in at least one hemisphere [Vargha-Khadem and Mishkin, 1997]. If this is the case, the detection of bilateral abnormalities would greatly facilitate more accurate prognosis in children with brain injury or developmental disorders. We have therefore developed a technique to detect bilateral abnormalities that uses conjunction analysis with voxel based morphometry. It is illustrated using a group of patients with bilateral hypoxic-ischaemic damage to the hippocampus. The approach is shown to have enhanced specificity and sensitivity relative to conventional unilateral characterisations.
Neuroimaging studies show that prefrontal, premotor, and parietal cortical regions are part of a working memory network that supports the active retention of information. In two experiments we used fMRI to examine whether prefrontal and posterior cortical areas are organized in a content-specific way for object and spatial working memory. Subjects performed a delayed matching-to-sample task modified to allow the examination of content-specific retention processes, independent of perceptual and decision-related processes. In Experiment 1, either unfamiliar geometrical objects (Klingon letters from an artificial alphabet unknown to the participants) or their spatial locations had to be memorized, whereas in Experiment 2, either unfamiliar faces or biological objects (butterflies) were actively memorized. All tasks activated a similar cortical network including posterior parietal (banks of the intraparietal sulcus), premotor (banks of the inferior precentral sulcus) and prefrontal regions (banks of the inferior frontal sulcus), and the presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA). For geometrical objects and faces for which strategic semantic processing can be assumed, this activation was larger in the left than in the right hemisphere, whereas a bilateral or right dominant distribution was obtained for butterflies and spatial locations. The present results do not support the process-specific or content-specific view of the role of the prefrontal cortex in working memory task. Rather, they suggest that the inferior prefrontal cortex houses nonmemonic strategic processing systems required for response selection and task management that can flexibly be used across a variety of tasks and informational domains.
Mutations of the alpha-synuclein gene have been identified in autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD). Transgenic mice overexpressing wild-type human alpha-synuclein develop motor impairments, intraneuronal inclusions and loss of dopaminergic terminals in the striatum. To study the mechanism of action through which mutant alpha-synuclein toxicity is mediated, we have generated stable, inducible cell models expressing wild-type or PD-associated mutant (G209A) alpha-synuclein in human-derived HEK293 cells. Increased expression of either wild-type or mutant alpha-synuclein resulted in the formation of cytoplasmic aggregates which were associated with the vesicular (including monoaminergic) compartment. Expression of mutant alpha-synuclein induced a significant increase in sensitivity to dopamine toxicity compared with the wild-type protein expression. These results provide an explanation for the preferential dopaminergic neuronal degeneration seen in both the PD G209A mutant alpha-synuclein families and suggest that similar mechanisms may underlie or contribute to cell death in sporadic PD.
The prognosis of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MM) is dependent more on tumor extension and differentiation than on therapeutic effects. Reduplication of the basal lamina (RBL) is an ultrastructural feature of some benign and malignant tumors that has been inversely correlated with aggressiveness and was recently described in MM. To investigate whether RBL is important for predicting the survival of patients with MM, transmission electron microscopy was used to identify the presence of basal lamina or RBL in biopsy specimens obtained by thoracoscopy from 35 patients. Cox's regression analysis was used to study the relation of these ultrastructural features to survival. Better outcomes were found for patients whose tumors expressed either basal lamina (HR 0.48; 95% CI, 0.09-2.47) or RBL (HR 0.38; 95% CI 0.12-1.22) compared with the reference category, where basal lamina or RBL was not found. The expression of basal lamina and RBL is an important novel prognostic factors in MM. HUM PATHOL 31:1341-1345.
Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) appears in the appendix of the DSM-IV under the heading 'depressive disorder not otherwise specified'. Yet, recently, a group of experts reached a consensus that PMDD is a distinct clinical entity with characteristic symptoms of irritability, anger, internal tension, dysphoria, and mood lability. PMDD is the more severe form of premenstrual symptomatology, whereas premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is milder and more prevalent and both must be differentiated from premenstrual magnification/exacerbation of an underlying major psychiatric disorder or a medical condition. Accurate assessment and diagnosis of significant premenstrual symptomatology is paramount and can be influenced by subjective perception, retrospective versus prospective reporting, and cultural context. The serotonergic system, which is in a close reciprocal relationship with the gonadal hormones, has been identified as the most plausible target for intervention. Results from randomized placebo-controlled trials in women with PMDD have clearly demonstrated that serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), with daily or intermittent dosing, have excellent efficacy and minimal adverse effects and should be considered first-line treatment. Luteal phase only SSRI administration may offer an attractive treatment option for a disorder that is itself intermittent. Hormonal interventions, in particular the suppression of ovulation will eliminate premenstrual symptomatology; however, the benefits-risk ratio of these approaches should be carefully evaluated with the patient.
Morphologic examinations of salivary gland neoplasias arising in male BALB/c (H-2d) mice carrying the activated HER-2/neu (BALB-NeuT) indicate that expression of the oncogene product in the ductal-acinar structures results in a very human-like acinic cell adenocarcinoma with a smoldering course and infrequent metastatization. Typical and then atypical hyperplasia of ducts and acini preceded the rise of salivary tumors that originated from the confluence of multiple ductal hyperplastic foci, while hyperplastic acini behaved as an abortive preneoplastic lesion. The vascular network in normal, hyperplastic and neoplastic salivary tissue was analysed to see whether activation of the angiogenic process is essential in salivary gland carcinogenesis. Immunostaining with anti-endothelial cells (anti-CD31), anti-beta3 integrin and anti-laminin antibodies revealed that microvessel density was significantly higher in normal and hyperplastic than in neoplastic tissue, in which no signs of new vessel sprouting were found. Assessment of angiogenic factor expression indicates a low presence of VEGF in normal, hyperplastic and neoplastic epithelium, while bFGF was preferentially produced but not exported by neoplastic cells and remained in a cell-associated form. Our data suggest that normal salivary gland vascularization is able to support tumor onset and development with no need for an angiogenic switch.
In 24 h water and food deprived rats, a single lipopolysaccharide treatment (0.25, 0.50 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) induced inhibition of thirst and hunger as well as fever. Moreover, the same treatment increased serum cytokines, plasma nitrite/nitrate and corticosterone and urinary prostaglandin levels. In another group of 24 h water and food deprived rats, a repeated lipopolysaccharide treatment (0.25, 0. 50 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.), given at 0, 2, 6, 12 and 24 h, induced tolerance to inhibition of food intake and fever, but not to antidipsogenic effect. Moreover, the same repeated treatment stopped the increase in serum cytokines, plasma corticosterone and urinary prostaglandin concentrations and failed to reduce plasma nitrite/nitrate levels. This data, together with the evidence that a pretreatment with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (L-NAME) (5 and 10 microg per rat) reverses the antidipsogenic effects in lipopolysaccharide tolerant rats, suggests that the persistent reduction of water intake after a repeated lipopolysaccharide treatment is due to the antidipsogenic action of nitric oxide in the brain.
The native opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]-enkephalin, is a tonic inhibitory peptide that modulates cell proliferation and migration, as well as tissue organization, during development, cancer, homeostatic cellular renewal, wound healing, and angiogenesis. OGF action is mediated by the OGF receptor (OGFr). To investigate the target of OGF as to cell proliferation, the effects of excess OGF, and a deprivation of OGF-OGFr interaction by an opioid antagonist, naltrexone (NTX), were examined in 3 human cancer cell lines: pancreatic (BxPC-3), colon (HT-29), and head and neck (CAL-27). OGF exposure decreased growth, DNA synthesis, and mitosis, and increased the doubling time from control levels. FACS analysis revealed a marked increase in cells in the G0/G1 phase and compensatory reduction in cells in S and G2/M phases. Consistent with this observation, the percentage of labeled mitosis (PLM) analysis showed a notable increase in the time of the G0/G1 phase. Receptor blockade with NTX increased the rate of growth, length of DNA synthesis and mitotic phases, and decreased doubling time from control values. FACS analysis indicated an increase in the proportion of cells in S and G2/M phases, and a decrease in the number of cells in the G0/G1 phase. PLM evaluation demonstrated a shortening of the length of the S and G2 phases in the 3 cell lines, and decreases in the M and G0/G1 phases in some cancers. These results indicate that OGF action is directed at the G0/G1 phase, but interruption of OGF-OGFr interfacing has widespread repercussions on the cell cycle. The data on blockade of OGF-OGFr during log phase growth suggest a requisite escorting of the growth peptide and its receptor through the cell cycle.



Proposed treatments of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are most likely to succeed if they are based on an understanding of the complex biology of AD and its effects on cognition. Treatments may target a single or multiple components of the complex pathology of AD with the hope that by affecting an individual component of AD pathology, the disease course can be affected. One such component is amyloid-beta (Abeta), a feature of the senile plaque. Abeta may be critical for inducing the pathology seen in AD. Accumulation of Abeta may result in a cascade of biochemical events leading to neuronal dysfunction, which may present opportunities for intervention at multiple different points to slow disease progression. Treatment may be directed towards decreasing Abeta production, increasing Abeta removal, and decreasing Abeta aggregation. Alternatively, treatment may be directed at more distal pathways by: modulating downstream events possibly due to Abeta such as free radical toxicity, decreasing inflammation, preventing cell membrane damage, restoring calcium homeostasis, preventing excitotoxicity, and blocking the cellular response to injury by inhibiting neuronal apoptosis. This review underscores the complex biology of Abeta specifically looking at the potential targets of therapeutics based on emerging knowledge of this biology.
Potential cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) include tau protein, the 42 amino-acid form of amyloid beta (amyloid beta(1-42)) and apolipoprotein E (apoE). To study new aspects of these protein markers, we examined consecutive CSF samples from 26 patients with acute ischemic stroke. CSF samples were taken on day 0-1, day 2-3, day 7-9, 3 weeks and 3-5 months after the stroke. CSF-tau showed a marked increase day 2-3, which peaked after 1 week and returned to normal after 3-5 months. CSF-tau also showed correlation (r=0.95; p&lt;0.01) with the size of the infarct. In contrast, CSF-amyloid beta(1-42) and CSF-apoE showed no significant changes during the period. The marked increase in CSF-tau levels after acute ischemic stroke indicate that CSF-tau reflect the degree of neuronal damage. The reason for unchanged levels of CSF-amyloid beta(1-42) and CSF-apoE after ischemic stroke remains unclear.


Age-associated neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease are characterised by neuronal impairment that leads to cognitive deficits. As certain affected neurons depend on trophic factors such as neurotrophins (NTs), impairment in NT function has been suggested to be a component of neuronal damage associated with such disorders. Age-related neurodegenerative diseases are also characterised by high levels of proinflammatory cytokines such as tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) in the CNS. Because TNFalpha receptors and certain NT receptors share a high degree of homology and are capable of activating similar signalling pathways, one possibility is that altered cytokine levels may affect NT function in the aged or diseased CNS. Here we wish briefly to review the evidence suggesting a role for cytokine and NT in the onset of age-associated neurodegenerative diseases. We propose that cytokine/NT interactions may alter neuronal homeostasis, thus possibly contributing to some of the neuronal degeneration occurring during such age-associated CNS diseases.
To investigate models of plasticity in respiratory motor output, we determined the effects of chronic unilateral phrenicotomy and/or exercise on time-dependent responses to episodic hypoxia in the contralateral phrenic nerve. Anesthetized (urethane), ventilated, and vagotomized rats were presented with three, 5-min episodes of isocapnic hypoxia (11% O(2)), separated by 5 min of hyperoxia (50% O(2)). Integrated phrenic (and hypoglossal) nerve discharge were recorded before and during each hypoxic episode, for the first 5 min after the first hypoxic episode, and at 30 and 60 min after the final episode. Of 36 rats, one-half were sedentary while the other one-half had free access to a running wheel; each of these groups was split into three subgroups: 1) unoperated, 2) chronic left phrenicotomy (27-37 days), and 3) sham operated. Neither unilateral phrenicotomy nor running wheel activity influenced the short-term hypoxic phrenic response (during hypoxia) or long-term facilitation (posthypoxia). Posthypoxia frequency decline was exaggerated in phrenicotomized-sedentary rats relative to unoperated-sedentary rats (change in burst frequency = -23+/-4 vs. -11 +/-5 bursts/min, respectively; 5 min posthypoxia; P&lt;0.05), an effect that was eliminated by spontaneous exercise. The results indicate that neither voluntary running nor unilateral phrenicotomy has major effects on time-dependent hypoxic phrenic responses, with the exception of an unexpected effect of phrenicotomy on posthypoxia frequency decline in sedentary rats.
A frequency-dependent change in hearing sensitivity occurs during maturation in the basal gerbil cochlea. This change takes place during the first week after the onset of hearing. It has been argued that the mass of a given cochlear segment decreases during development and thus increases the best frequency. Changes in mass during cochlear maturation have been estimated previously by measuring the changes in cochlear dimensions. Fixed, dehydrated, embedded, or sputter-coated tissues were used in such work. However, dehydration of the tissue, a part of most histological techniques, results in severe distortion of some aspects of cochlear morphology. The present experiments, using a novel preparation, the hemicochlea, show that hydrated structures, such as the tectorial membrane and the basilar membrane hyaline matrix, are up to 100% larger than estimated previous studies. Therefore, the hemicochlea was used to study the development of cochlear morphology in the gerbil between the day of birth and postnatal day 19. We used no protocols that would have resulted in severe distortion of cochlear elements. Consequently, a detailed study of cochlear morphology yields several measures that differ from previously published data. Our experiments confirm growth patterns of the cochlea that include a period of remarkably rapid change between postnatal day 6 and 8. The accelerated growth starts in the middle of the cochlea and progresses toward the base and the apex. In particular, the increase in height of Deiters' cells dominated the change, &quot;pushing&quot; the tectorial membrane toward scala vestibuli. This resulted in a shape change of the tectorial membrane and the organ of Corti. The tectorial membrane was properly extended above the outer hair cells by postnatal day 12. This time coincides with the onset of hearing. The basilar membrane hyaline matrix increased in thickness, whereas the multilayered tympanic cover layer cells decreased to a single band of cells by postnatal day 19. Before and after the period of rapid growth, the observed gross morphological changes are rather small. It is unlikely that dimensional changes of cochlear structures between postnatal days 12 and 19 contribute significantly in the remapping of the frequency-place code in the base of the cochlea. Instead, structural changes affecting the stiffness of the cochlear partition might be responsible for the shift in best frequency.
In this study we tested the hypothesis that during steady contractions of human wrist extensors or flexors, the torque-angle relationship during movements imposed about the wrist is predicted by the classical isometric muscle length-tension curve, with ascending, descending and ascending limbs. Angle-torque relationships were measured during steady muscle activation (10% of maximal voluntary contraction: MVC), elicited either by electrical stimulation or voluntary regulation of the electromyogram (EMG). Flexion-extension movements of constant speed (+/-10 degrees /s) were imposed on the subjects' hands with a servo actuator, either through the full physiological range of motion +/-50 degrees, or through +/-10 degrees. During extensor contractions, angle-torque curves in +/-50 degrees movements had ascending, descending and ascending limbs, as in isometric contractions. However, in +/-10 degrees movements, torque always increased with increasing muscle length and decreased with decreasing length, even over angles corresponding to the descending limb of isometric curves. For flexor activation, angle-torque curves had similar properties, though descending limbs were less obvious or absent. During imposed movements, hysteresis was observed in the angle-torque curves. This was attributed to non-linearities of the active muscles. Hysteresis reached a maximum at intermediate wrist angles and declined at maximal muscle length, contradicting the recent hypothesis that sarcomere non-uniformity is responsible for the hysteresis. We conclude that the classical isometric length-tension curve, with its prominent descending limb, does not predict angle-torque curves of human wrist muscles in continuous movements. A more appropriate model is one in which stiffness about the wrist is always positive and hysteresis is a significant factor.
Oxygen free radicals have been proposed to be involved in the process of aging. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase are important for antioxidative defense. In this study, profiles of SOD, catalase, and their mRNA levels were investigated in the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes, subcortex and cerebellum of male Wistar rats at ages 1-21 months. The total SOD and Mn SOD activities increased with age and exhibited higher levels at 6 and 12 months but decreased thereafter. Activity of catalase showed a similar trend and notably peaked at 12 months. The mRNA levels of Cu/Zn SOD, Mn SOD, and catalase remained constant in all areas tested (frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes, and subcortex) except the cerebellum. Post-transcriptional regulation was involved in modulating the enzymes' activities during aging. Furthermore, the rate of mitochondrial generation of the superoxide anion (O(2)(-).) increased gradually with aging. Taken together, the results suggest that the increase of oxidative potential and the loss of proper antioxidant defense in the rats appear to be highly involved in the aging process of the brain.
Nerve-evoked contractile activity in skeletal muscle regulates transcript and protein levels of many metabolic genes in a coordinate fashion, including the muscle isozyme of glycogen phosphorylase (MGP). Cellular signaling mechanisms mediating the activity-dependent modulation of MGP transcript levels were investigated in a spontaneously contractile rat skeletal muscle cell line (Rmo). Mechanisms regulating MGP mRNA levels in Rmo myotubes were compared with those previously shown to modulate the gene encoding the alpha subunit of the acetylcholine receptor (alphaAChR). Reducing the resting membrane potential from -78 to -30 mV, either electrochemically (KCl) or by increasing Na(+) permeability (veratridine): (1) prevented activation of transverse tubules, (2) impeded calcium release by the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), and (3) blocked Rmo contractility. MGP mRNA levels decreased to 30% of control levels and alphaAChR levels increased to 350% following 24 h of depolarization. Differing mechanisms appear to mediate this voltage-dependent regulation of MGP and alphaAChR. Inhibition of SR calcium efflux selectively decreased MGP mRNA levels by 30-50% when using dantrolene, thapsigargin, or a dose of ryanodine shown to inactivate Ca(2+)-induced SR Ca(2+) release (CICR). By contrast, blockade of voltage sensors in transverse tubules with nifedipine, a dihydroaminopyridine (DHAP) antagonist, selectively increased alphaAChR mRNA levels by twofold. These data indicate that the voltage-dependent regulation of AChR gene expression differs from that modulating the MGP gene. KCl-induced depolarization and dantrolene both inhibit pulsatile SR Ca(2+) efflux in Rmo myotubes, but by differing mechanisms. Depolarization and dantrolene comparably reduced MGP mRNA levels and decreased MGP transcript stability from a t(1/2) of 24 h to 14.5 and 16 h, respectively. Reduced transcript stability can account for the observed reduction in mRNA levels of MGP in noncontractile Rmo myotubes and could be a significant regulatory mechanism in skeletal muscle that coordinates the activity-dependent expression of MGP with other glycogenolytic genes.
The authors investigated the time course of leukocyte infiltration compared with microglial activation in adult rat brain slices after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). To distinguish peripheral leukocytes from microglia, the blood cells were prelabeled in vivo with Rhodamine 6G (Rhod6G) i.v. before induction of ischemia. At specific times after infarct, invading leukocytes, microglia, and endothelial cells were labeled in situ with isolectin (IL)B4-FITC (ILB4). Six hours after MCAO only a few of the ILB4+ cells were colabeled by Rhod6G. These cells expressed the voltage-gated inwardly and outwardly rectifying K+ currents characteristic of macrophages. The majority of the ILB4+ cells were Rhod6G- and expressed a lack of voltage-gated channels, recently described for ramified microglial cells in brain slices, or exhibited only an inward rectifier current, a unique marker for cultured (but unstimulated) microglia. Forty-eight hours after MCAO, all blood-borne and the majority of Rhod6G- cells expressed outward and inward currents indicating that the intrinsic microglial population exhibited physiologic features of stimulated, cultured microglia. The ILB4+/Rhod6G- intrinsic microglial population was more abundant in the border zone of the infarct and their morphology changed from radial to ameboid. Within this zone, the authors observed rapidly migrating cells and recorded this movement by time-lapse microscopy. The current findings indicate that microglial cells acquire physiologic features of leukocytes at a later time point after MCAO.
Neck pain is the most frequently reported feature in connection with whiplash injury, but it is also a common complaint in the general population. Therefore it is crucial to include an unexposed comparison group when evaluating the association between neck pain and a previous motor vehicle crash (MVC). To determine whether exposure to a rear-end collision, without or with whiplash injury, is associated with future neck or shoulder pain, a cohort study was conducted. The study population consisted of persons covered by traffic insurance at one of the largest insurance companies in Sweden. Claim reports were collected from the period November 1987 to April 1988. Drivers exposed to a rear-end collision were divided into two subgroups, without reported whiplash injury (n = 204) and with reported whiplash injury (n = 232). Two comparison groups, unexposed to MVCs, consisting of 1599 and 2089 persons, were selected with consideration taken to the age and gender distribution in the exposed subgroups. A questionnaire concerning neck or shoulder pain and other subjective health complaints was mailed to all the study subjects at follow-up in 1994, 7 years after the rear-end collision. The relative risk of neck or shoulder pain at follow-up was 1.3 (95% CI 0.8-2.0) in the exposed subjects without whiplash injury compared with the unexposed. The corresponding relative risk in subjects with whiplash injury was 2.7 (95% CI 2.1-3. 5). We conclude that there is no increased risk of future neck or shoulder pain in drivers who did not report whiplash injury in connection with a rear-end collision 7 years earlier. In drivers with reported whiplash injury, the risk of neck or shoulder pain 7 years after the collision was increased nearly three-fold compared with that in unexposed subjects.
Susceptibility to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is governed by multiple genetic factors. Remarkably, the LDL receptor-related protein (LRP) and its ligands, apoE and alpha2M, are all genetically associated with AD. In this study, we provide evidence for the involvement of the LRP pathway in amyloid deposition through sequestration and removal of soluble amyloid beta-protein (Abeta). We demonstrate in vitro that LRP mediates the clearance of both Abeta40 and Abeta42 through a bona fide receptor-mediated uptake mechanism. In vivo, reduced LRP expression is associated with LRP genotypes and is correlated with enhanced soluble Abeta levels and amyloid deposition. Although LRP has been proposed to be a clearance pathway for Abeta, this work provides the first in vivo evidence that the LRP pathway may modulate Abeta deposition and AD susceptibility by regulating the removal of soluble Abeta.
The traditional view that the cerebral cortex is not involved in pain processing has been abandoned during the past decades based on anatomic and physiologic investigations in animals, and lesion, functional neuroimaging, and neurophysiologic studies in humans. These studies have revealed an extensive central network associated with nociception that consistently includes the thalamus, the primary (SI) and secondary (SII) somatosensory cortices, the insula, and the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). Anatomic and electrophysiologic data show that these cortical regions receive direct nociceptive thalamic input. From the results of human studies there is growing evidence that these different cortical structures contribute to different dimensions of pain experience. The SI cortex appears to be mainly involved in sensory-discriminative aspects of pain. The SII cortex seems to have an important role in recognition, learning, and memory of painful events. The insula has been proposed to be involved in autonomic reactions to noxious stimuli and in affective aspects of pain-related learning and memory. The ACC is closely related to pain unpleasantness and may subserve the integration of general affect, cognition, and response selection. The authors review the evidence on which the proposed relationship between cortical areas, pain-related neural activations, and components of pain perception is based.
Four types of mechanoreceptive afferents innervate the glabrous skin of the hand. Evidence from more than three decades of combined psychophysical and neurophysiological research supports the idea that each afferent type serves a distinctly different sensory function and that these functions explain most of tactual perceptual function. The available evidence supports the following hypotheses: (1) The slowly adapting type 1 system provides the information on which form and texture perception are based. (2) The cutaneous rapidly adapting system provides information about minute skin motion and, thereby, plays a critical role in grip control. (3) The Pacinian system is responsible for the detection and perception of distant events by vibrations transmitted through objects, probes, and tools held in the hand. (4) The slowly adapting type 2 system provides information for the perception of hand conformation and for the perception of forces acting on the hand. The authors review the evidence on which these hypotheses are based. They also review the role of proprioceptive afferents in the perception of hand conformation because they appear to play a significant role along with cutaneous afferents.


Growing evidence suggests that a more complete understanding of cortical function requires developing cognitive models that are predictive of multivariate neural behavior (e.g., Raichle, 2000; Shulman et al., 1997). Towards this end, one approach is to interpret population-specific activity in cortex from the perspective of capacity theories of selective attention (e.g., Handy, Hopfinger, &amp; Mangun, in press). In brief, the model is founded on the ideas that (1) processing capacity is limited and (2) different processes may draw on different capacities (e.g., Boles &amp; Law 1998; Polson &amp; Friedman, 1988; see Kramer &amp; Spinks, 1991). Testable hypotheses are then based on whether manipulations of process-specific load will lead to negative or positive covariation between different function-related clusters of activation in cortex--the predicted pattern depends on whether or not the clusters in question are assumed to share a common processing capacity. Expanding on these ideas, the current article addresses several recent issues that have arisen in the effort to apply capacity theory to the study of cortical function.
A central issue in the research of directed forgetting is whether the differential memory performance for to-be-remembered (TBR) and to-be-forgotten (TBF) items is solely due to differential encoding or whether retrieval inhibition of TBF items plays an additional role. In this study, recognition-related event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were used to examine this issue. The spatio-temporal distributions of the old/new ERP effects obtained in Experiment 1 that employed a directed forgetting paradigm were compared with those recorded in Experiment 2 in which the level of processing was manipulated. In Experiment 1, participants were instructed to remember or to forget words by means of a cue presented after each word. ERPs recorded in the recognition test revealed early phasic frontal and parietal old/new effects for TBR items, whereas TBF items elicited only a frontal old/new effect. Moreover, a late right-frontal positive slow wave was more pronounced for TBF items, suggesting that those items were associated with a larger amount of post-retrieval processing. In Experiment 2, the same cueing method and the same stimulus materials were used, and memory encoding was manipulated by cueing participants to process the words either deeply or shallowly. Both deeply and shallowly encoded items elicited phasic frontal and parietal old/new effects followed by a late right-frontal positive slow wave. However, in contrast to TBR and TBF items, these effects differed only quantitatively. The results suggest that differential encoding alone cannot account for the effects of directed forgetting. They are more consistent with the view that items followed by an instruction to forget become inhibited and less accessible, and, therefore, more difficult to retrieve.
We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (efMRI) to investigate brain regions showing differential responses as a function of confidence in an episodic word recognition task. Twelve healthy volunteers indicated whether their old-new judgments were made with high or low confidence. Hemodynamic responses associated with each judgment were modeled with an &quot;early&quot; and a &quot;late&quot; response function. As predicted by the monitoring hypothesis generated from a previous recognition study [Henson, R. N. A., Rugg, M. D., Shallice, T., Josephs, O., &amp; Dolan, R. J. (1999a). Recollection and familiarity in recognition memory: An event-related fMRI study. Journal of Neuroscience, 19, 3962-3972], a right dorsolateral prefrontal region showed a greater response to correct low- versus correct high-confidence judgements. Several regions, including the precuneus, posterior cingulate, and left lateral parietal cortex, showed greater responses to correct old than correct new judgements. The anterior left and right prefrontal regions also showed an old-new difference, but for these regions the difference emerged relatively later in time. These results further support the proposal that different subregions of the prefrontal cortex subserve different functions during episodic retrieval. These functions are discussed in relation to a monitoring process, which operates when familiarity levels are close to response criterion and is associated with nonconfident judgements, and a recollective process, which is associated with the confident recognition of old words.
Revaluation refers to phenomena in which the strength of an operant is altered by reinforcer-related manipulations that take place outside the conditioning situation in which the operant was selected. As an example, if lever pressing is acquired using food as a reinforcer and food is later paired with an aversive stimulus, the frequency of lever pressing decreases when subsequently tested. Associationist psychology infers from such findings that conditioning produces a response-outcome (i.e., reinforcer) association and that the operant decreased in strength because pairing the reinforcer with the aversive stimulus changed the value of the outcome. Here, we present an approach to the interpretation of these and related findings that employs neural network simulations grounded in the experimental analysis of behavior and neuroscience. In so doing, we address some general issues regarding the relations among behavior analysis, neuroscience, and associationism.
We describe staining protocols for serial semithin sections of Drosophila central ganglia that allow visualization of gene expression in particular neurons with counterstaining to display the ganglion architecture. Green fluorescent protein (GFP), expressed in a subset of sensory neurons from a selected enhancer trap line, is visualized by conventional immunohistochemistry with a peroxidase-linked antibody, and neural architecture is revealed by reduced silver staining. This makes visible in histological sections the same GFP-labeled cells seen with confocal microscopy, but with the especial advantage that neuropil structures are also revealed at the level of individual cells and neuron processes. Not only does this allow the physical relationships among intracellularly labeled neurons to be determined by reference to specific features in the neuropil but it also enables a function to be ascribed provisionally to particular regions of neuropil. These methods have particular utility for mapping morphological information on specific neurons in the context of central nervous system architecture, both in adult Drosophila and during development.
A breastfeeding mother is confronted with a wide variety of over-the-counter products, necessitating careful guidance from her health care professional. This article presents a discussion and comprehensive tables that cover, by category, over-the-counter medications that nursing mothers may need to take. These tables should greatly assist the health care professional in the important task of counseling the nursing mother about the proper use of over-the-counter medications. This information will enable health care professionals to interpret information on the topic of over-the-counter medications and breastfeeding; list medications, in specific over-the-counter categories, that are usually safe to take while breastfeeding; recommend over-the-counter medications of choice for a breastfeeding mother; and generally counsel a breastfeeding mother who is taking or expects to take over-the-counter medications.
In contrast to extensive studies on the role of T and B lymphocytes in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases of the nervous system, little is known about NK cells and their potential role in the destruction of neural tissue. NK cells have been implicated in the selective death of sympathetic neurons resident in the superior cervical ganglia of rats after exposure to the drug guanethidine. This observation suggests that NK cells may function as principle effectors in immunological diseases of the nervous system. However, the direct mechanism of action of NK cells in this model is not known. In particular, it is not known whether NK cells can kill autologous neurons directly. The aim of the present study was to examine whether NK cells can kill directly dorsal root ganglia neurons cultured in vitro. We demonstrate that C57BL/6 (B6)-derived dorsal root ganglia neurons can be killed directly by syngenic IL-2-activated NK cells, and that this nerve cell lysis is dependent on the expression of perforin in the NK cells. NK cells were less effective in destroying neurons grown in the presence of glial cells. These observations indicate a potential role for NK cells in nerve cell degeneration in inflammatory diseases of the nervous system.
This study tested the hypothesis that the activation pattern of enkephalinergic (ENKergic) neurons within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) in response to psychogenic stress is identical whether in response to repeated exposure to the same stress (homotypic; immobilization) or to a novel stress (heterotypic; air jet puff). Rats were assigned to either acute or chronic immobilization stress paradigms (90 min/day for 1 or 10 days, respectively). The chronic group was then subjected to an additional 90-min session of either heterotypic or homotypic stress. A single 90-min stress session (immobilization or air jet) increased PVH-ENK heteronuclear (hn) RNA expression. In chronically stressed rats, exposure to an additional stress session (whether homotypic or heterotypic) continued to stimulate ENK hnRNA expression. Acute immobilization caused a marked increase in the numbers of Fos-immunoreactive and Fos-ENK double-labeled cells in the dorsal and ventral medial parvicellular, and lateral parvicellular subdivisions of the PVH. Chronic immobilization caused an attenuated Fos response ( approximately 66%) to subsequent immobilization. In contrast, chronic immobilization did not impair ENKergic neuron activation within the PVH following homotypic or heterotypic stress. These results indicate that within the PVH, chronic psychogenic stress markedly attenuates the Fos response, whereas ENKergic neurons resist habituation, principally within the ventral neuroendocrine portion of the nucleus. This suggests an increase in ENK effect during chronic stress exposure. Homotypic (immobilization) and heterotypic (air jet) psychogenic stressors produce similar responses, including Fos, ENK-Fos, and ENK hnRNA, within each subdivision of the PVH, suggesting similar processing for painless neurogenic stimuli.
Three different transcripts of the homeodomain gene termed pituitary homeobox (Ptx) 2 (Pitx2/Brx/Rieg/Solurshin/Arp) were cloned from different species encoding proteins belonging to the paired-like family of homeodomain proteins. Ptx2a (324 amino acids), Ptx2b (271 amino acids), and Ptx2c (318 amino acids) share the C terminus, including the homeodomain, and have different N termini. Here we report the comparative analysis of all three different Ptx2 splice variants for their transcriptional activity and their expression pattern in the adult rat brain. Ptx2 is able to trans-activate via different model promoters in different cell lines. A mild difference in trans-activating potential is observed among the splice variants, but the underlying mechanism is at present unknown. It is surprising that all Ptx2 transcripts displayed an identical expression pattern in the brain. This markedly restricted pattern is limited to the following brain areas: the anterior and intermediate lobes of the pituitary gland, the subthalamic nucleus, the posterior hypothalamic nucleus, the mammillary bodies, the red nucleus, and the deep gray layer of the superior colliculus. The data presented suggest that all variants of Ptx2 are involved in the development and regulation of distinct neuronal cell groups and the pituitary gland.
During lactation, hypothalamic levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti related protein (AGRP) mRNA are increased, while pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA is decreased. Serum leptin levels are also decreased during lactation. These changes may underlie the large increases of both food and water intake that occur in concert with milk production. However, additional hypothalamic substances, such as the novel peptide, orexin, may be involved. In addition, in the presence of chronically suppressed levels of serum leptin, there may be a change in leptin receptor expression in the hypothalamus. The objectives of the present study were to determine if orexin and leptin receptor mRNA levels were changed during lactation. Rats were studied on dioestrus of the oestrous cycle or on day 10 postpartum (the lactating animals were suckling eight pups). Orexin mRNA levels in the lateral hypothalamus did not differ between dioestrus and lactation. There was a significant increase in leptin receptor mRNA levels in the supraoptic nucleus during lactation compared to dioestrus. Furthermore, leptin receptor protein, as determined by immunocytochemistry, was colocalized in virtually all vasopressin and oxytocin cells in the supraoptic nucleus. Lactating animals exhibited a decrease in leptin receptor mRNA in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus whereas no change was apparent in other hypothalamic areas compared to the dioestrus animals. These results demonstrate that changes in orexin do not appear to contribute to the increase in food intake during lactation. It is likely that the increases in NPY and ARGP, coupled with the decrease in POMC, are primarily responsible for sustaining the chronic hyperphagia of lactation. The changes observed in leptin receptor expression in the hypothalamus, along with the suppression of serum leptin levels, also suggest that the leptin signalling system may play a significant role in the regulation of food and water intake during lactation.
Activation of beta-adrenoceptors in the hypothalamus (HYP) and preoptic area (POA) inhibits both gonadotropin release and reproductive behaviour in female rats. Exposure of female rats for 48 h to physiologically relevant doses of oestrogen attenuates beta-adrenoceptor function in the HYP and POA as indicated by reduced isoproterenol (beta-adrenoceptor agonist) stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity. Reduced beta-adrenoceptor coupling to G protein in the HYP-POA from oestrogen-exposed female rats correlates with attenuation of beta-adrenoceptor function. To examine potential mechanisms underlying receptor-G protein uncoupling, initial experiments tested the hypothesis that oestrogen attenuation of beta-adrenoceptor function in the HYP and POA involves receptor phosphorylation. Activation of endogenous serine/threonine phosphatases with protamine restores agonist-stimulated cAMP accumulation in HYP slices from oestrogen-exposed female rats to control levels. Additional experiments examined whether oestrogen-induced changes in beta-adrenoceptor binding density and/or subcellular localization correlate with the attenuation of beta-adrenoceptor function in the HYP and POA. Oestrogen treatment does not alter total beta-adrenoceptor binding density in the HYP or POA. However, oestrogen significantly reduces cell surface binding of the hydrophilic beta-adrenoceptor antagonist [3H] CGP 12177 to intact HYP and POA slices. At the same time, oestrogen decreases the fraction of beta-adrenoceptors localized in a light vesicle fraction following sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Therefore, oestrogen attenuates beta-adrenoceptor signalling in the HYP-POA by uncoupling the beta-adrenoceptor from G protein, perhaps by promoting receptor phosphorylation. Furthermore, a significant fraction of beta-adrenoceptors in the HYP and POA are no longer accessible to hydrophilic ligands, but are not internalized. Thus, physiological doses of oestrogen may facilitate reproductive behaviour and gonadotropin release, in part, by stabilizing beta-adrenoceptor phosphorylation in the HYP and POA, thereby uncoupling the receptors from G protein.
An early onset of systemic, lupus-like disease in MRL-lpr mice is accompanied by deterioration in their behavioral performance and atrophy of pyramidal neurons in the parietal cortex and the hippocampal CA1 area. Using the immunosuppressive drug cyclophosphamide (CY) to attenuate the disease, we have tested the hypothesis that the autoimmune/inflammatory process is responsible for changes in brain morphology. A modified Golgi impregnation method revealed that, in comparison to saline-treated controls, immunosuppressive treatment with CY (100 mg/kg/week i.p. over 8 weeks) increased dendritic branching and spine numerical density in the CA1 region of MRL-lpr mice and MRL +/+ mice, which develop less severe manifestations of the disease. More interestingly, CY selectively prevented the atrophy and aberrant morphology of pyramidal neurons in the parietal cortex of MRL-lpr mice. The neuropathological measures (in particular reduced dendritic spine density) significantly correlated with increased serum levels of antinuclear antibodies and splenomegaly. The present results support the hypothesis that chronic autoimmune disease induces functionally important changes in neuronal morphology, and provide an empirical basis for understanding the behavioral dysfunction in systemic lupus erythematosus and autoimmune phenomena reported in some forms of mental illness.
Systemic administration of interferon (IFN)-beta has been recently approved for the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). The immunological mechanism by which IFN-beta ameliorates MS is still partially unknown. We measured the number of blood circulating CD4(+), CD4(-), CD8(+), and CD8(-) T cells secreting IFN-gamma and IL-4 in 26 RRMS patients followed for up to 9 months of an alternate day s.c. treatment with 8x16 IU of IFN-beta1b. Compared to pre-treatment values, a significant (P&lt;0.05) reduction of CD4(+), CD4(-), CD8(+) and CD8(-) cells producing IFN-gamma and of CD4(+) and CD4(-) cells producing IL-4 was observed in MS patients. The IFN-beta-associated effect was evident soon after the beginning of the treatment and persisted for the entire follow-up period. We did not observe any effect of IFN-beta treatment on the percentage of IL-4-producing CD8(+) and CD8(-) cells nor in that of natural killer (NK) cells producing IFN-gamma. Our results show that IFN-beta treatment in MS patients induces a profound and persistent down-regulation of the number of circulating T cells secreting IFN-gamma and IL-4 thus suggesting a broader rather than a specific immunomodulatory effect of IFN-beta in MS.
Muscle pathology in McLeod syndrome is usually mild; patchy necrotic or regenerating fibres, occasional internal nuclei, and the absence of an inflammatory cell infiltrate are the usual findings. We report on a 29 year old man presenting with chronic fatiguability and excessive sweating in whom an open quadriceps muscle biopsy demonstrated grouped necrotic fibres accompanied by striking patchy mononuclear cell infiltrates. The diagnosis of McLeod syndrome was made on the basis of red blood cell acanthocytosis, raised serum creatine kinase, and weak expression of Kell blood group antigens. The quadriceps muscle infiltrate consisted principally of histologically typical macrophages. These cells had prominent nucleoli, displayed numerous mitoses, and were strongly CD68+. A small population of typical CD3+, CD43+ lymphocytes was also present. In addition, a small population of large atypical CD3+ cells was noted. Immunoperoxidase stains for CD20, CD30, CD79a, and CD56 were negative. Immunocytochemical studies for the common muscular dystrophies were normal. The muscle biopsy findings highlight a potential for confusion of this condition with idiopathic polymyositis. The expanding range of muscle pathology reported in McLeod syndrome, to which this case adds, may reflect variable involvement of the XK gene on chromosome Xp21, or of the adjacent loci of Duchenne muscular dystrophy and chronic granulomatous disease.

Degeneration of both motoneurons and interneurons has been previously observed in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It is unclear whether interneuronal loss is due to an intrinsic neuronal defect or if it occurs secondary to loss of their target motoneurons. We have examined the target dependence of interneurons, their survival and alterations in the expression of the calcium binding protein, calbindin-D28k (CB), in the ventral horn of the rat lumbar cord after extensive motoneuron degeneration was induced by unilateral rhizotomy of spinal nerves L2-L6 at postnatal day 3 (P3). Counts of Nissl-stained cells at P21 revealed no significant interneuronal death despite loss of 80% of their target motoneurons. At P6, some motoneurons transiently expressed CB on the operated side compared to the control side. Since most of these cells are destined to die, this transiently increased CB expression may represent an abortive attempt by the axotomised motoneurons to buffer the neurotoxic consequences of high intracellular calcium. In contrast, there was a time-dependent decrease in CB expression in ventral horn interneurons, with only 35% of putative Renshaw cells expressing CB by P21. These results indicate that neonatal interneurons are capable of surviving the loss of their motoneuron targets, but alter their phenotype as indicated by functional alterations in calcium-binding proteins.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has become an increasingly attractive area for the pharmaceutical industry, the most experimentally tractable of the neurodegenerative diseases. Mechanisms underlying cell death in ALS are likely to be important in more common but more complex disorders. Riluzole, the only drug launched for treatment ALS is currently undergoing industrial trials for Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington disease, stroke and head injury. Other compounds in Phase III testing for ALS (mecamserin, xaliproden, gabapentin) are also in trials for other neurodegenerative disorders. Mechanisms of action of these advanced compounds are limited to glutamate antagonism, direct or indirect growth factor activity, as well as GABA agonism and interaction with calcium channels. A broader range of mechanisms is represented by compounds in Phase I trials: glutamate antagonism (dextramethorphan/p450 inhibitor; talampanel), growth factors (leukemia inhibiting factor; IL-1 receptor; encapsulated cells secreting CNTF) and antioxidants (TR500, a glutathione-repleting agent; recombinant superoxide dismutase; procysteine.) An even broader range of mechanisms is being explored in preclinical discovery programs. Recognition of the difficulties associated with delivery of protein therapeutics to the CNS has led to development of small molecules interacting either with neurotrophin receptors or with downstream intracellular signalling pathways. Other novel drug targets include caspaces, protein kinases and other molecules influencing apoptosis. High-throughput screens of large libraries of small molecules yield lead compounds that are subsequently optimized by chemists, screened for toxicity, and validated before a candidate is selected for clinical trials. The net is cast wide in early discovery efforts, only about 1% of which result in useful drugs at the end of a decade-long process. Successful discovery and development of novel drugs will increasingly depend on collaborative efforts between the academy and industry.
Cytoskeletal abnormalities have been reported in cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) including abnormal inclusions containing neurofilaments (NFs) and/or peripherin, reduced mRNA levels for the NF light (NF-L) protein and mutations in the NF heavy (NF-H) gene. Recently, transgenic mouse approaches have been used to address whether cytoskeletal changes may contribute to motor neuron disease. Mice lacking one of the three NF subunits are viable and do not develop motor neuron disease. Nonetheless, mice with null mutations for NF-L or for both NF-M and NF-H genes developed severe atrophy of ventral and dorsal root axons. The atrophic process is associated with hind limb paralysis during aging in mice deficient for both NF-M and NF-H proteins. The overexpression in mice of transgenes coding for wild-type or mutant NF proteins can provoke abnormal NF accumulations, axonal atrophy and sometimes motor dysfunction. However, the perikaryal NF accumulations are generally well tolerated by motor neurons and, except for expression of a mutant NF-L transgene, they did not provoke massive motor neuron death. Increasing the levels of perikaryal NF proteins may even confer protection in motor neuron disease caused by ALS-linked mutations in the superoxide dismutase (SOD1). In contrast, the overexpression of wild-type peripherin, a type of IF gene upregulated by inflammatory cytokines, provoked the formation of toxic IF inclusions with the high-molecular-weight NF proteins resulting in the death of motor neurons during aging. These results together with the detection of peripherin inclusions at early stage of disease in mice expressing mutant SOD1 suggest that IF inclusions containing peripherin may play a contributory role in ALS pathogenesis.
A recycling pathway in peripheral nerve permits cholesterol from degenerating myelin to be salvaged by macrophages and resupplied to myelinating Schwann cells by locally produced lipoproteins. A similar reutilization of cholesterol by regenerating axons has been proposed but not demonstrated. Neurites in culture, however, do take up cholesterol and cholesterol-containing lipoproteins, where these molecules are found to promote neurite extension. To test the requirement for cholesterol reutilization in axon regeneration and myelination, we examined 2 models of blocked intracellular cholesterol transport: 1) bone marrow transplants from Niemann-Pick C mice into wild-type recipient mice, and 2) imipramine treatment. Following nerve crush in these models, we found that unusually large, debris-filled macrophages appeared and persisted for many weeks. A morphometric analysis of regenerating nerves revealed that myelination proceeded at a normal rate (normal g-ratios), but that axon growth was retarded (decreased fiber numbers and diameters) in these animals. Cholesterol synthesis was elevated in these nerves, indicating that Schwann cells compensated for the decreased exogenous supply of cholesterol by up-regulating de novo synthesis to support myelination. These data indicate that Schwann cells are not dependent on cholesterol reutilization to support myelination, but that optimal axonal regeneration is dependent on a local supply of cholesterol.
Antidromic activity was recorded in anesthetized rats from single afferent fibers in the proximal ends of cut dorsal root filaments at the L(4-6) level and tested for responses to acute cutaneous inflammation produced by intradermal injection of capsaicin. This antidromic activity included low-frequency spontaneous firing and dorsal root reflex (DRR) discharges evoked by applying von Frey hairs to the skin of the foot. DRRs could be recorded from both small myelinated (Adelta) and unmyelinated (C) afferent fibers, as well as from large myelinated (Abeta) fibers. After capsaicin was injected intradermally into the plantar skin of the foot, a significant enhancement of DRR activity was seen in Adelta and C fibers but not in Abeta fibers, and this increase lasted for approximately 1 h. This study supports the hypothesis that centrally mediated antidromic activity in Adelta and C primary afferent fibers contributes to the development of neurogenic inflammation, presumably by release of inflammatory substances in the periphery.
The spiking pattern evoked in cells of the owl's inferior colliculus by repeated presentation of the same broadband noise was found to be highly reproducible and synchronized with the temporal features of the noise stimulus. The pattern remained largely unchanged when the stimulus was presented from spatial loci that evoke similar average firing rates. To better understand this patterning, we computed the pre-event stimulus ensemble (PESE)-the average of the stimuli that preceded each spike. Computing the PESE by averaging the pressure waveforms produced a noisy, featureless trace, suggesting that the patterning was not synchronized to a particular waveform in the fine structure. By contrast, computing the PESE by averaging the stimulus envelope revealed an average envelope waveform, the &quot;PESE envelope,&quot; typically having a peak preceded by a trough. Increasing the overall stimulus level produced PESE envelopes with higher amplitudes, suggesting a decrease in the jitter of the cell's response. The effect of carrier frequency on the PESE envelope was investigated by obtaining a cell's response to broadband noise and either estimating the PESE envelope for each spectral band or by computing a spectrogram of the stimulus prior to each spike. Either method yielded the cell's PESE spectrogram, a plot of the average amplitude of each carrier-frequency component at various pre-spike times. PESE spectrograms revealed surfaces with peaks and troughs at certain frequencies and pre-spike times. These features are collectively called the spectrotemporal receptive field (STRF). The shape of the STRF showed that in many cases, the carrier frequency can affect the PESE envelope. The modulation transfer function (MTF), which describes a cell's ability to respond to time-varying amplitudes, was estimated with sinusoidally amplitude-modulated (SAM) noises. Comparison of the PESE envelope with the MTF in the time and frequency domains showed that the two were closely matched, suggesting that a cell's response to SAM stimuli is largely predictable from its response to a noise-modulated carrier. The STRF is considered to be a model of the linear component of a system's response to dynamic stimuli. Using the STRF, we estimated the degree to which we could predict a cell's response to an arbitrary broadband noise by comparing the convolution of the STRF and the envelope of the noise with the cell's post-stimulus time histogram to the same noise. The STRF explained 18-46% of the variance of a cell's response to broadband noise.
The ability to inhibit reflexes in favor of goal-oriented behaviors is critical for optimal exploration and interaction with our environment. The antisaccade task can be used to investigate the ability of subjects to suppress a reflexive saccade (prosaccade) to a suddenly appearing visual stimulus and instead generate a voluntary saccade (antisaccade) to its mirror location. To understand the neural mechanisms required to perform this task, our lab has developed a non-human primate model. Two monkeys were trained on a task with randomly interleaved pro- and antisaccade trials, with the color of the central fixation point (FP) instructing the monkey to either make a prosaccade (red FP) or an antisaccade (green FP). In half of the trials, the FP disappeared 200 ms before stimulus presentation (gap condition) and in the remaining trials, the FP remained visible (overlap condition) during stimulus presentation. The effect of stimulus eccentricity and direction was examined by presenting the stimulus at one of eight different radial directions (0-360 degrees ) and five eccentricities (2, 4, 8, 10, and 16 degrees ). Antisaccades had longer saccadic reaction times (SRTs), more dysmetria, and lower peak velocities than prosaccades. Direction errors in the antisaccade task were more prevalent in the gap condition. The difference in mean SRT between correct pro- and antisaccades, the anti-effect, was greater in the overlap condition. The difference in mean SRT between the overlap and the gap condition, the gap effect, was larger for antisaccades than for prosaccades. The manipulation of stimulus eccentricity and direction influenced SRT and the proportion of direction errors. These results are comparable to human studies, supporting the use of this animal model for investigating the neural mechanisms subserving the generation of antisaccades.
Previous work from this laboratory has indicated that TTX-sensitive sodium channels are involved in the hypoxia-induced inward current response of caudal hypothalamic neurons. Since this inward current underlies the depolarization and increased firing frequency observed in these cells during hypoxia, the present study utilized more detailed biophysical methods to specifically determine which sodium currents are responsible for this hypoxic activation. Caudal hypothalamic neurons from approximately 3-wk-old Sprague-Dawley rats were acutely dissociated and patch-clamped in the voltage-clamp mode to obtain recordings from fast-inactivating and persistent (noninactivating) whole cell sodium currents. Using computer-generated activation and inactivation voltage protocols, rapidly inactivating sodium currents were analyzed during normal conditions and during a brief (3-6 min) period of severe hypoxia. In addition, voltage-ramp and extended-voltage-activation protocols were used to analyze persistent sodium currents during normal conditions and during hypoxia. A polarographic oxygen electrode determined that the level of oxygen in this preparation quickly dropped to 10 Torr within 2 min of initiation of hypoxia and stabilized at &lt;0.5 Torr within 4 min. During hypoxia, the peak fast-inactivating sodium current was significantly increased throughout the entire activation range, and both the activation and inactivation values (V(1/2)) were negatively shifted. Furthermore both the voltage-ramp and extended-activation protocols demonstrated a significant increase in the persistent sodium current during hypoxia when compared with normoxia. These results demonstrate that both rapidly inactivating and persistent sodium currents are significantly enhanced by a brief hypoxic stimulus. Furthermore the hypoxic-induced increase in these currents most likely is the primary mechanism for the depolarization and increased firing frequency observed in caudal hypothalamic neurons during hypoxia. Since these neurons are important in modulating cardiorespiratory activity, the oxygen responsiveness of these sodium currents may play a significant role in the centrally mediated cardiorespiratory response to hypoxia.
The caudal dorsal cap (dc) of the inferior olive is involved in the control of horizontal compensatory eye movements. It provides those climbing fibers to the vestibulocerebellum that modulate optimally to optokinetic stimulation about the vertical axis. This modulation is mediated at least in part via an excitatory input to the caudal dc from the pretectal nucleus of the optic tract and the dorsal terminal nucleus of the accessory optic system. In addition, the caudal dc receives a substantial GABAergic input from the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi (NPH). To investigate the possible contribution of this bilateral inhibitory projection to the visual responsiveness of caudal dc neurons, we recorded the climbing fiber activity (i.e., complex spikes) of vertical axis Purkinje cells in the flocculus of anesthetized rabbits before and after ablative lesions of the NPH. When the NPH ipsilateral to the recorded flocculus was lesioned, the spontaneous complex spike firing frequency did not change significantly; but when both NPHs were lesioned, the spontaneous complex spike firing frequency increased significantly. When only the contralateral NPH was lesioned, the spontaneous complex spike firing frequency decreased significantly. Neither unilateral nor bilateral lesions had a significant influence on the depth of complex spike modulation during constant velocity optokinetic stimulation or on the transient continuation of complex spike modulation that occurred when the constant velocity optokinetic stimulation stopped. The effects of the lesions on the spontaneous complex spike firing frequency could not be explained when only the projections from the NPH to the inferior olive were considered. Therefore we investigated at the electron microscopic level the nature of the commissural connection between the two NPHs. The terminals of this projection were found to be predominantly GABAergic and to terminate in part on GABAergic neurons. When this inhibitory commissural connection is taken into consideration, then the effects of NPH lesions on the spontaneous firing frequency of floccular complex spikes are qualitatively explicable in terms of relative weighting of the commissural and caudal dc projections of the NPH. In summary, we conclude that in the anesthetized rabbit the inhibitory projection of the NPH to the caudal dc influences the spontaneous firing frequency of floccular complex spikes but not their modulation by optokinetic stimulation.
The vasopressin/oxytocin-related neuropeptide Lys-conopressin activates two pacemaker currents in central neurons of the mollusk Lymnaea stagnalis. A high-voltage-activated current (I-HVA) is activated at potentials greater than -40 mV and resembles pacemaker currents found in many molluscan neurons. A low-voltage-activated current (I-LVA) activates throughout the range of -90 to 0 mV. Based on sequence homologies, Lymnaea conopressin receptors are thought to couple to Q-type G proteins and protein kinase C (PKC). Alternatively, agonist-induced pacemaker currents in molluscan neurons have traditionally been attributed to cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activation. Accordingly, this study aimed at resolving possible involvement of cAMP/PKA and diacylglycerol/PKC in the conopressin response. Injection of cAMP into anterior lobe neurons induced a slow inward current with a voltage dependence resembling that of I(LVA) (and not I(HVA)). However, lack of effect of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine and the absence of cross-desensitization between cAMP and conopressin suggest that neither current is dependent on intracellular cAMP. The PKC-activating phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (but not inactive phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate) mimicked activation of I(HVA), but not I(LVA), and occluded subsequent responses to conopressin. Activation of I(HVA) was blocked by general protein kinase inhibitors and the PKC-inhibitor GF-109203X. Modulation of the calcium buffering capacity of the pipette medium did not affect the conopressin response, suggesting that calcium dynamics are not of major importance. We conclude that conopressin activates the ion channels carrying I(LVA) and I(HVA) through different second-messenger cascades and that PKC-dependent phosphorylation underlies activation of I(HVA).
The forebrains of mammals and birds appear quite different in their gross morphology, making it difficult to identify homologies between them and to assess how far they have diverged in organization. Nevertheless one set of forebrain structures, the basal ganglia, has been successfully compared in mammals and birds. Anatomical, histochemical, and molecular data have identified the avian homologues of the mammalian basal ganglia and indicate that they are very similar in organization, suggesting that they perform similar functions in the two classes. However, the physiological properties of the avian basal ganglia have not been studied, and these properties are critical for inferring functional similarity. We have used a zebra finch brain slice preparation to characterize the intrinsic physiological properties of neurons in the avian basal ganglia, particularly in the input structure of the basal ganglia, the striatum. We found that avian striatum contains a cell type that closely resembles the medium spiny neuron, the principal cell type of mammalian striatum. Avian striatum also contains a rare cell type that is very similar to an interneuron class found in mammalian striatum, the low-threshold spike cell. On the other hand, we found an aspiny, fast-firing cell type in avian striatum that is distinct from all known classes of mammalian striatal neuron. These neurons usually fired spontaneously at 10 Hz or more and were capable of sustained firing at very high rates when injected with depolarizing current. The existence of this cell type represents an important difference between avian striatum and mammalian dorsal striatum. Our data support the general idea that the organization and functional properties of the basal ganglia have been largely conserved in mammals and birds, but they imply that avian striatum is not identical to mammalian dorsal striatum.
We present a new computational model for the development of task-specific focal dystonia. The purpose of the model is to explain how altered sensory representations can lead to abnormal motor behavior. Dystonia is described as the result of excessive gain through a sensorimotor loop. The gain is determined in part by the sensory cortical area devoted to each motor function, and behaviors that lead to abnormal increases in sensory cortical area are predicted to lead to dystonia. Properties of dystonia including muscular co-contraction, overflow movements, and task specificity are predicted by properties of a linear approximation to the loop transformation. We provide simulations of several different mechanisms that can cause the gain to exceed 1 and the motor activity to become sustained and uncontrolled. The model predicts that normal plasticity mechanisms may contribute to worsening of symptoms over time.
Spreading depression (SD) and related phenomena have been implicated in hypoxic-ischemic injury. In such settings, SD occurs in the presence of marked extracellular acidosis. SD itself can also generate changes in extracellular pH (pH(o)), including a pronounced early alkaline shift. In a hippocampal slice model, we investigated the effect of interstitial acidosis on the generation and propagation of SD in the CA1 stratum radiatum. In addition, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (benzolamide) was used to decrease buffering of the alkaline shift to investigate its role in the modulation of SD. pH(o) was lowered by a decrease in saline HCO(3)(-) (from 26 to 13 to 6.5 mM at 5% CO(2)), or by an increase in the CO(2) content (from 5 to 15% in 26 mM HCO(3)(-)). Recordings with pH microelectrodes revealed respective pHo values of 7.23 +/- 0. 13, 6.95 +/- 0.10, 6.67 +/- 0.09, and 6.97 +/- 0.12. The overall effect of acidosis was an increase in the threshold for SD induction, a decrease in velocity, and a shortened SD duration. This inhibition was most pronounced at the lowest pH(o) (in 6.5 mM HCO(3)(-)) where SD was often blocked. The effects of acidosis were reversible on return to control saline. Benzolamide (10 microM) caused an approximate doubling of the early alkaline shift to an amplitude of 0.3-0.4 U pH. The amplified alkalosis was associated with an increased duration and/or increased velocity of the wave. These effects were most pronounced in acidic media (13 mM HCO(3)(-)/5% CO(2)) where benzolamide increased the SD duration by 55 +/- 32%. The initial velocity (including time for induction) and propagation velocity (measured between distal electrodes) were enhanced by 35 +/- 25 and 26 +/- 16%, respectively. Measurements of [Ca(2+)](o) demonstrated an increase in duration of the Ca(2+) transient when the alkaline shift was amplified by benzolamide. The augmentation of SD caused by benzolamide was blocked in media containing the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. These data indicate that the induction and propagation of SD is inhibited by a fall in baseline pH characteristic of ischemic conditions and that the early alkaline shift can remove this inhibition by relieving the proton block on NMDA receptors. Under ischemic conditions, the intrinsic alkalosis may therefore enable SD and thereby contribute to NMDA receptor-mediated injury.
We have studied voltage-dependent inhibition of N-type calcium currents to investigate the effects of G-protein modulation-induced alterations in channel gating on action potential-evoked calcium current. In isolated chick ciliary ganglion neurons, GTPgammaS produced voltage-dependent inhibition that exhibited slowed activation kinetics and was partially relieved by a conditioning prepulse. Using step depolarizations to evoke calcium current, we measured tail current amplitudes on abrupt repolarization to estimate the time course of calcium channel activation from 1 to 30 ms. GTPgammaS prolonged significantly channel activation, consistent with the presence of kinetic slowing in the modulated whole cell current evoked by 100-ms steps. Since kinetic slowing is caused by an altered voltage dependence of channel activation (such that channels require stronger or longer duration depolarization to open), we asked if GTPgammaS-induced modulation would alter the time course of calcium channel activation during an action potential. Using an action potential waveform as a voltage command to evoke calcium current, we abruptly repolarized to -80 mV at various time points during the repolarization phase of the action potential. The resulting tail current was used to estimate the relative number of calcium channels that were open. Using action potential waveforms of either 2.2- or 6-ms duration at half-amplitude, there were no differences in the time course of calcium channel activation, or in the percent activation at any time point tested during the repolarization, when control and modulated currents were compared. It is also possible that modulated channels might open briefly and that these reluctant openings would effect the time course of action potential-evoked calcium current. However, when control and modulated currents were scaled to the same peak amplitude and superimposed, there was no difference in the kinetics of the two currents. Thus voltage-dependent inhibition did not alter the kinetics of action potential-evoked current. These results suggest that G-protein-modulated channels do not contribute significantly to calcium current evoked by a single action potential.
Action potentials are the end product of synaptic integration, a process influenced by resting and active neuronal membrane properties. Diversity in these properties contributes to specialized mechanisms of synaptic integration and action potential firing, which are likely to be of functional significance within neural circuits. In the hippocampus, the majority of subicular pyramidal neurons fire high-frequency bursts of action potentials, whereas CA1 pyramidal neurons exhibit regular spiking behavior when subjected to direct somatic current injection. Using patch-clamp recordings from morphologically identified neurons in hippocampal slices, we analyzed and compared the resting and active membrane properties of pyramidal neurons in the subiculum and CA1 regions of the hippocampus. In response to direct somatic current injection, three subicular firing types were identified (regular spiking, weak bursting, and strong bursting), while all CA1 neurons were regular spiking. Within subiculum strong bursting neurons were found preferentially further away from the CA1 subregion. Input resistance (R(N)), membrane time constant (tau(m)), and depolarizing &quot;sag&quot; in response to hyperpolarizing current pulses were similar in all subicular neurons, while R(N) and tau(m) were significantly larger in CA1 neurons. The first spike of all subicular neurons exhibited similar action potential properties; CA1 action potentials exhibited faster rising rates, greater amplitudes, and wider half-widths than subicular action potentials. Therefore both the resting and active properties of CA1 pyramidal neurons are distinct from those of subicular neurons, which form a related class of neurons, differing in their propensity to burst. We also found that both regular spiking subicular and CA1 neurons could be transformed into a burst firing mode by application of a low concentration of 4-aminopyridine, suggesting that in both hippocampal subfields, firing properties are regulated by a slowly inactivating, D-type potassium current. The ability of all subicular pyramidal neurons to burst strengthens the notion that they form a single neuronal class, sharing a burst generating mechanism that is stronger in some cells than others.
We used a &quot;current signature&quot; method to subclassify acutely dissociated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells into nine subgroups. Cells subclassified by current signature had uniform properties. The type 1 cell had moderate capsaicin sensitivity (25.9 pA/pF), powerful, slowly desensitizing (tau = 2,300 ms), ATP-activated current (13.3 pA/pF), and small nondesensitizing responses to acidic solutions (5.6 pA/pF). Type 1 cells expressed calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity (CGRP-IR), manifested a wide action potential (7.3 ms), long duration afterhyperpolarization (57.0 ms), and were IB4 positive. The type 2 cell exhibited large capsaicin activated currents (134.9 pA/pF) but weak nondesensitizing responses to protons (15.3 pA/pF). Currents activated by ATP and alphabeta-m-ATP (51.7 and 44.6 pA/pF, respectively) had fast desensitization kinetics (tau = 214 ms) that were distinct from all other cell types. Type 2 cells were IB4 positive but did not contain either substance P (SP) or CGRP-IR. Similar to capsaicin-sensitive nociceptors in vivo, the afterhyperpolarization of the type 2 cell was prolonged (54.7 ms). The type 3 cell expressed, amiloride-sensitive, rapidly desensitizing (tau = 683 ms) proton-activated currents (127.0 pA/pF), and was insensitive to ATP or capsaicin. The type 3 cell was IB4 negative and contained neither CGRP nor SP-IR. The afterhyperpolarization (17.5 ms) suggested nonnociceptive function. The type 4 cell had powerful ATP-activated currents (17.4 pA/pF) with slow desensitization kinetics (tau = 2, 813 ms). The afterhyperpolarization was prolonged (46.5 ms), suggesting that this cell type might belong to a capsaicin-insensitive nociceptor population. The type 4 cell did not contain peptides. The type 7 cell manifested amiloride-sensitive, proton-activated currents (45.8 pA/pF) with very fast desensitization kinetics (tau = 255 ms) and was further distinct from the type 3 cell by virtue of a nondesensitizing amiloride-insensitive component (6.0 pA/pF). Capsaicin and ATP sensitivity were relatively weak (4.3 and 2.9 pA/pF, respectively). Type 7 cells were IB4 positive and contained both SP and CGRP-IR. They exhibited an exceptionally long afterhyperpolarization (110 ms) that was suggestive of a silent (mechanically insensitive) nociceptor. We concluded that presorting of DRG cells by current signatures separated them into internally homogenous subpopulations that were distinct from other subclassified cell types.
The role of potassium conductances in determining input resistance was studied in 166 genioglossal (GG) motoneurons using sharp electrode recording in brain stem slices of the rats aged 5-7 days, 13-15 days, and 19-24 days postnatal (P). A high magnesium (Mg(2+); 6 mM) perfusate was used to block calcium-mediated synaptic release while intracellular or extracellular cesium (Cs(+)) and/or extracellular tetraethylammonium (TEA) or barium (Ba(2+)) were used to block potassium conductances. In all cases, the addition of TEA to the high Mg(2+) perfusate generated a larger increase in both input resistance (R(n)) and the first membrane time constant (tau(0)) than did high Mg(2+) alone indicating a substantial nonsynaptic contribution to input resistance. With intracellular injection of Cs(+), GG motoneurons with lower resistance (&lt;40 MOmega), on the average, showed a larger percent increase in R(n) than cells with higher resistance (&gt;40 MOmega). There was also a significant increase in the effect of internal Cs(+) on R(n) and tau(0) with age. The largest percent increase (67%) in the tau(0) due to intracellular Cs(+) occurred at P13-15, a developmental stage characterized by a large reduction in specific membrane resistance. Addition of external Cs(+) blocked conductances (further increasing R(n) and tau(0)) beyond those blocked by the TEA perfusate. Substitution of external calcium with 2 mM barium chloride produced a significant increase in both R(n) and tau(0) at all ages studied. The addition of either intracellular Cs(+) or extracellular Ba(2+) created a depolarization shift of the membrane potential. The amount of injected current required to maintain the membrane potential was negatively correlated with the control R(n) of the cell at most ages. Thus low resistance cells had, on the average, more Cs(+)- and Ba(2+)-sensitive channels than their high resistance counterparts. There was also a disproportionately larger percent increase in tau(0) as compared with R(n) for both internal Cs(+) and external Ba(2+). Based on a model by Redman and colleagues, it might be suggested that the majority of these potassium conductances underlying membrane resistance are initially located in the distal dendrites but become more uniformly distributed over the motoneuron surface in the oldest animals.
The contribution of synaptic input to input resistance was examined in 208 developing genioglossal motoneurons in 3 postnatal age groups (5-7 day, 13-16 day, and 18-24 day) using sharp electrode recording in a slice preparation of the rat brain stem. High magnesium (Mg(2+); 6 mM) media generated significant increases (21-38%) in both the input resistance (R(n)) and the first time constant (tau(0)) that were reversible. A large percent of the conductance blocked by high Mg(2+) was also sensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX). Little increase in resistance was attained by adding blockers of specific amino acid (glutamate, glycine, and GABA) transmission over that obtained with the high Mg(2+). Comparing across age groups, there was a significantly larger percent change in R(n) with the addition of high Mg(2+) at postnatal days 13 to 15 (P13-15; 36%) than that found at P5-6 (21%). Spontaneous postsynaptic potentials were sensitive to the combined application of glycine receptor antagonist, strychnine, and the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline. Application of either 10 microM strychnine or bicuculline separately produced a reversible increase in both R(n) and tau(0). Addition of 10 microM bicuculline to a strychnine perfusate failed to further increase either R(n) or tau(0). The strychnine/bicuculline-sensitive component of the total synaptic conductance increased with age so that this form of neurotransmission constituted the majority (&gt;60%) of the observed percent decrease in R(n) and tau(0) in the oldest age group. The proportion of change in tau(0) relative to R(n) following strychnine or high magnesium perfusate varied widely from cell to cell and from age to age without pattern. Based on a model from the literature, this pattern indicates a nonselective distribution of the blocked synaptic conductances over the cell body and dendrites. Taken together, the fast inhibitory synapses (glycine, GABA(A)) play a greater role in determining cell excitability in developing brain stem motoneurons as postnatal development progresses. These findings suggest that synaptically mediated conductances effect the membrane behavior of developing motoneurons.
Glutamate is the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate CNS. Ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate fast excitatory actions whereas metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) mediate a variety of slower effects. For example, mGluRs can mediate presynaptic inhibition, postsynaptic excitation, or, more rarely, postsynaptic inhibition. We previously described an unusually slow form of postsynaptic inhibition in one class of projection neuron in the song-control nucleus HVc of the songbird forebrain. These neurons, which participate in a circuit that is essential for vocal learning, exhibit an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) that lasts several seconds. Only a portion of this slow IPSP is mediated by GABA(B) receptors. Since these cells are strongly hyperpolarized by agonists of mGluRs, we used intracellular recording from brain slices to investigate the mechanism of this hyperpolarization and to determine whether mGluRs contribute to the slow synaptic inhibition. We report that mGluRs hyperpolarize these HVc neurons by activating G protein-coupled, inwardly-rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels. MGluR antagonists blocked this response and the slow synaptic inhibition. Thus, glutamate can combine with GABA to mediate slow synaptic inhibition by activating GIRK channels in the CNS.
Touch of the hand with a stationary surface at nonmechanically supportive force levels (&lt;1 N) greatly attenuates postural sway during quiet stance. We predicted such haptic contact would also suppress the postural destabilization caused by vibrating the right peroneus brevis and longus muscles of subjects standing heel-to-toe with eyes closed. In experiment 1, ten subjects were tested under four conditions: no-vibration, no-touch; no-vibration, touch; vibration, no-touch; and vibration, touch. A hand-held physiotherapy vibrator (120 Hz) was applied approximately 5 cm above the malleolous to stimulate the peroneus longus and brevis tendons. Touch conditions involved contact of the right index finger with a laterally positioned surface (&lt;1 N of force) at waist height. Vibration in the absence of finger contact greatly increased the mean sway amplitude of the center of pressure and of the head relative to the no-vibration, no-touch control condition (P &lt; 0.001). The touch, no-vibration and touch-vibration conditions were not significantly different (P &gt; 0.05) from each other and both had significantly less mean sway amplitude of head and of center of pressure than the other conditions (P &lt; 0.01). In experiment 2, eight subjects stood heel-to-toe under touch and no-touch conditions involving 40-s duration trials of peroneus tendon vibration at different duty cycles: 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-s ON and OFF periods. The vibrator was attached to the subject's leg and remotely activated. In the no-touch conditions, subjects showed periodic postural disruptions contingent on the duty cycle and mirror image rebounds with the offset of vibration. In the touch conditions, subjects were much less disrupted and showed compensations occurring within 500 ms of vibration onset and mirror image rebounds with vibration offset. Subjects were able to suppress almost completely the destabilizing influence of the vibration in the 3- and 4-s duty cycle trials. These experiments show that haptic contact of the hand with a stable surface can suppress abnormal proprioceptive and motor signals in leg muscles.
The presence of both pro-opiomelanocortin-derived peptides and melanocortin (MC) receptors in nociception-associated areas in the spinal cord suggests that, at the spinal level, the MC system might be involved in nociceptive transmission. In the present study, we demonstrate that a chronic constriction injury (CCI) to the rat sciatic nerve, a lesion that produces neuropathic pain, results in changes in the spinal cord MC system, as shown by an increased binding of (125)I-NDP-MSH to the dorsal horn. Furthermore, we investigated whether intrathecal administration (in the cisterna magna) of selective MC receptor ligands can affect the mechanical and cold allodynia associated with the CCI. Mechanical and cold allodynia were assessed by measuring withdrawal responses of the affected limb to von Frey filaments and withdrawal latencies upon immersion in a 4.5 degrees C water bath, respectively. We show that treatment with the MC receptor antagonist SHU9119 has a profound anti-allodynic effect, suggesting that the endogenous MC system has a tonic effect on nociception. In contrast, administration of the MC4 receptor agonists MTII and d-Tyr-MTII primarily increases the sensitivity to mechanical and cold stimulation. No antinociceptive action was observed after administration of the selective MC3 receptor agonist Nle-gamma-MSH. Together, our data suggest that the spinal cord MC system is involved in neuropathic pain and that the effects of MC receptor ligands on the responses to painful stimuli are exerted through the MC4 receptor. In conclusion, antagonism of the spinal melanocortin system might provide a new approach in the treatment of neuropathic pain.
In addition to their involvement in transsynaptic communication in the adult nervous system, neurotransmitters also participate in many developmental events, such as neurite initiation and outgrowth. Although growth cones can release transmitters and are themselves sensitive to exogenously applied neurotransmitters, a direct causal relationship between the release of transmitter from one growth cone and its effect on another has not yet been demonstrated. In this study, we provide evidence that dopamine release from the growth cones of an identified Lymnaea neuron, right pedal dorsal 1 (RPeD1), differentially regulates the growth cone behavior of its in vivo target and nontarget neurons in vitro. In coculture, RPeD1 growth cones enhanced the rate of growth cone advance from target cells and synaptic connections developed immediately after contact. In contrast, RPeD1 growth cones not only inhibited the rate of growth cone advance from nontarget cells but they also induced growth cone collapse. Using a &quot;sniffer cell&quot; approach, we demonstrated that both RPeD1 growth cones and somata released dopamine, which can be detected at a distance of several hundred micrometers. RPeD1 somata were used to demonstrate that spontaneous release of dopamine also acted as a chemoattractant for target growth cones but as a chemorepellent for nontarget growth cones. These effects were mimicked by exogenous dopamine application, and both RPeD1 growth cone and soma-induced effects were also blocked in the presence of dopamine receptor antagonists. This study emphasizes the importance of transmitter-receptor interactions between growth cones in target cell selection.
In lower vertebrates, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) can regenerate their axons and reestablish functional connections after optic nerve injury. We show here that in goldfish RGCs, the effects of several trophic factors converge on a purine-sensitive signaling mechanism that controls axonal outgrowth and the expression of multiple growth-associated proteins. In culture, goldfish RGCs regenerate their axons in response to two molecules secreted by optic nerve glia, axogenesis factor-1 (AF-1) and AF-2, along with ciliary neurotrophic factor. The purine analog 6-thioguanine (6-TG) blocked outgrowth induced by each of these factors. Previous studies in PC12 cells have shown that the effects of 6-TG on neurite outgrowth may be mediated via inhibition of a 47 kDa protein kinase. Growth factor-induced axogenesis in RGCs was accompanied by many of the molecular changes that characterize regenerative growth in vivo, e.g. , increased expression of GAP-43 and certain cell surface glycoproteins. 6-TG inhibited all of these changes but not those associated with axotomy per se, e.g., induction of jun family transcription factors, nor did it affect cell survival. Additional studies using RGCs from transgenic zebrafish showed that expression of Talpha-1 tubulin is likewise stimulated by AF-1 and blocked by 6-TG. The purine nucleoside inosine had effects opposite to those of 6-TG. Inosine stimulated outgrowth and the characteristic pattern of molecular changes in RGCs and competitively reversed the inhibitory effects of 6-TG. We conclude that axon regeneration and the underlying program of gene expression in goldfish RGCs are mediated via a common, purine-sensitive pathway.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP-1), a nuclear enzyme that facilitates DNA repair, may be instrumental in acute neuronal cell death in a variety of insults including, cerebral ischemia, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced parkinsonism, and CNS trauma. Excitotoxicity is thought to underlie these and other toxic models of neuronal death. Different glutamate agonists may trigger different downstream pathways toward neurotoxicity. We examine the role of PARP-1 in NMDA- and non-NMDA-mediated excitotoxicity. NMDA and non-NMDA agonists were stereotactically delivered into the striatum of mice lacking PARP-1 and control mice in acute (48 hr) and chronic (3 week) toxicity paradigms. Mice lacking PARP-1 are highly resistant to the excitoxicity induced by NMDA but are as equally susceptible to AMPA excitotoxicity as wild-type mice. Restoring PARP-1 protein in mice lacking PARP-1 by viral transfection restored susceptibility to NMDA, supporting the requirement of PARP-1 in NMDA neurotoxicity. Furthermore, Western blot analyses demonstrate that PARP-1 is activated after NMDA delivery but not after AMPA administration. Consistent with the theory that nitric oxide (NO) and peroxynitrite are prominent in NMDA-induced neurotoxicity, PARP-1 was not activated in mice lacking the gene for neuronal NO synthase after NMDA administration. These results suggest a selective role of PARP-1 in glutamate excitoxicity, and strategies of inhibiting PARP-1 in NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity may offer substantial acute and chronic neuroprotection.
Birth asphyxia can cause moderate to severe brain injury. It is unclear to what degree apoptotic or necrotic mechanisms of cell death account for damage after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). In a 7-d-old rat HI model, we determined the contributions of apoptosis and necrosis to neuronal injury in adjacent Nissl-stained, hematoxylin and eosin-stained, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated UTP nick end-labeled sections. We found an apoptotic-necrotic continuum in the morphology of injured neurons in all regions examined. Eosinophilic necrotic neurons, typical in adult models, were rarely observed in neonatal HI. Electron microscopic analysis showed &quot;classic&quot; apoptotic and necrotic neurons and &quot;hybrid&quot; cells with intermediate characteristics. The time course of apoptotic injury varied regionally. In CA3, dentate gyrus, medial habenula, and laterodorsal thalamus, the density of apoptotic cells was highest at 24-72 hr after HI and then declined. In contrast, densities remained elevated from 12 hr to 7 d after HI in most cortical areas and in the basal ganglia. Temporal and regional patterns of neuronal death were compared with expression of caspase-3, a cysteine protease involved in the execution phase of apoptosis. Immunocytochemical and Western blot analyses showed increased caspase-3 expression in damaged hemispheres 24 hr to 7 d after HI. A p17 peptide fragment, which results from the proteolytic activation of the caspase-3 precursor, was detected in hippocampus, thalamus, and striatum but not in cerebral cortex. The continued expression of activated caspase-3 and the persistence of cells with an apoptotic morphology for days after HI suggests a prolonged role for apoptosis in neonatal hypoxic ischemic brain injury.
The neurotransmitters at synapses in taste buds are not yet known with confidence. Here we report a new calcium-imaging technique for taste buds that allowed us to test for the presence of glutamate receptors (GluRs) in living isolated tissue preparations. Taste cells of rat foliate papillae were loaded with calcium green dextran (CaGD). Lingual slices containing CaGD-labeled taste cells were imaged with a scanning confocal microscope and superfused with glutamate (30 micromter to 1 mm), kainate (30 and 100 micrometer), AMPA (30 and 100 micrometer), or NMDA (100 micrometer). Responses were observed in 26% of the cells that were tested with 300 micrometer glutamate. Responses to glutamate were localized to the basal processes and cell bodies, which are synaptic regions of taste cells. Glutamate responses were dose-dependent and were induced by concentrations as low as 30 microm. The non-NMDA receptor antagonists CNQX and GYKI 52466 reversibly blocked responses to glutamate. Kainate, but not AMPA, also elicited Ca(2+) responses. NMDA stimulated increases in [Ca(2+)](i) when the bath medium was modified to optimize for NMDA receptor activation. The subset of cells that responded to glutamate was either NMDA-unresponsive (54%) or NMDA-responsive (46%), suggesting that there are presumably two populations of glutamate-sensitive taste cells-one with NMDA receptors and the other without NMDA receptors. The function of GluRs in taste buds is not yet known, but the data suggest that glutamate is a neurotransmitter there. GluRs in taste cells might be presynaptic autoreceptors or postsynaptic receptors at afferent or efferent synapses.
In vertebrates, secretory carrier membrane proteins (SCAMPs) 1-3 constitute a family of putative membrane-trafficking proteins composed of cytoplasmic N-terminal sequences with NPF repeats, four central transmembrane regions (TMRs), and a cytoplasmic tail. SCAMPs probably function in endocytosis by recruiting EH-domain proteins to the N-terminal NPF repeats but may have additional functions mediated by their other sequences. We now demonstrate that SCAMPs form a much larger and more heterogeneous protein family than envisioned previously, with an evolutionary conservation extending to invertebrates and plants. Two novel vertebrate SCAMPs (SCAMPs 4 and 5), single SCAMP genes in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster, and multiple SCAMPs in Arabidopsis thaliana were identified. Interestingly, the novel SCAMPs 4 and 5 lack the N-terminal NPF repeats that are highly conserved in all other SCAMPs. RNA and Western blotting experiments showed that SCAMPs 1-4 are ubiquitously coexpressed, whereas SCAMP 5 is only detectable in brain where it is expressed late in development coincident with the elaboration of mature synapses. Immunocytochemistry revealed that SCAMP 5 exhibits a synaptic localization, and subcellular fractionations demonstrated that SCAMP 5 is highly enriched in synaptic vesicles. Our studies characterize SCAMPs as a heterogeneous family of putative trafficking proteins composed of three isoforms that are primarily synthesized outside of neurons (SCAMPs 2-4), one isoform that is ubiquitously expressed but highly concentrated on synaptic vesicles (SCAMP 1), and one brain-specific isoform primarily localized to synaptic vesicles (SCAMP 5). The conservation of the TMRs in all SCAMPs with the variable presence of N-terminal NPF repeats suggests that in addition to the role of some SCAMPs in endocytosis mediated by their NPF repeats, all SCAMPs perform a &quot;core&quot; function in membrane traffic mediated by their TMRs.
The synaptic localization, clustering, and immobilization of neurotransmitter receptors and ion channels play important roles in synapse formation and synaptic transmission. Although several proteins have been identified that interact with AMPA receptors and that may regulate their synaptic targeting, little is known about the interaction of AMPA receptors with the cytoskeleton. In studies examining the interaction of the AMPA receptor GluR1 subunit with neuronal proteins, we determined that GluR1 interacts with the 4.1G and 4.1N proteins, homologs of the erythrocyte membrane cytoskeletal protein 4.1. Using the yeast two-hybrid system and a heterologous cell system, we demonstrated that both 4.1G and 4.1N bind to a membrane proximal region of the GluR1 C terminus, and that a region within the C-terminal domain of 4.1G or 4.1N is sufficient to mediate the interaction. We also found that 4.1N can associate with GluR1 in vivo and colocalizes with AMPA receptors at excitatory synapses. Disruption of the interaction of GluR1 with 4.1N or disruption of actin filaments decreased the surface expression of GluR1 in heterologous cells. Moreover, disruption of actin filaments in cultured cortical neurons dramatically reduced the level of surface AMPA receptors. These results suggest that protein 4.1N may link AMPA receptors to the actin cytoskeleton.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a key nucleus in the basal ganglia motor circuit that provides the major glutamatergic excitatory input to the basal ganglia output nuclei. The STN plays an important role in normal motor function, as well as in pathological conditions such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and related disorders. Development of a complete understanding of the roles of the STN in motor control and the pathophysiological changes in STN that underlie PD will require a detailed understanding of the mechanisms involved in regulation of excitability of STN neurons. Here, we report that activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) induces a direct excitation of STN neurons that is characterized by depolarization, increased firing frequency, and increased burst-firing activity. In addition, activation of group I mGluRs induces a selective potentiation of NMDA-evoked currents. Immunohistochemical studies at the light and electron microscopic levels indicate that both subtypes of group I mGluRs (mGluR1a and mGluR5) are localized postsynaptically in the dendrites of STN neurons. Interestingly, pharmacological studies suggest that each of the mGluR-mediated effects is attributable to activation of mGluR5, not mGluR1, despite the presence of both subtypes in STN neurons. These results suggest that mGluR5 may play an important role in the net excitatory drive to the STN from glutamatergic afferents. Furthermore, these studies raise the exciting possibility that selective ligands for mGluR5 may provide a novel approach for the treatment of a variety of movement disorders that involve changes in STN activity.
Growth factors, including members of the neurotrophin gene family, play a central role in the regulation of neuronal survival and differentiation during development. In addition to these relatively long-term actions of neurotrophins, recent studies have shown that these factors also rapidly modulate synaptic transmission. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), in particular, regulates both pre- and postsynaptic aspects of hippocampal synaptic transmission. The postsynaptic effects include an increase in glutamate responsiveness, mediated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor subtype. It is not clear, however, where BDNF-trkB signal transduction is initiated, because trkB receptors are located in both pre- and postsynaptic membranes. In the present study, we used excised membrane patches from cultured hippocampal neurons to determine whether BDNF directly modulates postsynaptic NMDA receptor activity. The results indicate that acute exposure to BDNF increases NMDA single channel open probability via postsynaptic trkB receptors and that this effect is dependent on the presence of the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor.

The neuroprotective potential of halothane anesthesia was investigated following unilateral electrolytic lesions to the forelimb representation area of the sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC). Previously, it was found that the FL-SMC lesion increases substantially in size when the intact forelimb is immobilized with a plaster of paris cast for the first 7 days postlesion, which forces extreme overuse of the impaired forelimb during a time when nonlethally damaged tissue is vulnerable to behavioral demand. Initially, the purpose of this study was to investigate whether intracisternal infusion of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF or FGF-2), a potent neurotrophic factor that has been shown to have neuroprotective and plasticity promoting properties in focal stroke and other injury models, could prevent this use-dependent exaggeration of injury. Although intracisternal bFGF (starting 24 h after surgery, twice per week) was not found to produce significant neuroprotective or behavioral effects, the brief exposure to halothane anesthesia (15-20 min) during bFGF or vehicle administration was found to prevent expansion of the lesion size, and to reduce delayed loss of neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr). The data have implications for investigations of the effects of neurotrophic factor in vivo, and other investigations requiring brief, intermittent halothane anesthesia.
A 1967-1999 MEDLINE search of published reports evaluating the role of the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in pain identified 378 animal studies and 132 human studies. There is convincing evidence in these studies that the NMDA receptor mediates prolonged nociceptive behaviors in animal models and various chronic pain symptoms in the clinical population. Administration of older compounds, such as ketamine, dextromethorphan, and amantadine, which are now known to act as NMDA receptor antagonists, have recently been shown to alleviate chronic pain. For years, the pharmaceutical industry has been attempting to produce novel compounds that modulate NMDA receptor activity; however, the adverse effects associated with this class of drugs have prevented their widespread clinical use. Collaborative studies between basic researchers, clinical scientists, and clinicians are needed to delineate characteristics of NMDA receptor antagonism that predict optimal analgesic activity and an acceptable toxicity profile in patients with chronic pain.
To determine the characteristics of the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor subtypes involved in adrenergic regulation of peripheral vascular resistance, contraction of canine subcutaneous resistance arteries was studied using wire myographs. The potencies of agonists and antagonists, chosen for their ability to discriminate between alpha(1)-adrenoceptor subtypes, were assessed in the presence of cocaine (3 microM), corticosterone (30 microM), and propranolol (1 microM). The rank order of agonist potency (pEC(50) +/- S.E.) was (R)-A-61603 (7.88 +/- 0.1) &gt; norepinephrine (6.41 +/- 0.1) &gt; phenylephrine (5.83 +/- 0.1). The high sensitivity to (R)-A-61603 relative to phenylephrine is inconsistent with the presence of the alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor and most consistent with an alpha(1A)-adrenoceptor response. This is supported by the low affinity for the alpha(1D)-selective antagonist BMY 7378 (pK(B) 6.51 +/- 0.47). The low pA(2) values for prazosin (8.36) and HV723 (8.81), by definition, indicate the involvement of the putative alpha(1L)-adrenoceptor, a hypothesis supported by the pA(2) values for WB4101 (8.42) and 5-methyl-urapidil (8.08). Pre-exposure to 1 microM CEC had little effect, whereas 100 microM CEC reduced the maximum contraction but not the sensitivity to norepinephrine. This low sensitivity to CEC argues against the presence of the alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor. We conclude that, by current definitions, an alpha(1A)-/alpha(1L)-adrenoceptor causes contraction of these vessels. This does not support the concept that selectivity for the alpha(1A)-adrenoceptor is the basis for the effectiveness of some alpha-blockers in some tissues, such as prostate, but not in other tissues such as blood vessels. Rather, the generally low potency of alpha-blockers in some tissues may be due to a tissue-specific property of the receptors.
Dual whole-cell recordings were made in layer 2/3 of the rat neocortex in synaptically connected pyramidal cells and fast-spiking non-accommodating (FSN) interneurons. In 75% of cell pairs (n = 80), the cells formed reciprocal synaptic connections. Trains of backpropagating action potentials in pyramidal cells induced Ca2+ transients in dendrites followed by inhibition of unitary IPSPs. IPSP depression was prevented by loading pyramidal cells with 5 mM BAPTA or EGTA. IPSP depression was mimicked by the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist ACPD and was prevented by a mixture of the mGluR antagonists CPCCOEt and EGLU.IPSP depression was prevented by loading pyramidal cells with the antagonists of vesicular exocytosis botulinum toxin D (light chain) and GDP-beta-S. It is concluded that Ca2+-dependent release of a retrograde messenger, most probably glutamate, from pyramidal cell dendrites suppresses the inhibition of pyramidal neurons via activation of mGluRs located in FSN interneuron nerve terminals.
The recognition that the brain continues to generate new neurons well into adulthood has made a marked impact on the field of neuroscience in general and specifically on neurobiological models of the pathogenesis of major depression. Stress, neuroendocrine activation, neurotransmitter systems, and other factors can down-regulate the process of neurogenesis and may contribute to certain morphological changes seen in depression. Evidence is emerging that antidepressant treatments may mitigate these effects by stimulating neurogenesis in particular regions of the brain. This review introduces the reader to recent literature on neurogenesis as it relates to the understanding and treatment of depression.
Human and animal studies suggest that neuropeptide Y (NPY), a peptide co-localized and co-released with classical neurotransmitters, is involved in the pathogenesis of affective disorders. In addition, lithium, electroconvulsive treatments (ECT in humans and ECS in rodents) and antidepressants affect NPY in a specific temporal- and brain-region fashion. These results have been obtained on healthy male rats; females and/or &quot;depressed&quot; animals have essentially not been studied. Consequently, we studied brain NPY-like immunoreactivity (-LI) under basal conditions and following a series of ECS in both male and female Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL), an animal model of depression, and their controls, the Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats. Furthermore, we examined whether the oestrus cycle affects NPY-LI in these strains. Following sacrifice by focused microwave irradiation, the peptides were extracted from dissected brain regions and measured by radioimmunoassay. Hippocampal NPY-LI in both sexes was significantly lower in the &quot;depressed&quot; FSL compared to the control FRL. ECS increased NPY-LI in both male and female rats in both FSL and FRL strains in hippocampus, frontal cortex and occipital cortex. In the hypothalamus, the increase was found only in the FSL rats. In both FSL and control rats, the basal NPY-LI was lower in the hippocampus of female compared to male rats. NPY-LI did not vary during the different phases of the oestrus cycle. These results suggest that the gender differences are not due to NPY-LI variations during the oestrus. The results are consistent with our hypothesis that NPY plays a role in the pathophysiology of depressive disorders and provide further evidence that one of the modes of ECS action is to elevate NPY in the limbic system. Assumption that gender differences in NPY could explain increased rates of depression in women is speculative, but is in line with the findings in the present study.
The inclusion of research diagnostic criteria for premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition, recognizes the fact that some women have extremely distressing emotional and behavioural symptoms premenstrually. PMDD can be differentiated from premenstrual syndrome (PMS), which presents with milder physical symptoms, headache, and more minor mood changes. In addition, PMDD can be differentiated from premenstrual magnification of physical or psychological symptoms of a concurrent psychiatric or medical disorder. As many as 75% of women with regular menstrual cycles experience some symptoms of PMS, according to epidemiologic surveys. PMDD is much less common; it affects only 3% to 8% of women in this group. The etiology of PMDD is largely unknown, but the current consensus is that normal ovarian function (rather than hormone imbalance) is the cyclical trigger for PMDD-related biochemical events within the central nervous system and other target organs. The serotonergic system is in a close reciprocal relation with the gonadal hormones and has been identified as the most plausible target for interventions. Thus, beyond conservative treatment options such as lifestyle and stress management, other non-antidepressant treatments, or the more extreme intervneitons that eliminate ovulation altogether, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are emerging as the most effective treatment option. Results from several randomized, placebo-controlled trials in women with PMDD have clearly demonstrated that SSRIs have excellent efficacy and minimal side effects. More recently, several preliminary studies indicate that intermittent (premenstrual only) treatment with selective SSRIs is equally effective in these women and, thus, may offer an attractive treatment option for a disorder that is itself intermittent.

A newly synthesized agonist for muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors CS-932, (R)-3-(3-iso-xazoloxy)-1-azabicyclo-[2.2.2]octane hydrochloride, showed a relatively higher affinity for M1 than M2 receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-cells in comparison with ACh. CS-932 elevated the intracellular Ca2+ level only in M1-CHO cells, although ACh increased the level in both M1- and M3-CHO cells. CS-932 and ACh reduced forskolin-stimulated accumulation of cAMP in M2-CHO cells by 20% and 80%, respectively. This neurochemical profile of CS-932 indicates that the compound can activate M1-receptor-mediated functions selectively. CS-932 increased firing of cholinoceptive neurons in rat hippocampal slices, and this excitation was antagonized by pirenzepine, but not by AF-DX 116. CS-932 increased awake and decreased slow wave sleep episodes of daytime EEG in free-moving rats. It counteracted scopolamine-induced slow waves in rat cortical EEG. CS-932 also increased the power of alpha- and beta-waves, but decreased delta-wave of the cortical EEG in anesthetized monkeys. It ameliorated scopolamine-induced impairment of working memory in rats. Orally administered CS-932 had the best penetration into the brain among the muscarinic agonists tested and caused the least salivary secretion among the cholinomimetics examined. These results indicate that CS-932 has potential as a cognitive enhancer with fewer side effects in therapy for Alzheimer disease.

Monkeys with lesions of perirhinal cortex (PR group) and monkeys with lesions of inferotemporal cortical area TE (TE group) were tested on a modified version of the delayed nonmatching to sample (DNMS) task that included very short delay intervals (0.5 sec) as well as longer delay intervals (1 min and 10 min). Lesions of the perirhinal cortex and lesions of area TE produced different patterns of impairment. The PR group learned the DNMS task as quickly as normal monkeys (N) when the delay between sample and choice was very short (0.5 sec). However, performance of the PR group, unlike that of the N group, fell to chance levels when the delay between sample and choice was lengthened to 10 min. In contrast to the PR group, the TE group was markedly impaired on the DNMS task even at the 0.5-sec delay, and three of four monkeys with TE lesions failed to acquire the task. The results provide support for the idea that perirhinal cortex is important not for perceptual processing, but for the formation and maintenance of long-term memory. Area TE is important for the perceptual processing of visual stimuli.




HNK-1 epitope is a cell-surface carbohydrate mediating various cell-cell or cell-substrate interactions. We found HNK-1 epitope in longitudinally arrayed fibers in the subpopulation of the epaxial myotome, and hypaxial myoblasts migrating into the limb bud in the rat embryo. We next investigated the expression patterns of genes encoding two glucuronyltransferases (GlcAT-P, GlcAT-D) and sulfotransferase (Sul-T), which are required for biosynthesis of HNK-1 epitope. GlcAT-P gene was expressed in the non-migrating longitudinal fibers, whereas GlcAT-D gene was expressed in the migrating myoblasts in the limb bud. Sul-T gene expression was ubiquitously observed in all these myogenic populations. Thus, differential expression of GlcAT genes may relate to the epaxial/hypaxial or migrating/non-migrating myoblast lineages.
The human brainstem is a highly complex structure where even small lesions can give rise to a variety of symptoms and outward signs. Localising the area of dysfunction within the brainstem is often a difficult task. To make localisation easier, a neural net system has been developed which uses 72 clinical and neurophysiological data inputs to provide a display (using 5268 voxels) on a three-dimensional model of the human brainstem. The net was trained by means of a back-propagation algorithm, over a pool of 580 example cases. Assessed on 200 test cases, the net correctly localised 83.6% of the target voxels; furthermore the net correctly localised the lesions in 31 out of 37 patients. Because this computer-assisted method provides reliable and quantitative localisation of brainstem areas of dysfunction and can be used as a 3D interactive functional atlas, it is expected to prove useful as a diagnostic tool for assessing focal brainstem lesions.
The overwhelming advances of the last few years in the field of nucleic acid-based technologies laid the basis for the development of this new technology as a frontier method not only to combat diseases and infections but also to study gene function. The development of antisense strategies has generated considerable expectations in the neurosciences and, in particular, behavioral neurobiology. Antisense application in the brain has become a technology with tremendous impact, especially for determining the molecular pathways and substrates of behavior of an organism controlled by independent stimuli. The antisense agents, either oligodeoxynucleotides or ribozymes, interfere in the genetic flow of information from DNA via RNA to protein. According to the literature it seems clear that appropriately modified antisense compounds successfully and stably bind to their target ribonucleic acid molecules. This antisense binding leads to a decrease in the corresponding protein levels. If the targeted protein exerts detrimental effects on the cell or tissue, its reduction should be beneficial from a therapeutic point of view. If the investigator wants to study the function of a specific gene product the selective and transient downregulation of the corresponding target protein will help in functional analysis. In the following article I describe the chemical nature of the antisense oligodeoxynucleotides and some of the most commonly used derivatives and give some guidelines on antisense construction and application. The possible mode of action is discussed, as is expansion of the oligonucleotide-based application to ribozyme-mediated gene inhibition. Finally, problems that may be encountered during antisense application are discussed.
Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides have been highly successful agents at modulating gene expression in the adult brain and widely exploited in the field of neuroendocrinology. We have also used this technique in the developing brain to explore the role of select proteins during sensitive periods of development, particularly those influenced by steroid hormones. Presented here are the technical details of using antisense oligodeoxynucleotides in the neonatal brain, as well as a review of some of our successes and failures. Our goal is to illustrate the relative ease of use of this technique in neonates and demonstrate the power such an approach offers so that other investigators will also begin to take advantage of this useful tool.
There is evidence that beta-amyloid (A beta) peptide infusion in vivo produces a degranulation of vascular mast cells. It would be useful to investigate the interaction between A beta and mast cells in a simple in vitro model system in order to determine the cellular mechanism by which exposure to A beta peptides results in mast cell degranulation. In the present study, the effect of A beta(1-42) upon the release of granular hexosaminidase and serotonin has been investigated using the cognate rat mast cell line, RBL-2H3. Sensitization of these cells for 1 h with anti-DNP IgE (monoclonal anti-dinitrophenyl) results in a large release of hexosaminidase and serotonin due to degranulation when the cells are exposed to DNP-HSA (albumin, human dinitrophenyl). Pretreatment overnight with A beta(1-42) (10 and 30 microM) did not affect either the basal or antigen-stimulated release of hexosaminidase or serotonin. A similar lack of effect of A beta(25-35) and the lipid peroxidation product HNE upon antigen-stimulated release of hexosaminidase or serotonin was also found. It is concluded that RBL-2H3 cells are not a useful model for mechanistic studies into the effects of beta-amyloid peptides upon vascular mast cells.
Sequential proteolytic processing of the Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) by beta- and gamma-secretases generates the 4-kDa amyloid (A beta) peptide, a key component of the amyloid plaques seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We and others have recently reported the identification and characterisation of an aspartic proteinase, Asp2 (BACE), as beta-secretase. Here we describe the characterization of a second highly related aspartic proteinase, Asp1 as a second beta-secretase candidate. Asp1 is expressed in brain as detected at the mRNA level and at the protein level. Transient expression of Asp1 in APP-expressing cells results in an increase in the level of beta-secretase-derived soluble APP and the corresponding carboxy-terminal fragment. Paradoxically there is a decrease in the level of soluble A beta secreted from the cells. Asp1 colocalizes with APP in the Golgi/endoplasmic reticulum compartments of cultured cells. Asp1, when expressed as an Fc fusion protein (Asp1-Fc), has the N-terminal sequence ALEP..., indicating that it has lost the prodomain. Asp1-Fc exhibits beta-secretase activity by cleaving both wild-type and Swedish variant (KM/NL) APP peptides at the beta-secretase site.
To identify genes involved in axon regeneration, differential screening was applied to RNA isolated from spinal cord of mice subjected to sciatic nerve transection or crush injury. A 4-kb transcript, termed nna1, was identified that was rapidly induced in affected motor neurons in both paradigms. The levels of nna1 transcript levels declined in motor neurons within 1-2 weeks after nerve crush, coincident with target reinnervation. If reinnervation was blocked by nerve cut and ligation, nna1 was continuously expressed in motor neurons. In addition, in situ analysis of developing embryonic nervous tissue showed nna1 was highly expressed in differentiating neurons, but not proliferating populations. Nna1 is predicted to be a zinc carboxypeptidase that contains nuclear localization signals and an ATP/GTP binding motif. Cultured neurons transfected with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-nna1 expressed GFP-Nna1 in cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments. Thus, Nna1 may contribute to nuclear signaling events in differentiating and regenerating neurons.
X11 alpha and X11 beta are two neuronal adaptor proteins that interact with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP). X11 alpha and X11 beta stabilise APP and inhibit production of proteolytic APP fragments including the A beta peptide that is deposited in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. The mechanisms by which X11 alpha and X11 beta modulate APP processing are not clear but one possibility is that they influence the activity of the secretases that cleave APP to give rise to A beta. Presenilin-1 is required for gamma-secretase activity and here we demonstrate that both X11 alpha and X11 beta interact with presenilin-1. X11/presenilin-1 binding is via two X11 PDZ domains and sequences within the carboxy-terminus of presenilin-1. We also demonstrate that both X11 alpha and X11 beta mediate the formation of complexes between APP and presenilin-1. These results suggest that the X11 regulation of APP processing is controlled, at least in part, via their interactions with APP and presenilin-1.
In the present study, the effects on intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) oscillations of the blockade of ether-a-go-go-related gene (ERG) K(+) channels and of Ca(2+) influx through store-operated channels (SOC) activated by [Ca(2+)](i) store depletion have been studied in GH(3) cells by means of a combination of single-cell fura-2 microfluorimetry and whole-cell mode of the patch-clamp technique. Nanomolar concentrations (1-30 nM) of the piperidinic second-generation antihistamines terfenadine and astemizole and of the class III antiarrhythmic methanesulfonanilide dofetilide, by blocking ERG K(+) channels, increased the frequency and the amplitude of [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in resting oscillating GH(3) cells. These compounds also induced the appearance of an oscillatory pattern of [Ca(2+)](i) in a subpopulation of nonoscillating GH(3) cells. The effects of ERG K(+) channel blockade on [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations appeared to be due to the activation of L-type Ca(2+) channels, because they were prevented by 300 nM nimodipine. By contrast, the piperazinic second-generation antihistamine cetirizine (0.01-30 microM), which served as a negative control, failed to affect ERG K(+) channels and did not interfere with [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in GH(3) cells. Interestingly, micromolar concentrations of terfenadine and astemizole (0.3-30 microM), but not of dofetilide (10-100 microM), produced an inhibition of the spontaneous oscillatory pattern of [Ca(2+)](i) changes. This effect was possibly related to an inhibition of SOC, because these compounds inhibited the increase of [Ca(2+)](i) achieved by extracellular calcium reintroduction after intracellular calcium store depletion with the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase pump inhibitor thapsigargin (10 microM) in an extracellular calcium-free medium. The same inhibitory effect on [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations and SOC was observed with the first-generation antihistamine hydroxyzine (1-30 microM), the more hydrophobic metabolic precursor of cetirizine. Collectively, the results of the present study obtained with compounds that interfere in a different concentration range with ERG K(+) channels or SOC suggest that 1) ERG K(+) channels play a relevant role in controlling the oscillatory pattern of [Ca(2+)](i) in resting GH(3) cells and 2) the inhibition of SOC might induce an opposite effect, i.e., an inhibition of [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations.

Although mood disorders have traditionally been regarded as good prognosis diseases, a growing body of data suggests that the long-term outcome for many patients is often much less favorable than previously thought. Recent morphometric studies have been investigating potential structural brain changes in mood disorders, and there is now evidence from a variety of sources demonstrating significant reductions in regional CNS volume, as well as regional reductions in the numbers and/or sizes of glia and neurons. Furthermore, results from recent clinical and preclinical studies investigating the molecular and cellular targets of mood stabilizers and antidepressants suggest that a reconceptualization about the pathophysiology and optimal long-term treatment of recurrent mood disorders may be warranted. It is proposed that impairments of neuroplasticity and cellular resilience may underlie the pathophysiology of mood disorders, and further that optimal long-term treatment for these severe illnesses may only be achieved by the early and aggressive use of agents with neurotrophic/neuroprotective effects. It is noteworthy that lithium, valproate and antidepressants indirectly regulate a number of factors involved in cell survival pathways including CREB, BDNF, bcl-2 and MAP kinases, and may thus bring about some of their delayed long-term beneficial effects via underappreciated neurotrophic effects. The development of novel treatments which more directly target molecules involved in critical CNS cell survival and cell death pathways have the potential to enhance neuroplasticity and cellular resilience, and thereby modulate the long-term course and trajectory of these devastating illnesses.

Drug addiction, like all psychiatric disorders, is defined solely in behavioural terms. For example, addiction can be considered a loss of control over drug-taking, or compulsive drug-seeking and -taking despite horrendous consequences. Abnormal behaviours are a consequence of aberrant brain function, which means that it is a tangible goal to identify the biological underpinnings of addiction. The genetic basis of addiction encompasses two broad areas of enquiry. One of these is the identification of genetic variation in humans that partly determines susceptibility to addiction. The other is the use of animal models to investigate the role of specific genes in mediating the development of addiction. Whereas recent advances in this latter effort are heartening, a major challenge remains: to understand how the many genes implicated in rodent models interact to yield as complex a phenotype as addiction.

Selective attention involves the differential processing of different stimuli, and has widespread psychological and neural consequences. Although computational modeling should offer a powerful way of linking observable phenomena at different levels, most work has focused on the relatively narrow issue of constraints on processing resources. By contrast, we consider statistical and informational aspects of selective attention, divorced from resource constraints, which are evident in animal conditioning experiments involving uncertain predictions and unreliable stimuli. Neuromodulatory systems and limbic structures are known to underlie attentional effects in such tasks.
Unifying principles of movement have emerged from the computational study of motor control. We review several of these principles and show how they apply to processes such as motor planning, control, estimation, prediction and learning. Our goal is to demonstrate how specific models emerging from the computational approach provide a theoretical framework for movement neuroscience.
Understanding how biological visual systems recognize objects is one of the ultimate goals in computational neuroscience. From the computational viewpoint of learning, different recognition tasks, such as categorization and identification, are similar, representing different trade-offs between specificity and invariance. Thus, the different tasks do not require different classes of models. We briefly review some recent trends in computational vision and then focus on feedforward, view-based models that are supported by psychophysical and physiological data.

A moving grating elicits innate optomotor behavior in zebrafish larvae; they swim in the direction of perceived motion. We took advantage of this behavior, using computer-animated displays, to determine what attributes of motion are extracted by the fish visual system. As in humans, first-order (luminance-defined or Fourier) signals dominated motion perception in fish; edges or other features had little or no effect when presented with these signals. Humans can see complex movements that lack first-order cues, an ability that is usually ascribed to higher-level processing in the visual cortex. Here we show that second-order (non-Fourier) motion displays induced optomotor behavior in zebrafish larvae, which do not have a cortex. We suggest that second-order motion is extracted early in the lower vertebrate visual pathway.
Dendritic localization of the alpha subunit of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (alphaCaMKII) mRNA in CNS neurons requires its 3' untranslated region (3'UTR). We investigated this targeting mechanism by identifying two cis-acting elements in the 3'UTR. One is a 30-nucleotide element that mediated dendritic translocation. A homologous sequence in the 3'UTR of neurogranin, transcripts of which also reside in dendrites, also funtioned in cis to promote its dendritic transport. Other putative elements in the alphaCaMKII mRNA inhibit its transport in a resting state. This inhibition was removed in depolarized neurons, and such activity-dependent derepression was a primary requirement for their dendritic targeting.
Many attempts to obtain reliable self-administration behavior by laboratory animals with delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, have been unsuccessful. Because self-administration behavior has been demonstrated in laboratory animals for almost all other psychoactive drugs abused by humans, as well as for nicotine, the psychoactive ingredient in tobacco, these studies would seem to indicate that marijuana has less potential for abuse. Here we show persistent intravenous self-administration behavior by monkeys for doses of THC lower than doses used in previous studies, but comparable to doses in marijuana smoke inhaled by humans.

Efforts to observe the slow axonal transport of cytoskeletal polymers during the past decade have yielded conflicting results, and this has generated considerable controversy. The movement of neurofilaments has now been seen, and it is rapid, infrequent and highly asynchronous. This motile behaviour could explain why slow axonal transport has eluded observation for so long.
Neuronal death underlies the symptoms of many human neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases, stroke, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The identification of specific genetic and environmental factors responsible for these diseases has bolstered evidence for a shared pathway of neuronal death--apoptosis--involving oxidative stress, perturbed calcium homeostasis, mitochondrial dysfunction and activation of cysteine proteases called caspases. These death cascades are counteracted by survival signals, which suppress oxyradicals and stabilize calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial function. With the identification of mechanisms that either promote or prevent neuronal apoptosis come new approaches for preventing and treating neurodegenerative disorders.
Psychophysical and physiological studies have shown that attending to a stimulus can enhance its sensory processing. Functional imaging studies now reveal that attention can also modulate activity in sensory brain areas before stimulus onset, when the observer prepares to attend to an anticipated stimulus. These preparatory 'baseline shifts' in brain activity pose many new questions, and potentially offer new insights into the neural basis of perceptual awareness.
Dynamic regulation of synaptic efficacy is one of the mechanisms thought to underlie learning and memory. Many of the observed changes in efficacy, such as long-term potentiation and long-term depression, result from the functional alteration of excitatory neurotransmission mediated by postsynaptic glutamate receptors. These changes may result from the modulation of the receptors themselves and from regulation of protein networks associated with glutamate receptors. Understanding the interactions in this synaptic complex will yield invaluable insight into the molecular basis of synaptic function. This review focuses on the molecular organization of excitatory synapses and the processes involved in the dynamic regulation of glutamate receptors.
Recent evidence suggests that electrical coupling plays a role in generating oscillatory behaviour in networks of neurons; however, the underlying mechanisms have not been identified. Using a cellular automata model proposed by Traub et al (Traub R D, Schmitz D, Jefferys J G and Draguhn A 1999 High-frequency population oscillations are predicted to occur in hippocampal pyramidal neural networks interconnected by axo-axonal gap junctions Neuroscience 92 407-26), we describe a novel mechanism for self-organized oscillations in networks that have strong, sparse random electrical coupling via gap junctions. The network activity is generated by random spontaneous activity that is moulded into regular population oscillations by the propagation of activity through the network. We explain how this activity gives rise to particular dependences of mean oscillation frequency on network connectivity parameters and on the rate of spontaneous activity, and we derive analytical expressions to approximate the mean frequency and variance of the oscillations. In doing so, we provide insight into possible mechanisms for frequency control and modulation in networks of neurons.
Excitotoxic stress is potentially an important component of disorders such as stroke and neurodegenerative diseases. Its toxic effects appear to be transduced through mechanisms that result in both acute and delayed forms of death. We examined here whether cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs), molecules normally associated with cell cycle control, may be involved in delayed excitotoxic death in two different excitotoxin models. We show that nuclear localized cyclin D1, an activator of Cdk4/6, is upregulated during kainic acid evoked death of CA3/CA1 neurons and that this upregulation is associated with increased phosphorylation of a critical CDK substrate, pRb. In addition, we find that the CDK inhibitor, flavopiridol blocks the delayed death of cultured cortical neurons evoked by 3-nitroproprionic acid, an inhibitor of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, treatment and that the NMDA antagonist, MK801 provides short term protection in this model. Full, long-term protection occurs when both flavopiridol and MK-801 are present. Taken together, these data support a role for cell cycle regulators in neuronal death evoked by excitotoxic stress and indicate a potential therapeutic target for treatment of excitotoxicity-related disorders.
Neurons compute in part by integrating, on a time scale of milliseconds, many synaptic inputs and generating a digital output-the &quot;action potential&quot; of classic electrophysiology. Recent discoveries indicate that neurons also perform a second, much slower, integration operating on a time scale of minutes or even hours. The output of this slower integration involves a pulse of gene expression which may be likened to the electrophysiological action potential. Its function, however, is not directed toward immediate transmission of a synaptic signal but rather toward the experience-dependent modification of the underlying synaptic circuitry. Commonly termed the &quot;immediate early gene&quot; (IEG) response, this phenomenon is often assumed to be a necessary component of a linear, deterministic cascade of memory consolidation. Critical review of the large literature describing the phenomenon, however, leads to an alternative model of IEG function in the brain. In this alternative, IEG activation is not directed at the consolidation of memories of a specific inducing event; instead, it sets the overall gain or efficiency of memory formation and directs it to circuits engaged by behaviorally significant contexts. The net result is a sharpening of the selectivity of memory formation, a recruitment of temporally correlated associations, and an ultimate enhancement of long-term memory retrieval.
We show that a single presentation of a zebra finch song, 2 s in duration, will induce an &quot;immediate-early gene&quot; response in the caudomedial neostriatum of zebra finches (Poephila guttata). Repetition of this stimulus 10 times is sufficient to induce a maximal increase in RNA and protein, detected 30 and 90 min later respectively. Thus very brief stimuli can set in motion a slow genomic process in the brain which takes hours to resolve. Immediate-early gene function is often considered in the context of a &quot;feedback&quot; model (i.e., to consolidate memories of the inducing event). However, based on the long lag observed here between initiation and full expression of the molecular response, we suggest an alternative, ethologically based, &quot;feed-forward&quot; model in which exposure to a novel or significant context triggers an increase in the efficiency of memory capture processes for subsequent experiences.
Chronic ethanol treatment is known to alter gene expression and function of gamma-aminobutyric acid type-A (GABA(A)) receptors. Here we focus on the beta(2) subunit which is widely expressed in the mammalian brain, and plays a key role in the GABA binding site. Previous studies using rodent models of ethanol dependence show either increased or no change of beta(2) subunit mRNA and peptide content following chronic ethanol administration. In humans, polymorphism at the beta(2) subunit is associated with ethanol dependence in some, but not all, populations. In the present study we measured mRNA content in the cerebellum and cerebral cortex using ethanol-naive and ethanol-dependent DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice. The DBA/2J strain displays severe ethanol withdrawal severity, while the C57BL/6J strain shows milder withdrawal reactions. RNase protection analysis demonstrated that the DBA/2J strain is more sensitive to ethanol-induced increases in beta(2) subunit mRNA content in the cerebellum, showing significant increases at lower blood ethanol concentrations than C57BL/6J mice. The ethanol-induced regulation in C57BL/6J mice appears to be more complex, with decreases in beta(2) subunit mRNA content at low blood ethanol concentrations, and increases at higher concentrations. These data suggest that differences between C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice in the degree of physical dependence (withdrawal) on ethanol may be related to differential sensitivity to ethanol regulation of beta(2) subunit expression.
Thirty two patients with refractory central and neuropathic pain of peripheral origin were treated by chronic stimulation of the motor cortex between May 1993 and January 1997. The mean follow-up was 27. 3 months. The first 24 patients were operated according to the technique described by Tsubokawa. The last 13 cases (8 new patients and 5 reinterventions) were operated by a technique including localization by superficial CT reconstruction of the central region and neuronavigator guidance. The position of the central sulcus was confirmed by the use of intraoperative somatosensory evoked potentials. The somatotopic organisation of the motor cortex was established peroperatively by studying the motor responses at stimulation of the motor cortex through the dura. Ten of the 13 patients with central pain (77%) and nine of the 12 patients with neuropathic facial pain had experienced substantial pain relief (75%). One of the 3 patients with post-paraplegia pain was clearly improved. A satisfactory result was obtained in one patient with pain related to plexus avulsion and in one patient with pain related to intercostal herpes zoster. None of the patients developed epileptic seizures. The position of the stimulating poles effective on pain corresponded to the somatotopic representation of the motor cortex. The neuronavigator localization and guidance technique proved to be most useful identifying the appropriate portion of the motor gyrus. It also allowed the establishment of reliable correlations between electrophysiological-clinical and anatomical data which may be used to improve the clinical results and possibly to extend the indications of this technique.
Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4) phenotype is a known risk factor for development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Contradictory results exist concerning the role of ApoE4 in the rate of decline and mortality in AD. Conflicting findings have also been reported about ApoE and gender interactions with respect to survival. We examined the survival of subjects with AD and non-AD controls with respect to ApoE phenotype and gender in a population-based longitudinal study. Cognitive evaluation was performed for a total of 980 subjects (then aged 69-78 years), and 48 cases with AD were identified. ApoE4 phenotype was more frequently present among subjects with AD. In the whole study population, survival was not related to the presence of AD or ApoE4 phenotype. Risk of death was increased for men compared to women, independently of the ApoE4 phenotype (HR 0.5, 95% confidence interval 0.44-0.69). In subjects with AD, the presence of ApoE4 alone did not influence survival. However, in the AD group, ApoE4-negative men had significantly increased risk of mortality compared to the risk in ApoE4-negative women (p &lt; 0.01). We conclude that the presence of ApoE4 phenotype or AD did not influence mortality in the aged population. Once AD had become manifest, ApoE4 alone did not relate to survival. However, in subjects with AD not carrying ApoE4, men had reduced survival compared to women.
Gadolinium (Gd)-enhanced MR imaging has greatly improved the understanding of the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis (MS) and has provided robust outcome measures for monitoring MS activity. Modest correlation between the presence and extent of enhancement and the evolution of MS probably owes to the limited sensitivity and specificity of conventional Gd-enhanced MRI. Triple dose of Gd may enable better assessment of the presence and extent of &quot;low-grade&quot; MS inflammation. Cell-specific imaging techniques and multiparametric MR imaging studies should increase understanding of the pathologic steps between inflammation and irreversible tissue loss, and consequently, better define the mechanisms leading to irreversible neurological disability in MS. Clinical applications of Gd-enhanced MR imaging should include the diagnostic work-up of MS patients, and the assessment of their disease activity over time, in the context of natural history studies or clinical trials. Gd-enhanced MR imaging should always be obtained at presentation in patients with clinically isolated neurological syndromes, because of its ability to show the time dissemination of lesions, and its high predictive value for subsequent evolution to clinically definite MS. In patients with established MS, however, the usefulness of Gd-enhanced MR imaging should depend strictly on specific clinical settings or research questions.
The study of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has had more than its share of controversy. In the last few years, however, considerable consensus has been developed that certain molecular events in the brain occur many years or decades before clinical symptoms, and a rough outline of the pathogenic cascade has emerged from the studies of many investigators. Progress in two broad areas has led to this consensus: molecular genetics and biochemical pathology. In this article, the exciting new understanding of the pathogenesis of AD is reviewed and its affect on the patient population is discussed.
This article reviews the rationale and provides a progress update regarding the major treatment strategies being developed for the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Various therapeutic areas are discussed, including acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and other cholinergic agents, antioxidants, anti-inflammatory drugs, hormone replacement therapy, antiamyloid treatment, and neurotrophic agents.
Transfer of neuronal patterns from the CA3 to CA1 region was studied by simultaneous recording of neuronal ensembles in the behaving rat. A nonlinear interaction among pyramidal neurons was observed during sharp wave (SPW)-related population bursts, with stronger synchrony associated with more widespread spatial coherence. SPW bursts emerged in the CA3a-b subregions and spread to CA3c before invading the CA1 area. Synchronous discharge of &gt;10% of the CA3 within a 100 ms window was required to exert a detectable influence on CA1 pyramidal cells. Activity of some CA3 pyramidal neurons differentially predicted the ripple-related discharge of circumscribed groups of CA1 pyramidal cells. We suggest that, in SPW behavioral state, the coherent discharge of a small group of CA3 cells is the primary cause of spiking activity in CA1 pyramidal neurons.
Experience-dependent regulation of synaptic strength has been suggested as a physiological mechanism by which memory storage occurs in the brain. Although modifications in postsynaptic glutamate receptor levels have long been hypothesized to be a molecular basis for long-lasting regulation of synaptic strength, direct evidence obtained in the intact brain has been lacking. Here we show that in the adult brain in vivo, synaptic glutamate receptor trafficking is bidirectionally, and reversibly, modified by NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity and that changes in glutamate receptor protein levels accurately predict changes in synaptic strength. These findings support the idea that memories can be encoded by the precise experience-dependent assignment of glutamate receptors to synapses in the brain.
Cerebellar LTD requires activation of PKC and is expressed, at least in part, as postsynaptic AMPA receptor internalization. Recently, it was shown that AMPA receptor internalization requires clathrin-mediated endocytosis and depends upon the carboxy-terminal region of GluR2/3. Phosphorylation of Ser-880 in this region by PKC differentially regulates the binding of the PDZ domain-containing proteins GRIP/ABP and PICK1. Peptides, corresponding to the phosphorylated and dephosphorylated GluR2 carboxy-terminal PDZ binding motif, were perfused in cerebellar Purkinje cells grown in culture. Both the dephospho form (which blocks binding of GRIP/ABP and PICK1) and the phospho form (which selectively blocks PICK1) attenuated LTD induction by glutamate/depolarization pairing, as did antibodies directed against the PDZ domain of PICK1. These findings indicate that expression of cerebellar LTD requires PKC-regulated interactions between the carboxy-terminal of GluR2/3 and PDZ domain-containing proteins.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) generates the beta-amyloid peptide, postulated to participate in the neurotoxicity of Alzheimer's disease. We report that APP and APLP bind to heme oxygenase (HO), an enzyme whose product, bilirubin, is antioxidant and neuroprotective. The binding of APP inhibits HO activity, and APP with mutations linked to the familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) provides substantially greater inhibition of HO activity than wild-type APP. Cortical cultures from transgenic mice expressing Swedish mutant APP have greatly reduced bilirubin levels, establishing that mutant APP inhibits HO activity in vivo. Oxidative neurotoxicity is markedly greater in cerebral cortical cultures from APP Swedish mutant transgenic mice than wild-type cultures. These findings indicate that augmented neurotoxicity caused by APP-HO interactions may contribute to neuronal cell death in Alzheimer's disease.
Sensory axons extend from the chick olfactory epithelium to the telencephalon well before the maturation of their target, the olfactory bulb. During a waiting period of several days, olfactory axons arrive and accumulate outside the CNS while the bulb differentiates beneath them. Semephorin-3A is expressed in the tel-encephalon during this period and has been proposed to prevent their entry into the CNS. We show that the misexpression of a dominant-negative neuropilin-1 that blocks SEMA-3A-mediated signaling in olfactory sensory axons induces many of them to enter the tel-encephalon prematurely and to overshoot the olfactory bulb. These results suggest that chemorepellents can prevent the premature innervation of immature targets.
In the olfactory pathway, as in the limbs, branchial arches, and heart, mesenchymal/epithelial induction, mediated by retinoic acid (RA), FGF8, sonic hedgehog (shh), and the BMPs, defines patterning, morphogenesis, and differentiation. Neuronal differentiation in the olfactory epithelium and directed growth of axons in the nascent olfactory nerve depend critically upon this inductive interaction. When RA, FGF8, shh, or BMP signaling is disrupted, distinct aspects of olfactory pathway patterning and differentiation are compromised. Thus, a cellular and molecular mechanism that facilitates musculoskeletal and vascular development elsewhere in the embryo has been adapted to guide the differentiation of the olfactory pathway in the developing forebrain.


The aim of the present study was to test the possibility that the catecholaminergic projectional pathway from the vagus nerve to the medullary visceral zone (MVZ) thence to the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus (PVN) was involved in the cytokine-to-brain communication. A triple labeling method in which WGA-HRP retrograde tracing was combined with anti-Fos and -TH immunohistochemical staining was used. WGA-HRP was stereotaxically injected into unilateral PVN in the rat, after a survival of 48 h, animals received intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The distribution of the HRP retrogradely labeled neurons, Fos protein positive and catecholaminergic neurons (tyrosine hydroxylase as marker) in the MVZ was observed. Subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (SDV) and sham surgery were also used to observe the different Fos expression in the MVZ after intraperitoneal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or pyrogen-free saline (NS). Under light microscope, seven types of positively stained neurons could be distinguished within the MVZ, namely neurons single-labeled with Fos, HRP or TH, respectively; neurons double-labeled with Fos/TH, Fos/HRP or HRP/TH separately; and neurons triple-labeled with Fos, HRP and TH staining. Intraperitoneal LPS caused lots of robust Fos expression within the MVZ in the sham surgery groups and this response in the MVZ was markedly inhibited in the vagotomized rats. The results suggested that some catecholaminergic neurons in the MVZ could send projections to the PVN and this pathway might be involved in the relay of peripheral immune information via vagus nerve. MVZ was a neural relay station in the immune-to-brain communication and might play a significant role in the neuroimmunomodulation via vagus-MVZ-PVN pathway.

It has recently been reported in alpha-chloralose anesthetized rats that the hemodynamic response to somatosensory stimulation almost doubled following transient hypercapnia (THC). In principle, this effect could be employed to enhance the sensitivity of perfusion-based fMRI experiments. To investigate whether a comparable effect was detectable in awake normal humans, changes in cerebral blood flow (DeltaCBF) and the effective transverse relaxation time (DeltaT(2)*) induced by a visual search task were measured in 10 healthy volunteers before and after THC. Concerning DeltaT(2)* no significant differences were found, whereas in four subjects DeltaCBF was significantly decreased (p &lt; 0.01) following THC. These results demonstrate no increase in the CBF response following THC for awake humans. We conclude that the most likely explanation for this discrepancy with the earlier results obtained with animals is an as yet unknown mechanism of modulation of the cholinergic system by the anesthesia.
The aim of this work was to study and correct the influence of varying coil load and local B(1) field in single volume MR spectroscopy. A simple, precise, and user-independent way to adjust the transmitter gain has been developed and validated. It is based on a fit of the localized signal to flip angle variation around 90 degrees. This method proved to be robust against B(1) gradients and suitable for in vivo applications. Local B(1) correction was combined with an external reference and decomposition of the volume into CSF and tissue to obtain a comprehensive absolute quantification of tissue water content and metabolite concentrations in human brain. STEAM localized spectra of parietal and insular gray matter and subparietal white matter (n = 11, TE = 30 ms) were analyzed using a linear combination of model spectra (LCModel). Coefficients of variation (CV) between 1.5% and 4% were obtained for the tissue water content (1-2% in a single subject). The CVs of major metabolite concentrations (4-21%) were dominated by the errors of the spectral analysis. The largest B(1) variation in the in vivo experiments (range 30%) was due to changes in coil load. Differences in regional sensitivity due to B(1) inhomogeneity (parietal: 8% and 9%; insular: 16%) were found to be the second largest source of variation. Correction for local B(1) improved standard deviations and intra-subject reproducibility. On average, sensitivity was 9% less in insular than in parietal gray matter. If ignored, significant differences were introduced for water and N-acetyl-aspartate or were obscured for creatine and cholines. Hence, local sensitivity correction proved to be necessary for regional comparison of absolute metabolite concentrations.
Herpes simplex virus-thymidine kinase/ganciclovir (HSV-TK/GCV) therapy was performed in five cases of recurrent glioblastoma multiforme. In the last study, the authors demonstrated response of the HSV-TK/GCV therapy against tumor progression (Adachi N, et al.: No Shinkei Geka). The aim of this study is to estimate the biosafety of in vivo HSV-TK gene transfer and GCV administration in five cases. Six parameters were analyzed sequentially up to the 6th month after the vector producer cells (VPCs) inoculation as follows; i) clinical symptom, ii) vital sign, iii) peripheral blood cell count, iv) blood biochemical analysis, v) serological test, vi) molecular biological test in peripheral leukocytes. In addition, ten systemic organs extracted from the two subjects in whom death occurred were also analyzed biologically. One case suffered from transient deterioration of left hemiparesis on the 34th day, which could be considered a probably-related but not adverse event. Serological tests detected anti-VPC antibody at the 1st month in one case and anti-vector antibody at the 1st and 4th month in another. The other examinations revealed no abnormal findings at all. These data indicate that the HSV-TK/GCV therapy might be a satisfactorily safe approach against glioblastoma multiforme.
The dopamine D(4) receptor (D(4)R) is expressed in low density in various extrastriatal brain regions. This receptor subtype is discussed in relation to the pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia but no selective positron emission tomography (PET) ligand is available to date to study the distribution in vivo. The arylpiperazine derivative N-[2-[4-(4-chlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]ethyl]-3-methoxybenzamide (PB-12) is a novel, high-affinity ( K(i)=0.040 nM) and selective D(4)R ligand. We radiolabeled PB-12 with carbon-11 (t(1/2) 20.4 min) by O-methylation of the corresponding desmethyl analogue N-[2-[4-(4-chlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]ethyl]-3-hydroxybenzamide (LM-190) with [(11)C]methyl triflate. Derivative LM-190 was prepared by condensing 3-hydroxybenzoic acid with the appropriate amine. For the radiolabeling, the incorporation yield was &gt;90% and the total synthesis time including high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) purification was about 35 min. The specific radioactivity of [(11)C]PB-12 at time of injection was 67-118 GBq x micromol(-1). PET studies in a cynomolgus monkey showed a high uptake and widespread distribution of radioactivity in the brain, including the neocortex and thalamus. About 40% of total radioactivity in plasma represented unchanged radioligand at 60 min after injection as determined by HPLC. Pretreatment with the D(4)R ligand 3-[[4-(4-chlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]methyl]-1H-pyrollo[2,3-b]pyridine (L-745,870) prior to radioligand injection failed to demonstrate receptor-specific binding in the monkey brain. Furthermore, the brain radioactivity distribution was left unaffected by pretreating with unlabeled PB-12. This failure to detect a D(4)R-specific signal may be related to a very low density of the D(4)R in primate brain, insufficient binding affinity of the radioligand, and a high background of nonspecific binding. It can be concluded from these findings that [(11)C]PB-12 is not suitable to visualize the D(4)R in the primate brain with PET.
The ability of pindolol, a beta-adrenoceptor blocker/5-hydroxytryptamine(1A/1B) antagonist, to enhance the clinical antidepressant response to selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors is generally attributed to a blocking of the feedback that inhibits the serotoninergic neuronal activity mediated by somatodendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) autoreceptors. The current study examined the ability of pindolol to enhance the analgesic effect of tramadol, an atypical centrally-acting analgesic agent with relatively weak opioid receptor affinity and which, like some antidepressants, is able to inhibit the re-uptake of 5-HT in the raphe nuclei. Racemic pindolol (2 mg/kg, s.c.), rendered analgesic a non-effective acute dose of tramadol (10-40 mg/kg, i.p.) in two nociceptive tests: a hot plate test in mice and a plantar test in rats. Moreover, (+/-)8-OH-DPAT (0.125-1 mg/kg, s.c.), a selective 5-HT(1A) agonist, reduces the analgesic effect of tramadol in the same tests. These results suggest an implication of the somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) receptors in the analgesic effect of tramadol and open a new adjuvant analgesic strategy for the use of this compound.
The [14C]2-deoxyglucose method was applied to measure the effects of the injection of neurotensin (7 microg) in the ventral tegmental area on local cerebral glucose utilization in the rat. Injection of neurotensin produced significant increases of glucose utilization in the shell of the nucleus accumbens and in the olfactory tubercle. These results indicate that stimulation of neurotensin receptors in the ventral tegmental area produces functional changes that are confined to the regions receiving mesolimbic projections within the rostral extended amygdaloid complex. These findings extend our understanding on the effects of neurotensin in the limbic system, with particular regard to reward pathways.
Tyr-D-Ala-Phe is a N-terminal sequence commonly found in a peptide family including dermorphin and deltorphin. The tripeptide was synthesized and conjugated with poly L-lysine. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) indicated that approximately 38 molecules of the tripeptide were bound to each molecule of poly L-lysine. The conjugate was used to immunize rabbits, and high titer antisera were obtained. An IgG fraction was purified by protein G affinity chromatography. A specific antibody to the tripeptide was then obtained by affinity chromatography using formylcellulofine conjugated with Tyr-D-Ala-Phe. On immunospot assay, the best IgG antibody was capable of detecting 125 ng of Tyr-D-Ala-Phe but failed to react even with 2.0 microg of Tyr-L-Ala-Phe or poly L-lysine. Our immunohistochemical examination selectively localized the secretory glands of frog skin.

The object of this study was to investigate whether nicotine would improve cognitive impairments produced by medial frontal cortex lesions in rats behaviorally tested on the Morris water task (MWT). Rats were assigned to either a lesion or sham group. In the lesion group, animals were given vehicle (peanut oil) treatment or treatment with nicotine for 11 consecutive days before, after, or before and after a medial frontal cortex lesion. Additionally, a sham group was included that was given vehicle both before and after the lesion. Results showed that lesioned rats receiving pre- or post-operative nicotine treatment demonstrated improved Morris task acquisition performance relative to the lesioned group given the vehicle, although a deficit was shown relative to shams. On the probe trial, rats that received a pre- and post-treatment of nicotine demonstrated performance equivalent to shams and had significantly better performance than rats that received nicotine treatment before the lesion and lesioned animals treated with the vehicle. These results demonstrate that nicotine has therapeutic effects in rats that have received cortical injury.
Social stress induces robust behavioral and physiological changes, some of which may alter the responsiveness to pharmacological agents, including diazepam (DZP). We used a resident-intruder paradigm to (1) develop a comprehensive ethogram of behavioral changes following social defeat (SD) in the socially reactive strain, DBA/2 male mice, (2) determine whether acute exposure of DBA/2 mice to low-dose DZP would induce flight or aggressive behavior, both of which have been observed in other rodent models and (3) to test whether prior social stress affects responses to DZP. Behavioral responses to a nonaggressive intruder (NAI) mouse 24 h post-SD were measured in resident subject mice exposed to DZP (0, 0.5, 2.0 mg/kg, ip) either prior to the resident-intruder test (Experiment 1) or immediately post-SD (Experiment 2); control mice were not defeated (NOSD). In general, SD mice displayed increased passive and active avoidance, defense, immobility, and risk assessment relative to NOSD mice. In Experiment 1, mice treated acutely with 0.5 mg/kg DZP had more approach and flight behavior, while those treated with 2.0 mg/kg DZP had more avoidance than vehicle-treated mice, independent of SD. In Experiment 2, acute DZP (2 mg/kg) induced effects 24 h later, possibly secondary to withdrawal. In a nonsocial context (Experiment 3), DZP increased exploratory activity.
Our laboratory is investigating the effects of chronic stress on physiological, endocrine and behavioral measures, in order to elucidate the neuronal substrates for the pathophysiological consequences of stress in humans. In these studies, we have employed a rodent model of sustained stress in which rats are exposed to around-the-clock intermittent footshock that can be avoided or escaped by rats in the controllable stress group, but not by rats in the uncontrollable stress group. Each rat in the uncontrollable stress group is paired (yoked) to a rat in the controllable stress group such that the controllable stress group rat avoids or escapes shock for both rats. A third group of rats receives no shock (controls). We have previously reported that in male rats, plasma prolactin levels were elevated after 3 days of stress in both stress groups. In the present experiments we determined whether the increases in plasma prolactin were correlated with increases in anterior pituitary prolactin mRNA. In addition, we measured hormones and mRNA at three time points and we examined these responses in female as well as male rats. Adult male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to chronic stress for 1, 3 or 14 days. In unstressed control rats, levels of anterior pituitary prolactin mRNA were fivefold higher in female as compared to male rats. However, stress increased levels of anterior pituitary prolactin mRNA over baseline in both genders. After 1 day of stress, anterior pituitary prolactin mRNA levels increased in male and female rats belonging to both stress groups, with no significant difference seen between the uncontrollable vs. controllable stress groups. After 3 days of stress, anterior pituitary prolactin mRNA levels were even more elevated, and rats in the uncontrollable stress group had higher anterior pituitary prolactin mRNA levels than those in the controllable stress group. After 14 days of stress, there were no significant differences in control and stressed groups with respect to anterior pituitary prolactin mRNA. These data suggest that chronic sustained stress increases the synthesis of anterior pituitary prolactin mRNA during the first days of stress, and that levels return to prestress values sometime between 3 and 14 days of stress.
Various lines of evidence indicate that methamphetamine (METH) self-administration in rats is under dopaminergic control, and NMDA receptors have been shown to control the release of dopamine at its synapse. Consequently, the aim of this study was to observe the effects of dextromethorphan (DM), a non-competitive NMDA antagonist, in rats self-administering METH. The hypothesis was that acute pretreatment of DM (25 mg/kg) would alter response to METH. DM significantly altered self-administration by reducing the number of correct responses for three METH self-administration doses (0.05, 0.1, 0.25 mg/kg). The same pretreatment did not affect responding for food reward. These findings show that the DM was able to selectively alter METH self-administration.
The present study investigated the effect of postischaemic infusion of an irreversible monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitor, l-deprenyl, an equipotent dose of a reversible MAO-B inhibitor, lazabemide, or 0.9% NaCl on infarct volumes following focal cerebral ischaemia in rats. The drug doses (0.3 mg/kg) were selected to induce selective MAO-B inhibition (45-55%), but not MAO-A inhibition. The infarct volumes in the cortex or in the striatum did not differ between the experimental groups 72 hr after transient occlusion of the middle cerebral artery, which suggests that during ischaemia/reperfusion, suppressed oxidative stress by partial MAO-B inhibition or MAO-B independent mechanisms such as induction of trophic factors, does not protect against ischaemia/reperfusion damage.
The response of the human visual system depends on a multitude of image features, such as the wavelength (colour) of the visual stimulus and its spatial frequency content. Hence we need to take into account the spatial and chromatic sensitivity as well as spatio-chromatic interactions to properly characterize visual sensitivity. In this paper we report two experiments that further characterize the spatio-chromatic sensitivity of the human visual system for stationary stimuli, namely the detection of small visual orientation differences and the detection of blur. In both cases we find that the visual system is equally sensitive to red-green and to black-white modulations for a wide range of spatial parameters. Furthermore, the contrast dependence for red green and black white modulations is identical, suggesting that the same mechanism mediates both types of stimulus. Our results are in accordance with the hypothesis that both tasks are mediated by the parvocellular as opposed to the magnocellular pathway.
The pituitary corticotrope AtT-20 stable cell line has been used as a model system to study peptide secretion, glucocorticoid regulation, and several other processes. In order to better understand this model cell line, a phage cDNA library was generated from AtT-20/D-16v cell mRNA and cDNA sequences were obtained for 317 clones representing 203 known genes and 48 novel cDNAs. The sequencing results revealed the prevalence of the mouse leukemia virus in this cell line and also identified a number of putatively secreted molecules that were not previously recognized as being secreted from AtT-20/D-16v cells or pituitary corticotropes. Nine completely novel cDNAs and 39 cDNAs homologous to known ESTs were also identified. A listing of other genes known to be expressed in AtT-20/D-16v cells is also provided.
The release of large dense core vesicles (LDCV) by neuroendocrine cells displays a very similar calcium dependence as found in synapses, yet, the organization of channels and vesicles is quite different. Various biophysical properties of the release process, notably a large delay (&gt;10 ms) between excitation and release and a high impact of mobile calcium buffers, suggest that, generally, vesicles and channels do not co-localize as in synapses, but are separated by a distance of 100-300 nm. This review focuses on the consequences of this organization for the functional coupling of calcium channels to LDCV-release in neuroendocrine cells. The large distance between LDCV and calcium channels in neuroendocrine cells obviates molecular interactions between channels and fusion peptides and implies that each type of calcium channel may be involved in release. Thus, preferential functional coupling of specific calcium channel types to the exocytotic process may be completely lacking, as in melanotropes. Alternatively, it may be present to some extent to induce differences in coupling efficacy between channel types, as in calf chromaffin cells and mouse pancreatic beta-cells. Physiological mechanisms, like recruitment of channels through facilitation processes or suppression of channels through inactivation, may change coupling characteristics during activity. Due to the large distance between channels and vesicles, single action potentials (APs) are usually insufficient to elicit release, and the coupling between individual APs and release is loose. Most neuroendocrine cells are therefore seen to fire in bursts, like pancreatic beta-cells. Furthermore, a large variation in shape and duration of the APs, with APs of up to 300 ms as in melanotropes, acts as another mechanism to enhance stimulus secretion coupling.
1. The study aimed to investigate the effects of clozapine on the speed and accuracy of information processing in patients with schizophrenia. Data are reported from 13 subjects with schizophrenia, treated with clozapine for 6.8 (+/- 1.8) months. 2. Reaction time and accuracy of target detection on a tone detection task were measured before and during clozapine treatment, and these results were compared with a matched control group. 3. Symptom severity and performance on three timed tests of cognitive function were also measured prior to clozapine treatment in the schizophrenia group, and these measures were repeated during treatment with clozapine. 4. Treatment with clozapine was found to significantly improve reaction time and the accuracy of target detection in patients with schizophrenia. Despite this improvement their performance remained significantly inferior to that of a matched control group. Both positive and negative symptoms improved with clozapine treatment, as did performance on the WAIS-R digit symbol substitution test. 5. Improved performance on the WAIS-R digit symbol substitution test correlated with reduction in negative symptoms, and faster reaction time showed some correlation with reduction in positive symptoms. 6. The results of this pilot study indicate that treatment with clozapine can produce limited improvement in cognitive function in schizophrenia.
The authors present an overview of the neural bases of emotion. They underscore the role of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala in 2 broad approach- and withdrawal-related emotion systems. Components and measures of affective style are identified. Emphasis is given to affective chronometry and a role for the PFC in this process is proposed. Plasticity in the central circuitry of emotion is considered, and implications of data showing experience-induced changes in the hippocampus for understanding psychopathology and stress-related symptoms are discussed. Two key forms of affective plasticity are described--context and regulation. A role for the hippocampus in context-dependent normal and dysfunctional emotional responding is proposed. Finally, implications of these data for understanding the impact on neural circuitry of interventions to promote positive affect and on mechanisms that govern health and disease are considered.
Both Freud and Wundt had hoped to base psychology on an understanding of the neural basis of mental events. Their efforts were unsuccessful because the structure and function of the human brain was not available for empirical study at the physiological level. Over the last part of this century, there has been amazing growth and vitality in the field of human brain function. In this paper, we trace critical developments in the fields of cognitive psychology, neuropsychology, and brain imaging related to the development of cognitive neuroscience. Cognitive Neuroscience has established that the decomposition of mental events can be united with an understanding of the mental and emotional computations carried out by the human brain. Cognitive neuroscience has the capability of influencing psychology in diverse areas from how children develop to how adults age; from how humans learn to how we imagine; from volitional control to psychopathologies.
Social and biological explanations traditionally have been cast as incompatible, but advances in recent years have revealed a new view synthesized from these 2 very different levels of analysis. The authors review evidence underscoring the complementing nature of social and biological levels of analysis and how the 2 together can foster understanding of the mechanisms underlying complex behavior and the mind. Specifically, they review the utility of considering social influences on biological processes that are often viewed as outside the social domain including genetic constitution, gene expression, disease, and autonomic, neuroendocrine, and immune activity. This research underscores the unity of psychology and the importance of retaining multilevel integrative research that spans molar and molecular levels of analysis. Especially needed in the coming years is more research on the mechanisms linking social and biological events and processes.
The authors predict that in a few years, many areas of psychology will be awash in specific genes responsible for the widespread influence of genetics on behavior. As the focus shifts from finding genes (genomics) to understanding how genes affect behavior (behavioral genomics), it is important for the future of psychology as a science that pathways between genes and behavior be examined not only at the molecular biological level of cells or the neuroscience level of the brain but also at the psychological level of analysis. After a brief overview of quantitative genetic research, the authors describe how genes that influence complex traits like behavioral dimensions and disorders in human and nonhuman animals are being found. Finally, the authors discuss behavioral genomics and predict that DNA will revolutionize psychological research and treatment early in the 21st century.
This study examined the relationship between self-injurious behavior (SIB) in rhesus monkeys and several biological variables, including monoamine metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and circulating levels of ACTH, cortisol, and testosterone. Cisternal CSF and blood plasma samples were obtained from 23 individually housed male rhesus macaques, 14 of which had a veterinary record of self-inflicted wounding. CSF samples were analyzed for 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA), homovanillic acid (HVA) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) using isocratic high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-EC). Plasma samples were analyzed for ACTH, cortisol, and testosterone using commercially available radioimmunoassays (RIAs). Rates of self-directed biting were determined by systematic observation of all monkeys. Monkeys with SIB did not differ from controls in their basal monoamine or gonadal activity. However, the SIB group showed consistently lower mean plasma cortisol levels than the control group. Plasma cortisol was negatively correlated with rates of self-directed biting. These results suggest a persistent dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in monkeys with SIB. It is not yet clear whether this phenomenon of low cortisol represents chronically reduced adrenocortical secretion under basal conditions or a difference in response to the mild stress of capture and chemical restraint. The implications of these findings will be discussed with respect to SIB in humans as well as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a condition characterized by pituitary-adrenocortical hypoactivity.
In this study, we tried to replicate the finding of a diminished cortisol response to stress in autistic-like patients in a more homogenous Multiple Complex Developmental Disorder (MCDD) group. MCDD forms a distinct group within the autistic-like disorders, characterized by impaired regulation of anxiety and affective state, impaired social behavior/sensitivity, and thought disorder. A number of MCDD children develop schizophrenia in adult life. Responses to a psychosocial stressor, consisting of speaking in public while recorded on video, were measured in 10 MCDD children and 12 healthy control children. The public speaking test was imbedded in a two-hour test session, and compared to a control test session. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) responses were measured on salivary cortisol at about 20-minute intervals. Heart rate was measured continuously. Delta AUC's were computed for both heart rate (dAUCHR) and salivary cortisol (dAUCCORT), as a measure of response to the test.The public speaking task resulted in significant responses in heart rate and salivary cortisol in healthy control children, but not in MCDD children. dAUCHR was 3.28+/-2.37 in healthy control children, but -0.09+/-1.73 in MCDD children (t=3.31, P&lt;0.01). dAUCCORT was 3.22+/-3.16 in healthy control children, but 0. 17+/-1.74 in MCDD children (t=2.72, P&lt;0.05).The impaired responses to psychosocial stress found in MCDD children may be the result of their limited abilities to react adequately to their (social) environment. The same impairment in stress processing has been found in schizophrenia, and might be a factor in the vulnerability of these MCDD children to develop schizophrenia.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a common psychiatric illness characterized by intrusive, repetitive thoughts and behaviours which cause marked distress. During the last decade, different models were developed for the pathophysiology of the obsessive-compulsive-disorder. Three different neurobiological models are introduced in this article: 1. model of dysfunctional kortikostriatal circuitry, 2. amygdalocentric model, 3. neurochemical model. These models don't exclude themselves mutually but supplement themselves and should ideally be integrated into a biopsychosocial concept. Such increased understanding of the neurobiology can be translated into better diagnosis and treatment for those patients who suffer from obsessive-compulsive-disorder.





Sensitization to cocaine has been attributed to alterations in excitatory amino acid and dopamine neurotransmission in the mesolimbic system. The present study sought to determine whether inhibition of NAALADase, an enzyme that cleaves glutamate from the endogenous neuropeptide, N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG), attenuates sensitization to the psychomotor stimulant effects of cocaine. Rats received daily injections of cocaine (20.0 mg/kg/day; i.p.) or saline for 5 days. Fifteen minutes prior to these injections they received an i.p. injection of the NAALADase inhibitor, 2-PMPA (50.0-100 mg/kg), or vehicle. Locomotor activity and stereotypy produced by a challenge dose of cocaine (15.0 mg/kg) were assessed 3 days later. Acute cocaine administration increased locomotor activity in control animals. In animals with a prior history of cocaine administration, the behavioral response to cocaine was significantly enhanced. In animals that had received 2-PMPA in combination with cocaine, the enhancement of cocaine-induced locomotor activity was attenuated. No alteration in cocaine-evoked activity was observed in animals that had received once daily injections of 2-PMPA, alone. Acute administration of 2-PMPA also did not modify saline-induced locomotor activity or activity produced by an acute cocaine challenge. These data demonstrate that NAALADase inhibition attenuates the development of sensitization to the locomotor-activating effects of cocaine. Furthermore, this action cannot be attributed to an antagonism of the acute effects of cocaine.
[(11)C]raclopride binding to D2 dopamine receptors in the striatum is sensitive to drug-induced changes of endogenous dopamine concentration. We recently developed the new radioligand [(11)C]FLB 457, which is suitable for positron emission tomography (PET) studies of extrastriatal D2 dopamine receptors. The purpose of this PET study was to examine the effect of amphetamine on [(11)C]FLB 457 binding in extrastriatal regions. Each of three cynomolgus monkeys was examined at baseline conditions, 15 min and 3 h after I.V. injection of amphetamine (2 mg/kg). The effect of amphetamine was calculated from the ratio of specific [(11)C]FLB 457 binding to the binding in the cerebellum, a region which was used as reference for free and nonspecific binding in the brain. The changes of the ratio in the striatum, the thalamus, and the neocortex were between -1.2% and -15.5% at 15 min and -2.1% and -16.3% at 3 h, respectively, after amphetamine administration. The reductions of the binding ratios in the extrastriatal regions are similar to those reported for [(11)C]raclopride binding in the striatum. These data in a limited series of monkeys suggest that [(11)C]FLB 457 binding to D2 dopamine receptors in extrastriatal regions is sensitive to changes in the concentration of endogenous dopamine.
Dopamine-containing projections from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) have been extensively characterized since their discovery over 25 years ago. However, the VTA projection to the PFC also contains a substantial nondopamine component, whose neurochemical phenotype is unknown. To examine if a portion of this nondopamine VTA projection contains GABA, anterograde and retrograde tract-tracing in the rat was combined with GABA immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy. Following injections of Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the PFC, many VTA neurons were retrogradely labeled, as visualized by immunoperoxidase staining for FG. A large portion of FG-labeled somata (58%) and dendrites (33%) within the VTA also contained immunogold-silver labeling for GABA. These dually labeled profiles exhibited a morphology similar to dopamine-containing cells within the VTA. To confirm and extend these findings, anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) from the VTA was combined with immunogold-silver labeling for GABA within the PFC. Consistent with the results obtained from retrograde tracing, a portion of BDA-labeled terminals in the PFC also contained immunoreactivity for GABA. These dually labeled terminals formed symmetric synapses onto small caliber dendrites and dendritic spines. Some PFC dendrites contacted by GABA-containing VTA terminals were themselves GABA-labeled. The results of this investigation have identified a substantial population of GABA-containing neurons in the VTA that send axons to the PFC where they synapse on the distal processes of both pyramidal and local circuit neurons. This GABA-containing mesocortical pathway may provide substrates for both inhibitory and disinhibitory influences on PFC neuronal activity.

We report that intracellular calcium levels rise in mammalian neurosecretory terminals and in cultured pheochromocytoma cells during acute exposure to physiological medium incubated in IV drip chambers. The agent responsible for this effect is shown to be di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP). DEHP (800 nM) added to saline solution caused a rise in [Ca(2+)](i) similar to that elicited by the contaminant-containing solution. The extraction of this contaminant from the IV drip chamber, as measured by spectrophotometry, was time-dependent and was markedly accelerated by the presence of 50 mM ethanol in the solution. Larger [Ca(2+)](i) increases were observed in terminals exposed to solutions incubated in IV drip chambers for greater durations. The rise in calcium requires transmembrane calcium flux through membrane channels, as the response is blocked by either 100 microM cadmium or by lowering the extracellular free Ca(2+) concentration to 10 microM. Our results suggest that acute alterations in intracellular calcium should be considered in addition to long-term effects when determining the safety of phthalate-containing plastics and that laboratory researchers using plastic perfusion materials consider this potential source of artifactual results.
An analysis of response latencies shows that when an image is presented to the visual system, neuronal activity is rapidly routed to a large number of visual areas. However, the activity of cortical neurons is not determined by this feedforward sweep alone. Horizontal connections within areas, and higher areas providing feedback, result in dynamic changes in tuning. The differences between feedforward and recurrent processing could prove pivotal in understanding the distinctions between attentive and pre-attentive vision as well as between conscious and unconscious vision. The feedforward sweep rapidly groups feature constellations that are hardwired in the visual brain, yet is probably incapable of yielding visual awareness; in many cases, recurrent processing is necessary before the features of an object are attentively grouped and the stimulus can enter consciousness.
The deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) in the brain is a neuropathological feature of Alzheimer's disease. Abeta is cleaved from its precursor protein (APP) by processing at its N and C termini by enzymes known as beta- and gamma-secretases,respectively. The identity of these enzymes has been elusive but the search for the N-terminal secretase might have ended recently with the almost simultaneous publication by five major laboratories claiming a transmembrane aspartic proteinase to be the long sought after beta-secretase. Even at this early stage of its characterization, this aspartic proteinase fulfils many of the key criteria necessary for beta-secretase. The race is now on to develop inhibitors that could prove effective in halting the progression of Alzheimer's disease.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with cognitive deficits and an increased risk of dementia, particularly in the elderly. These deficits are paralleled by neurophysiological and structural changes in the brain. In animal models of diabetes, impairments of spatial learning occur in association with distinct changes in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. At the molecular level these impairments might involve changes in glutamate-receptor subtypes, in second-messenger systems and in protein kinases. The multifactorial pathogenesis of diabetic encephalopathy is not yet completely understood, but clearly shares features with brain ageing and the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy. It involves both metabolic and vascular changes, related to chronic hyperglycaemia, but probably also defects in insulin action in the brain. Treatment with insulin might therefore not only correct hyperglycaemia, but could also directly affect the brain.
From a structural perspective, there are ten basic parts of the vertebrate CNS that are almost universally agreed upon. These parts have been grouped in at least five different ways corresponding to five different theories about its basic plan or architecture. Two classical models that remain popular today are derived from (1) comparative anatomy and the body's segmental organization, and (2) comparative embryology and the neural tube's transverse and longitudinal organization. A new approach is concerned with deciphering the genetic program that assembles the nervous system during embryogenesis; how it will correspond to the other models remains to be determined. The simplest current model to explain the organization of the mammalian nervous system involves a segmental trunk that mediates reflex sensory-motor functions, and suprasegmental cerebral hemispheres and cerebellum.
In five subjects, we measured visual evoked potentials (VEPs) elicited by Vernier targets in which the contrast of the two components of the stimuli were modulated by sinusoids at distinct frequencies fl and f2. This approach allows for the extraction of VEP signatures of spatial interactions, namely, responses at intermodulation frequencies n1f1 + n2f2, without the need to introduce motion into the stimulus. The most prominent interactions were at the sum frequency f1 + f2, and, for frequency pairs that were sufficiently separated, the difference frequency f1- f2. These responses had a systematic dependence on the temporal parameters of the stimulus, corresponding to an effective latency of 145 to 165 ms. Fourth-order interactions were also detected, particularly at the frequencies 2f1 +/- 2f2. These VEP signatures of interaction were similar to interactions seen for colinear line segments separated by a gap. Thus, for Vernier stimuli devoid of motion, VEP signatures of interaction are readily detected but are not specific to hyperacuity displacements. The distribution of interactions across harmonic orders is consistent with local rectification preceding the spatial interactions. Their effective latencies and dependence on spatial parameters are consistent with interactions within V1 receptive fields or mediated by horizontal connections between cells with a similar orientation tuning within V1.
The avian retinotectofugal pathway has been suggested to be homologous to the mammalian retinotectofugal pathway. The projection of the nucleus rotundus upon the ectostriatum is equivalent to that of the pulvinar nucleus upon the extrastriate cortex in mammals. In this system, the optic tectum relays retinal input to the nucleus rotundus, which then ascends to the ectostriatum of the telencephalon. Given the fact that the chick retinotectofugal system becomes mature early during development, the present study attempted to investigate the timecourse of neuronal connections of the embryonic rotundoectostriatal pathway. We used multiple injections of cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) in the ectostriatum of chick embryos to retrogradely trace projections to the nucleus rotundus. We found CTb-labeled neurons in the nucleus rotundus at embryonic day 7.5-8. By embryonic day 8-8.5, increased numbers of CTb-labeled neurons were seen in the nucleus rotundus. It was noted that the time of this initial connection between the nucleus rotundus and the ectostriatum is nearly synchronous with that of the retinotectal and tectorotundal pathways, respectively (Crossland et al., 1975; Thanos &amp; Bonhoeffer, 1987; Wu et al., 2000). These findings, combined with the present study, suggest that the retinotectofugal system becomes established, at least at a structural level, by embryonic day E8.
The activity of the endogenous retinal dopamine (DA) pathway has been examined in the pigmented rat using retinas obtained from normal adult (approximately 3 months) and senile adults (approximately 24 months) using an in vitro electrophysiological approach. By comparing the pharmacological sensitivity of the horizontal cells (HCs) to exogenous DA, a D1 receptor antagonist (SCH 23390) and a DA-transport inhibitor (nomifensine), it is suggested that there is a functional deficit in the endogenous DA activity in the senile retina. Cells recorded from retinae obtained from senile animals are more sensitive to exogenous DA, whilst the senile retina is insensitive to SCH 23390. In addition, nomifensine was effective in potentiating subthreshold DA applications, but only in the normal adult retina. The data may suggest that endogenous DA release upon the HCs and selective re-uptake are suppressed in these retinae. These functional deficits also appear to be associated with changes in the receptive fields of the HCs, suggesting there is a corresponding deficit in spatial processing at the outer plexiform layer (OPL) of the senile rat.
Research on immigrant health emphasizes that the elderly are more vulnerable than other age groups in many immigrant populations. This study describes the meanings of health, illness, and disease for Iranian elderly immigrants in Sweden and their relationships with life disruptions. Analysis of interviews using an interpretive-phenomenological method illustrates that the participants, experience health as continuity and balance in life. Any disruption of this balance creates a sense of illness that is only partially related to the emergence of disease. Participants did not view health and disease as polarized. Rather, disease is just one component among many that may disrupt the experience of health. Health is perceived as a sense of well-being, can be achieved in spite of disease, and can be disrupted even in the absence of disease. This description of the meaning of health, disease, and illness contrasts with the Western biomedical perspective and is similar in its holism to various non-Western medical systems and complementary approaches. This knowledge can foster more culturally sensitive care.
1. Resveratrol, a polyphenolic compound present in grape and wine, has beneficial effects against cancer and protective effects on the cardiovascular system. It has been shown that the compound is sulphated in human liver and the aims of the present investigation were to study resveratrol glucuronidation in human liver microsomes and to determine whether flavonoids inhibit resveratrol glucuronidation. 2. A simple and reproducible radiometric assay for resveratrol glucuronidation was developed. The assay employed uridine-5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid-[14C] and unlabelled resveratrol. Resveratrol-glucuronide was isolated by TLC. The intra- and interassays variabilities were 1 and 1.5%, respectively. 3. The rate of resveratrol glucuronidation was measured in 10 liver samples. The mean +/- SD and median of resveratrol glucuronidation rate were 0.69 +/- 0.34 and 0.80 nmol/min/mg, respectively. Resveratrol glucuronosyl transferase followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics and the Km and Vmax (mean +/- SD; n = 5) were 0.15 +/- 0.09 mM and 1.3 +/- 0.3 nmol/min/mg, respectively. The intrinsic clearance was 11 +/- 4 x 10(-3) ml/min.mg. 4. The flavonoid quercetin inhibited resveratrol glucuronidation and its IC50 (mean +/- SD; n = 3) was 10 +/- 1 microM. Myricetin, catechin, kaempferol, fisetin and apigenin (all at 20 microM) inhibited resveratrol glucuronidation and the percent of control ranged between 46% (catechin) to 72% (apigenin). 5. The present results show that resveratrol is glucuronated in the human liver. Glucuronidation may reduce the bioavailability of this compound however, flavonoids inhibit resveratrol glucuronidation and such an inhibition might improve the bioavailability of resveratrol.
The development of the ipsilateral retinocollicular pathway involves activity-dependent refinement in which misdirected axons retract to form a precise retinotopic map in adults. This refinement is altered by disruption of genes for the endothelial and neuronal isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (e,nNOS), but the extent of disruption during early development is not known. Therefore, we studied the refinement of this pathway in normal C57/BL6 and e,nNOS double knockouts from P4 to P21 and in adults. Anterograde tracers were injected into one eye to localize the ipsilateral retinal projection (IRP) within the superior colliculus (SC). At P4, the IRP in normal mice was distributed throughout the dorsoventral extent of the superficial gray layer (SGL) across most of the rostrocaudal axis of SC. Between P4 and P9, the pathway retracted to the rostromedial SC, and retracted further between P15 and P21, such that multiple patches of label were seen only in the rostral 200-300 microm. Refinement also began to occur between P4 and P9 in e,nNOS double knockout mice, but labeling was more extensive in P9, P15, and P21 knockout animals. This delay in refinement was confirmed quantitatively at P15 where differences in the area occupied by the pathway were statistically significant. The refinement process is therefore in progress in both normal and e,nNOS knockout mice before eye opening but is significantly delayed in the double knockouts. The IRP in normal mice is also more exuberant at early ages, and the process of refinement more protracted than has been previously reported, suggesting that there is a prolonged critical period of synaptic plasticity.
After sciatic nerve lesion in the adult rat, motoneurons survive and regenerate, whereas the same lesion in the neonatal animal or an avulsion of ventral roots from the spinal cord in adults induces extensive cell death among lesioned motoneurons with limited or no axon regeneration. A number of substances with neurotrophic effects have been shown to increase survival of motoneurons in vivo and in vitro. Here we have used semiquantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry to detect the regulation in motoneurons of mRNAs for receptors to ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) 1-42 days after the described three types of axon injury. After all types of injury, the mRNAs for GDNF receptors (GFRalpha-1 and c-RET) and the LIF receptor LIFR were distinctly (up to 300%) up-regulated in motoneurons. The CNTF receptor CNTFRalpha mRNA displayed only small changes, whereas the mRNA for membrane glycoprotein 130 (gp130), which is a critical receptor component for LIF and CNTF transduction, was profoundly down-regulated in motoneurons after ventral root avulsion. The BDNF full-length receptor trkB mRNA was up-regulated acutely after adult sciatic nerve lesion, whereas after ventral root avulsion trkB was down-regulated. The NT-3 receptor trkC mRNA was strongly down-regulated after ventral root avulsion. The results demonstrate that removal of peripheral nerve tissue from proximally lesioned motor axons induces profound down-regulations of mRNAs for critical components of receptors for CNTF, LIF, and NT-3 in affected motoneurons, but GDNF receptor mRNAs are up-regulated in the same situation. These results should be considered in relation to the extensive cell death among motoneurons after ventral root avulsion and should also be important for the design of therapeutical approaches in cases of motoneuron death.
Intracellular Ca(2+) plays a major role in the physiological responses of excitable cells, and excessive accumulation of internal Ca(2+) is a key determinant of cell injury and death. Many studies have been carried out on the internal Ca(2+) dynamics in neurons. In constrast, there is virtually no such information for mammalian central myelinated axons, due in large part to technical difficulty with dye loading and imaging such fine myelinated structures. We developed a technique to allow imaging of ionized Ca(2+) in live rat optic nerve axons with simultaneous electrophysiological recording in vitro at 37 degrees C using confocal microscopy. The K(+) salt of the Ca(2+)-sensitive indicator Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-2 and the Ca(2+)-insensitive reference dye Sulforhodamine 101 were loaded together into rat optic nerves using a low-Ca(2+)/low-Na(+) solution. Axonal profiles, confirmed immunohistochemically by double staining with neurofilament-160 antibodies, were clearly visualized by S101 fluorescence up to 800 microm from the cut ends. The Ca(2+) signal was very low at rest, just above the background fluorescence intensity, indicating healthy tissue, and increased significantly after caffeine (20 mM) exposure designed to release internal Ca(2+) stores. The health of imaged regions was further confirmed by a virtual absence of spectrin breakdown, which is induced by calpain activation in damaged CNS tissue. Red and green fluorescence decayed to no less than 70% of control after 60 min of recording at 37 degrees C, with the green:red fluorescence ratio increasing slightly by 21% after 60 min. Electrophysiological responses recorded simultaneously with confocal images remained largely stable as well.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is regarded as one of the most effective treatments for major depressive disorder but has also been associated with cognitive deficits possibly reflecting brain damage. The aim of this study was therefore to evaluate whether ECT induces cerebral damage as reflected by different biochemical measures. The concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of three established markers of neuronal/glial degeneration, tau protein (tau), neurofilament (NFL) and S-100 beta protein, were determined in nine patients who fulfilled DSM-IV criteria for major depression. CSF samples were collected before and after a course of six ECT sessions. The CSF/serum (S) albumin ratio reflecting potential blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction was also determined at these time points. The treatment was clinically successful with a significant decline of depressive symptoms in all patients as assessed by the Montgomery-Asberg Rating Scale for Depression. Several patients had signs of BBB dysfunction and/or neuronal damage before the start of treatment. Levels of CSF-tau, CSF-NFL and CSF-S-100 beta levels were not significantly changed by ECT. Also the CSF/S albumin ratio was found to be unchanged after the course of ECT. In conclusion, no biochemical evidence of neuronal/glial damage or BBB dysfunction could be demonstrated following a therapeutic course of ECT.
A few studies have tried antipsychotic augmentation in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients who are non-responders to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of olanzapine addition to fluvoxamine-refractory OCD patients and to assess if a comorbid chronic tic disorder or a concomitant schizotypal personality disorder was associated with response. Twenty-three OCD non-responders to a 6-month, open-label trial with fluvoxamine (300 mg/day) entered a 3-month open-label trial of augmentation with olanzapine (5 mg/day). OC symptom change was measured with the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) and the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale. Differences between responders and non-responders were assessed with regard to age, sex, duration of illness, baseline Y-BOCS score, and comorbidity with chronic tic disorders or schizotypal personality disorder. A significant decrease of mean Y-BOCS score between pre- and post-treatment (26. 8+/-3.0 vs. 18.9+/-5.9) was found at endpoint. Ten patients (43.5%) were rated as responders. The most common side effects were mild to moderate weight gain and sedation. In our sample, three patients (13. 04%) had a chronic motor tic disorder, and four (17.39%) had a codiagnosis of schizotypal personality disorder. Concomitant schizotypal personality disorder was the only factor significantly associated with response. It appears that augmentation of olanzapine in fluvoxamine-refractory OCD may be effective in a large number of patients, including those with comorbid schizotypal personality disorder.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the selective degeneration of dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we tested the efficacy of EUK-134, a superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase mimetic, on the nitration of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a marker of oxidative stress, and neurotoxicity produced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in primary DAergic neuron cultures. Exposure of cultures to 10 microM MPP(+) reduced dopamine (DA) uptake and the number of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive (THir) neurons to 56 and 52% of control, while exposure to 30 microM 6-OHDA reduced DA uptake and the number of THir neurons to 58 and 59% of control, respectively. Pretreatment of cultures with 0.5 microM EUK-134 completely protected DAergic neurons against MPP(+)- and 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity. Exposure of primary neuron cultures to either MPP(+) or 6-OHDA produced nitration of tyrosine residues in TH. Pretreatment of cultures with 0.5 microM EUK-134 completely prevented MPP(+)- or 6-OHDA-induced nitration of tyrosine residues in TH. Taken together, these results support the idea that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are critically involved in MPP(+)- and 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity and suggest a potential therapeutic role for synthetic catalytic scavengers of ROS, such as EUK-134, in the treatment of PD.
The goal of the present study was to investigate the effects of intravenous cocaine administration on cerebellar Purkinje cell firing. Extracellular neuron activity was recorded and cells were locally excited with spaced microiontophoretic pulses of glutamate. Glutamate-evoked and spontaneous discharges were compared before and immediately following cocaine administration. Cocaine injections (1. 0 and 0.25 mg/kg, i.v.) induced a reversible suppression of both spontaneous activity and glutamate-evoked excitation. Procaine was ineffective in producing similar actions. Cocaine only inhibited glutamate-induced excitation in animals pre-treated with reserpine (5 mg/kg, i.p.). Propranolol injections (10 mg/kg, i.p.) were ineffective in blocking cocaine-induced inhibitions. Yohimbine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) pre-treatment abolished cocaine-induced suppressions of either spontaneous or glutamate-evoked excitation. Therefore, cocaine administration decreases Purkinje cell spontaneous and glutamate-evoked discharges by a mechanism involving alpha(2)-adrenoceptor activation. It is suggested that by changing the normal function of the cerebellum cocaine can produce drug-related alterations in overt behavior and cognition.
T-type Ca(2+) currents were recorded in 2 mM Ca(2+) from HEK293 cells stably expressing the low voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel sub-unit alpha(1I). These currents were inhibited by the known Ca(2+) channel antagonist mibefradil with an IC(50) close to 1 microM. SB-209712 (1,6,bis1-[4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperidinyl]hexane), a compound originally developed as a high voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel blocker, proved to be a more potent T-type channel antagonist, exhibiting an IC(50) in the region of 500 nM. The antagonism produced by SB-209712 was reversed following drug removal and the observed antagonism exhibited little or no voltage-dependence with respect to either holding or test potential. These data indicate that SB-209712 is amongst the most potent known non-peptide T-type channel antagonists and thus may have some use in understanding the role of these channels in cellular function.
The dopaminergic system has long been implicated in the mechanisms of reward and addiction. 1-(4-(2-Naphthoylamino)butyl)-4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1A-piperazine HCl (BP 897) has been claimed to be a selective dopamine D3 receptor partial agonist and has recently been shown to inhibit cocaine-seeking behaviour, suggesting a role for dopamine D3 receptor agonists in the treatment of addiction. We have previously characterised the pharmacological profile of the human dopamine D3 and D2(long) receptors using microphysiometry and radioligand binding and we have now studied the interaction of BP 897 with the dopamine D2 and D3 receptors using these methods. At both human dopamine D3 and D2 receptors, BP 897 lacked agonist activity but was a potent and selective antagonist with pK(b) values of 8.05+/-0.16 (4) and 9.43+/-0.22 (4) at human dopamine D2 and D3 receptors, respectively. These results, therefore, suggest that it may be the dopamine D3 receptor antagonist properties of BP 897 which have potential in the treatment of addiction and withdrawal.
The tumor suppressor, retinoblastoma (Rb), is involved in both terminal mitosis and neuronal differentiation. We hypothesized that activation of the Rb pathway would induce cell cycle arrest in primary neural precursor cells, independent of the proposed function of cyclin-dependent kinases 4/6 (CDK4/6) to sequester the CIP/KIP CDK inhibitors (CKIs) p21 and p27 from CDK2. We expressed dominant negative adenovirus mutants of CDKs 2, 4, and 6 (dnCDK2, dnCDK4, and dnCDK6) in neural progenitor cells derived from E12.5 wild type and Rb-deficient mouse embryos. In contrast to previous studies, our results demonstrate that in addition to dnCDK2, the dnCDK4/6 mutants can induce growth arrest. Moreover, the dnCDK4/6-mediated inhibition is Rb-dependent. The dnCDK2 partially inhibited cell growth in Rb-deficient cells, suggesting that CDK2 may have additional targets. A previously proposed function of CDK4/6 is CKI sequestration, thereby preventing the resulting inhibition of CDK2, believed to be the key regulator of cell cycle. However, our immunoprecipitations revealed that the dominant negative CDK mutants could arrest cell growth despite their interaction with p21 and p27. Taken together, our results demonstrate that both CDK2 and CDK4/6 are crucial for cell cycle regulation. Furthermore, our data underscore the importance of the Rb regulatory pathway in neuronal development and cell cycle regulation, independent of CKI sequestration.
Non-transferrin-bound iron (NTBI) uptake has been reported to follow two pathways, Ca(2+)-dependent and Ca(2+)-independent (Wright, T. L., Brissot, P., Ma, W. L., and Weisiger, R. A. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 10909-10914; Sturrock, A., Alexander, J., Lamb, J., Craven, C. M., and Kaplan, J. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 3139-3145). Studies reporting the two pathways have ignored the weak interactions of Ca(2+) with the chelator nitrilotriacetate (NTA) and the reducing agent ascorbate. These studies used a constant ratio of total Fe(2+) to NTA with and without Ca(2+). We observed Ca(2+) activation of NTBI uptake in PC12 cells with the characteristics reported for other cells upon using 1 mm ascorbate and a constant ratio of total Fe(2+) to NTA with or without Ca(2+). However, Ca(2+) did not affect NTBI uptake in solutions without NTA. We then determined conditional stability constants for NTA binding to Ca(2+) and Fe(2+) by potentiometry under conditions of NTBI uptake experiments (pH, ionic strength, temperature, ascorbate, total Fe(2+), and total Ca(2+) concentrations). In solutions based on these constants and taking Ca(2+) chelation into account, Ca(2+) did not affect NTBI uptake over a range of free Fe(2+) concentrations. Thus, the Ca(2+) activation of NTBI uptake observed using the constant total Fe(2+) to NTA ratio was because of Ca(2+)-NTA chelation rather than an activation of the NTBI transporter itself. It is suggested that the previously reported Ca(2+) dependence of NTBI uptake be re-evaluated.
The oxidative in vitro metabolism of epibatidine was investigated using liver microsomes from rat, dog, rhesus monkey and human. Analysis was performed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) using both achiral and chiral stationary phases. Comparison of the metabolism of the (+)- and (-)-enantiomers revealed species differences in the extent of metabolism, with rhesus monkey&gt;dog&gt;rat=human. Furthermore, differences in the routes of metabolism for epibatidine enantiomers were also observed, with mass spectra consistent with hydroxylation of the azabicycle for (-)-epibatidine and with the formation of diastereomeric N-oxides for (+)-epibatidine being obtained. For chiral LC-MS, a volatile ion-pair reagent of heptafluorobutyric acid was used in place of pentanesulphonic acid with no deterioration in chiral selectivity. Analysis of the same samples by chiral LC-MS revealed no evidence for metabolic chiral interconversion and chiral analysis from a metabolic time course of racemic material revealed enantiomers to be metabolised to approximately the same extent. Such findings may be important particularly should epibatidine be investigated in non-rodent species.
In an attempt to establish the enantiomeric specificity of metabolism for a series of racemic cholecystokinin-B receptor antagonists, chiral LC-MS-MS conditions were established using a Pirkle DNBL chiral stationary phase operating in the reversed-phase mode. Rat liver microsomal incubations of the compounds were analysed using these conditions and it was demonstrated that resolution of oxygenated and demethylated metabolites could be achieved. A single model compound was investigated in detail by obtaining product-ion spectra on all mono-oxygenated species in an attempt to correlate these and identify enantiomeric pairs of metabolites. In this example a lack of differentiation in the product ion spectra did not allow correlation but the results suggest that such an approach may still be viable for the chiral metabolic analysis of racemic material.
The present study was designed to determine whether whole body injection of lipopolysaccharide increases endogenous rat brain morphine levels. High performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrochemical detection and gas-chromatography mass spectrometry reveal that the resting brain morphine level is 7.0+/-3.2ng/g wet weight. In a time dependent manner, intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide (10 microg), leads to an increase of brain morphine level with a peak reaching after 36h post injection. After 72h following the lipopolysaccharide-injection, morphine levels increased to 66.0+/-5.4ng/g brain wet weight (P&lt;0.001). Furthermore, 96h of fasting also increased the brain morphine level to 44.0+/-3. 6ng/g of brain wet weight. These results suggest that rat brain morphinergic processes respond to organismic challenges after a significant latent period.
A possible participation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) components with mood disturbances has been suggested in both animal and pharmacological models. In this cross-sectional study, we examined the association between functional polymorphisms in the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) and angiotensinogen (AGT) genes in 115 bipolar affective disorder (BPAD) patients and 323healthy control subjects. The ACE I/D variant did not show any difference in allelic frequencies and genotypic distribution between the groups. In contrast, when studying the AGT M235T polymorphism we found that the M allele was more frequently observed in BPAD patients than in controls (chi(2)=6.766, d.f.=1, P=0.009). Using multivariate logistic models the strongest odds ratio resulted from a dominant genetic model (OR=3.0; CI (95%) 1.7-5.3] Our data suggest an association between the AGT M235 genotype and increased susceptibility for BPAD in these Brazilian patients. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the RAS system plays a role in regulating the mood
Recent evidence has shown an association between diabetes mellitus and deficits in learning and memory. However, the mechanism by which cognitive abilities are impaired in diabetes has not been identified. The dentate gyrus of the hippocampus plays a significant role in spatial learning and memory. Studies in rodents show that learning tasks enhance neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the adult hippocampus. To investigate whether cognitive deficits in diabetes may be related to alterations in hippocampal neurogenesis, we measured the number of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells, an indicator of cell proliferation, in the dentate gyrus in an animal model of diabetes. Streptozotocin-induced diabetes produced a dramatic decrease in cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus as compared to controls. The results from this study suggest a potential role for alterations in neurogenesis in the cognitive decline observed in diabetes mellitus.
It takes half a year to process the more than 12,000 abstract submissions for the Society for Neuroscience meeting. So researchers have to write abstracts precise enough to land them in the appropriate session and attract people to their presentation, yet open-ended enough to cover fresh data come conference time.
Neuroscience research is shedding light on how neurons delegate their protein synthesis, shipping some messenger RNAs out to the dendrites, where they are translated to protein under the control of local synapses. Indeed, it appears that finely controlled, decentralized protein production may contribute to learning and memory in a way that neuroscientists could scarcely have imagined 20 years ago. As researchers presss on, they are filling in a picture of a complex loop of communication and supply, with synapses acting as local managers wielding more power than anyone might have imagined, to get what they need for carrying out the critical task of storing memories.
The degeneration of dopamine neurons in the nigrostriatal pathway of the brain results in the debilitating motor deficits of Parkinson's disease. In a Perspective, Olson discusses a new study (Kordower et al.) demonstrating that injection of a lentiviral vector containing the gene encoding GDNF (a trophic factor for dopamine neurons) into the nigrostriatal pathway of monkeys with PD prevents neuronal loss and reverses some of the motor deficits of this disease.

Preparing for their 30th conference, neuroscientists contemplate how the field--and the annual meeting--has grown. With the Society for Neuroscience meeting routinely packing in about 25,000 people, some neuroscientists complain about long lines and related inconveniences. But others say that the best reason to go to the meeting is precisely because it's so huge and integrates the ever-growing number of subdisciplines in the field.


A 48-year-old patient who had aphasia due to a left subcortical hemorrhage underwent three follow-up examinations to assess MR signal changes accompanying recovery. A word classification task was applied. During the 6-month follow-up period, we observed a dynamic change from negative toward positive blood oxygenation level-dependent MR signals, i.e., task-related reafferentation of eloquent cortices occurred. Clinical improvement from aphasia paralleled the MR signal changes.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have been used in the treatment of depression in patients with PD. Conflicting data as to whether selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors worsen parkinsonian motor symptomatology have been reported. In this study, the additional 6 months therapy with paroxetine 20 mg/d in a group of depressed patients with PD did not modify parkinsonian motor function (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale scores); however, in one patient, fully reversible worsening of tremor was observed. Depression, as evaluated by Beck Depression Inventory and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, improved from baseline to final visit (p &lt; 0.05 by analysis of variance).
Seizure activity regulates gene expression for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and neurturin (NRTN), and their receptor components, the transmembrane c-Ret tyrosine kinase and the glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored GDNF family receptor (GFR) alpha 1 and alpha 2 in limbic structures. We demonstrate here that epileptogenesis, as assessed in the hippocampal kindling model, is markedly suppressed in mice lacking GFR alpha 2. Moreover, at 6 to 8 wk after having reached the epileptic state, the hyperexcitability is lower in GFR alpha 2 knock-out mice as compared with wild-type mice. These results provide evidence that signaling through GFR alpha 2 is involved in mechanisms regulating the development and persistence of kindling epilepsy. Our data suggest that GDNF and NRTN may modulate seizure susceptibility by altering the function of hilar neuropeptide Y-containing interneurons and entorhinal cortical afferents at dentate granule cell synapses.
It is well established that motor neurons with large axon caliber are selectively affected in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To investigate whether high neurofilament (NF) content and large axonal caliber are factors that predispose motor neurons to selective degeneration in ALS, we generated mice expressing a mutant form of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1(G37R)) linked to familial ALS in a context of one allele for each NF gene being disrupted. A approximately 40% decrease of NF protein content detected in triple heterozygous knockout mice shifted the calibers of large axons in L5 ventral root from 5-9 microm to 1-5 microm, altering neither the normal subunit stoichiometry and morphological distribution of NFs nor levels of other cytoskeletal proteins. This considerable reduction in NF burden and caliber of axons did not extend the life span of SOD1(G37R) mice nor did it alleviate the loss of motor axons. Moreover, increasing the density of NFs in axons by overexpressing a NF-L transgene did not accelerate disease in SOD1(G37R) mice. These results do not support the current view that high NF content and large caliber of axons may account for the selective vulnerability of motor neurons in ALS caused by mutant SOD1.
Understanding how the brain processes vocal communication sounds is one of the most challenging problems in neuroscience. Our understanding of how the cortex accomplishes this unique task should greatly facilitate our understanding of cortical mechanisms in general. Perception of species-specific communication sounds is an important aspect of the auditory behavior of many animal species and is crucial for their social interactions, reproductive success, and survival. The principles of neural representations of these behaviorally important sounds in the cerebral cortex have direct implications for the neural mechanisms underlying human speech perception. Our progress in this area has been relatively slow, compared with our understanding of other auditory functions such as echolocation and sound localization. This article discusses previous and current studies in this field, with emphasis on nonhuman primates, and proposes a conceptual platform to further our exploration of this frontier. It is argued that the prerequisite condition for understanding cortical mechanisms underlying communication sound perception and production is an appropriate animal model. Three issues are central to this work: (i) neural encoding of statistical structure of communication sounds, (ii) the role of behavioral relevance in shaping cortical representations, and (iii) sensory-motor interactions between vocal production and perception systems.
Bird song, like human speech, is a learned vocal behavior that requires auditory feedback. Both as juveniles, while they learn to sing, and as adults, songbirds use auditory feedback to compare their own vocalizations with an internal model of a target song. Here we describe experiments that explore a role for the songbird anterior forebrain pathway (AFP), a basal ganglia-forebrain circuit, in evaluating song feedback and modifying vocal output. First, neural recordings in anesthetized, juvenile birds show that single AFP neurons are specialized to process the song stimuli that are compared during sensorimotor learning. AFP neurons are tuned to both the bird's own song and the tutor song, even when these stimuli are manipulated to be very different from each other. Second, behavioral experiments in adult birds demonstrate that lesions to the AFP block the deterioration of song that normally follows deafening. This observation suggests that deafening results in an instructive signal, indicating a mismatch between feedback and the internal song model, and that the AFP is involved in generating or transmitting this instructive signal. Finally, neural recordings from behaving birds reveal robust singing-related activity in the AFP. This activity is likely to originate from premotor areas and could be modulated by auditory feedback of the bird's own voice. One possibility is that this activity represents an efference copy, predicting the sensory consequences of motor commands. Overall, these studies illustrate that sensory and motor processes are highly interrelated in this circuit devoted to vocal learning, as is true for brain areas involved in speech.
The patterns of cortico-cortical and cortico-thalamic connections of auditory cortical areas in the rhesus monkey have led to the hypothesis that acoustic information is processed in series and in parallel in the primate auditory cortex. Recent physiological experiments in the behaving monkey indicate that the response properties of neurons in different cortical areas are both functionally distinct from each other, which is indicative of parallel processing, and functionally similar to each other, which is indicative of serial processing. Thus, auditory cortical processing may be similar to the serial and parallel &quot;what&quot; and &quot;where&quot; processing by the primate visual cortex. If &quot;where&quot; information is serially processed in the primate auditory cortex, neurons in cortical areas along this pathway should have progressively better spatial tuning properties. This prediction is supported by recent experiments that have shown that neurons in the caudomedial field have better spatial tuning properties than neurons in the primary auditory cortex. Neurons in the caudomedial field are also better than primary auditory cortex neurons at predicting the sound localization ability across different stimulus frequencies and bandwidths in both azimuth and elevation. These data support the hypothesis that the primate auditory cortex processes acoustic information in a serial and parallel manner and suggest that this may be a general cortical mechanism for sensory perception.
As in other excitable cells, the ion channels of sensory receptors produce electrical signals that constitute the cellular response to stimulation. In photoreceptors, olfactory neurons, and some gustatory receptors, these channels essentially report the results of antecedent events in a cascade of chemical reactions. The mechanoelectrical transduction channels of hair cells, by contrast, are coupled directly to the stimulus. As a consequence, the mechanical properties of these channels shape our hearing process from the outset of transduction. Channel gating introduces nonlinearities prominent enough to be measured and even heard. Channels provide a feedback signal that controls the transducer's adaptation to large stimuli. Finally, transduction channels participate in an amplificatory process that sensitizes and sharpens hearing.
Hair cells in many nonmammalian vertebrates are regenerated by the mitotic division of supporting cell progenitors and the differentiation of the resulting progeny into new hair cells and supporting cells. Recent studies have shown that nonmitotic hair cell recovery after aminoglycoside-induced damage can also occur in the vestibular organs. Using hair cell and supporting cell immunocytochemical markers, we have used confocal and electron microscopy to examine the fate of damaged hair cells and the origin of immature hair cells after gentamicin treatment in mitotically blocked cultures of the bullfrog saccule. Extruding and fragmenting hair cells, which undergo apoptotic cell death, are replaced by scar formations. After losing their bundles, sublethally damaged hair cells remain in the sensory epithelium for prolonged periods, acquiring supporting cell-like morphology and immunoreactivity. These modes of damage appear to be mutually exclusive, implying that sublethally damaged hair cells repair their bundles. Transitional cells, coexpressing hair cell and supporting cell markers, are seen near scar formations created by the expansion of neighboring supporting cells. Most of these cells have morphology and immunoreactivity similar to that of sublethally damaged hair cells. Ultrastructural analysis also reveals that most immature hair cells had autophagic vacuoles, implying that they originated from damaged hair cells rather than supporting cells. Some transitional cells are supporting cells participating in scar formations. Supporting cells also decrease in number during hair cell recovery, supporting the conclusion that some supporting cells undergo phenotypic conversion into hair cells without an intervening mitotic event.
A decade ago it was discovered that mature birds are able to regenerate hair cells, the receptors for auditory perception. This surprising finding generated hope in the field of auditory neuroscience that new hair cells someday may be coaxed to form in another class of warm-blooded vertebrates, mammals. We have made considerable progress toward understanding some cellular and molecular events that lead to hair cell regeneration in birds. This review discusses our current understanding of avian hair cell regeneration, with some comparisons to other vertebrate classes and other regenerative systems.
Hearing underlies our ability to locate sound sources in the environment, our appreciation of music, and our ability to communicate. Participants in the National Academy of Sciences colloquium on Auditory Neuroscience: Development, Transduction, and Integration presented research results bearing on four key issues in auditory research. How does the complex inner ear develop? How does the cochlea transduce sounds into electrical signals? How does the brain's ability to compute the location of a sound source develop? How does the forebrain analyze complex sounds, particularly species-specific communications? This article provides an introduction to the papers stemming from the meeting.
Hearing and balance rely on the ability of hair cells in the inner ear to sense miniscule mechanical stimuli. In each cell, sound or acceleration deflects the mechanosensitive hair bundle, a tuft of rigid stereocilia protruding from the cell's apical surface. By altering the tension in gating springs linked to mechanically sensitive transduction channels, this deflection changes the channels' open probability and elicits an electrical response. To detect weak stimuli despite energy losses caused by viscous dissipation, a hair cell can use active hair-bundle movement to amplify its mechanical inputs. This amplificatory process also yields spontaneous bundle oscillations. Using a displacement-clamp system to measure the mechanical properties of individual hair bundles from the bullfrog's ear, we found that an oscillatory bundle displays negative slope stiffness at the heart of its region of mechanosensitivity. Offsetting the hair bundle's position activates an adaptation process that shifts the region of negative stiffness along the displacement axis. Modeling indicates that the interplay between negative bundle stiffness and the motor responsible for mechanical adaptation produces bundle oscillation similar to that observed. Just as the negative resistance of electrically excitable cells and of tunnel diodes can be embedded in a biasing circuit to amplify electrical signals, negative stiffness can be harnessed to amplify mechanical stimuli in the ear.
The PSD-95 family of membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) proteins are involved in the assembly and organization of neurotransmitter receptors at excitatory synapses in the vertebrate nervous system. We have isolated partial cDNAs for five PSD-95 family members from Apteronotus leptorhynchus brain RNA using a degenerate PCR method. The amino acid sequences deduced indicate that A. leptorhynchus neurons express homologues of the mammalian PSD-93, SAP-97, and SAP-102 MAGUKs and two homologues of mammalian PSD-95. In situ hybridization experiments have been carried out to localize the cellular expression of all five MAGUK mRNAs in the central nervous system of A. leptorhynchus. In the cerebellum the expression patterns are highly similar to patterns reported for mammalian cerebellum, suggesting an evolutionary conservation of the functional roles in this gene family. Cellular levels of expression of the PSD-95 MAGUK mRNAs and the NMDAR-1 mRNA were highly correlated in neurons of the dorsal forebrain but were not correlated in neurons of the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) or the cerebellum. These results suggest that the expression of PSD-95 MAGUK genes in forebrain neurons may provide mechanisms for synaptic organization that are not shared by neurons in the ELL and cerebellum.
Neurokinin B (NKB) is one member of an evolutionarily conserved family of neuropeptides, the tachykinins. Preferential binding of NKB to endogenous NK(3) receptors affects a variety of biological and physiological processes, including endocrine secretions, sensory transmission, and fluid and electrolyte homeostasis. In light of its widespread biological actions, immunohistochemical detection of the c-Fos protein product was used to study the distribution of neuronal activation in the rat brain caused by intraventricular (icv) injections of the selective NK(3) receptor agonist (succinyl-[Asp(6), N-Me-Phe(8)] substance P [6-11]), senktide. Quantitative analysis revealed that treatment with isotonic saline or 200 ng senktide resulted in the differential expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) throughout the brain. Senktide induced the highest number of FLI neurons in the lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdala, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, median preoptic nucleus, organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, supraoptic nucleus, periaqueductal gray, and medial nucleus of the solitary tract compared to isotonic saline controls. Additional regions that contained elevated FLI following icv injection of senktide, relative to saline injection, included the cerebral cortex, lateral hypothalamic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra, inferior colliculus, locus coeruleus, zona incerta, and arcuate nucleus. Our data indicate that activation of NK(3) receptors induces the expression of FLI within circumscribed regions of the rat brain. This pattern of neuronal activation overlaps with nuclei known to regulate homeostatic processes, such as endocrine secretion, cardiovascular function, salt intake, and nociception.
This is the first in a series of reports on the neuroanatomic organization and connectivity of the macaque monkey retrosplenial cortex, i.e., areas 29 and 30. To elucidate the topographic configuration of the retrosplenial cortex and adjacent structures, we have made three-dimensional computer reconstructions of the posterior cingulate region that includes the retrosplenial cortex. The largest portion of the posterior cingulate gyrus is located dorsal to the corpus callosum. At the caudal limit of the corpus callosum, the gyrus curves around the splenium, turns laterally and forms a region called the isthmus that links the cingulate and parahippocampal gyri. The isthmus contains the caudomedial lobule, which is a rostrally oriented bulge that is made up, in part, of portions of the retrosplenial cortex. To delineate the subdivisions of the retrosplenial and adjacent cortices, we conducted a cytoarchitectonic analysis by using cerebral hemispheres that were cut at oblique angles and stained with a variety of techniques, including immunohistochemistry for nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein. The dorsal bank of the callosal sulcus and the rostral surface of the isthmus are covered by the retrosplenial cortical areas 29l, 29m, and 30, whereas most of the medial surface of the posterior cingulate gyrus and the ventral bank of the posterior cingulate sulcus consist of areas 23i and 23e. The most caudoventral portion of the cingulate gyrus is composed of an area (area 23v) that resembles the retrosplenial and posterior cingulate cortices but has a much more prominent layer IV. On the dorsal bank of the calcarine sulcus, we also defined a transitional zone, area 30v, located between the retrosplenial cortex and the prestriate visual cortex.
We have examined the interaction between synapsin I, the major phosphoprotein on the membrane of small synaptic vesicles, and brain spectrin. Using recombinant peptides we have localized the synapsin I attachment site upon the beta-spectrin isoform betaSpIISigmaI to a region of 25 amino acids, residues 211 through 235. This segment is adjacent to the actin binding domain and is within the region of the betaSpIISigmaI that we previously predicted as a candidate synapsin I binding domain based upon sequence homology. We used differential centrifugation techniques to quantitatively assess the interaction of spectrin with synaptic vesicles. Using this assay, high affinity saturable binding of recombinant betaSpIISigmaI proteins was observed with synaptic vesicles. Binding was only observed when the 25 amino acid synapsin I binding site was included on the recombinant peptides. Further, we demonstrate that antibodies directed against 15 amino acids of the synapsin I binding domain specifically blocked synaptic transmission in cultured hippocampal neurons. Thus, the synapsin I attachment site on betaSpIISigmaI spectrin comprises a approximately 25 amino acid segment of the molecule and interaction of these two proteins is an essential step for the process of neurotransmission.
Estimates of neuronal dropout for approximately 100 structures as defined by Paxinos-Watson were completed for brains of male Wistar albino rats between 1 and 50 days after status epilepticus was evoked by a single systemic injection of lithium and pilocarpine. Sample estimates of neuronal loss were strongly correlated with direct measures of cell density. The most extensive immediate damage occurred within the substantia nigra reticulata, CA1 field of the hippocampus, the piriform cortex and the reuniens and paratenial nuclei of the thalamus. Neuronal dropout continued in many other structures over a 50-day period. Structures that showed the greatest 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) uptake during discrete seizures and waxing and waning seizures within the early stages of status epilepticus but the least 2-DG uptake at the time of late continuous spiking and fast spiking with pauses [Neuroscience 64 (1995) 1057, 1075] exhibited the most neuronal dropout. Relationships between the delay of injection of acepromazine (which facilitated survival) and the amount of damage suggested that the source of the process that results in permanent brain damage may originate within the region of the piriform cortices and its subcortices.
One of the most common mechanisms of posttranslational modifications to generate biologically active (neuro)peptides is the process of peptide alpha-amidation. The only enzyme known to catalyze this important modification is peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM): a (bifunctional) zymogen, giving rise to a monooxygenase (PHM) and a lyase (PAL). The highly peptidergic central nervous system and endocrine system of the marine mollusk Aplysia has homologs of various mammalian peptide processing enzymes, including furin, Afurin2, prohormone convertase 1 (PC1), PC2, carboxypeptidase E (CPE) and CPD. Previously, it has been shown that the abdominal ganglion of Aplysia, which contains approximately 800 peptidergic bag cell neurons, contains the highest specific alpha-amidating activity. We have identified and cloned multiple overlapping central nervous system and bag cell cDNAs that encode a predicted 748-residue protein that is a member of the PAM family. The protein sequence contains the contiguous sequence of the catalytic domains of PHM and PAL, clearly demonstrating the existence of bifunctional Aplysia PAM, the first invertebrate PAM zymogen with an organization similar to that in vertebrates. None of the characterized clones encoded the so-called exon A domain between the PHM and PAL domains. Furthermore, in a specific search by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of RNA from multiple tissues we could only detect exon A-less transcripts. PAM expression was detected in the central nervous system, and in several endocrine and exocrine organs. Aplysia PAM is a candidate prohormone processing enzyme that plays an important role in the processing of Aplysia prohormones in the secretory pathway.
Suppression of the gastrin gene in human colon cancer cells by stably expressing antisense (AS) gastrin RNA results in significant growth suppression of AS cells. To understand mechanisms mediating the growth effects of autocrine gastrins, differential expression of transcripts by AS and control (C) clones of a representative cell line (HCT-116) was analyzed to identify target genes of autocrine gastrins. Six differentially expressed transcripts were confirmed and sequenced. Of these, the RNA and protein levels of cytochrome c oxidase (COX) Vb were significantly higher in C versus AS cells. The expression of COX Vb by colon cancer cells was proportional to the expression of gastrin. Higher levels of COX Vb coprecipitated with cytochrome c in the mitochondria of C versus AS cells. Treatment of mitochondria with digitonin resulted in a 2-fold higher release of cytochrome c from AS versus C mitochondria. As a corollary, the cytosolic levels of cytochrome c were significantly higher in AS versus C cells, which correlated with approximately 2- and approximately 3-fold higher activation of caspase-9 and -3, respectively, in AS versus C cells in response to camptothecin. Thus, autocrine gastrins may support growth/survival of cells by up-regulating COX Vb, which may decrease the sensitivity of the cancer cells to apoptotic stimuli by increasing retention of cytochrome c in mitochondria.

In the brain, metallothionein (MT)-III exhibits a free radical scavenging activity. Here we examined the expression of MT-III mRNA in the basal ganglia of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned hemi-parkinsonian rats and its regulation by levodopa. The level of MT-III mRNA was significantly decreased in the striatum of 6-OHDA-lesioned side. Levodopa treatment significantly increased the expression of striatal MT-III mRNA in the non-lesioned side, but showed no significant effect in the 6-OHDA-lesioned side. These results suggest that the regulation of MT-III mRNA may be related to the progressive degeneration in parkinsonism.

The hypothesis that learning occurs through long-term potentiation (LTP)- and long-term depression (LTD)-like mechanisms is widely held but unproven. This hypothesis makes three assumptions: Synapses are modifiable, they modify with learning, and they strengthen through an LTP-like mechanism. We previously established the ability for synaptic modification and a synaptic strengthening with motor skill learning in horizontal connections of the rat motor cortex (MI). Here we investigated whether learning strengthened these connections through LTP. We demonstrated that synapses in the trained MI were near the ceiling of their modification range, compared with the untrained MI, but the range of synaptic modification was not affected by learning. In the trained MI, LTP was markedly reduced and LTD was enhanced. These results are consistent with the use of LTP to strengthen synapses during learning.
Recent research on multisensory perception suggests a number of general principles for crossmodal integration and that the standard model in the field--feedforward convergence of information--must be modified to include a role for feedback projections from multimodal to unimodal brain areas.
To perceive real-world objects and events, we need to integrate several stimulus features belonging to different sensory modalities. Although the neural mechanisms and behavioural consequences of intersensory integration have been extensively studied, the processes that enable us to pay attention to multimodal objects are still poorly understood. An important question is whether a stimulus in one sensory modality automatically attracts attention to spatially coincident stimuli that appear subsequently in other modalities, thereby enhancing their perceptual salience. The occurrence of an irrelevant sound does facilitate motor responses to a subsequent light appearing nearby. However, because participants in previous studies made speeded responses rather than psychophysical judgements, it remains unclear whether involuntary auditory attention actually affects the perceptibility of visual stimuli as opposed to postperceptual decision and response processes. Here we provide psychophysical evidence that a sudden sound improves the detectability of a subsequent flash appearing at the same location. These data show that the involuntary orienting of attention to sound enhances early perceptual processing of visual stimuli.
Judging where others look is crucial for many social and cognitive functions. Past accounts of gaze perception emphasize geometrical cues from the seen eye. Human eyes have a unique morphology, with a large white surround (sclera) to the dark iris that may have evolved to enhance gaze processing. Here we show that the contrast polarity of seen eyes has a powerful influence on gaze perception. Adult observers are highly inaccurate in judging gaze direction for images of human eyes with negative contrast polarity (regardless of whether the surrounding face is positive or negative), even though negative images of eyes preserve the geometric properties of positives that are judged accurately. The detrimental effect of negative contrast polarity is much larger for gaze perception than for other directional judgements (e.g. judging which way a head is turned). These results suggest an 'expert' system for gaze perception, which always treats the darker region of a seen eye as the part that does the looking.
Males of certain hummingbird species such as Anna's hummingbirds (Calypte anna) learn their song during postnatal development. Here we report that male Anna's hummingbirds and male Amazilia hummingbirds (Amazilia amazilia), two singing hummingbird species, possess forebrain areas that are similar in morphological appearance, location, and connectivity to the song control areas RA (nucleus robustus archistriatalis), HVC (nucleus hyperstriatalis ventrale, pars caudale, or higher vocal center), and LMAN (lateral part of nucleus mangnocellularis anterioris) of oscine passerines (songbirds). The vocal control areas of songbirds are further defined by the expression of androgen receptors. Similarly, the singing hummingbird species express androgen receptors in the LMAN-like area and in the HVC-like area. The hummingbird RA projects to the medullary syringeal motonucleus nXIIts (nucleus hypoglossus pars tracheosyringealis) and the respiratory premotonucleus RAm (nucleus retroambigualis). The HVC-, RA-, and LMAN-like areas are rudimentary in adult male ruby-throated hummingbirds (Archilochus colubris) and Allen's hummingbirds (Selasphorus sasin) and not distinguishable in female hummingbirds, none of which sing. Vocal-area-like forebrain areas (delineated by the cytoarchitecture or androgen receptor expression) were not found in vocal nonlearning swifts and suboscines, the taxonomic sister groups of hummingbirds and songbirds, respectively. These areas were also missing in owls, ring doves, gulls, and gallinaceous species, nonpasserines that do not learn vocalizations. Budgerigars (vocal learners) are known to have forebrain vocal areas, but these areas do not express sex steroid receptors. These data suggest that hummingbirds and songbirds belong to two groups of birds that have common forebrain circuits. Parts of this circuit are organized as nuclear-like structures (LMAN, HVC, RA) in species that learn to sing.
Frequency modulations (FMs) are prevalent in human speech, and are important acoustic cues for the categorical discrimination of phonetic contrasts. For bats, FM sweeps are also important for communication and are often the only component in echolocation calls. Auditory neurons tuned to the direction and rate of FM might underlie the encoding of rapid frequency transitions. In the mustached bat, we have discovered a population of such FM selective cells in an area interposed between the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) and the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus (NLL). We believe this area to be the ventral extent of the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICXv). To describe FM selectivity of neurons in the ICXv and to compare it to other midbrain nuclei, up- and down-sweeping linear FM stimuli were presented at different modulation rates. Extracellular recordings were made from 171 single units in the ICC, ICXv, and NLL of 10 mustached bats. In the ICXv, there was a much higher degree of FM selectivity than in ICC or NLL and a consistent preference for upward over downward FM sweeps. Anterograde and retrograde transport was examined following focal injections of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) into ICXv. The main targets of anterograde transport were the deep layers of the superior colliculus and the suprageniculate division of the medial geniculate body. The primary site of retrograde transport was the nucleus of the central acoustic tract in the brainstem. Thus, the ICXv appears to be a part of the central acoustic tract, an extralemniscal pathway linking the auditory brainstem directly to a multimodal nucleus of the thalamus.

Recent neuroimaging studies have demonstrated regional central nervous system volume reductions in mood disorders, findings that are complemented by postmortem observations of cell atrophy and loss. It is thus noteworthy that lithium and valproate have recently been demonstrated to robustly increase the expression of the cytoprotective protein bcl-2 in the central nervous system. Chronic lithium not only exerts neuroprotective effects in several preclinical paradigms but also enhances hippocampal neurogenesis. Valproate robustly promotes neurite outgrowth and activates the ERK mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, a signaling pathway utilized by many endogenous neurotrophic factors. Consistent with its preclinical neurotrophic/neuroprotective effects, chronic lithium treatment of patients with manic-depressive illness increases brain N-acetylaspartate (a putative marker of neuronal viability and function) levels, an effect that is localized almost exclusively to gray matter. To determine if lithium was producing neuropil increases, quantitative three-dimensional magnetic resonance imaging studies were undertaken, which revealed that chronic lithium significantly increases total gray matter volume in the human brain of patients with manic-depressive illness. Together, these results suggest that a reconceptualization about the optimal long-term treatment of recurrent mood disorders is warranted. Optimal long-term treatment for these severe illnesses may only be achieved by the early use of agents with neurotrophic/neuroprotective effects, irrespective of the primary, symptomatic treatment.
CD154 expression is regulated throughout a time course of CD3-dependent T cell activation by differential mRNA decay. To understand the molecular basis of the &quot;stability&quot; phase of this pathway, experiments were conducted to identify sequences and specific complexes important in this regulation. Gel retardation assays using extracts from both Jurkat T cells and CD3-activated CD4(+) T cells revealed a major complex (complex I) that bound a 65-bp highly CU-rich region of the CD154 3' untranslated region. The specificity of the CU-rich element for complex-I formation was confirmed by disruption of this complex by oligo(dCT) competition. Formation of complex I strongly correlated with CD154 mRNA stability across a time course of T cell activation. UV cross-linking identified a major oligo(dCT)-sensitive species at approximately 90 kDa that showed induced and increased expression in extracts from 24- and 48-hr anti-CD3-activated T cells, respectively. This protein was absent in equivalent extracts from resting or 2-h-activated T cells. Using an in vitro decay assay, we found that a CD154-specific transcript was more rapidly degraded in 2-h-activated extract and stabilized in the 24- and 48-h extracts compared to extracts from resting T cells. Disruption of complex I resulted in the rapid decay of a CD154-specific transcript demonstrating a functional role for complex I in mRNA stabilization in vitro. These studies support a model of posttranscriptional regulation of CD154 expression being controlled in part by the interaction of a poly(CU)-binding complex with a specific sequence in the 3' untranslated region.
The striatum is the major input region of the basal ganglia, playing a pivotal role in the selection, initiation, and coordination of movement both physiologically and in pathophysiological situations such as Parkinson's disease. In the present study, we characterize interactions between NMDA receptors, adenosine receptors, and cAMP signaling within the striatum. Both NMDA (100 micrometer) and the adenosine A(2a) receptor agonist CPCA (3 micrometer) increased cAMP levels (218.9 +/- 19.9% and 395.7 +/- 67.2%, respectively; cf. basal). The NMDA-induced increase in cAMP was completely blocked when slices were preincubated with either the NMDA receptor antagonist 7-chlorokynurenate or the adenosine A(2) receptor antagonist DMPX (100 micrometer), suggesting that striatal NMDA receptors increase cAMP indirectly via stimulation of adenosine A(2a) receptors. Thus, NMDA receptors and adenosine A(2a) receptors might share a common signaling pathway within the striatum. In striatal slices prepared from the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease, NMDA receptor-mediated increases in cAMP were greater on the lesioned side compared with the unlesioned side (349.6 +/- 40.2% compared with 200.9 +/- 21.9% of basal levels, respectively). This finding substantiates previous evidence implicating overactivity of striatal NMDA receptors in parkinsonism and suggests that a common NMDA receptor-adenosine A(2a) receptor-cAMP signaling cascade might be an important mechanism responsible for mediating parkinsonian symptoms.
Neural correlates of responses to emotionally valenced olfactory, visual, and auditory stimuli were examined using positron emission tomography. Twelve volunteers were scanned using the water bolus method. For each sensory modality, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during presentation of both pleasant and unpleasant stimuli was compared with that measured during presentation of neutral stimuli. During the emotionally valenced conditions, subjects performed forced-choice pleasant and unpleasant judgments. During the neutral conditions, subjects were asked to select at random one of a two key-press buttons. All stimulations were synchronized with inspiration, using an airflow olfactometer, to present the same number of stimuli for each sensory modality. A no-stimulation control condition was also performed in which no stimulus was presented. For all three sensory modalities, emotionally valenced stimuli led to increased rCBF in the orbitofrontal cortex, the temporal pole, and the superior frontal gyrus, in the left hemisphere. Emotionally valenced olfactory and visual but not auditory stimuli produced additional rCBF increases in the hypothalamus and the subcallosal gyrus. Only emotionally valenced olfactory stimuli induced bilateral rCBF increases in the amygdala. These findings suggest that pleasant and unpleasant emotional judgments recruit the same core network in the left hemisphere, regardless of the sensory modality. This core network is activated in addition to a number of circuits that are specific to individual sensory modalities. Finally, the data suggest a superior potency of emotionally valenced olfactory over visual and auditory stimuli in activating the amygdala.
Multi- and single-unit recording was performed in the gracile nucleus in urethane-anesthetized rats to examine estrous variations in responses of its neurons to brushing the hindquarters and mechanical stimulation of the uterus, vaginal canal, cervix, and colon. Six rats each were studied in each of the four estrous stages: proestrus (P), estrus (E), metestrus (M), and diestrus (D). The magnitude of multi-unit responses to gentle brushing of the perineum, hip, and tail, but not the foot and leg, was significantly greater during proestrus than during other stages. Of 70 single units responsive to brush, 56 (80%) responded to stimulation of at least one viscus. Although this percentage did not change with estrous stage, the direction and latency of some responses did. Pressure on the cervix evoked significantly more inhibitory (vs excitatory) responses in P than in E and M, and the response latency was significantly longer in D and P than in E and M. The direction of response to vaginal distention did not change with estrous stage, but response latency was significantly longer in D than in P and E. Uterine distention evoked significantly more inhibitory responses in D than in P, with no estrous changes in latency. Responses to colon distention did not change. These variations in both magnitude of response to tactile stimulation and characteristics of response to stimulation of reproductive organs, but not the colon, correlate with changes in mating behaviors of the female rat, suggesting that the gracile nucleus is a component of neural systems that control reproductive behaviors.
GABA gating an anion channel primarily permeable to chloride can hyperpolarize or depolarize, depending on whether the chloride equilibrium potential (E(Cl)) is negative or positive, respectively, to the resting membrane potential (E(rest)). If the transmembrane Cl(-) gradient is set by active transport, those neurons or neuronal regions that exhibit opposite responses to GABA should express different chloride transporters. To test this, we immunostained retina for the K-Cl cotransporter (KCC2) that normally extrudes chloride and for the Na-K-Cl cotransporter (NKCC) that normally accumulates chloride. KCC2 was expressed wherever E(Cl) is either known or predicted to be negative to E(rest) (ganglion cells, bipolar axons, and OFF bipolar dendrites), whereas NKCC was expressed wherever E(Cl) is either known or predicted to be positive to E(rest) (horizontal cells and ON bipolar dendrites). Thus, in the retina, the opposite effects of GABA on different cell types and on different cellular regions are probably primarily determined by the differential targeting of these two chloride transporters.
The tolerance and dependence after chronic medication with morphine are thought to be representative models for studying the plasticity, including the remodeling of neuronal networks. To test the hypothesis that changes in neuronal plasticity observed in opioid tolerance or dependence are derived from increased activity of the anti-opioid nociceptin system, the effects of chronic treatments with morphine were examined using nociceptin receptor knock-out (NOR(-/-)) mice and a novel nonpeptidic NOR antagonist, J-113397, which shows a specific and potent NOR antagonist activity in in vitro [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding assay and in vivo peripheral nociception test. The NOR(-/-) mice showed marked resistance to morphine analgesic tolerance without affecting morphine analgesic potency in tail-pinch and tail-flick tests. The NOR(-/-) mice also showed marked attenuation of morphine-induced physical dependence, manifested as naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms after repeated morphine treatments. Similar marked attenuation of morphine tolerance was also observed by single subcutaneous (10 mg/kg) or intrathecal (1 nmol) injection of J-113397, which had been given 60 min before the test in morphine-treated ddY mice. However, the intracerebroventricular injection (up to 3 nmol) did not affect the tolerance. On the other hand, morphine dependence was markedly attenuated by J-113397 that had been subcutaneously given 60 min before naloxone challenge. There was also observed a parallel enhancement of NOR gene expression only in the spinal cord during chronic morphine treatments. Together, these findings suggest that the spinal NOR system develops anti-opioid plasticity observed on morphine tolerance and dependence.
Reactive oxygen species, including superoxide, generally are considered neurotoxic molecules whose effects can be alleviated by antioxidants. Different from this view, we show that scavenging of superoxide with an antioxidant enzyme is associated with deficits in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a putative neural substrate of memory, and hippocampal-mediated memory function. Using transgenic mice that overexpress extracellular superoxide dismutase (EC-SOD), a superoxide scavenger, we found that LTP was impaired in hippocampal area CA1 despite normal LTP in area CA3. The LTP impairment in area CA1 could be reversed by inhibition of EC-SOD. In addition, we found that EC-SOD transgenic mice exhibited impaired long-term memory of fear conditioning to contextual cues despite exhibiting normal short-term memory of the conditioning experience. These findings strongly suggest that superoxide, rather than being considered exclusively a neurotoxic molecule, should also be considered a signaling molecule necessary for normal neuronal function.
Neuregulins have been implicated in a number of events in cells in the oligodendrocyte lineage, including enhanced survival, mitosis, migration, and differentiation. At least two signaling pathways have been shown to be involved in neuregulin signaling: the phosphatidylinositol (PI)-3 kinase and the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. In the present studies, we examined the signaling pathway involved in the survival function of heregulin, focusing on heregulin-induced changes in Akt activity in cultured glial cells, and the consequences of Akt activation in cells in the oligodendrocyte lineage. Heregulin binds erbB receptors, and in our studies, primary cultures of both oligodendrocyte progenitor cells and differentiating oligodendrocytes expressed erbB2, erbB3, and erbB4 receptors. In C6 glioma cells and primary cultures of oligodendrocytes, heregulin induced time- and dose-dependent Akt phosphorylation at Ser(473) in a wortmannin-sensitive manner. To investigate further the signaling pathway for heregulin in glial cells, BAD was overexpressed in C6 glioma cells. In these cells, heregulin induced phosphorylation of BAD at Ser(136). Apoptosis of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells induced by growth factor deprivation was effectively blocked by heregulin in a wortmannin-sensitive manner. Overexpression of dominant negative Akt but not of wild-type Akt by adenoviral gene transfer in primary cultures of both oligodendrocytes and their progenitors induced significant apoptosis through activation of the caspase cascade. The present data suggest that the survival function of heregulin is mediated through the PI-3 kinase/Akt pathway in cells in the oligodendrocyte lineage and that the Akt pathway may be quite important for survival of cells in this lineage.
Presynaptic transporter proteins regulate the clearance of extracellular biogenic amines after release and are important targets for multiple psychoactive agents, including amphetamines, cocaine, and antidepressant drugs. Recent studies reveal that dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), and serotonin (5-HT) transporters (DAT, NET, and SERT, respectively) are rapidly regulated by direct or receptor-mediated activation of cellular kinases, particularly protein kinase C (PKC). With SERTs, PKC activation results in activity-dependent transporter phosphorylation and sequestration. Protein phosphatase 1/2A (PP1/PP2A) inhibitors, such as okadaic acid (OA) and calyculin A, also promote SERT phosphorylation and functional downregulation. How kinase, phosphatase, and transporter activities are linked mechanistically is unclear. In the present study, we found that okadaic acid-sensitive phosphatase activity is enriched in SERT immunoprecipitates from human SERT stably transfected cells. Moreover, blots of these immunoprecipitates reveal the presence of PP2A catalytic subunit (PP2Ac), findings replicated using brain preparations. Whole-cell treatments with okadaic acid or calyculin A diminished SERT/PP2Ac associations. Phorbol esters, which trigger SERT phosphorylation, also diminish SERT/PP2Ac associations, effects that can be blocked by PKC antagonists as well as the SERT substrate 5-HT. Similar transporter/PP2Ac complexes were also observed in coimmunoprecipitation studies with NETs and DATs. Our findings provide evidence for the existence of regulated heteromeric assemblies involving biogenic amine transporters and PP2A and suggest that the dynamic stability of these complexes may govern transporter phosphorylation and sequestration.
Neural activity producing a transient increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration can induce long-term potentiation (LTP) at visual cortical inhibitory synapses similar to those seen at various excitatory synapses. Here we report that low-frequency neural activity is required to maintain LTP at these inhibitory synapses. Inhibitory responses of layer 5 cells evoked by layer 4 stimulation were studied in developing rat visual cortical slices under a pharmacological blockade of excitatory synaptic transmission using intracellular and whole-cell recording methods. Although LTP induced by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) persisted while test stimulation was applied at 0.1 Hz, it was not maintained in approximately two-thirds of cells after test stimulation was stopped for 30 min. In the rest of the cells, LTP seemed to be maintained by spontaneous presynaptic spikes, because presynaptic inhibitory cells discharged spontaneously in our experimental condition and because LTP was totally abolished by a temporary application of Na(+) channel blockers. Experiments applying various Ca(2+) channel blockers and Ca(2+) chelators after HFS demonstrated that LTP maintenance was mediated by presynaptic Ca(2+) entries through multiple types of high-threshold Ca(2+) channels, which activated Ca(2+)-dependent reactions different from those triggering transmitter release. The Ca(2+) entries associated with action potentials seemed to be regulated by presynaptic K(+) channels, presumably large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, because the application of blockers for these channels facilitated LTP maintenance. In addition, noradrenaline facilitated the maintenance of LTP. These findings demonstrate a new mechanism by which neural activity regulates the continuation and termination of LTP at visual cortical inhibitory synapses.
We have recently disrupted Slc12a2, the gene encoding the secretory Na-K-2Cl cotransporter in mice (NKCC1) (Delpire et al., 1999). Gramicidin perforated-patch and whole-cell recordings were performed to study GABA-induced currents in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons isolated from wild-type and homozygote NKCC1 knock-out mice. In wild-type DRG neurons, strong GABA-evoked inward current was observed at the resting membrane potential, suggesting active accumulation of Cl(-) in these cells. This GABA-induced current was blocked by picrotoxin, a GABA(A) receptor blocker. The strong Cl(-) accumulation that gives rise to depolarizing GABA responses is caused by Na-K-2Cl cotransport because reduction of external Cl(-) or application of bumetanide induced a decrease in [Cl(-)](i), whereas an increase in external K(+) caused an apparent [Cl(-)](i) accumulation. In contrast to control neurons, little or no net current was observed at the resting membrane potential in homozygote NKCC1 mutant DRG neurons. E(GABA) was significantly more negative, demonstrating the absence of Cl(-) accumulation in these cells. Application of bumetanide induced a positive shift of E(GABA), suggesting the presence of an outward Cl(-) transport mechanism. In agreement with an absence of GABA depolarization in DRG neurons, behavioral analysis revealed significant alterations in locomotion and pain perception in the knock-out mouse. Our results clearly demonstrate that the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter is responsible for [Cl(-)](i) accumulation in DRG neurons and that via regulation of intracellular Cl(-), the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter participates in the modulation of GABA neurotransmission and sensory perception.
Traumatic injury to axons was modeled in vitro using sympathetic principal neurons from the rat superior cervical ganglion. Neurons were grown as a pure culture on collagen in parallel tracks, with cell somata confined to the center, and neurites occupying the periphery of the culture dish. Growing as fascicles on tracks, the neurites demonstrated periodic varicosities. Neuritic transection was reliably and reproducibly achieved with a motor driven rubber impactor injury device. During a period lasting at least 1 h, dieback involving the proximal neurites averaged 105 +/- 10 microm. This was followed by neurite regeneration, with the injured segment being traversed within 36 h at an average rate of regeneration of 595 +/- 15 microm/day. The distal neurite segments showed degenerative changes within 1 h following transection, with initial receding of neurites progressing to vacuolation, beading, blebbing, and eventual detachment from the underlying matrix. This in vitro model of axonal injury allows neuritic injury to be studied at the cellular and molecular levels, and also provides a unique opportunity to test potential neuromodulatory and neuroprotective strategies.
Many of the recent advances in the understanding of the pathological processes underlying Alzheimer's disease have come about as a result of the development of assays that can specifically quantitate in biological milieu amyloid-beta (A beta) peptides ending at amino-acid positions Ala-42 (A beta(42)) and Val-40 (A beta(40)). The existing technologies, however, although proven in their utility are limited in their application with regards to sample manipulation and suitability for high-throughput screening. To overcome these limitations, in this report we describe the development of a novel homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence (HTRF) immunoassay for A beta(42) and A beta(40) peptides. This assay has the sensitivity, selectivity and dynamic range to allow specific, direct quantitation of A beta peptides in cell culture medium, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and brain tissue extracts, and has the major advantage of minimising sample manipulation and its inherent inaccuracies.
Thiamine deficiency (TD) in both humans and experimental animals results in severe compromise of mitochondrial function and leads to selective neuronal cell death in diencephalic and cerebellar structures. To examine further the influence of TD on neuronal survival in relation to metabolic changes, primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells were exposed to thiamine-deficient medium for up to 7 days in the absence or presence of the central thiamine antagonist pyrithiamine (Py). Exposure of cells for 7 days to thiamine-deficient medium alone resulted in no detectable cell death. On the other hand, 50 microM Py treatment led to reductions of thiamine phosphate esters, decreased activities of the thiamine-dependent enzymes alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and transketolase, a twofold increase in lactate release (P &lt; 0.001), a lowering of pH, and significant (58%, P &lt; 0.001) cell death. DNA fragmentation studies did not reveal evidence of apoptotic cell death. Addition of 50 microM alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) or 100 microM of butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) to Py-treated cells resulted in significant neuroprotection. On the other hand, addition of 10 microM MK-801, an NMDA receptor antagonist, was not neuroprotective. These results suggest that reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a major role in thiamine deficiency-induced neuronal cell death. Insofar as this experimental model recapitulates the metabolic and mitochondrial changes characteristic of thiamine deficiency in the intact animal, it might be useful in the elucidation of mechanisms involved in the neuronal cell death cascade resulting from thiamine deficiency.
It was recently demonstrated that the yeast homologue of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinasebeta PIK1 is directly associated with frq1, the yeast homologue of mammalian neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) (Hendricks et al., [1999] Nat. Cell Biol. 1:234- 241). This was a novel finding and suggests that a calcium binding protein activates and regulates PtdIns 4-kinasebeta. This finding had not been shown in mammalian cells and both PtdIns 4-kinasebeta and NCS-1 have been shown to have important roles in the regulation of exocytotic release associated with neurotransmission. The aims of this study were to determine if PtdIns 4-kinasebeta and NCS-1 directly associate in mammalian neural tissues. We show that the immunostaining pattern for PtdIns 4-kinasebeta and NCS-1 is co-localized throughout the neurites of newborn cultured dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons but not in E13 DRG neurons. We then provide biochemical evidence that PtdIns 4-kinasebeta may not be in physical association with NCS-1 in mammalian nervous tissue unlike that previously reported in yeast.
Long-duration exposure to weightlessness results in bone demineralization, muscle atrophy, cardiovascular deconditioning, altered sensory-motor control, and central nervous system reorganizations. Exercise countermeasures and body loading methods so far employed have failed to prevent these changes. A human mission to Mars might last 2 or 3 years and without effective countermeasures could result in dangerous levels of bone and muscle loss. Artificial gravity generated by rotation of an entire space vehicle or of an inner chamber could be used to prevent structural changes. Some of the physical characteristics of rotating environments are outlined along with their implications for human performance. Artificial gravity is the centripetal force generated in a rotating vehicle and is proportional to the product of the square of angular velocity and the radius of rotation. Thus, for a particular g-level, there is a tradeoff between velocity of rotation and radius. Increased radius is vastly more expensive to achieve than velocity, so it is important to know the highest rotation rates to which humans can adapt. Early studies suggested that 3 rpm might be the upper limit because movement control and orientation were disrupted at higher velocities and motion sickness and chronic fatigue were persistent problems. Recent studies, however, are showing that, if the terminal velocity is achieved over a series of gradual steps and many body movements are made at each dwell velocity, then full adaptation of head, arm, and leg movements is possible. Rotation rates as high as 7.5-10 rpm are likely feasible. An important feature of the new studies is that they provide compelling evidence that equilibrium point theories of movement control are inadequate. The central principles of equilibrium point theories lead to the equifinality prediction, which is violated by movements made in rotating reference frames.
Hip extension and low load in the extensor muscles are important sensory signals that allow a decerebrate or spinal cat to advance from the stance phase to the swing phase during walking. We tested whether the same sensory information controlled the phases of stepping in human infants. Twenty-two infants between the ages of 5 and 12 months were studied during supported stepping on a treadmill. Forces exerted by the lower limbs, surface electromyography (EMG) from muscles, and the right hip angle were recorded. The whole experimental session was videotaped. The hip position and the amount of load experienced by the right limb were manipulated during stepping by changing the position of the foot during the stance phase or by applying manual pressure on the pelvic crest. Disturbances with different combinations of hip position and load were used. The stance phase was prolonged and the swing phase delayed when the hip was flexed and the load on the limb was high. In contrast, stance phase was shortened and swing advanced when the hip was extended and the load was low. The results were remarkably similar to those in reduced preparations of the cat. They thus suggest that the behaviour of the brainstem and spinal circuitry for walking may be similar between human infants and cats. There was an inverse relationship between hip position and load at the time of swing initiation, indicating the two factors combine to regulate the transition.
The neuropeptide Y family of G-protein-coupled receptors consists of five cloned members in mammals. Four genes give rise to functional receptors in all mammals investigated. The y6 gene is a pseudogene in human and pig and is absent in rat, but generates a functional receptor in rabbit and mouse and probably in the collared peccary (Pecari tajacu), a distant relative of the pig family. We report here that the guinea pig y6 gene has a highly distorted nucleotide sequence with multiple frame-shift mutations. One evolutionary scenario may suggest that y6 was inactivated before the divergence of the mammalian orders and subsequently resurrected in some lineages. However, the pseudogene mutations seem to be distinct in human, pig, and guinea pig, arguing for separate inactivation events. In either case, the y6 gene has a quite unusual evolutionary history with multiple independent deaths or resurrections.
We have cloned and characterized the genomic structure of the mouse gene for the NBMPR-sensitive equilibrative nucleoside transporter (mENT1), which is located on chromosome 17C. About 12-kb of genomic DNA was sequenced including the promoter region, 12 exons, 11 introns, and the 3'-untranslated region. All exon-intron junction sequences conform to the GT/AG rule. Primer extension analysis demonstrated a transcription initiation site located 252 bp upstream of the translation start site. Analysis of the 2.5-kb 5'-flanking sequence shows putative binding sites for several transcription factors, including GATA-1, IRF-2, Pit-1, myogenin, CREB, Sp-1, Ap-2, MAZ, and GR. We demonstrated that mouse ENT1 mRNA was highly expressed in heart, spleen, lung, liver, and testis. Lower levels of expression were detected in brain and kidney. Functional analysis of the 5'-flanking region showed that the nucleotide sequence from -652 to -111 contains cis-regulatory elements that promote gene expression. We found two Sp-1 binding sites (-296/-303, -307/-313) and two MAZ binding sites (-353/-359, -522/-528) in this region. Luciferase assay results suggest that MAZ and Sp-1 transcription factors are important positive regulators of transcription for the ENT1 gene in NG108-15 cells.

The majority of adult nucleus accumbens medium spiny neurons exhibit a bistable membrane potential that fluctuates between a relatively hyperpolarized (Down) state (average=-76 mV) and a less hyperpolarized (Up) state (average=-60 mV) near firing threshold. During in vivo extracellular recordings from nucleus accumbens neurons, we used microiontophoresis to apply glutamate and selected neurons that fired in bursting patterns reflecting a subthreshold bistable membrane potential. The average frequency of bursts events was 0.85 Hz. The average burst duration was 392+/-3.5 ms, with an average of 13.4 spikes and an average spike frequency of 30.6+/-3.1 Hz per burst. To determine the involvement of the L-type calcium channel in the bursting pattern, we applied the benzothiazepine L-type calcium channel blocker, diltiazem. Diltiazem rapidly (&lt;2 min) and reversibly decreased the burst duration by 29% and the frequency of spikes within a burst by 30% without changing the overall burst event frequency. The results provide the first in vivo electrophysiological evidence implicating an L-type calcium channel that modulates glutamate-induced burst firing of nucleus accumbens neurons.
This experiment examined the influence of U-99194A, a dopamine D3 receptor antagonist, on ethanol's rewarding effect in a place conditioning paradigm. Swiss-Webster mice received six pairings of a tactile stimulus with ethanol (2 g/kg, i.p.), U-99194A (20 mg/kg, i. p.) with ethanol, or U-99194A alone. A different stimulus was paired with saline. During conditioning, ethanol or ethanol/U-99194A produced similar increases in locomotor activity. U-99194A alone produced modest increases in activity on some trials. As expected, the 2 g/kg ethanol dose produced a nonsignificant trend towards conditioned place preference. However, U-99194A enhanced the acquisition of ethanol preference, whereas U-99194A alone did not produce either place preference or aversion. The results are consistent with the notion that dopamine D3 systems are important in the response to ethanol and further suggest that D3 receptor blockade increases ethanol reward.
Expression of c-fos in L(5)-S(1) spinal segments in response to mechanical vaginocervical stimulation was investigated in both cycling and ovariectomized females. The aim of this paper was to verify the influence of estrous cycle on females genital tract sensitivity using immunodetection of a neural activity endogenous marker. The results indicate that lumbosacral spinal Fos-labeling was highly increased in vaginocervical stimulated rats relative to control, and labeled neurons were present more intensively in the dorsal horn in comparison to other spinal areas. Significant differences in Fos-labeling were observed according to the estrous cycle stage at which the stimulation was applied. In estrous females, the response was greater than that obtained at diestrous and much greater than the response of proestrous females. The spinal Fos-labeling of ovariectomized females is equivalent to that of diestrous females. These results give evidence that the vaginocervical induced expression of c-fos is modulated by cyclic changes in circulating sex hormones, whereas results observed in ovariectomized females indicate the likely involvement of other mechanisms independent of ovarian hormones.
Improgan is an analog of the H(2) antagonist cimetidine that does not act on known histamine receptors, but induces highly effective analgesia in rodents following intracerebroventricular (icv) administration. Since the mechanism of action of this compound remains unknown, improgan analgesia was characterized presently with the tail immersion nociceptive test in mutant mice lacking either the mu (exon 1 of MOR-1), delta (exon 2 of DOR-1) or kappa (exon 3 of KOR-1) opioid receptor. Improgan (30 microg, icv) induced reversible, maximal analgesia in both sexes of all three genotypes (+/+, +/- and -/-) of MOR-1 mutant mice 10 and 20 min after administration, whereas morphine analgesia was reduced (+/-) or abolished (-/-) in these subjects. In DOR-1 mutant mice, improgan was equally effective in all three genotypes, despite the reduction (+/-) or complete loss (-/-) of delta opioid receptor (3H-[D-Pen(2), D-Pen(5)]enkephalin, DPDPE) binding. Similarly, improgan analgesia was equivalent in all three genotypes of KOR-1 mutant mice, whereas kappa-mediated analgesia (U50,488) and kappa opioid (3H-U69,593) binding were abolished in the homozygous (-/-) mice. These studies demonstrate that improgan analgesia does not require intact MOR-1, DOR-1, or KOR-1 genes, and support the hypothesis that improgan-like analgesics act in the CNS by non-opioid mechanisms.
The differing effects of partial seizures on neurobehavioral recovery following anteromedial cortex (AMC) injury in rats have previously been reported. Specifically, convulsive Stage 1 seizures evoked ipsilateral to the lesion during the 6-day post-lesion critical period delayed recovery, while non-convulsive Stage 0 seizures were neutral. The present study was designed to elaborate on that research by examining several potential mechanisms for the seizure-associated difference observed in functional outcome. Anesthetized rats sustained unilateral AMC lesions followed by implantation of a stimulating electrode in the amygdala ipsilateral (Expt. 1) or contralateral (Expt. 2) to the lesion. Beginning 48 h after surgery, animals were kindled to evoke Stage 0 or Stage 1 seizure activity during the critical period. Kindling trials and afterdischarge (AD) were controlled to ascertain their role in functional outcome. Recovery from somatosensory deficits was assessed over a two-month period. The results revealed that (i) Stage 0 seizures did not impact recovery regardless of whether initiated ipsilateral or contralateral to the lesion, (ii) Stage 1 seizures prevented recovery only when initiated in the ipsilateral hemisphere during the post-lesion critical period, and (iii) the detrimental effect of Stage 1 seizures appears to be independent of the number of kindling trials provided and cumulative AD. Thus, to determine why Stage 1 seizures evoked in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the lesion impeded recovery, a separate group of animals (Expt. 3) were kindled accordingly and processed for c-Fos and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) immunohistochemistry. It was hypothesized that Stage 1 seizures evoked in the injured hemisphere prevent recovery by blocking lesion-induced bFGF expression in structures shown to be important for recovery after cortex lesions (e.g., striatum). The results confirmed our hypothesis and suggest that the seizure-associated inhibition of lesion-induced bFGF may alter the growth factor-mediated plasticity necessary for functional recovery.
We investigated and compared the toxicity profile, as well as possible neuroprotective effects, of some antiepileptic drugs in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. We used two novel carbamazepine derivatives, (S)-(-)-10-acetoxy-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz[b, f]azepine-5-carboxamide (BIA 2-093) and 10, 11-dihydro-10-hydroxyimino-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-5-carboxamide (BIA 2-024), and compared their effects with the established compounds carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine. The assessment of neuronal injury was made by using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl (MTT) assay, as well as by analysing morphology and nuclear chromatin condensation (propidium iodide staining), after hippocampal neurons were exposed to the drugs for 24 h. The putative antiepileptic drugs, BIA 2-093 or BIA 2-024 (at 300 microM), only slightly decreased MTT reduction, whereas carbamazepine or oxcarbazepine were much more toxic at lower concentrations. Treatment with the antiepileptic drugs caused nuclear chromatin condensation in some neurons, which is characteristic of apoptosis, and increased the activity of caspase-3-like enzymes, mainly in neurons treated with carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine. The toxic effect caused by carbamazepine was not mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors. Moreover, the antiepileptic drugs failed to protect hippocampal neurons from the toxicity caused by kainate, veratridine, or ischaemia-like conditions.
Four glutamate residues (EEEE locus) are essential for ion selectivity in voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, with ion-specific differences in binding to the locus providing the basis of selectivity. Whether side chain carboxylates or alternatively main chain carbonyls of these glutamates project into the pore to form the ion-binding locus has been uncertain. We have addressed this question by examining effects of sulfhydryl-modifying agents (methanethiosulfonates) on 20 cysteine-substituted mutant forms of an L-type Ca(2+) channel. Sulfhydryl modifiers partially blocked whole oocyte Ba(2+) currents carried by wild type channels, but this block was largely reversed with washout. In contrast, each of the four EEEE locus glutamate --&gt; cysteine mutants (0 position) was persistently blocked by sulfhydryl modifiers, indicating covalent attachment of a modifying group to the side chain of the substituted cysteine. Cysteine substitutions at positions immediately adjacent to the EEEE locus glutamates (+/-1 positions) were also generally susceptible to sulfhydryl modification. Sulfhydryl modifiers had lesser effects on channels substituted one position further from the EEEE locus (+/-2 positions). These results indicate that the carboxylate-bearing side chains of the EEEE locus glutamates and their immediate neighbors project into the water-filled lumen of the pore to form an ion-binding locus. Thus the structure of the Ca(2+) channel selectivity filter differs substantially from that of ancestral K(+) channels.
To clarify the effects of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on the vasoconstrictive responses, we compared the correlation between the amplitude of integrated skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) and per cent reduction in skin blood flow (SBF) before and after the infusion of lipo PGE1 and placebo (bolus one-shot infusion, single blind study), and constant rate infusion of PGE1 (10 and 50 ng kg(-1) min(-1) by infusion pump, dose-dependency study) in ten healthy men. SSNA was recorded microneurographically from the median nerve simultaneously with SBF by laser Doppler flowmetry at the index fingertip. The measurement was conducted 30 min after injection of lipo PGE1 or placebo, and during the drip infusion of 10 and 50 ng kg(-1) min(-1) of PGE1 with maneuvers to enhance SSNA. The resting and activated skin blood flow were not significantly different between 10 ng lipo PGE1 and placebo administration, and between baseline and 10, 50 ng kg(-1) min(-1) of PGE1 injection. The vascular response, defined as the slope of regression line between logarithm of amplitude of integrated SSNA bursts and the reduction in SBF, was significantly suppressed by injection of lipo PGE1 as compared with that by placebo. It was also decreased dose-dependently by the constant rate infusion of PGE1 (10 and 50 ng kg(-1) min(-1)). We concluded that the intravenous injection of PGE1 attenuates vasoconstrictive responses to SSNA, and analysis of the relations between SSNA and vasoconstrictive response, i.e. the neuroeffector response, is suggested to be an important tool to assess the drug effect.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of vitamin E on valproic acid (VPA) induced teratogenesis. Pregnant Balb mice were divided into six groups of 10-11 animals each. The mice in group 1 served as control and were injected with saline subcutaneously on day 8 of gestation, whereas, animals in group 2 received a single injection of VPA (700 mg/kg (s.c.)). Groups 3 and 4 received an oral administration of vitamin E in the doses of 250 and 500 mg/kg, respectively, 1 h before VPA injection. Group 5 and 6 were given vitamin E only, in the same doses as group 3 and 4. On day 18 of gestation, the mice were killed by cervical dislocation. Embryotoxicity was assessed by counting the number of implants, live and dead fetuses, resorptions, crown rump length and fetal body weight. The fetuses were observed for malformations including neural tube defects (excencephaly), open eye lid and micrognathae. VPA administration resulted in a significant reduction of the average live fetuses/litter, fetal weight and crown rump length and a significant increase in malformations (excencephaly, open eye lid and micrognathae). Concomitant administration of vitamin E significantly attenuated VPA induced decrease in the fetal weight, crown rump length and malformations.
Female Lewis rats (n=72) were inoculated with an emulsion of spinal cord and complete Freund's adjuvant. They were then exposed for approximately 6 min every hour between midnight and 08:00 h for 2 weeks to either 7 or 40 Hz amplitude-modulated magnetic fields whose temporal pattern was designed to simulate a (geomagnetic) storm sudden commencement. The peak strengths of the fields averaged between either 30-50 nT (low intensity) or 500 nT (high intensity). Rats exposed to the 7 Hz, low intensity magnetic fields displayed significantly less severe overt signs of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis than rats exposed to either of the two intensities of the 40 Hz fields, the high intensity 7 Hz field, or the reference (&lt;10 nT) condition. The latter groups did not differ significantly from each other. Predicted severity based upon the numbers of foci of infiltrations of lymphocytes within the brains of the rats also demonstrated the ameliorating effects of the low intensity, 7 Hz exposures. These results suggest very specific characteristics of complex, weak magnetic fields within the sleeping environment could affect the symptoms of autoimmunity.
No one knows what causes depression, although many neuroscientists blame an imbalance of brain chemicals, so-called neurotransmitters, especially those that affect the brain's pleasure responses. Now a few neuroscientists are converging on a radical, but complementary, theory: that depression may be caused by a lack of new cell growth in the brain. The recent discovery that the brain keeps producing neurons into adulthood has given this highly speculative theory at least one leg to stand on.
On page 350, researchers report the results of new work in which they used the computer game Tetris--which involves using spatial reasoning to slot falling blocks strategically into place--to study how the brain reviews what it has learned. The researchers found that people who have just learned to play Tetris have vivid images of the game pieces floating before their eyes as they fall asleep, a phenomenon the researchers say is critical for building memories. Much more surprisingly, the team also found that the images appear to people with amnesia who have played the game--even though they have no recollection of having done so.
The insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS-2) is a major insulin signalling molecule. IRS-2 inactivation in mice induces a form of diabetes characterized by peripheral insulin resistance and reduced beta cell mass. We tested the hypothesis that a common non-conservative amino acid substitution of IRS-2 (G1057D) might interact with overweight in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. The variant was genotyped in 193 Italian patients with type 2 diabetes and 206 control subjects. In the absence of overweight, the risk of type 2 diabetes decreased according to the dosage of the D1057 allele (odds ratio for GD genotype 0.46 [95% CI 0.25-0.86]; DD genotype 0.18 [0.04-0.68]; P for trend = 0.0012). Conversely, the interaction between overweight and genotype increased the risk of type 2 diabetes according to the dosage of the D1057 allele (odds ratio for GD genotype 2.50 [1.11-5.65]; DD genotype 5.74 [1.11-29. 78]; P for trend = 0.0047). Among controls, fasting C-peptide levels, after adjustment for plasma glucose, were inversely related to the dosage of the D1057 allele (P = 0.020). This finding suggested that carriers of the D1057 allele may have higher insulin sensitivity and supported the protective effect of this allele. Conversely, among overweight patients there was a parallel increase in fasting plasma glucose (P for trend = 0.037) and fasting C-peptide according to the dosage of the D1057 allele, suggesting that higher insulin resistance and relative beta cell failure contributed to the increased risk of type 2 diabetes in overweight carriers of this allele. These data provide evidence for a strong association between type 2 diabetes and the G1057D common genetic variant of IRS-2, which appears to be protective against type 2 diabetes in a codominant fashion. Overweight appears to modify the effect of this polymorphism toward a higher risk of type 2 diabetes. Carriers of this polymorphism may represent an elective target for prevention of type 2 diabetes through preventing or treating excessive weight.
Understanding how the brain constructs movements remains a fundamental challenge in neuroscience. The brain may control complex movements through flexible combination of motor primitives, where each primitive is an element of computation in the sensorimotor map that transforms desired limb trajectories into motor commands. Theoretical studies have shown that a system's ability to learn action depends on the shape of its primitives. Using a time-series analysis of error patterns, here we show that humans learn the dynamics of reaching movements through a flexible combination of primitives that have gaussian-like tuning functions encoding hand velocity. The wide tuning of the inferred primitives predicts limitations on the brain's ability to represent viscous dynamics. We find close agreement between the predicted limitations and the subjects' adaptation to new force fields. The mathematical properties of the derived primitives resemble the tuning curves of Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. The activity of these cells may encode primitives that underlie the learning of dynamics.




Clinical abnormalities in multiple sclerosis (MS) have classically been considered to be caused by demyelination and/or axonal degeneration; the possibility of molecular changes in neurons, such as the deployment of abnormal repertoires of ion channels that would alter neuronal electrogenic properties, has not been considered. Sensory Neuron-Specific sodium channel SNS displays a depolarized voltage dependence, slower activation and inactivation kinetics, and more rapid recovery from inactivation than classical &quot;fast&quot; sodium channels. SNS is selectively expressed in spinal sensory and trigeminal ganglion neurons within the peripheral nervous system and is not expressed within the normal brain. Here we show that sodium channel SNS mRNA and protein, which are not present within the cerebellum of control mice, are expressed within cerebellar Purkinje cells in a mouse model of MS, chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. We also demonstrate SNS mRNA and protein expression within Purkinje cells from tissue obtained postmortem from patients with MS, but not in control subjects with no neurological disease. These results demonstrate a change in sodium channel expression in neurons within the brain in an animal model of MS and in humans with MS and suggest that abnormal patterns of neuronal ion channel expression may contribute to clinical abnormalities such as ataxia in these disorders.
The neuropeptides vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) belong to a superfamily of structurally related peptide hormones that includes glucagon, glucagon-like peptides, secretin, and growth hormone-releasing hormone. Microinjection of VIP or PACAP into the rodent suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) phase shifts the circadian pacemaker and VIP antagonists, and antisense oligodeoxynucleotides have been shown to disrupt circadian function. VIP and PACAP have equal potency as agonists of the VPAC(2) receptor (VPAC(2)R), which is expressed abundantly in the SCN, in a circadian manner. To determine whether manipulating the level of expression of the VPAC(2)R can influence the control of the circadian clock, we have created transgenic mice overexpressing the human VPAC(2)R gene from a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) construct. The YAC was modified by a strategy using homologous recombination to introduce (i) the HA epitope tag sequence (from influenza virus hemagglutinin) at the carboxyl terminus of the VPAC(2)R protein, (ii) the lacZ reporter gene, and (iii) a conditional centromere, enabling YAC DNA to be amplified in culture in the presence of galactose. High levels of lacZ expression were detected in the SCN, habenula, pancreas, and testis of the transgenic mice, with lower levels in the olfactory bulb and various hypothalamic areas. Transgenic mice resynchronized more quickly than wild-type controls to an advance of 8 h in the light-dark (LD) cycle and exhibited a significantly shorter circadian period in constant darkness (DD). These data suggest that the VPAC(2)R can influence the rhythmicity and photic entrainment of the circadian clock.
The neuropeptide galanin colocalizes with choline acetyltransferase, the synthetic enzyme for acetylcholine, in a subset of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain of rodents. Chronic intracerebroventricular infusion of nerve growth factor induces a 3- to 4-fold increase in galanin gene expression in these neurons. Here we report the loss of a third of cholinergic neurons in the medial septum and vertical limb diagonal band of the basal forebrain of adult mice carrying a targeted loss-of-function mutation in the galanin gene. These deficits are associated with a 2-fold increase in the number of apoptotic cells in the forebrain at postnatal day seven. This loss is associated with marked age-dependent deficits in stimulated acetylcholine release, performance in the Morris water maze, and induction of long-term potentiation in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. These data provide unexpected evidence that galanin plays a trophic role to regulate the development and function of a subset of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons.
IL-1beta and its endogenous receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) are rapidly induced by seizures in the rodent hippocampus. Exogenously applied IL-1beta prolongs seizures in an IL-1R type I-mediated manner. This effect depends on N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activation. We report here that intrahippocampal application of recombinant IL-1Ra or its selective endogenous overexpression in astrocytes under the control of glial acidic fibrillary protein promoter potently inhibits motor and electroencephalographic seizures induced by bicuculline methiodide in mice. Accordingly, transgenic mice show a reduced seizure-related c-fos mRNA expression in various forebrain areas compared with their wild-type littermates. Recombinant IL-1Ra was ineffective in mice deficient in IL-1R type I, having per se a delayed onset to generalized convulsions. These results demonstrate that IL-1Ra mediates potent anticonvulsant effects acting on IL-1R type I and suggest that the balance between brain IL-1beta and IL-1Ra represents a crucial mechanism to control seizure generalization.
Pineal glands removed from neonatal rats at 5, 7, and 9 days of age and explanted into short-term culture, synthesized melatonin when stimulated with norepinephrine (NE); their melatonin synthesis could not be suppressed with bright white light. Dispersed pineal cell cultures or pineal explants prepared from 1-day-old neonates and held in culture for 7 or 9 days also synthesized melatonin when stimulated with NE, but in these cases melatonin synthesis was significantly suppressed by light, demonstrating that the pineals had become photosensitive while in culture. The development of photosensitivity in culture could be partially or completely abolished by the continuous presence of 1 or 10 microm of NE in the culture medium. The pineals of all nonmammalian vertebrates are photoreceptive, whereas those of mammals do not normally respond to light. We hypothesize that a mechanism to suppress pineal photosensitivity by using NE released from sympathetic nerve endings evolved early in the history of mammals.
Acute sensitivity and tolerance to quinpirole (a dopamine mimetic with selectivity for D(2)/D(3) dopamine receptors) were evaluated in the C57BL/6J and DBA/2J inbred strains of mice, 24 of their BXD recombinant inbred strains, and 233 F(2) mice. Baseline locomotor activity, locomotor activity following 0.03 mg/kg quinpirole (and 0. 01 mg/kg in BXD mice), body temperature following 1 mg/kg quinpirole, and hypothermic tolerance following 2 or 3 days of quinpirole administration were evaluated. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis was employed to identify genetic determinants of baseline locomotor activity and five behavioral responses to quinpirole. We examined correlated allelic variation in genetic markers of known chromosomal location with variation in each of these phenotypes. We definitively mapped a QTL on Chromosome (Chr) 9 linked to the D(2) dopamine receptor gene, Drd2, for hypothermic sensitivity to quinpirole, and identify a suggestive QTL in the same chromosomal region for tolerance to quinpirole after repeated treatments. Suggestive QTLs were also identified on Chr 19 for sensitivity and tolerance to quinpirole-induced hypothermia and for baseline locomotor activity; on Chr 15 for locomotor sensitivity to quinpirole; and on Chr 13 and 5 for baseline locomotor activity. Our results indicate that genetic differences in quinpirole sensitivity and tolerance are associated with QTLs near Drd2, and that baseline locomotor activity is associated with a suggestive QTL in proximity to the dopamine transporter gene Dat1. These data suggest that the genes influencing locomotor activity, dopamine mimetic sensitivity, and tolerance do not overlap completely.
Unlike many other sexually dimorphic systems, gonadal secretions do not explain sex differences in the morphology of the telencephalic song control nuclei of zebra finches. It is important to understand whether a novel mechanism for controlling structure is restricted to the forebrain regions specialized for song, and whether other areas respond more typically to gonadal steroids. Therefore, the effects of sex and adult androgen manipulation on the neuromuscular end of the song control system (tracheosyringeal portion of the hypoglossal nucleus, nXIIts, and the syrinx, or vocal organ) were investigated. Because lesion and axotomy experiments indicate a right-side bias in the functional control of song, asymmetry in the motor nucleus and in the ventralis and dorsalis syrinx muscles was also tested. Male-biased dimorphisms existed in the volume of nXIIts, and in syrinx mass and size of muscle fibers, but not in motoneuron number or size. Asymmetries favoring the right side were detected in nXIIts volume and motoneuron number in males, as well as in ventralis and dorsalis fiber size in both sexes. Hormone manipulations had no effect on nXIIts size, neuron size, or number. Testosterone treatment of adult females increased all of the syringeal measures, but the only effect of flutamide in males was to decrease syrinx weight. Thus, male-biased sexual dimorphisms and right side dominance in both nXIIts and the syrinx may facilitate singing behavior. Adult androgen exposure can induce partial masculinization of the syrinx, but other factors must be important in mediating the sex differences in both that structure and the volume of nXIIts.
To determine whether the neostriatum receives overlapping projections from two somatosensory cortical areas, the anterograde tracers biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and fluoro-ruby (FR) were injected into the whisker representations of primary (SI) and secondary (SII) somatosensory cortex. Reconstructions of labeled terminals and their beaded varicosities in the neostriatum and thalamus were analyzed quantitatively to compare the extent of overlapping projections to both subcortical structures. Corticostriatal projections from focal sites in both somatosensory areas exhibited substantial amounts of divergence within the dorsolateral neostriatum. Most of the labeled terminals were concentrated in densely packed arborizations that occupied lamellar-shaped regions along the dorsolateral edge of the neostriatum. Tracer injections in both cortical areas also produced dense anterograde and retrograde labeling in the thalamus, especially in the ventrobasal complex (VB) and in the medial part of the posterior (POm) nucleus. Because these thalamic regions are topographically organized and have reciprocal connections with corresponding representations in both SI and SII, the amount of labeled overlap in the thalamus was used to indicate the degree of somatotopic correspondence at the SI and SII injection sites. We found that the proportion of overlapping projections to the neostriatum was moderately correlated with the amount of overlap observed in the thalamus. This result strongly indicates that specific sites in the dorsolateral neostriatum receive convergent projections from corresponding somatotopic representations in SI and SII, but also suggests that some of the corticostriatal divergence may reflect neostriatal integration of somatosensory information from noncorresponding representations in SI and SII.
Activation of NMDA receptors evokes sustained fictive locomotion in the isolated spinal cord of the sea lamprey Petromyzon marinus (P. marinus), but in the river lamprey Lampetra fluviatilis (L. fluviatilis) the ventral root activity is often irregular. A previous study showed that the number of 5-HT immunoreactive fibres, neurones and varicosities are much lower in the spinal cord of L. fluviatilis than in P. marinus. To further analyse the underlying mechanisms, the present study investigated the role of the 5-HT system in stabilising fictive locomotion. In P. marinus a blockade of 5-HT1A receptors by spiperone reversibly increased the frequency and the coefficient of variation. This implies that there is an endogenous release of 5-HT during fictive locomotion that is important for the generation of locomotor activity. In L. fluviatilis bath applied NMDA or D-glutamate evoked in most cases irregular activity. An addition of 5-HT (0.5-2 microM) rapidly stabilised the burst generation and led to a sustained fictive locomotion. In a split-bath configuration, NMDA administered to the rostral part of the spinal cord in P. marinus evoked fictive locomotion in both the rostral part and the first few segments of the caudal part. When spiperone was added to the caudal part, the burst activity changed into tonic activity within 10 min. Taken together, these results indicate that activity in the intrinsic 5-HT system in the lamprey spinal locomotor network contributes significantly to the rhythm generation. The quantitative differences with regard to the 5-HT plexus between P. marinus and L. fluviatilis may account for the observed discrepancy between the two species.
The secretion of prolactin (PRL) from the anterior lobe (AL) of the pituitary gland is tonically inhibited by dopamine (DA) of hypothalamic origin. While ovarian steroids play a role in the regulation of the secretion of PRL, their effect on all three populations of hypothalamic neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons is not fully understood. In this study we describe the effects of ovarian steroids on regulation of the release of DA from tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA), tuberohypophyseal dopaminergic (THDA) and periventricular-hypophyseal dopaminergic (PHDA) neurons. Adult female rats were bilaterally ovariectomized (OVX) and, 10 days following ovariectomy (day 0), injected with corn oil (vehicle), estrogen, or estrogen plus progesterone (day 1). Animals were sacrificed every 2 h from 09.00 to 21.00 h by rapid decapitation. Trunk blood was collected and the concentration of PRL in serum was determined by radioimmunoassay. The median eminence (ME) and the AL, intermediate (IL) and neural (NL) lobes of the pituitary gland were dissected and the concentration of DA and DOPAC in each was measured by HPLC-EC. OVX rats presented small but significant increases in the secretion of PRL at 15.00 and 17.00 h. Replacement of estrogen or estrogen plus progesterone increased the basal concentration of PRL. Moreover, injection of estrogen only, or estrogen plus progesterone increased the concentration of PRL in serum at 15.00 h through 19.00 h, respectively, followed by a decrease to baseline thereafter. The turnover of DA in the ME and NL of OVX rats increased at 13.00 and returned to low levels. Turnover of DA in the IL of OVX rats increased in the morning by 11.00 h and remained elevated before decreasing by 17.00 h. The turnover of DA in the ME, IL and NL of OVX rats increased by 19.00 h. Injection of estrogen advanced the increase of TIDA activity by 2 h in the ME compared to OVX rats. Moreover, administration of estrogen suppressed the activity of THDA and PHDA neurons in the afternoon compared to OVX rats. In estrogen plus progesterone-treated rats, the activity of hypothalamic neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons terminating in the ME, IL, and NL was inhibited prior to the increase in the secretion of PRL. The concentration of DA in the AL diminished prior to the estrogen-induced increase of PRL. Administration of progesterone, in concert with estrogen, delayed the increase of PRL in serum and the decrease of DA in the AL, compared to estrogen-treated rats, by 4 h. These data suggest a major role for ovarian steroids in controlling increases in the secretion of PRL by not only stimulating PRL release from lactotrophs, but also by inhibiting the activity of all three populations of hypothalamic neuroendocrine DAergic neurons.
Diadenosine polyphosphates are present in synaptic vesicles, are released upon nerve stimulation and possess membrane receptors, namely in presynaptic terminals. However, the role of diadenosine polyphosphates to control neurotransmitter release in the CNS is not known. We now show that diadenosine pentaphosphate (Ap(5)A, 3-100 microM) facilitated in a concentration dependent manner the evoked release of acetylcholine from hippocampal nerve terminals, with a maximal facilitatory effect of 116% obtained with 30 microM Ap(5)A. The selective diadenosine polyphosphate receptor antagonist, diinosine pentaphosphate (Ip(5)I, 1 microM), inhibited by 75% the facilitatory effect of Ap(5)A (30 microM), whereas the P(2) receptor antagonists, suramin (100 microM) and pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS, 10 microM) only caused a 18-24% inhibition, the adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (20 nM), caused a 36% inhibition and the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist, 4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)[1,2,4]triazolo [2,3-a][1,3, 5]triazin-5-ylamino]ethyl)phenol (ZM 241385, 20 nM), was devoid of effect. These results show that diadenosine polyphosphates act as neuromodulators in the CNS, facilitating the evoked release of acetylcholine mainly through activation of diadenosine polyphosphate receptors.
Research on synaptically-released zinc is frequently done in vitro with acute brain slice preparations. We show here the in vitro hippocampal slice preparation has two major pitfalls for zinc research. First, up to 50% of the synaptic zinc is lost during slice cutting and/or the first 10 min of slice incubation, with the losses being most pronounced on the edges of the slice. Second, the release of the remaining zinc from a slice is substantially depressed (up to 50%) at the low temperatures (32 degrees C) typically used for brain slice studies. In concert, these effects reduce zinc release about 75% in vitro, compared to in vivo. Implications for research on synaptically-released zinc are discussed.
Two cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors, indomethacin and nimesulide, have been shown to potentiate morphine-induced stimulation of meso-accumbens dopamine neurons. In this study, an unbiased conditioned place preference procedure was used to evaluate whether nimesulide produces motivational effect after systemic administration in rats. These results show that nimesulide, at doses 0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, even lower than those usually applied for inflammatory conditions, induces conditioned place preference in rats, suggesting that it might possess rewarding properties in humans.
We have studied the pharmacological effects of (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazol-4-yl)propionic acid (AMPA) and the enantiomers of (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-1,2, 5-thiadiazol-4-yl)propionic acid (TDPA) on cloned human excitatory amino acid transporter subtypes 1, 2 and 3 (EAAT1-3) expressed in Cos-7 cells. Whereas AMPA and (R)-TDPA were both inactive as inhibitors of [3H]-(R)-aspartic acid uptake on all three EAAT subtypes, (S)-TDPA was shown to selectively inhibit uptake by EAAT2 with a potency equal to that of the endogenous ligand (S)-glutamic acid. (S)-TDPA thus represents a new structural class of EAAT2 inhibitor that will serve as a lead for the design of EAAT selective inhibitors.
It is becoming clear that receptors that initiate signal transduction by interacting with G-proteins do not function as monomers, but often require accessory proteins for function. Some of these accessory proteins are chaperones, required for correct transport of the receptor to the cell surface, but the function of many accessory proteins remains unknown. We determined the role of an accessory protein for the receptor for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a potent vasodilator neuropeptide. We have previously shown that this accessory protein, the CGRP-receptor component protein (RCP), is expressed in CGRP responsive tissues and that RCP protein expression correlates with the biological efficacy of CGRP in vivo. However, the function of RCP has remained elusive. In this study stable cell lines were made that express antisense RCP RNA, and CGRP- and adrenomedullin-mediated signal transduction were greatly reduced. However, the loss of RCP did not effect CGRP binding or receptor density, indicating that RCP did not behave as a chaperone but was instead coupling the CGRP receptor to downstream effectors. A candidate CGRP receptor named calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CRLR) has been identified, and in this study RCP co-immunoprecipitated with CRLR indicating that these two proteins interact directly. Since CGRP and adrenomedullin can both signal through CRLR, which has been previously shown to require a chaperone protein for function, we now propose that a functional CGRP or adrenomedullin receptor consists of at least three proteins: the receptor (CRLR), the chaperone protein (RAMP), and RCP that couples the receptor to the cellular signal transduction pathway.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) elicits pleiotropic effects on various types of cells through the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase. However, the mechanisms underlying the diverse responses of cells remain unknown. We show here that HGF promoted chemokinesis of rat primary astrocytes through the activation of phosphatidylinositol 3 (PI3)-kinase without any influence on mitogenesis of the cells. Under the same condition, phospholipase Cgamma1 (PLCgamma1), which is another signal mediator of c-Met, was not tyrosine-phosphorylated during HGF stimulation. However, treatment of the cells with orthovanadate, a tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, restored the HGF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of PLCgamma1. A tyrosine phosphatase, SHP-1, was associated with both PI3-kinase and PLCgamma1 before HGF stimulation, but it was dissociated only from PI3-kinase after the stimulation. Furthermore, transfectants of catalytically inactive mutant of SHP-1 showed tyrosine phosphorylation of PLCgamma1 and mitogenic responses to HGF, and the mitogenic response was blocked with, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol-specific PLC, and calphostin C, an inhibitor of protein kinase C downstream of the PLCgamma1. These results indicate that PLCgamma1 is selectively prevented from being a signal mediator by constitutive association of SHP-1, and that this selective inhibition of PLCgamma1 may determine the cellular response of astrocytes to HGF.
Excessive glutamate receptor activation is thought to be involved in the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death after ischemic injury. In this study, we examined the effect of 2-PMPA (2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid) on RGC survival in an ischemia-reperfusion model using C57BL/6 mouse eyes. 2-PMPA is a NAALADase (N-acetylated-alpha-linked-acidic dipeptidase) inhibitor, an enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of the neuropeptide NAAG (N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate) to N-acetyl-aspartate and glutamate. 100mg/kg 2-PMPA were given with intraperitoneal injections 30 min before ischemia followed per hour injection for 3h. 2-PMPA increased surviving RGCs as well as retinal thickness after pressure-induced retinal ischemia. In addition, neuroprotection afforded by 2-PMPA was greater than that of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker. These data indicate that NAALADase inhibition may be useful in retinal disorders in which excessive amino acid transmission is pathogenic.
In this report, we examined the effect of suramin on the cell death induced by glutamate in cerebellar granule neurons or by staurosporine in NB-2a neuroblastoma cells. Excitotoxicity induced by glutamate was associated with an extensive chromatin condensation, nuclear fragmentation and disintegration of nuclear DNA into the high molecular weight (HMW)-DNA fragments of about 50-100 kb without formation of an oligonucleosomal DNA ladder or caspase activation. Staurosporine-induced cytotoxicity was accompanied by the activation of caspase 3-like protease(s) and disintegration of nuclear DNA into the HMW- and oligonucleosomal DNA fragments. Suramin (100 microM) effectively protected both cultured cerebellar neurons and NB-2a cells against cell death, which appeared as the inhibition of caspase 3-like activity in NB-2a cells, abrogation of both HMW- and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation and maintaining the nuclear morphology indistinguishable of the control cells. Eventually, suramin lead to the marked increase in the cell viability of both cerebellar neurons and NB-2a neuroblastoma cells challenged with glutamate and staurosporine, respectively. We suggest that the novel, neuroprotective activity of suramin may have a therapeutic value in several neuropathological paradigms.
Preceding or immediately following fear-conditioning rats were exposed for 30 min to either a sham field, one of two symmetrical (sine-wave 7, 20 Hz) magnetic fields or to one of two complex magnetic fields whose waveforms were modeled after salient electrophysiological patterns within either the hippocampal formation (theta-burst) or the amygdaloid complex (burst-firing). The magnetic fields were presented in successive 2s intervals through each of the three spatial planes and then simultaneously within all three planes. Field strengths ranged between 0.5 and 1 microTesla. Only the group exposed after the conditioning to the theta-burst (hippocampal) magnetic fields displayed evidence of forgetting, as inferred by their marked attenuation of freezing behavior, during contextual extinction 24h later. This powerful treatment explained 75% of the variance in the extinction scores. Behavioral responses to the discrete conditioned stimulus were not affected. These findings are consistent with the involvement of the hippocampus in learned fear to contextual stimuli but not to discrete auditory stimuli and suggest that physiologically relevant stimuli may be delivered to the brain by weak, complex magnetic fields whose intensities are ubiquitous within modern environments.

Neuropathic pain arises as a debilitating consequence of nerve injury. The etiology of such pain is poorly understood, and existing treatment is largely ineffective. We demonstrate here that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) both prevented and reversed sensory abnormalities that developed in neuropathic pain models, without affecting pain-related behavior in normal animals. GDNF reduces ectopic discharges within sensory neurons after nerve injury. This may arise as a consequence of the reversal by GDNF of the injury-induced plasticity of several sodium channel subunits. Together these findings provide a rational basis for the use of GDNF as a therapeutic treatment for neuropathic pain states.

We have characterised nerve-mediated vasodilations in small arteries of the rat hepatic mesentery. Stimulation of sympathetic nerves (10 Hz, 10 s) produced a vasodilation which was abolished by the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, propranolol (2 x 10(-6) M), but was unaffected by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10(-5) M). Stimulation of sensory nerves produced a large vasodilation that was abolished by capsaicin (10(-6) M). This vasodilation was unaffected by L-NAME (10(-5) M), but significantly reduced by the calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) antagonist, CGRP8-37 (10(-6) M), or inhibition of adenylate cyclase (SQ22356, 2 x 10(-5) M; 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine, 2 x 10(-4) M). Stimulation of cholinergic nerves produced a small vasodilation which was significantly reduced by scopolamine (10(-6) M). Expression of mRNA for CGRP1 receptors, muscarinic m2, m3 and m5 receptors and neurokinin1 (NK1) and NK3, receptors was detected. Perivascular nerves were immunoreactive for CGRP and substance P. No role was found for substance P, neuronal NO, ATP or adenosine in nerve-mediated responses. L-NAME (10(-5) M) potentiated vasoconstrictions following sympathetic nerve stimulation. This effect was reversed by L-arginine (10(-3) M) and cromakalim (10(-6) M) and mimicked by glybenclamide (10(-5) M), thus implicating KATP channels. Vasodilation in response to sensory nerve stimulation was directly proportional to the level of preconstriction, while vasodilation in response to neurogenic or applied acetylcholine was inhibited at high levels of preconstriction. We hypothesize that, under conditions of intensive vasoconstriction, some endothelial-dependent vasodilations may be less important than vasodilations activated directly through the smooth muscle.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is a novel putative peptide neurotransmitter. We studied the expression of CART mRNA throughout the human postmortem brain by using in situ hybridization histochemistry. The cortical expression was distinct with high mRNA expression levels in the piriform cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, lateral orbital prefrontal cortex, medial orbitofrontal cortex, and middle temporal cortex, but extremely low levels in immediately adjacent cortical areas, e.g., the medial prefrontal cortex, subcallosal gyrus, and superior temporal cortex. Within the striatum, CART mRNA was only detected in the nucleus accumbens, primarily in the most medial area. No positive CART mRNA-expressing neurons were found in the dorsal caudate nucleus and putamen. High mRNA expression levels were evident within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis as well as the amygdala (central, cortical, and medial nuclei). In the hippocampus, intense expression was found within the uncal gyrus and moderate to high levels in the CA3 and polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus. CART mRNA expression was also detected in the locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe, but no positive labeling was apparent in the substantia nigra. Overall, the most abundant CART mRNA expression levels in the human brain were detected within in the hypothalamus (posterior, paraventricular nucleus, premammillary, tuberomamillary, dorsomedial, arcuate) and the thalamus (mediodorsal, pulvinar, anterior, zona incerta, geniculate). Rat brain specimens were also studied and many similarities to the human CART mRNA expression were evident. However, the most marked species difference was the virtual absence of the CART mRNA in the rat thalamus.
The entorhinal and perirhinal cortices have long been accorded a special role in the communications between neocortical areas and the hippocampal formation. Less attention has been paid to the presubiculum, which, however, is also a component of the parahippocampal gyrus, receives dense inputs from several cortical areas, and itself is a major source of connections to the entorhinal cortex (EC). In part of a closer investigation of corticohippocampal systems, the authors applied single-axon analysis to the connections from the inferior parietal lobule (IPL) to the presubiculum. One major result from this approach was the finding that many of these axons (at least 10 of 14) branch beyond the presubiculum. For 4 axons, branches were followed to area TF and to the border between the perirhinal and entorhinal cortices, raising the suggestion that these areas, which sometimes are viewed as serial stages, are tightly interconnected. In addition, the current data identify several features of presubicular organization that may be relevant to its functional role in visuospatial or memory processes: 1) Terminations from the IPL, as previously reported for prefrontal connections (Goldman-Rakic et al. [1984] Neuroscience 12:719-743), form two to four patches in the superficial layers. These align in stripes, but only for short distances ( approximately 1.5 mm). This pattern suggests a strong compartmentalization in layers I and II that is also indicated by cytochrome oxidase and other markers. 2) Connections tend to be bistratified, terminating in layers I-II and deeper in layer III. 3) Single axons terminate in layer I alone or in different combinations of layers. This may imply some heterogeneity of subtypes. 4) Individual axons, both ipsilateral projecting (n = 14 axons) and contralateral projecting (n = 6 axons), tend to have large arbors (0.3-0.8 mm across). Finally, the authors observe that projections from the IPL, except for its anteriormost portion, converge at the perirhinal-entorhinal border around the posterior tip of the rhinal sulcus. These projections partially overlap with projections from ventromedial areas TE and TF, and this convergence may contribute to the severe deficits in visual recognition memory resulting from ablations of rhinal cortex.
Organ-specific autoimmune diseases and their animal models are characterized by the finding that the development of the diseases is closely associated with, or induced by, T cells reactive to organ-specific antigens. Therefore, the identification of T cell receptors (TCR) used by disease-inducing T cells within a short period of time is a key factor for designing TCR-based immunotherapy. The findings introduced in this article show that TCR associated with the development of multiple sclerosis and experimental autoimmune diseases including encephalomyelitis (EAE), neuritis (EAN) and carditis (EAC) are identifiable by complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) spectratyping analysis and subsequent sequencing of the CDR3 region of spectratype-derived TCR clones. It is also demonstrated that immunotherapy targeting disease-associated TCR using monoclonal antibodies and DNA vaccines significantly reduced the histological severity, and completely suppressed the inflammation in some animals. Since depletion or suppression of one of several types of effector cells does not significantly improve the severity of the disease, combined TCR-based immunotherapy should be considered as a primary therapy for T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases. TCR-based immunotherapy after rapid identification of autoimmune disease-associated TCR by CDR3 spectratyping can be applicable, not only to animal, but also to human autoimmune diseases whose pathomechanism is poorly understood.

For chronic idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy (CIAP), even after extensive evaluation, no cause has yet been found. Considering the age and sex distribution of patients with this disease, it is possible that vascular disease plays a role in the development of this polyneuropathy. As endoneurial vessel abnormalities can be related to ischemia, we investigated endoneurial vessels in sural nerve biopsies of 18 patients with CIAP. As controls we used sural nerves of 4 patients with diabetes mellitus, 6 patients with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type II (HMSN type III) and 10 autopsy cases. Basal lamina area thickness, endothelial cell area, lumen area, and the number of basal laminae, endothelial cells and periendothelial cell nuclei were investigated. Basal lamina area thickness, endoneurial cell area and number of endothelial cell nuclei in CIAP were increased in comparison with HMSN type III, whereas the basal lamina area thickness of patients with CIAP and diabetes mellitus were in the same range. The structure of the basal lamina area in CIAP differed from diabetes mellitus; in diabetes mellitus there was a larger number of lamellae, whereas in CIAP there was an increase in collagen. There was no correlation between basal lamina area thickness and age. In CIAP patients with peripheral vascular disease of the legs, basal lamina area thickness was increased. The relation between basal lamina area thickening and peripheral vascular disease of the legs in CIAP may indicate a role for ischemia in the development of this polyneuropathy.
Cerebral capillaries represent a major interface between the general circulation and the central nervous system and are responsible for sufficient and selective nutrient transport to the brain. Structural damage or dysfunctioning carrier systems of such an active barrier leads to compromised nutrient trafficking. Subsequently, a decreased nutrient availability in the neural tissue may contribute to hampered neuronal metabolism, hence to behavioral and cognitive functional deficiencies. Here we focus on the ultrastructural abnormalities of cerebral microvessels in Alzheimer's disease (AD: n = 5) and Parkinson's disease (PD; n = 10). The capillary microanatomy in samples from the cingulate cortex was investigated by electron microscopy and severe damage to the vessel walls was observed. Characteristic pathological changes including capillary basement membrane thickening and collagen accumulation in the basement membrane were enhanced in both AD and PD. The incidence of capillaries with basement membrane deposits was two times higher in AD and PD than in age-matched controls. Degenerative pericytes in all groups appeared at a similar frequency. The data indicate that basement membrane deposits, as opposed to pericytic degeneration, represent an important pathological feature of AD and PD and suggest that capillary dysfunction may play a causal role in the development of these two major neurodegenerative diseases.
Thiazin red (TR), a fluorochrome that has an affinity to fibrillary structures such as neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) or senile plaques, was utilized to investigate assembly of tau protein into fibrils in tau-immunopositive neocortical neurons of corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Double fluorescence with anti-paired helical filament monoclonal antibody (AT8) and TR was followed by either the Gallyas or Bodian silver impregnation method, which enabled a comparison of the staining features by three different methods on the same neuron. NFTs of AD were uniformly stained by TR and Gallyas method. Most of tau-immunopositive neurons of CBD were similarly stained by Gallyas method but barely or only weakly by TR or Bodian method, suggesting that tau in neocortical neurons of CBD is less liable to form fibrillary structures than in those of AD, easily distinguishable by TR staining. Clarifying the process of tau assembly using this fluorochrome will give a clue to understanding mechanisms of tau deposition, which may be different in various neurological disorders.



Although acute tolerance (AT) to alcohol has been demonstrated in many single-dose studies, the existence of AT at steady state concentrations of alcohol has been questioned. In the present study, six subjects were examined as (1) 7.5% alcohol or (2) placebo was administered intravenously (IV). The order of the infusions was randomized. The alcohol infusions were designed to result in similar blood alcohol concentrations at 20, 60, and 140 min (approximately 0. 7 per thousand). At 20 min, the concentrations were rising; the steady state (+/-0.10 per thousand) was reached after 60 min and continued until 140 min. Three reaction time (RT) tests from the automated psychological test system were used (simple RT, two-choice RT, and two-choice RT with auditory inhibition). When the performance of the subjects was compared at rising and steady-state concentrations of alcohol, AT was shown for the most complex task requiring parallel processing, i.e., RT with failed inhibition, test. However, at steady state (i.e., 60 vs. 140 min), AT was not found for any of the tests. Further, the analysis showed that the test results of different individuals were related to their estimated normal alcohol consumption and that these differences presumably influenced the test results in accordance with our earlier findings.

Infection of susceptible mice with Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus results in neurological dysfunction from progressive central nervous system demyelination that is pathologically similar to the human disease, multiple sclerosis. We hypothesized that the development of neuropathology proceeds down a final common pathway that can be accurately quantified within a single spinal cord lesion. To test this hypothesis, we conducted quantitative ultrastructural analyses of individual demyelinated spinal cord lesions from chronically infected mice to determine whether pathological variables assessed within a single lesion accurately predicted global assessments of morphological and functional disease course. Within lesions we assessed by electron microscopy the frequencies of normally myelinated, remyelinated, and demyelinated axons, as well as degenerating axons and intra-axonal mitochondria. The frequency of medium and large remyelinated fibers within a single lesion served as a powerful indicator of axonal preservation and correlated with preserved neurological function. The number of degenerating axons and increased intra-axonal mitochondria also correlated strongly with global measures of disease course, such as total lesion load, spinal cord atrophy, and neurological function. This is the first study to demonstrate that functional severity of disease course is evident within a single demyelinated lesion analyzed morphometrically at the ultrastructural level.
Challenges to energy homeostasis, such as cold exposure, can have consequences for both metabolic and cardiovascular functioning. We hypothesized that 1-wk cold exposure (4 degrees C) would produce concurrent increases in metabolic rate (VO(2); indirect calorimetry), heart rate (HR), and mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) measured by telemetry. In the initial hours of change in ambient temperature (T(a)), both spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats showed rapid increases (in cold) or decreases (in rewarming) of VO(2), HR, and MAP, although the initial changes in MAP and HR were more exaggerated in SHRs. Throughout cold exposure, HR, VO(2), food intake, and locomotor activity remained elevated but MAP decreased in both strains, particularly in the SHR. During rewarming, all measures normalized quickly in both strains except MAP, which fell below baseline (hypotension) for the first few days. The results indicate that variations of T(a) produce rapid changes in a suite of cardiovascular and behavioral responses that have many similarities in hypertensive and normotensive strains of rats. The findings are consistent with the general concept that the cardiovascular responses to cold exposure in rats are closely related to and perhaps a secondary consequence of the mechanisms responsible for increasing heat production.
Studies have suggested that premenopausal women are more prone to orthostatic intolerance than men. Additionally, it has been postulated that the vestibulosympathetic reflex is important in regulating postural-related changes in sympathetic activity. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether men and women differ in their sympathetic and cardiovascular responses to stimulation of the otolith organs elicited by head-down rotation (HDR). Heart rate (HR), arterial pressure, calf blood flow (CBF), and leg muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) were measured during 3 min of HDR in the prone posture in 33 women and 30 men. With the exception of HR (71 +/- 2 and 63 +/- 1 beats/min for women and men, respectively; P &lt; 0.01), all baseline variables were not different between genders. There were no gender differences in responses to HDR. MSNA increased 72 +/- 33 units (43%) in the men and 88 +/- 15 units (59%) in the women during HDR (P &lt; 0.01). CBF decreased [-0.6 +/- 0.1 (15%) and -0.5 +/- 0.1 (19%) ml. min(-1). 100 ml(-1)] and calf vascular resistance increased [8 +/- 2 (21%) and 11 +/- 3 (25%) units during HDR for men and women, respectively (P &lt; 0.01)]. Both in the men and women, HR increased 2 +/- 1 beats/min (P &lt; 0.01). These results demonstrate that sympathetic activation during HDR in the prone posture is similar in men and women. Therefore, these findings suggest that the vestibulosympathetic reflex is not different between healthy men and women.

A patient with an intracranial hemorrhage showed differential impairment among arithmetic types (impaired in multiplication but not in subtraction). A functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment using normal volunteers also revealed a differential activation between the two arithmetic types. The fMRI result could account for the selective acalculia of the patient in that the lesion shown by structural MRI included the region with multiplication-higher activation and spared subtraction-higher regions. These findings suggest that the cognitive mechanism and neural substrates differ among the simple arithmetic operations.
We studied the relationship between sleep quality and bed surface firmness. Nine men were investigated, sleeping in their homes for at least 5 consecutive nights on a soft and a more firm mattress using a sensor pad placed under the mattress and a solid-state recording device. The subjective feeling of sleep quality did not always agree with the recorded sleep data. The difference was most marked when changing from the subject's own to one of the test mattresses. For the same subject the results were reproducible between nights provided there were no external disturbing factors. Four of the 9 subjects slept significantly better on the softer of the two mattresses and 2 on the hard mattress. The difference in sleep quality observed among the subjects tested makes it necessary to relate the results to the same person rather than considering a whole group as an entity. The adaptation period for a new sleep surface extended to many days.
Given the rapid advances in neuroimaging and brain mapping, it is no surprise that a whole host of new and burgeoning techniques are on the horizon as we enter the 21st century. This brief review focuses on methods that are just entering the clinical experience or are now being explored in a research setting but have the imminent potential for clinical use. A number of brain mapping techniques now allow the clinician to monitor disease progression and therapeutic effects in either the routine clinical setting or experimental clinical trials. A battery of methods are now available for the preoperative and intraoperative evaluation of patients with lesions in or near critical cortical areas or for targeting purposes when deep nuclei of the brain are potential sites of therapeutic ablation or electrophysiologic stimulation. The development of probabilistic atlases will soon provide a means of understanding normal variants of human brain structure and function and studying brain disorders and their treatment in an objective and quantifiable fashion. Techniques that are now on the horizon for imaging gene expression, neuronal excitivity, and connectivity are presented in their current stage of development. It is clear that brain mapping and neuroimaging will continue to be ever more important parts of clinical neuroscience and may ultimately serve as the bridge between the molecular and clinical domains of this field. Arch Neurol. 2000;57:1413-1421

The recruitment characteristics of muscle selective nerve stimulation by a multi-contact nerve cuff electrode, as predicted by computer modeling, have been investigated in acute experiments on rabbits. A nerve cuff containing five or six dot electrodes was placed around the sciatic nerve in five rabbits. M-waves were recorded with wire electrodes from the lateral gastrocnemius, soleus, tibialis anterior, and extensor digitorum longus muscles. The muscle recruitment performances of three contact configurations (monopole, transverse bipole, transverse tripole) were compared. The selectivity was quantified by the recruitment of two muscles (one extensor and one flexor) in response to a particular stimulus. The results showed that only in a few cases, transverse bi- and tripolar stimulation provided a better selectivity than monopolar stimulation. Neither of the two extensors, nor of the two flexors could be stimulated separately. In accordance with the results of the modeling studies, bi- and tripolar stimulation required higher stimulus currents than monopolar stimulation, whereas maximum recruitment and slopes of recruitment curves were lower. The rabbit sciatic nerve appears to be a less suitable preparation for reproducible selectivity experiments, due to the variability in the number and size of the fascicles and their position in this nerve.




In these studies the incidence of conditioned and unconditioned 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) in young rats was measured in response to rewarding manual tickling by an experimenter. We found that isolate-housed animals vocalize much more then socially housed ones, and when their housing conditions are reversed, they gradually shift their vocalization tendencies. Isolate-housed animals also show quicker acquisition of instrumental tasks for tickling, and exhibit less avoidance of tickling as compared to socially housed Ss. Isolate-housed animals also show rapid acquisition of 50-kHz USVs to a conditioned stimulus that predicts tickle reward, while socially housed animals do not. We successfully bred for high and low vocalization rates in response to tickling within four generations. The high tickle line showed quicker acquisition of an instrumental task for, as well as less avoidance of, tickling as compared to the random and low tickle lines. They also played more. Lastly, we found that the glutamate antagonist MK-801 can reduce tickle-induced 50-kHz USVs, but is resistant to opioid, dopamine and cholinergic stimulant and blocking agents. Overall, these results suggest that tickle evoked 50-kHz USVs may be a useful behavioral marker of positive social affect in rats. Difficulties with such concepts are also discussed.
Free-living female laboratory mice, adapted to outdoor life in large pens providing a naturalistic environment, were tested for their ability to modify their foraging habits to controlled food supply. An automatic feeder box delivered a small portion of the daily quantity of seeds to each individual mouse. Eight such boxes were placed into an outdoor pen. Each day, mice had to visit all boxes to gather the daily amount of food and were rewarded only at the first visit to each box. Mice were individually recognised by an implanted microchip. Throughout a 16-day period, feeding activity concentrated in an interval time around the beginning of the daily session. During the same period, the number of different feeders visited every day by mice increased irrespective of variation in exploratory activity. The experimental set-up allowed detecting temporal and spatial adaptations to the food restriction, as well as behavioural differences due to territorial and social factors. These data permit the design of novel tests assessing behavioural changes, memory and learning in normal and genetically modified mice, both in the laboratory and in naturalistic settings.
This study used anatomical cues to suggest a functional dissociation between the roles of the entorhinal cortex and the hippocampus in learning. The authors proposed that the highly convergent inputs to the entorhinal cortex indicate this region may be particularly important for selecting or compressing information. This hypothesis was tested in rabbits (Oryctolagus cunniculus) trained on an associative learning task that is a common index of stimulus selection. In this task, known as latent inhibition, preexposure to a stimulus (such as a tone) leads to slowed learning when the same tone is subsequently paired with an outcome (such as an airpuff to the eye). As hypothesized, rabbits with neurotoxic lesions of the entorhinal cortex failed to show slowed learning following preexposure (no latent inhibition) and learned the association faster than control rabbits. In contrast, hippocampal-lesioned animals showed normal (slowed) learning.

Gap junctions formed of connexin46 (Cx46) and connexin50 (Cx50) in lens fiber cells are crucial for maintaining lens transparency. We determined the functional properties of homotypic Cx46, heterotypic Cx46/Cx50, and heteromeric Cx46/Cx50 channels in a communication-deficient neuroblastoma (N2A) cell line, using dual whole-cell recordings. N2A cultures were stably and/or transiently transfected with Cx46, Cx50, and green fluorescent protein (EGFP). The macroscopic voltage sensitivity of homotypic Cx46 conformed to the two-state model (Boltzmann parameters: G(min) = 0.11, V(0) = +/- 48.1 mV, gating charge = 2). Cx46 single channels showed a main-state conductance of 140 +/- 8 pS and multiple subconductance states ranging from &lt; or =10 pS to 60 pS. Conservation of homotypic properties in heterotypic Cx46/Cx50 cell pairs allowed the determination of a positive relative gating polarity for the dominant gating mechanisms in Cx46 and Cx50. Observed gating properties were consistent with a second gating mechanism in Cx46 connexons. Moreover, rectification was observed in heterotypic cell pairs. Some cell pairs in cultures simultaneously transfected with Cx46 and Cx50 exhibited junctional properties not observed in other preparations, suggesting the formation of heteromeric channels. We conclude that different combinations of Cx46 and Cx50 within gap junction channels lead to unique biophysical properties.
We used spontaneously active neuronal networks derived from dissociated embryonic murine spinal cord and auditory cortex and grown on substrate-integrated thin-film microelectrodes to determine characteristic responses to the cannabinoid agonists anandamide (AN) and methanandamide (MA). AN and MA reversibly inhibited spike and burst production in both tissue types. Responses of 21 cultures ranging in age from 23 to 111 days in vitro (d.i.v.) showed high intra- and inter-culture reproducibility at all ages. However, responses were tissue and substance-dependent. AN and MA were equipotent in cortical cultures and terminated bursting and spiking at 2.5 +/- 0.9 microM (n = 10). Spinal cultures were shut-off by 1.3 +/- 0.7 microM (n = 15) AN, but required 5.8 +/- 1.2 microM MA for activity cessation. MA, but not AN, demonstrated a biphasic influence: excitation at 0.25-3.5 microM and suppression at 4-7.1 microM. Palmitoylethanolamide, a related lipophilic molecule with no reported binding to the CBI receptor (to which AN and MA bind in the central nervous system), did not affect network activity at concentrations up to 6.5 microM. Irreversible cessation of activity was observed after 30 min applications of AN or MA at &gt; 7 microM.
Hepatoblastoma is a malignant paediatric liver tumour. In order to approach the genetic background of this malignancy we have screened a panel of eighteen cases from Europe and Japan for chromosomal imbalances using comparative genomic hybridization (CGH). The most frequent losses included chromosomal regions 13q21-q22 (28%) and 9p22-pter (22%), while the most frequent gains occurred on 2q23-q24 (33%), 20q (28%) and 1q24-q25 (28%). A significant difference in CGH alterations between the tumours from patients of Caucasian and Japanese was revealed where loss of 13q was found only in the Japanese samples. In conclusion, the findings indicate several candidate regions for suppressor genes and oncogenes potentially involved in the hepatoblastomas of different ethnic origin.
Spinal teratomas are rare intradural spinal tumours, commonly of benign histological profile. The main treatment remains surgical excision which often is incomplete as the tumour is frequently intimately related to surrounding nerve roots and adjacent spinal cord. The value of adjuvant treatment in the form of radiotherapy has not been clearly identified. We report two patients with spinal teratomas in the lower thoracic and conus region, who were treated with surgical excision and did not receive radiotherapy. One of the tumours recurred at 38 months following surgical excision and required a second operation. We review in addition another 20 patients reported in the literature with such tumours. With a mean follow-up of 25 months a local recurrence rate of 10% was observed, the same in both total and subtotal excision groups. No deaths were reported. Analysis of cumulative survival from surgery to treatment failure demonstrated that recurrence occurs late, verifying a slow biological progression of this tumour type. Although no reliable information of the effect of radiotherapy can be obtained, it is difficult to see how radiotherapy could have an impact on such a slow growing tumour. Initial treatment of choice remains surgical excision. If the teratoma shows any malignant histological features or germ cell elements radiotherapy should be employed after surgical excision, even if apparently totally excised. In the presence of benign histology it would seem appropriate to avoid radiotherapy after initial surgery. In case of tumour recurrence or progression to explore the possibility of further surgery first, before considering radiotherapy which even then may have doubtful efficacy.
Increases in jugular bulb saturations (SjO2) following head injury are usually due to hyperaemia. Less commonly this may be due to the development of an arteriovenous fistula. We describe how SjO2 monitoring can be used in conjunction with transcranial Doppler ultrasound to make the distinction between these two conditions, which require distinct therapies. Multimodality monitoring in acute injury provides information regarding underlying pathophysiology and permits individualization of therapy.
GPR10 is a novel G-protein coupled receptor that is the human orthologue of rat Unknown Hypothalamic Receptor-1 (UHR-1). Human prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP) has been identified as an endogenous ligand for GPR10, and occurs as 31 and 20 amino acid forms. The present study characterizes the binding of [(125)I]-PrRP-20 to HEK293 cells stably expressing GPR10 receptors. Specific binding of [(125)I]-PrRP-20 was saturable, and analysis suggested evidence of both high and low affinity sites, with K:(D:) values of 0.026+/-0.006 and 0.57+/-0.14 nM respectively, and B(max) values of 3010+/-400 and 8570+/-2240 fmol mg protein(-1) respectively. Kinetic studies were unable to distinguish two sites, but single site analysis of association and dissociation data produced a K:(D:) of 0.012 nM. Competition studies revealed that human and rat PrRP-20 and PrRP-31 all display high affinity for GPR10. A range of other drugs which are known ligands at receptors which share limited homology with GPR10 were also tested. None of the drugs tested, including the RF-amide neuropeptide FF, demonstrated any affinity for GPR10. Human PrRP-20 failed to alter basal or forskolin-stimulated levels of intracellular cyclic AMP in HEK293-GPR10 cells, suggesting that GPR10 does not couple via either G(s) or G(i). Functional studies using measurements of intracellular calcium confirmed that human and rat PrRP-20 and PrRP-31 are all potent, full agonists at the GPR10 receptor. The response was blocked both by thapsigargin, indicating mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+) stores. These studies indicate that [(125)I]-PrRP-20 is a specific, high affinity radioligand for GPR10. The availability of this radioligand binding assay will be a valuable tool for the investigation of the key features involved in PrRP binding and studies on the localization and function of GPR10.
The pharmacological properties of fatty acid amidohydrolase (FAAH) were investigated in brains of 35-day-old chickens, since nothing is known about the enzyme in avian species. FAAH activity towards both [(3)H]-palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) [K(M)=1.5 microM] and [(3)H]-anandamide (AEA) [K(M)=5.4 microM] was demonstrated in the chicken brains. The chicken FAAH was inhibited by the substrate analogues oleyl trifluoromethylketone (OTMK) and diazomethylarachidonyl ketone (DAK) with similar potencies to the rat FAAH. However, in contrast to the rat brain, phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride (PMSF) and the enantiomers of ibuprofen had very weak effects on chicken brain FAAH. Indomethacin and niflumic acid were found to inhibit rat brain AEA hydrolysis. The inhibition by indomethacin was reversible and competitive, with a K(i) value of 120 microM. Chicken FAAH was less sensitive to indomethacin than its rodent counterpart, but the inhibition was also competitive (K(i)). It is concluded that chicken FAAH activity has different pharmacological properties to its rodent counterpart.
MT-7 (1 - 30 nM), a peptide toxin isolated from the venom of the green mamba Dendroaspis angusticeps and previously found to bind selectively to the muscarinic M(1) receptor, inhibited the acetylcholine (ACh)-stimulated [(35)S]-guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate ([(35)S]-GTPgammaS) binding to membranes of Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing the cloned human muscarinic M(1) receptor subtype. MT-7 failed to affect the ACh-stimulated [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding in membranes of CHO cells expressing either the M(2), M(3) or M(4) receptor subtype. In N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells endogenously expressing the M(1) and M(4) receptor subtypes, MT-7 (0.3 - 3.0 nM) inhibited the carbachol (CCh)-stimulated inositol phosphates accumulation, but failed to affect the CCh-induced inhibition of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) 38-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation. In both CHO/M(1) and N1E-115 cells the MT-7 inhibition consisted in a decrease of the maximal agonist effect with minimal changes in the agonist EC(50) value. In CHO/M(1) cell membranes, MT-7 (0.05 - 25 nM) reduced the specific binding of 0.05, 1.0 and 15 nM [(3)H]-N-methylscopolamine ([(3)H]-NMS) in a concentration-dependent manner, but failed to cause a complete displacement of the radioligand. Moreover, MT-7 (3 nM) decreased the dissociation rate of [(3)H]-NMS by about 5 fold. CHO/M(1) cell membranes preincubated with MT-7 (10 nM) and washed by centrifugation and resuspension did not recover control [(3)H]-NMS binding for at least 8 h at 30 degrees C. It is concluded that MT-7 acts as a selective noncompetitive antagonist of the muscarinic M(1) receptors by binding stably to an allosteric site.

Diabetes mellitus is reported to impair peripheral nerve regeneration, but the extent, timing and selectivity of the deficit is unclear. We studied regeneration of motor and sensory fibres in mice with experimental diabetes induced using streptozotocin (STZ). The mouse model featured several advantages over its counterpart in rats given STZ, while exhibiting the expected slowing of motor conduction velocity. Serial studies addressed fibre regrowth for up to 10 weeks after both sciatic nerve crush injury and complete sciatic nerve transection. Following nerve crush, there was a delay in motor fibre reinnervation of tibial innervated interosseous muscles of diabetics, manifest as a slow recovery of the M-wave recorded from these muscles. Despite an apparent recovery in M-waves by 6 weeks, this was not accounted for by restitution of tibial axon numbers in diabetic mice. Histological studies distal to crush or transection identified substantial delays in the regrowth of the numbers and calibre of regenerating myelinated fibres in diabetics for up to 8-10 weeks. Moreover, this delay was observed in both the tibial (largely motor) and sural (non-motor) distal sciatic branches. There was an associated delay in macrophage invasion and their later resorption in the diabetic nerves, indicating that a potential mechanism of impaired regeneration might be abnormal macrophage participation in nerve repair. Our findings indicate that during nerve regeneration, diabetic motor and sensory fibres have substantial and persistent deficits in regrowth associated with abnormalities in macrophage participation.
According to the 'developmental constraint hypothesis' of comparative mammalian neuroanatomy, brain growth follows predictable allometric trends. Therefore, brain structures should scale to the entire brain in the same way across mammals. Evidence for a departure from this pattern for cerebellum volume has recently been reported among the anthropoid primates. One of the mammalian groups that has been neglected in tests of the 'developmental constraint hypothesis' is the cetaceans (dolphins, whales, and porpoises). Because many cetaceans possess relative brain sizes in the range of primates comparative tests of the 'developmental constraint hypothesis' across these two groups could help to delineate the parameters of this hypothesis. In this paper, we compare relative cerebellum volumes in two cetacean species, the bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) and the common dolphin (Delphinus delphis), with published data from anthropoid primates. We found that relative cerebellum size is significantly greater in the two dolphin species than in any of the primates, including humans. These results suggest that there is possibly expansion of brain structures independent of strictly allometric processes.
Communication between nerve cells in the brain occurs primarily through specialized junctions called synapses. Recently, many details of synaptic transmission have emerged. The identities of specific proteins important for synaptic vesicle release have now been established. We have investigated three synaptic proteins, VAMP (vesicle associated membrane protein; also called synaptobrevin), syntaxin, and SNAP25 (synaptosomal associated protein of 25kDa) as possible targets in the dopamine-mediated modulation of synaptic function in rat striatal slices. These three proteins form a SNARE (soluble N-ethylmalemide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors) core complex that is known to be essential for synaptic transmission. Although it is envisioned that the SNAREs undergo dynamic and cyclic interactions to elicit synaptic vesicle release, their precise functions in neurotransmission remains unknown. We have examined SNARE complexes in intact rat striatal slices. Cellular proteins were solubilized, separated electrophoretically by SDS-PAGE, and then identified immunologically. Application of dopamine to striatal slices results in SNAREs favoring the SNARE core complex, a complex which forms spontaneously in the absence of crosslinking agents, rather than the monomer form. In addition, rapid crosslinking of dopamine-treated striatal slices demonstrates that the SNARE complex is increased 4 fold in dopamine treated striatal slices compared with control slices. Haloperidol blocked the dopamine-induced change in the core complex. These results suggest that changes in the activities of SNAREs may be involved in the underlying cellular mechanisms(s) of dopamine-regulated synaptic plasticity of the striatum.
Using a well documented ex vivo system consisting of rodent cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) the activation of caspases 3 and 6 during apoptosis induced by withdrawal of trophic support was analyzed. At the time of deprivation, the addition of the irreversible, broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor zVADfmk or the cell permeable, caspase 6 inhibitor CP-VEID-cho can transiently suppress the appearance of apoptosis, including the early appearance of DNA fragmentation. Using immunoblotting and fluorogenic peptide assays we observe deprivation-induced activation of caspases 3 and 6, but not caspase 9. Furthermore, active caspase 6 is capable of processing and activating procaspase 3 in cellular extracts prepared from non-apoptotic CGCs, whereas caspase 3 failed to activate caspase 6. In consonant with this, the cell permeable caspase 6 inhibitor prevented deprivation-induced caspase 3 activation whereas a cell permeable caspase 3 inhibitor, CP-DEVD-cho, had no effect on caspase 6 activation. This would indicate that caspase 6 is a significant inducer of the early caspase 3 activity in apoptotic CGCs.
Redox modulation has been recognized to be an important mechanism of regulation for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Sulfhydryl reducing agents enhance, whereas oxidizing agents decrease, NMDA-evoked currents. Multiple cysteine residues located in different NMDA receptor subunits have been identified as molecular determinants underlying redox modulation. The NMDA receptor is also regulated by nitric oxide (NO)-related species directly, not involving cyclic GMP, but the molecular mechanism of this action has heretofore not been entirely clear. The confusion arose at least partly due to the fact that various redox forms of NO (NO+, NO*, NO-, each having an additional electron compared with the previous) have distinct mechanisms of action. Recently, a critical cysteine residue (Cys 399) on the NR2A subunit has been shown to react under physiological conditions with NO by S-nitrosylation (transfer of the NO+ to cysteine thiol) or by reaction with NO- (nitroxyl anion) to underlie this form of modulation.
Increasing evidence demonstrated that atherosclerosis is an immunologically mediated disease. Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury is accompanied by an inflammatory response contributing to reversible and irreversible changes in tissue viability and organ function. Three major components are recognized as the major contributing factors in reperfusion injury. These are: (1) molecular oxygen; (2) cellular blood elements (especially the neutrophils); and (3) components of the activated complement system. The latter two often act in concert. Endothelial and leukocyte responses are involved in tissue injury, orchestrated primarily by the complement cascade. Anaphylatoxins and assembly of the membrane attack complex contribute directly and indirectly to further tissue damage. Tissue damage mediated by neutrophils can be initiated by complement fragments, notably C5a, which are potent stimulators of neutrophil superoxide production and adherence to coronary artery endothelium. The complement cascade, particularly the alternative pathway, is activated during myocardial ischemia/reperfusion. Complement fragments such as the anaphylatoxins C3a and C5a, are produced both locally and systematically, and the membrane attack complex is deposited on cell membranes and subsequent release of mediators such as histamine and platelet activating factor (PAF), thereby causing an increase in vascular permeability with concomitant manifestation of cellular edema. Complement increases the expression of CD18 on the neutrophils and increases P-selectin expression on the surface of the endothelium. Mitochondria may be a source of molecules that activate complements during ischemia/reperfusion injury to myocardium, providing therewith a stimulus for infiltration of polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Tissue salvage can be achieved by depletion of complement components, thus making evident a contributory role for the complement cascade in ischemia/reperfusion injury. The complexities of the complement cascade provide numerous sites as potential targets for therapeutic interventions designed to modulate the complement response to injury. The latter is exemplified by the ability of soluble form of complement receptor 1 (sCR1) to decrease infarct size in in vitro models of ischemia/reperfusion injury. The mechanism(s) that initiates complement activation is not clearly known, although loss of CD59 (protectin) from cells compromised by ischemia/reperfusion may contribute to direct damage of the coronary vascular bed by the terminal complement complex. Therapeutic approaches to ischemia/reperfusion injury in general, and especially those involving complements, are at the very beginning and their potential benefits have still to be adequately evaluated. It may be noted that complement activation has both positive and negative effects and, therefore, might be modulated rather than abruptly blunted.
As brainstem mechanisms and dopaminergic neurotransmission are involved in migraine pathophysiology, we decided to investigate the course of migraine in Parkinson's disease (PD), the paradigm of brainstem dopaminergic disease. We screened 237 consecutive PD out-patients by direct interview to assess the prevalence of lifetime and current migraine. Moreover, we compared the course of migraine in PD patients with that of otherwise healthy age- (+/- 3 years) and sex-paired migraine controls in a cross-sectional study. PD patients showed a lifetime migraine prevalence of 27.8% and a current migraine prevalence of 13.1%. A positive family history of migraine was less frequent in PD patients than in controls. The frequency of current migraine was significantly lower in PD patients than in controls (47.0% vs. 68.2%; odds ratio = 0.41, 95% confidence interval = 0.19-0.89). Approximately two-thirds of PD patients reported an improvement in or remission of migraine after PD onset. Effects of menopause on migraine course were similar in patients and controls. These findings suggest that PD might somehow shorten the clinical course of migraine. Possible explanations include a prolonged prophylactic effect by chronic dopaminergic therapy or a positive effect of PD pathophysiology, namely nigral degeneration, on migraine mechanisms.
Fragile-X syndrome is the most common single-gene inherited form of mental retardation. Morphological studies suggest a possible failure of the synapse maturation process. Cerebral cortical spine morphology in fragile-X syndrome and in a knockout mouse model of it appears immature, with long, thin spines much more common than the stubby and mushroom-shaped spines more characteristic of normal development. In human fragile-X syndrome there is also a higher density of spines along dendrites, suggesting a possible failure of synapse elimination. While variously misshapen spines are characteristic of a number of mental retardation syndromes, the overabundance of spines seen in fragile-X syndrome is unusual. Taken with evidence of neurotransmitter activation of the synthesis of the fragile-X protein (FMRP) at synapses in vitro and evidence for behaviorally induced FMRP expression in vivo, and with evidence compatible with a role for FMRP in regulating the synthesis of other proteins, it is possible that FMRP serves as an 'immediate early protein' at the synapse that orchestrates aspects of synaptic development and plasticity.
Pyramidal cells initiate the formation of dendritic arbors in a prolific burst of neurite outgrowth during early cortical development. Although morphologically mature pyramidal neurons do not normally sprout additional primary dendrites, the discovery of ectopic dendritogenesis in neuronal storage diseases has revealed that these cells do retain this ability under appropriate stimulation. The capacity for renewal of dendritogenesis has been found to exhibit a species gradient with human &gt; cat, dog, sheep &gt; mouse. A consistent metabolic feature of ectopic dendrite-bearing pyramidal neurons is a heightened intracellular expression of GM2 ganglioside. Elevated expression of this same glycosphingolipid has also been found to correlate with normal dendritogenesis. Immature neurons in developing cat and ferret cortex exhibit high levels of GM2 ganglioside immunoreactivity coincident with normal dendritic sprouting and a similar relationship has now been shown for human cortical development. Ultrastructural studies of all three species revealed GM2 localized to vesicles in a manner consistent with Golgi synthesis and exocytic trafficking to the somatic-dendritic plasmalemma. We propose that GM2 ganglioside functions in glycosphingolipid-enriched microdomains (lipid rafts) in the plasmalemma to promote dendritic initiation through modulation of specific membrane proteins and/or their associated second messenger cascades.
A variety of observations have suggested that the dopamine and serotonin systems may play a role in the pathophysiology and treatment of major mental disorders of childhood, adolescence and early adulthood. A recent triple immunofluorescence study has demonstrated a convergence of serotonin and dopamine fibers onto both pyramidal cells and GABAergic interneurons in the rat medial prefrontal cortex (mPFCx). These findings are consistent with the results of an electrophysiological study conducted in another laboratory that suggested such a relationship exists in the pyriform cortex of the rodent brain. During postnatal development, the dopamine system shows a progressive ingrowth of fibers into this region that continues until the early adult period. In contrast, GABAergic neurons appear to complete their postnatal maturation by the fourth postnatal week (the early post-weanling period). As dopamine fibers infiltrate the rat mPFCx, they progressively increase their interaction with neural elements within the neuropil and with the cell bodies of both pyramidal cells and GABAergic interneurons. This process appears to be influenced by the serotonin system, since lesioning of the nucleus raphe dorsalis during the neonatal period results in a significant increase of dopamine fibers. This finding suggests that lesions of the serotonin system induce plasticity of the cortical dopamine system; however, it is not known whether this inferred suppressive effect of serotonin fibers occurs at brainstem levels or within the mPFCx itself. Taken together, these various studies suggest that the convergence of dopamine and serotonin fiber systems on intrinsic cortical neurons shows considerable plasticity during postnatal life that could theoretically contribute to the development of 'miswired' circuits in individuals with neuropsychiatric disorders.
Approximately 50% of New Zealand Black mice (NZB/BINJ) and 80% of NXSM-D/EiJ mice prenatally develop neocortical layer I ectopias, mostly in somatosensory cortices. These cortical anomalies are similar to those seen in the brains of individuals with dyslexia. Neurofilament staining revealed a radial column of tightly packed fiber bundles in the layers underlying ectopias. This suggested that the connectivity of the ectopic neurons was aberrant. The present study used the tracers 1,1'-dioctadecyl- 3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindo- carbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) and biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) to more thoroughly explore the cortical and thalamic connectivity of the ectopias. DiI placement into ectopias again revealed a distinct bundle of fibers extending from the ectopic neurons to the deep cortical layers. This bundle split in the white matter with some fibers traveling to the corpus callosum and others to the internal capsule. Thalamic connections were concentrated in the ventrobasal com- plex (VB) and posterior thalamic nucleus group (Po). Injections of BDA into VB revealed reciprocal connections between VB and the ectopic cortical neurons. Ipsilateral corticocortical projections were seen between ectopias in primary somatosensory and motor and secondary somatosensory cortices, but no contralateral connections of the ectopic neurons were seen. These findings confirm the notion that layer I ectopias are anomalously connected by comparison to neurons in homologous cortex, which may underlie widespread dysfunction of brains containing ectopias.
The effect of serotonin (5-HT) on the release of glutamate was examined in pyramidal cells in layers II-VI of the frontal cortex. The intracellular recording electrode contained 1% biocytin so the neurons could later be visualized with an avidin-biotin peroxidase method. Pyramidal cells in layer V of the frontal cortex showed the greatest 5-HT-induced increase in both the frequency and amplitude of 'spontaneous' (non-electrically evoked) excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs). A small proportion of neurons in layer II/III showed an increase in EPSC frequency, whereas cells in layer VI showed no significant change in either EPSC frequency or amplitude. The physiological response to 5-HT mirrors the high density of 5-HT(2A) receptors in layer V, as well as the pattern of thalamic projections in frontal cortex. The specific induction of EPSCs in layer V neurons suggests that 5-HT preferentially modulates the output neurons of the frontal cortex.
Proper growth and branching of dendrites are crucial for nervous system function; patterns of dendritic arborization determine the nature and amount of innervation that a neuron receives and specific dendritic membrane properties define its computational capabilities. Until recently, there was relatively little known about the cellular and molecular mechanisms of dendritic growth, perhaps because dendrites were historically considered to be intrinsically determined, passive elements in the formation of connections in the nervous system. In the last few years, however, overwhelming evidence has accumulated indicating that dendritic growth is remarkably dynamic and responsive to environmental signals, including guidance molecules and levels and patterns of activity. This manuscript reviews our current understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of dendritic growth, the influence of activity in sculpting specific patterns of dendritic arbors, and a potential integral role for dendrites in activity-dependent development of circuits in the nervous system.
Effects of thyroid hormone on development of the brain have been documented for over a century. Although in many respects the hypothyroid brain appears morphologically normal, functional impairments include mental retardation, ataxia and spasticity. Keyed by the discovery of nuclear receptors for thyroid hormone that function as transcription factors, recent work has examined the mechanism of thyroid hormone action in brain development. The prediction that gene expression regulated by thyroid hormone is important for mediating brain development has spurred the search for thyroid hormone-responsive genes. Here we review some of the identified genes whose expression patterns correlate with the functional deficits observed in the hypothyroid brain. Recently identified thyroid hormone-responsive genes include synaptotagmin-related gene 1 (Srg1), a putative mediator of synaptic structure and/or activity, and hairless, a transcriptional cofactor that may influence the expression of other thyroid hormone-responsive genes.
Burning mouth syndrome (BMS) is an oral pain disorder occurring primarily in post-menopausal women and is frequently accompanied by taste complaints. This association of symptoms suggests an interaction between the mechanisms of nociception and gustation, two senses with strong hedonic components. Seventy-three patients of the Taste and Smell Clinic at the University of Connecticut Health Center who reported experiencing 'unexplained oral burning' were evaluated for taste function. Both intensity ratings and quality identifications were measured for a concentration series of sucrose ('sweet'), NaCl ('salty'), citric acid ('sour') and quinine-HCl ('bitter'). The 57 women with BMS gave lower intensity ratings to NaCl and sucrose than comparably aged, same sex controls. Concentrations of NaCl and sucrose &gt;0.10 M were most affected; concentrations of sucrose and NaCl &lt;0.10 M were rated similarly by BMS and control women. No intensity differences were found for citric acid or quinine-HCl at any concentration and no differences were evident between the 16 BMS men and the 14 control men for any stimulus. The BMS women also misidentified the quality of 19% of the stimuli that were detected whereas control women misidentified 8%. Both groups detected a similar proportion of stimuli and found lower stimulus concentrations more difficult to identify than higher concentrations. Identification of NaCl as 'salty' and citric acid as 'sour' was particularly difficult for BMS women. The present findings are consistent with the hypothesis that pain pathway activation may affect neural and behavioral taste function.
In a recent PET study on processing of unfamiliar odours we observed that odour discrimination performance was superior during right compared with left nostril presentations, and that mainly the right cerebral hemisphere was activated. In the present study we investigated whether the asymmetric performance is present also during the processing of familiar odours. Seventy-one right-handed healthy subjects (age 21-49 years, 40 females) with normal nasal anatomy and olfactory thresholds participated. Forty pairs of odours (20 familiar and 20 unfamiliar) were presented in the same/different paradigm, alternating nostrils and balancing the order. The number of errors during the discrimination task was compared with respect to nostril and odour familiarity. The overall odour discrimination performance was superior on the right side. However, this difference was valid only for unfamiliar odours, whereas the performance for familiar odours was symmetrical. Familiar odours were easier to discriminate than unfamiliar ones. The present data are congruent with the idea of a semantic influence on odour processing. Odours seem to be processed with a right sided preponderance when not clearly familiar, and symmetrically when language becomes involved. Future studies on odour processing should therefore take into account odour familiarity and side of presentation.


Nerve growth factor (NGF) is known to play a key role in the development of hyperalgesia after inflammatory injury. The increased levels of NGF that accompany injury lead to hyperalgesia via peripheral and central spinal mechanisms. New evidence reviewed here indicates that NGF can directly sensitize nociceptive neurones to noxious heat stimuli through rapid modulation of heat/vanilloid receptors or via de-novo increased expression of heat receptors. In addition, new data suggest that the central sensitization that can result from increased NGF may be mediated via central release of another neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor.
Phantom limb pain is still a very frequent consequence of peripheral deafferentation or amputation of a limb. Recent findings from animal and neuroimaging studies suggest that phantom limb pain might be a central phenomenon, related to changes in the cortical, thalamic and spinal representation of the painful limb, and might be a type of somatosensory pain memory. Based on these assumptions, new treatment approaches focus on sensory discrimination training or motor cortex stimulation in an effort to influence cortical reorganization. Prevention of perpetuation of a somatosensory pain memory might also be possible through pharmacological agents such as N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists and gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists, substances that have been shown to influence and prevent cortical reorganization.
Gene transfer into the central nervous system by ex vivo or in vivo techniques is a rapidly emerging field in neuroscience. Potential applications of gene therapy for the nervous system include not only congenital single gene disorders, but also brain tumors and acquired chronic diseases. Considerable progress has been made in the understanding of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. As a result, gene therapy for Parkinson's, and possibly Alzheimer's disease could be regarded as a realistic alternative to the limited treatment options currently available. In this review, we highlight the most important developments in gene transfer techniques as well as the newest insights in the mechanisms of some neurodegenerative disorders and put these into the perspective of gene therapeutic strategies for the central nervous system.
Advances in technology and basic sciences this past decade have transformed neurobiological research. Practitioners looking prospectively in 1990 could hardly have hoped for the diagnostics and rational therapeutics that have become part of regular practice today. Here, we discuss three areas that have had great impact: genetics, cell death, and stem cell/gene therapy research.
Our understanding of sensory systems has grown impressively in recent years as a result of intense efforts to characterize the mechanisms underlying perception. A large body of evidence has accrued regarding the processes through which sensory information at the biochemical, electrophysiological, and systems levels contributes to the conscious experience of a stimulus. Our efforts to understand the function of sensory systems have been aided by the development of new techniques, including powerful methods of molecular biology, refined short- and long-term approaches to recording from single and multiple neurons, and non-invasive neuroimaging techniques that allow us to study activity within the human brain while subjects perform a variety of cognitive tasks. In future research, the last approach is likely to form a bridge between the large body of electrophysiological knowledge acquired in animal experiments and that currently being obtained in human imaging research.
The last decade of the 20th century has seen the development of cognitive neuroscience as an effort to understand how the brain represents mental events. We review the areas of emotional and motor memory, vision, and higher mental processes as examples of this new understanding. Progress in all of these areas has been swift and impressive, but much needs to be done to reveal the mechanisms of cognition at the local circuit and molecular levels. This work will require new methods for controlling gene expression in higher animals and in studying the interactions between neurons at multiple levels.
Studies on the endocytosis of synaptic vesicles have provided two novel insights into the mechanism of vesicle formation from donor membranes, both of which concern lipids. One is the essential role of endophilin, a cytosolic protein converting lysophosphatidic acid by addition of the fatty acid arachidonate into phosphatidic acid. The other is the essential role of membrane cholesterol, which specifically interacts with synaptophysin, the major transmembrane protein of synaptic vesicles. These findings reveal novel modes of membrane lipid modification and lipid-protein interaction in vesicle biogenesis.

There is a growing body of evidence in favour of the presence of human diseases caused by mutations in genes that encode the nuclear envelope proteins emerin and lamin A/C (lamin A and C are alternatively spliced variants of the same gene). Emerin deficiency results in X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD). Lamin A/C mutations cause the autosomal-dominant form of EDMD, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy with atrioventricular conduction disturbances (type 1B), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and Dunnigan-type familial partial lipodystrophy. In the targeted mouse model of lamin A gene deficiency, loss of lamin A/C is associated with mislocalization of emerin. Thus, one plausible pathomechanism for EDMD, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and familial partial lipodystrophy is the presence of specific abnormalities of the nuclear envelope. Therefore, a group of markedly heterogeneous disorders can be classified as 'nuclear envelopathies'. The present review summarizes recent findings on nuclear envelope proteins and diseases.
The rate of advance of our understanding of mitochondrial pathology continues to accelerate. Trends in genotype-phenotype correlations in mitochondrial DNA mutations continue to be developed; the latest of these is the association of exercise intolerance with cytochrome b mutations and onset in infancy of multisystem disorders associated with cytochrome oxidase assembly defects. New models for mitochondrial disease are being developed. Drugs, toxins and deficiency of nuclear encoded proteins that are targeted at mitochondria are now recognized as important causes of secondary mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency.
We have examined the genetic mechanisms that regulate dorsal-ventral identity in the embryonic mouse telencephalon and, in particular, the specification of progenitors in the cerebral cortex and striatum. The respective roles of Pax6 and Gsh2 in cortical and striatal development were studied in single and double loss-of-function mouse mutants. Gsh2 gene function was found to be essential to maintain the molecular identity of early striatal progenitors and in its absence the ventral telencephalic regulatory genes Mash1 and Dlx are lost from most of the striatal germinal zone. In their place, the dorsal regulators, Pax6, neurogenin 1 and neurogenin 2 are found ectopically. Conversely, Pax6 is required to maintain the correct molecular identity of cortical progenitors. In its absence, neurogenins are lost from the cortical germinal zone and Gsh2, Mash1 and Dlx genes are found ectopically. These reciprocal alterations in cortical and striatal progenitor specification lead to the abnormal development of the cortex and striatum observed in Pax6 (small eye) and Gsh2 mutants, respectively. In support of this, double homozygous mutants for Pax6 and Gsh2 exhibit significant improvements in both cortical and striatal development compared with their respective single mutants. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Pax6 and Gsh2 govern cortical and striatal development by regulating genetically opposing programs that control the expression of each other as well as the regionally expressed developmental regulators Mash1, the neurogenins and Dlx genes in telencephalic progenitors.
A cell-adhesion molecule fasciclin 2 (FAS2), which is required for synaptic growth and still life (SIF), an activator of RAC, were found to localize in the surrounding region of the active zone, defining the periactive zone in Drosophila neuromuscular synapses. BetaPS integrin and discs large (DLG), both involved in synaptic development, also decorated the zone. However, shibire (SHI), the Drosophila dynamin that regulates endocytosis, was found in the distinct region. Mutant analyses showed that sif genetically interacted with Fas2 in synaptic growth and that the proper localization of SIF required FAS2, suggesting that they are components in related signaling pathways that locally function in the periactive zones. We propose that neurotransmission and synaptic growth are primarily regulated in segregated subcellular spaces, active zones and periactive zones, respectively.
Several studies indicate that systemic GH influences various brain functions. Connexin-43 forms gap junctions that mediate intercellular communication and establish the astroglial syncytium. We investigated the effects of peripheral administration of bovine GH (bGH) and recombinant human insulin-like growth factor I (rhIGF-I) on the expression of connexin-43 in the rat brain. Hypophysectomized female Sprague Dawley rats were substituted with cortisol (400 microg/kg x day) and L-T4 (10 microg/kg x day) and treated with either bGH (1 mg/kg x day) or rhIGF-I (0.85 mg/kg x day) for 19 days. The abundance of connexin-43 messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein in the brainstem, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and hypothalamus was quantified by means of ribonuclease protection assays and Western blots. Treatment with bGH increased the amounts of connexin-43 mRNA and protein in the cerebral cortex and hypothalamus. No changes were found in the brainstem or hippocampus. Infusion of rhIGF-I did not affect connexin-43 mRNA or protein levels in any of the brain regions studied. These results show that administration of bGH increases the abundance of cx43 in specific brain regions, suggesting that GH may influence gap junction formation and thereby intercellular communication in the brain.


The present study analysed the effects of the stage of learning of an appetitive operant conditioning task on the spatial and temporal patterns of c-Fos protein levels in the brain of BALB/c mice. c-Fos levels were assessed by immunohistochemistry at either 60, 120 or 180 min after either the first, the second or the fifth daily training session and compared to sham animals. The results show an increase of c-Fos-positive nuclei in several subcortical and cortical brain regions, 60-min post-acquisition. Because these activations were a function of task mastery, the data indicate that they were specifically related to learning. Following the first acquisition session, significant increases in c-Fos-positive neurons were observed in the dorsal hippocampus (CA3), anterior cingulate, occipital and parietal cortices. Following the second daily training session, c-Fos was highly expressed in some subcortical regions, the hippocampus, the subiculum, the entorhinal, and posterior cingulate areas. Moreover, a significant correlation was found between the progression of performance from day 1 to day 2 and c-Fos expression on the hippocampal CA1 subfield. Following complete acquisition, no further task-dependent increases in c-Fos-labelled nuclei was observed in any brain region sampled, suggesting that the intervention of c-Fos-induced mechanisms in the consolidation process were terminated. The training stage-dependent changes in regional post-training c-Fos expression in the hippocampus and the connected limbic regions suggest that this neuronal network is actively engaged in memory consolidation processes.
The purpose of the present study was to determine the role of the 5-HT1A receptors in the lateral septum in the mediation of the anxiogenic effects of nicotine in the social interaction and elevated plus maze tests of anxiety in the rat. Bilateral infusion of (-)-nicotine (4 and 8 microg) and of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT (200 and 500 ng) into the lateral septum decreased the time spent in social interaction, indicating anxiogenic effects. The anxiogenic effect of 8-OH-DPAT (500 ng) was completely reversed by coadministration of a behaviourally inactive dose of the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, WAY 100635 (200 ng). The anxiogenic effect of the lower dose of (-)-nicotine (4 microg) was completely reversed by WAY 100635 (200 ng), but the reversal was only partial following administration of 8 microg nicotine. In a second test of anxiety, the elevated plus maze, lateral septal administration of 8-OH-DPAT (500 ng) and nicotine (4 microg) induced anxiogenic effects. In this test, the anxiogenic effect of nicotine (4 microg) was completely reversed by coadministration of WAY 100635 (200 ng). The effects of 8-OH-DPAT demonstrate that stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors in the lateral septum has anxiogenic effects in two animal tests and that the anxiogenic effects of nicotine are mediated at least in part by these 5-HT1A receptors.
Rats have become a popular model for investigating the mechanisms underlying ocular dominance plasticity; however, no quantitative assessment of the effects of visual deprivation on behavioural acuity has been reported in this species. We measured the spatial acuity of monocularly and binocularly deprived rats with a visual discrimination task. The average spatial acuity of normal rats and rats deprived of vision after postnatal day 40 was approximately 1 cycle/degree. Monocular deprivation up to postnatal day 40 resulted in a 30% decrease in acuity and there was no recovery after 8 months. Identical binocular deprivation produced a comparable but significantly smaller reduction in acuity. The deleterious effects of monocular and binocular deprivation on visual acuity indicate that the development of cortical receptive field properties related to spatial tuning are affected by both monocular and binocular deprivation. The similarities in the effects of visual deprivation on visual acuity between rats and other mammals confirm that rats are a good model system for studying the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying experience-dependent visual plasticity.
The endpoint accuracy of a reaching movement strongly affects kinematics, particularly during the final phases of movement. However, where and how accuracy is represented in the central nervous system remains unknown. In this study, the discharge of 150 neurons located primarily in the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd), were recorded from monkeys performing an instructed delay, centre-out reaching task in which movement direction and target size were systematically varied. Linear regression analyses were used to assess the dependence of movement kinematics and cell discharge on target direction, size and tangential velocity (i.e. speed). The speed and timing of the movement were dependent on both direction and target size. Initially direction was the dominant predictor whilst target size became more important as the hand reached the target. A temporal multiple linear regression analysis found significant correlations with target size in 99 of 150 cells. The discharge of 134 cells was directionally tuned and 83 cells modulated with mean speed. Significant correlations of discharge with target size occurred throughout the task as did correlations with direction. However, correlations with direction preferentially occurred early in the task, prior to movement onset, whilst correlations with target size tended to occur late, well after movement onset. This temporal dependency of the firing in relationship to target direction and size mirrored that observed for the kinematics. We conclude that the discharge of PMd cells is highly correlated with the accuracy requirement of the movement. The timing of the correlations suggest that accuracy information is available for the planning and for the on-line control of endpoint accuracy.
Schizophrenia is a major psychiatric disease, which affects the centre of the personality, with severe problems of perception, cognition as well as affective and social behaviour. In cerebrospinal fluid of drug-free schizophrenic patients, a significant decrease in the level of total glutathione (GSH) by 27% (P&lt;0.05) was observed as compared to controls, in keeping with the reported reduced level of its metabolite gamma-glutamylglutamine. With a new non-invasive proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy methodology, GSH level in medial prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic patients was found to be 52% (P = 0.0012) lower than in controls. GSH plays a fundamental role in protecting cells from damage by reactive oxygen species generated among others by the metabolism of dopamine. A deficit in GSH would lead to degenerative processes in the surrounding of dopaminergic terminals resulting in loss of connectivity. GSH also potentiates the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor response to glutamate, an effect presumably reduced by a GSH deficit, leading to a situation similar to the application of phencyclidine (PCP). Thus, a GSH hypothesis might integrate many established biological aspects of schizophrenia.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an angiogenetic factor that promotes endothelial cell proliferation during development and after injury to various types of tissue, including the central nervous system (CNS). Using immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization methods we have here demonstrated that VEGF and its receptors Flk-1, Flt-1 and Neuropilin-1 mRNAs and proteins are induced after incisions in the rat spinal cord. The inducible enzyme for prostaglandin synthesis cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is known to be upregulated after spinal injury, cerebral ischemia and to stimulate angiogenesis. To test the hypothesis that prostaglandins may be involved in the VEGF response after lesion we investigated whether intraspinal microinjections of prostaglandin F2alpha (PGF2alpha) alters VEGF expression in the spinal cord. Such treatment was followed by a strong upregulation of VEGF mRNA and protein in the injection area. Finally, by use of an in vitro model with cell cultures of meningeal fibroblast and astrocyte origin, resembling the lesion area cellular content after spinal cord injury but devoid of inflammatory cells, we showed that VEGF is expressed in this in vitro model cell system after treatment with PGF2alpha and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). These data suggest that cells within a lesion area in the spinal cord are capable of expressing VEGF and its receptors in response to mechanical injury and that prostaglandins may induce VEGF expression in such cells, even in the absence of inflammatory cells.
Retinal gamma-aminobutyric acid type C (GABA(C)) receptors consist of rho subunits. Here we report our results from a competitive PCR and patch-clamp electrophysiology study quantifying rho subunit message and characterizing GABA(C) receptor-mediated currents at different stages of mouse retinal development. Mouse rho1 message is first detected at postnatal day 6 (P6), increases significantly until P9 and remains at this level through adulthood, whereas mouse rho2 message does not appear until P9, peaks at P15 and remains at this level through adulthood. There is an approximate twofold excess of rho1 compared to rho2 message at most stages of development, which persists in adulthood. Functional GABA(C) receptors are detected in acutely dissociated bipolar cells of P9 or older mouse retina. Early in development (P9-10), GABA(C) receptors are composed solely of rho1 subunits, but subsequently contain rho1 and/or rho2 subunits (by P11 and later). These findings are intriguing because the onset and rapid increase in rho subunit transcription and functional expression match the initiation and active period of bipolar cell differentiation in retinal development as well as the stage of eye opening and initial visual experience in the rodent. The investigation of mouse rho subunits here forms a basis for future studies on the role of GABA(C) receptors in retinal development.
Hepatocyte growth factor-scatter factor (HGF) is expressed in different parts of the nervous system, and has been shown to exhibit neurotrophic activity. Here we show that c-Met, the receptor for HGF, is expressed in developing rat hippocampus, with the highest levels during the first postnatal weeks. To study the function of HGF, hippocampal neurons were prepared from embryonic rats and treated with different HGF concentrations. In these cultures, HGF increased the number of neurons expressing the 28-kDa calcium-binding protein (calbindin D) in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of HGF was larger than that observed with either brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and cotreatment of the cultures with HGF and the neurotrophins was additive with respect to calbindin D neurons. Besides affecting the number of neurons, HGF significantly increased the degree of sprouting of calbindin D-positive neurons, suggesting an influence on neuronal maturation. BDNF and NT-3 stimulated neurite outgrowth of calbindin D neurons to a much smaller degree. In contrast to calbindin D neurons, HGF did not significantly increase the number of neurons immunoreactive with the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the hippocampal cultures. Immunohistochemical studies showed that c-Met-, calbindin D- and HGF-immunoreactive cells are all present in the dentate gyrus and partly colocalize within neurons. These results show that HGF acts on calbindin D-containing hippocampal neurons and increases their neurite outgrowth, suggesting that HGF plays an important role for the maturation and function of these neurons in the hippocampus.
Although numerous studies have examined the effects of neurotrophin treatment following spinal cord injury, few have examined the changes that occur in the neurotrophin receptors following either such damage or neurotrophin treatment. To determine what changes occur in neurotrophin receptor expression following spinal cord damage, adult rats received a midthoracic spinal cord hemisection alone or in combination with intrathecal application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). Using immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization techniques, p75, trkA, trkB, and trkC receptor expression was examined throughout the spinal cord. Results showed that trkA, full-length trkB, and trkC receptors were not present in the lesion site but had a normal expression pattern in uninjured parts of the spinal cord. In contrast, p75 receptor expression occurred on Schwann cells throughout the lesion site. BDNF and NT-3 (but not saline) applied to the lesion site increased this expression. In addition, the truncated trkB receptor was expressed in the border between the lesion and intact spinal cord. Truncated trkB receptor expression was also increased throughout the white matter ipsilateral to the lesion and BDNF (but not NT-3 or saline) prevented this increase. The study is the first to show changes in truncated trkB receptor expression that extend beyond the site of a spinal cord lesion and is one of the first to show that BDNF and NT-3 affect Schwann cells and/or p75 expression following spinal cord damage. These results indicate that changes in neurotrophin receptor expression following spinal cord injury could influence the availability of neurotrophins at the lesion site. In addition, neurotrophins may affect their own availability to damaged neurons by altering the expression of the p75 and truncated trkB receptor.
Chemokines are a family of structurally related cytokines that activate and recruit leukocytes into areas of inflammation. The &quot;CC&quot; chemokine, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 may regulate the microglia/monocyte response to acute brain injury. Recent studies have documented increased expression of MCP-1 in diverse acute and chronic experimental brain injury models; in contrast, there is little information regarding expression of the MCP-1 receptor, CCR2, in the brain. In the neonatal rat brain, acute excitotoxic injury elicits a rapid and intense microglial response. To determine if MCP-1 could be a regulator of this response, we evaluated the impact of excitotoxic injury on MCP-1 and CCR2 expression in the neonatal rat brain. We used a reproducible model of focal excitotoxic brain injury elicited by intrahippocampal injection of NMDA (10 nmol) in 7-day-old rats, to examine injury-induced alterations in MCP-1 and CCR2 expression. RT-PCR assays demonstrated rapid stimulation of both MCP-1 and CCR2 mRNA expression. MCP-1 protein content, measured by ELISA in tissue extracts, increased &gt;30-fold in lesioned tissue 8-12 h after lesioning. CCR2 protein was also detectable in tissue extracts. Double-immunofluorescent labeling enabled localization of CCR2 both to activated microglia/monocytes in the corpus callosum adjacent to the lesioned hippocampus and subsequently in microglia/monocytes infiltrating the pyramidal cell layer of the lesioned hippocampus. These results demonstrate that in the neonatal brain, acute excitotoxic injury stimulates expression of both MCP-1 and its receptor, CCR2, and suggests that MCP-1 regulates the microglial/monocyte response to acute brain injury.
Unilateral intrastriatal injection of the prototype Group III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-AP4) induces rotation in rats with ipsilateral unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal projection but not in unlesioned control animals [Kearney et al., (1998) Neuroscience 87:881-891]. We studied differences in striatal neuron Fos-like immunoreactivity expression, striatal neuron Fos-like immunoreactivity localization, and regional [(14)C]-2-deoxyglucose uptake after unilateral intrastriatal injection of L-AP4 between control and unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats. There was a left shift of the dose response curve with more striatal neurons expressing Fos-like immunoreactivity at lower doses of L-AP4 in 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned animals. In unlesioned striata, L-AP4 injections tended to induce Fos-like immunoreactivity in striato-pallidal projection neurons. In lesioned animals, the majority of striatal neurons expressing Fos-like immunoreactivity were striatonigral projection neurons. In both control and lesioned animals, intrastriatal injection of L-AP4 produced widespread decreases in [(14)C]-2-deoxyglucose uptake in basal ganglia nuclei and related regions, but the magnitude of this effect increased markedly in lesioned animals. Striatal dopamine denervation enhances the response of striatal neurons to intrastriatally injected L-AP4 with an apparent shift in the type of striatal projection neuron responding to L-AP4.
Immature progenitor cells (generated by in vitro propagation) may provide a useful alternative to primary cells (from dissected embryonic tissue) for transplantation if their migratory and proliferative and differentiation properties can be controlled and directed in vivo. In this study E15 murine EGF-responsive progenitor cells were transplanted to the striatum of adult rats. Simultaneously, these animals received continuous infusion of either epidermal growth factor (EGF) or vehicle, to the lateral ventricle, for 8 days. In animals that received EGF, the transplanted progenitors migrated toward the lateral ventricle and proliferated, as evidenced by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. Progenitor cells transplanted to rats that received vehicle infusions showed neither of these responses. In all animals, transplanted progenitors expressed an immature astrocyte or oligodendrocyte phenotype, the majority of cells being astrocytes. We conclude that EGF stimulates the migration and proliferation of murine progenitor cells in vivo, either directly or indirectly, but does not influence their phenotypic differentiation.

We report on a patient suffering from a progressive mitochondrial disorder characterized by ocular myopathy, exercise intolerance, and muscle wasting. Morphological examination of muscle biopsy showed increased variability in fiber size and scattered ragged-red fibers. Analysis of muscle mitochondrial DNA by Southern blot and PCR revealed a heteroplasmic single deletion of 4100 base pairs, located between nucleotide positions 8300 and 12,400. Western blot analysis showed high levels of the human mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam). Interestingly, we also detected an additional Tfam product, of approximately 22 kDa. This is the first case in which a qualitatively abnormal Tfam has been found to be associated with a mitochondrial disorder in humans.
The key strategies on which the discovery of the functional organization of the central nervous system (CNS) under physiologic and pathophysiologic conditions have been based included (1) our measurements of phase and frequency coordination between the firings of alpha- and gamma-motoneurons and secondary muscle spindle afferents in the human spinal cord, (2) knowledge on CNS reorganization derived upon the improvement of the functions of the lesioned CNS in our patients in the short-term memory and the long-term memory (reorganization), and (3) the dynamic pattern approach for re-learning rhythmic coordinated behavior. The theory of self-organization and pattern formation in nonequilibrium systems is explicitly related to our measurements of the natural firing patterns of sets of identified single neurons in the human spinal premotor network and re-learned coordinated movements following spinal cord and brain lesions. Therapy induced cell proliferation, and maybe, neurogenesis seem to contribute to the host of structural changes during the process of re-learning of the lesioned CNS. So far, coordinated functions like movements could substantially be improved in every of the more than 100 patients with a CNS lesion by applying coordination dynamic therapy. As suggested by the data of our patients on re-learning, the human CNS seems to have a second integrative strategy for learning, re-learning, storing and recalling, which makes an essential contribution of the functional plasticity following a CNS lesion. A method has been developed by us for the simultaneous recording with wire electrodes of extracellular action potentials from single human afferent and efferent nerve fibres of undamaged sacral nerve roots. A classification scheme of the nerve fibres in the human peripheral nervous system (PNS) could be set up in which the individual classes of nerve fibres are characterized by group conduction velocities and group nerve fibre diameters. Natural impulse patterns of several identified single afferent and efferent nerve fibres (motoneuron axons) were extracted from multi-unit impulse patterns, and human CNS functions could be analyzed under physiologic and pathophysiologic conditions. With our discovery of premotor spinal oscillators it became possible to judge upon CNS neuronal network organization based on the firing patterns of these spinal oscillators and their driving afferents. Since motoneurons fire occasionally for low activation and oscillatory for high activation, the coherent organization of subnetworks to generate macroscopic function is very complex and for the time being, may be best described by the theory of coordination dynamics. Since oscillatory firing has also been observed by us in single motor unit firing patterns measured electromyographically, it seems possible to follow up therapeutic intervention in patients with spinal cord and brain lesions not only based on the activity levels and phases of motor programs during locomotion but also based on the physiologic and pathophysiologic firing patterns and recruitment of spinal oscillators. The improvement of the coordination dynamics of the CNS can be partly measured directly by rhythmicity upon the patient performing rhythmic movements coordinated up to milliseconds. Since rhythmic dynamic, coordinated, stereotyped movements are mainly located in the spinal cord and only little supraspinal drive is necessary to initiate, maintain, and terminate them, rhythmic, dynamic, coordinated movements were used in therapy to enforce reorganization of the lesioned CNS by improving the self-organization and relative coordination of spinal oscillators (and their interactions with occasionally firing motoneurons) which became pathologic in their firing following CNS lesion. Paraparetic, tetraparetic spinal cord and brain-lesioned patients re-learned running and other movements by an oscillator formation and coordination dynamic therapy. Our development in neurorehabilitation is in accordance with those of theoretical and computational neurosciences which deal with the self-organization of neuronal networks. In particular, jumping on a springboard 'in-phase' and in 'anti-phase' to re-learn phase relations of oscillator coupling can be understood in the framework of the Haken-Kelso-Bunz coordination dynamic model. By introducing broken symmetry, intention, learning and spasticity in the landscape of the potential function of the integrated CNS activity, the change in self-organization becomes understandable. Movement patterns re-learned by oscillator formation and coordination dynamic therapy evolve from reorganization and regeneration of the lesioned CNS by cooperative and competitive interplay between intrinsic coordination dynamics, extrinsic therapy related inputs with physiologic re-afferent input, including intention, motivation, supervised learning, interpersonal coordination, and genetic constraints including neurogenesis. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

In eukaryotic cells, cell functions are maintained in an orderly manner through the continuous traffic of various proteins between the cell nucleus and the cytoplasm. The nuclear import and export of proteins occurs through nuclear pore complexes and typically requires specific signals: the nuclear localization signal and nuclear export signal, respectively. The transport pathways have been found to be highly divergent, but are known to be largely mediated by importin beta-like transport receptor family molecules. These receptor molecules bind to and carry their cargoes directly or via adapter molecules. A small GTPase Ran ensures the directionality of nuclear transport by regulating the interaction between the receptors and their cargoes through its GTP/GDP cycle. Moreover, it has been recently elucidated how the transport system is involved in various functions of cell physiology, such as cell cycle control.
Several biochemical and clinical factors have been shown to correlate with survival in human malignant pleural mesothelioma (MM). Nevertheless, average survival of 4 to 10 months from diagnosis is sometimes not sufficient for full expression of these factors. Several studies have reported SV40 sequences in MM, suggesting a possible pathogenic role. We investigated whether the presence of these sequences had any effect on MM patient survival. For this study, we used polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot analysis to search for and identify SV40 DNA in biopsy samples from 83 MM patients. These cases were divided according to histology: 62/83 (74. 7%) had epithelioid morphology (EMM) and 21/83 (25.3%) had either biphasic or sarcomatous morphology (B/SMM). SV40 positivity was significantly associated with B/SMM growth pattern (chi-squared test = 5.03, P = 0.025). Kaplan-Meier univariate analysis confirmed the independent effect of histology on MM survival (log-rank test = 13.9, P &lt; 0.001) and showed a trend for increased survival in SV40-negative patients (log-rank test = 2.83, P = 0.09). Most importantly, Cox's regression model showed that SV40-positive status affected the predictive value of histology on patient survival. In particular, when SV40 expression was added to the B/SMM histotype, Cox's regression model showed a significant increase in hazard ratio (HR) with respect to SV40-negative B/SMM (HR = 4.25, 95% CI = 2.00-9. 00, likelihood ratio test = 14.31, P &lt; 0.001). We conclude that SV40 expression is significantly associated with B/SMM histology and represents an important prognostic cofactor when associated with the tumor subtype in MM patients.
Semaphorins comprise a large family of phylogenetically conserved secreted and transmembrane glycoproteins, many of which have been implicated in repulsive axon guidance events. The transmembrane semaphorin Sema-1a in Drosophila is expressed on motor axons and is required for the generation of neuromuscular connectivity. Sema-1a can function as an axonal repellent and mediates motor axon defasciculation. Here, by manipulating the levels of Sema-1a and the cell adhesion molecules fasciclin II (Fas II) and connectin (Conn) on motor axons, we provide further evidence that Sema-1a mediates axonal defasciculation events by acting as an axonally localized repellent and that correct motor axon guidance results from a balance between attractive and repulsive guidance cues expressed on motor neurons.
Some years ago we showed that in the adult rat and mouse neuropeptide Y (NPY) is expressed by olfactory ensheathing cells, a special type of glial cell involved in guiding of the continuously renewing olfactory axons. In the present study, using immunohistochemistry combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy, and mRNA in situ hybridization, we have analyzed whether NPY is also expressed in other axon-related glial cell systems during prenatal development. NPY was found to be expressed in the dorsal and ventral rootlets along the spinal cord from E13 and onward and in the rootlets of the cranial nerves and in the sensory ganglia from E14 and onward. In some cases, NPY-immunoreactivity (IR) was also found along peripheral nerves. NPY-IR was expressed in a dot-like fashion, similar to the NPY expression observed in olfactory ensheathing cells. At E18 the NPY-immunoreactive dots had disappeared from almost all ganglia and rootlets, and only in the most central part of the rootlets some weak dot-like NPY-IR was observed. At E20 it had disappeared completely from all rootlets and nerves, except the olfactory nerve. Most of the dot-like NPY-IR did not co-localize with the neuronal marker PGP 9.5. Based on its spatiotemporal expression, it is concluded that NPY is expressed by Schwann cell precursors. NPY expressed by Schwann cell precursors might have a role in axonal growth or axonal guidance, or both.
The frequently occurring alteration of ganglioside expression in tumor cells has been implicated to play a role in the uncontrolled growth of these cells; antibodies to such gangliosides might affect tumor cell growth. We have studied the effect of IgM monoclonal antibodies to two glioma-associated gangliosides, GD3 and GM2, on cell proliferation of four human glioma cell lines and one renal tumor cell line. Of the two anti-ganglioside antibodies tested, only the anti-GD3 antibody resulted in a significant (p&lt;0.005) inhibition of cell proliferation as measured by thymidine incorporation and Brd-U labeling, after 24h incubation. The effect was not dependent on any serum factor and no increased cell death was observed. All cell lines contained higher or similar amounts of GM2 than GD3, and both antigens were shown to be expressed on the cell surface and accessible to antibodies. The selective effect of anti-GD3 antibodies as contrasted to the inactivity of anti-GM2 antibodies suggests a possible role for ganglioside GD3 in tumor cell proliferation.
Conceptual dichotomies between mind and brain, psychology and neuroscience, meaning and causation, and fact and value confound thinking in philosophy of mind, clinical psychiatry, and psychiatric ethics. Paul Churchland's theory of eliminative materialism highlights these dichotomies, stating that advances in neuroscience have restricted, and eventually will eliminate, any need for psychology. The core principles of this theory are questionable, because psychiatrists still need psychology and perhaps always will. The main argument in this essay is that even in cases of well-defined brain pathology (where eliminative materialism seems most plausible), psychological concepts remain critical. Thus, philosophers and psychiatrists should generate conceptual models that lead not to eliminativism but to explanatory pluralism, which is the pragmatic integration of diverse concepts toward the end of better handling clinical challenges. The contributions of Karl Jaspers in opposition to eliminative materialism and in support of pluralism are discussed. Jaspers delineated the role of meaningful psychological explanation in a psychiatry rooted in neuroscientific explanation. However, his notion that meaningful states do not have causal power is disputable and has come under fire in recent philosophy of mind and cognitive neuroscience, which highlight the possibility that meaningful psychological states can be causally significant. This idea has implications for psychiatric ethics and the fact/value debate.
The aim of this study was to examine two aspects of cognitive functioning-information processing speed and memory-in both young/middle-aged and older subjects with and without migraine, using data from a large population-based sample. We found that, although age had a large effect on processing speed and memory, migraine did not influence cognitive performance. In addition, there was no significant interaction between age and migraine on processing speed and memory. Our results suggest that, in the general population, migraine does not seriously affect cognitive functioning in young/middle-aged or older adults.
Visual form and position perception in primates is thought to engage two different sets of cortical visual areas. However, the original concept of two functionally different and anatomically segregated pathways has been challenged by recent investigations. Using identical stimuli in the centre of the visual field with no external cues, we examined whether discrimination of form aspects and position aspects would indeed activate occipito-temporal and occipito-parietal areas, respectively. We measured and localised regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes in the brain with positron emission tomography (PET) and 15O-butanol while the subjects performed four visual tasks: position discrimination (PD), form discrimination (FD), joint form and position discrimination (FPD), and a control task. Discrimination of form contrasted with discrimination of position resulted in rCBF increases in the lateral occipital and fusiform gyri. Discrimination of position contrasted with discrimination of form yielded rCBF increases in the left frontal eye field and middle frontal gyrus. No extra activations were seen when the joint form and position discrimination task was contrasted with either the individual form and position discrimination tasks. When the individual form and position discrimination tasks were contrasted with the control task, form discrimination resulted in activations in both occipito-temporal and occipito-parietal visual cortical regions, as well as in the right middle-frontal gyrus. Position discrimination resulted in activation in occipito-parietal visual cortical regions, the left frontal eye field and the left middle frontal gyrus. These findings are consistent with the view that the processing of visual position information activates occipito-parietal visual regions. On the other hand, the processing of 2D visual form information, in addition to the activation of occipito-temporal neuronal populations, also involves the parietal cortex. Form and position discrimination activated different nonsymmetrical prefrontal fields. Although the visual stimuli were identical, the network of activated cortical fields depended on whether the task was a form discrimination task or a position discrimination task, indicating a strong task dependence of cortical networks underlying form and position discrimination in the human brain. In contrast to former studies, however, these task-dependent macronetworks are overlapping in the posterior parietal cortex, but differentially engage the occipito-temporal and the prefrontal cortex.
The genes for glucocerebrosidase and metaxin, both located on chromosome 1q21, each have a highly homologous pseudogene sequence nearby. We describe a novel recombinant allele consisting of a duplication of the glucocerebrosidase pseudogene and a fusion between the metaxin gene and its pseudogene, resulting from a crossover between metaxin and pseudometaxin in the region downstream of the glucocerebrosidase gene. We also show that certain individuals have a metaxin-pseudometaxin fusion gene without a duplication, resulting from the same crossover. DNA from patients with Gaucher disease and normal controls were screened for recombinant alleles by Southern blot analyses prepared with the restriction enzymes SspI and HincII and by direct sequencing. Downstream alterations were identified in eight of the 398 patient alleles studied and in seven of the 200 normal control alleles examined, and were encountered more frequently among patients and controls of African-American ancestry. This is the first recognition of a duplicated allele in the glucocerebrosidase gene region, and its presence may contribute to genotype-phenotype studies in Gaucher disease.
This meeting of the Federation of European Neuroscience Societies (FENS), hosted by the British Neuroscience Association (BNA), included a diverse range of neuroscience presentations including many of pharmacological relevance. The pharmacological characterization and mode of action of numerous drugs was presented, including IL-1ra, ARL-17477, zVAD-fmk, L-790984, CEP-1347, gacyclidine, NBI-30775, AWD-131-138, flumazenil, ondansetron, LY-367385, MPEP, and NBI-34060.
Cryptococcosis is increasing because of an ever rising population of immunocompromised individuals especially those with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Cryptococcal infection of the central nervous system (CNS) were diagnosed in 149 cases over a period of 19.5 years (January 1978-June 1998). Culture was positive in all cases except three who were already on antifungal therapy. India ink mounts of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) revealed encapsulated cryptococci in 134, and cryptococcal antigen was detected in 111 of 114 patients tested. A comparison of laboratory and certain clinical parameters in patients with and without associated HIV infection showed that a poor CSF cell response and culture of cryptococci from extra-neural sites was more often associated with HIV infection and was statistically significant. Further, presence of concomitant infection especially tuberculosis, and mortality were higher in the HIV positive group.
The long-term effects of early postnatal exposure to aluminium on acetyl choline esterase (AChE) activity and on biogenic amines were studied in different brain regions. The subjects were eight days old male Wistar rat pups. They were grouped into normal control and aluminium exposed groups. For aluminium exposure, the pups were gastric intubated with aluminium chloride (40 mg/Kg body weight) for two weeks. Control rats were given equal volumes of distilled water. After the treatment, they were rehabilitated for forty days. On the sixtieth day, the rats from both the groups were sacrificed and AChE activity, levels of dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin were estimated in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, septum, brainstem and striatum. In the aluminium exposed group: the AChE activity was significantly decreased in the hippocampus, septum, striatum and brainstem; serotonin levels were reduced by 20% in the cortex, hippocampus, septum and striatum; in brain stem, the serotonin level was decreased by 40%. A 60% reduction in noradrenaline levels was observed in the striatum whereas it was reduced by 25% in other regions except in hippocampus. Though dopamine levels were not altered in the cortex, septum and brainstem, they were reduced by 40% in the striatum. The study documents the long-term consequences of exposure to aluminium during the developmental periods.



This study aimed at evaluating patient and treatment variables influencing six month treatment outcome in alcohol dependence. 134 serially registered patients selected their treatment setting as either outpatient or inpatient. Sociodemographic variables, alcohol consumption patterns, drinking consequences were measured at intake. Following treatment, drinking patterns and consequences were re-measured at three and six months follow up in each of the groups. 86 of 134 chose the inpatient program and 48 the outpatient program. Overall, 58 maintained total abstinence, and 11 had significantly reduced alcohol consumption at six months follow up. The inpatient group did marginally better than the outpatient group. More severely dependent patients, those with greater physical and psychosocial consequences opted for an inpatient program, and did well. Less severely dependent patients did favourably with outpatient intervention alone. Improvements made within the first three months tended to influence subsequent treatment compliance The observation that less severely dependent individuals who opted for outpatient services did favourably suggests that extensive treatment may be required only for those with more severe dependence or greater psychosocial consequences. Our findings also highlight the need for developing community based low cost interventions.
Knockdown resistance (kdr) to pyrethroid insecticides has been attributed to point mutations in the para sodium channel gene in more than a half dozen insect pest species. In this study, we identified two novel para mutations in five highly resistant kdr-type German cockroach strains. The two mutations, from glutamic acid (E434) to lysine (K434) and from cysteine (C764) to arginine (R764), respectively, are located in the first intracellular linker connecting domains I and II. E434K is located near the beginning of the linker (closest to domain I), whereas C764R is found toward the end of the linker (closest to domain II). Two additional mutations from aspartic acid (D58) to glycine (G58), and from proline (P1880) to leucine (L1888), respectively, were found in one of the resistant strains. The four mutations coexist with the previously identified leucine to phenylalanine (L993F) kdr mutation in IIS6, and are present only in the highly resistant individuals of a given strain. These findings suggest that these mutations might be responsible for high levels of knockdown resistance toward pyrethroid insecticides in the German cockroach.
Neurotoxic elimination of noradrenergic terminals by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) leads to alteration of the granule cell layer formation. We have studied the developmental expression of GABA(A) receptor subunits in rat cerebellum after neonatal administration of 6-OHDA during the first postnatal month of life. 6-OHDA was injected subcutaneously. The expression of GABA(A) receptor subunits was studied by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The alterations were observed in the neocerebellum - the part of the cerebellum which starts development postnatally. The migration of granule cells was delayed, and the total area of the granule cell layer in the neocerebellum from 6-OHDA-treated rats was reduced to 22.6+/-5% of the corresponding area from control rats. In situ hybridization with subunit-specific antisense oligonucleotide probes was performed for alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, alpha5, alpha6, beta1, beta2, gamma1 and gamma2 subunits of the GABA(A) receptor. In neocerebellum, 6-OHDA treatment caused a significant reduction in the alpha1, alpha6 and gamma2 subunit mRNA levels. The expression of the other subunits was not changed. It has been shown that in the postnatal cerebellum alpha1 and alpha6 subunits can be detected in granule cells only when the cells had migrated to their final destination. Our findings indicate that a noradrenergic influence may be necessary for the normal maturation and migration of cerebellar granule cells.

This population-based study investigated the relationship between stresses (hassles) and burnout for 30 family caregivers and their institutionalized demented elderly. The Burnout Measure, the Patient Hassles Scales and the Nursing Home Hassles Scale were used. Hassles included: patient hassles (cognitive, behavior, basic ADL) and nursing home hassles (caregiver - staff, patient - staff, practical/logistical). The caregiver's characteristics are described in relation to burnout and the caregiver's most frequent hassles are discussed. All subscales except basic ADL were correlated to burnout. However, regression analysis showed the nursing home hassles to be the most important stresses explaining variance in burnout among family caregivers.
The effect of 10 peptides structurally related to the growth hormone (GH) releasing peptide hexarelin, injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), on penile erection was studied in male rats. Six out of the 10 peptides tested induced penile erection in a dose-dependent manner. Among them, the most potent were EP 80661, EP 60761 and EP 91072, which were active at doses of 20-200 ng. The potency of these peptides in inducing penile erection is comparable to that of apomorphine, oxytocin and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid similarly injected into the PVN. Other peptides found active were EP 50885, EP 90101 and EP 91071, which induced penile erection at doses of 200-2000 ng. In contrast, EP 51322, EP 70555, EP 51216 and EP 91073 were inactive, as were hexarelin, EP 40904 and EP 40737 in a previous study. The majority of EP peptides found active when injected into the PVN induced penile erection, although to a lesser extent, also when given systemically (endovenously). The proerectile effect of EP peptides was prevented by the oxytocin receptor antagonist [d(CH2)5 Tyr(Me)2-Orn8]-vasotocin given into the lateral ventricles but not into the PVN, by the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-1-arginine methyl ester given either into the lateral ventricles or into the PVN, by the N-type Ca2+ channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA and by morphine, but not by the dopamine receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol or by the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonist dizolcipine, given into the PVN. As the structure-activity relationship of EP peptides for proerectile activity is different from those of other biological actions of these compounds, ie for GH release and eating behaviour, the present results suggest that EP peptides induce penile erection by acting on specific hypothalamic receptor sites that activate paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extrahypothalamic brain areas that mediate this sexual function by a mechanism similar to that of dopamine receptor agonists, oxytocin and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid.
We analyzed 7 mono-, 6 di- and 2 trinucleotide repeat loci in a well characterized series of 69 breast cancer cases, treated in the period 1985-1986 and followed for 12 years. Tumor-associated allele contractions or expansions were observed only at di- and trinucleotide repeats, and were detected in 14/69 cases (20%), of which 7 (10%) showed instability at 2 or more loci (10%). No alterations were detected at mononucleotide repeats known to be unstable in gastrointestinal tumors with the microsatellite mutator phenotype. Disease-free survival at 5 years, overall survival at 12 years of follow-up, tumor stage, estrogen/progesteron receptor status, and expression of the Ki-67 proliferation marker were independent of microsatellite status.
There is a substantial body of basic research that has utilized ERPs to investigate the neurological basis of cognition. This research has, in turn, led to the development of practical applications of cognitive ERPs in patient populations. In particular, recent work has focused on the development of ERP-based assessment measures for the neuropsychological assessment of dyslexia and language impairments secondary to stroke. This review describes the innovative assessment methods program (IAMP), an initiative to utilize ERPs for a neuropsychological assessment of patients who cannot be evaluated by traditional methods. The success of this program has demonstrated that ERPs can be used to reliably evaluate an individual's reading and speech comprehension abilities, independent of behavioral and speech production impediments. In contrast to traditional neuropsychological assessment, these ERP methods can discern the cognitive strategies used by an individual to perform a task.
The published studies using P300 event-related potential (ERP) as a vulnerability marker in schizophrenia have been summarized and reviewed. Several factors across sibling, offspring, and familial studies appear to contribute to the variegated findings with respect to the utility of P300 as a vulnerability marker for schizophrenia. These include how subject samples are defined in terms of their genetic loading for schizophrenia, sample size, ERP methodology, and the relationship of P300 measures to neuropsychological test outcomes. It was concluded that the P300 holds promise as a vulnerability marker for schizophrenia, if used in conjunction with other neuroimaging and neuropsychological testing methods.
SUMMARY The changes in family burden and participation in care of relatives to both voluntarily and compulsorily admitted patients were investigated as part of a longitudinal study of the quality of the mental health services in a Swedish county performed between 1986 and 1997. The relationship between the relative's mental health and family burden, participation in care and need of own support was also investigated. The results showed similar and high levels of burden and a non-sufficient participation in care in both periods investigated despite the ongoing changes in the delivery of psychiatric services and a change in the compulsory legislation in Sweden during the period. More relatives experienced an own need of care and support from the psychiatric services in the 1997 investigation. Relatives who experienced mental health problems of their own more often experienced other forms of burden, experienced less participation in the patient's treatment and also more often had own needs of care and support. It is concluded that interventions in families where relatives experience mental health problems will be useful, since a well-functioning network around the mentally ill person has shown to reduce relapse.
Pavlov's points of view on vivisection are analyzed and compared with the modern ethical conception of carrying out experiments on animals. It appears that Pavlov's points of view are largely in accordance with modern ethical requirements for experimenting on animals.


Exposure of proteins to oxidants leads to increased oxidation followed by preferential degradation by the proteasomal system. The role of the biological oxidant production in microglial BV-2 cells in the oxidation and turnover of endogenous proteins was measured. It could be demonstrated, that BV-2 cells are relatively resistant to fluxes of oxidants, but nevertheless protein oxidation occurs due to activation by LPS. This protein oxidation is followed by an enhanced degradation of endogenous proteins. Using PBN, a free radical scavenger and antioxidant, we could demonstrate the involvement of free radicals in the increased proteolysis in BV-2 cells after LPS-treatment. A slight but significant up-regulation of the proteasomal system after LPS activation takes place, indicating the importance of his proteolytic system in the maintenance of the protein pool of microglial cells.
With the increasing emphasis on interdisciplinary practice, there is a need to recognize factors that promote effective interdisciplinary teams. The influence of individual learning-style preference on collaborative performance was examined in 78 occupational and physical therapy students in a neuroscience course. They were randomly assigned in pairs to one of three subsets based upon their Kolb Learning Style Inventory scores (active experimenters vs reflective observers). The students viewed a videotape of a quadriplegic patient's physical examination and completed a collaborative exercise that required performance skills on all levels of Bloom's taxonomy of learning. Analysis of variance revealed no significant difference among learning-style subset pairs in performance (F2, 36 = 0.43, p &gt; 0.05), but the exercise's overall grade correlated with the average of the pair's highest individual scores on two prior written exams (r = 0.631, p &lt; 0.05), suggesting that background knowledge may predict performance better than learning styles do. It is suggested that differences in information-processing styles as measured by the Kolb inventory do not affect interdisciplinary team performance.

Although the exact prevalence of metabolic abnormalities in autism spectrum disorders is unknown, several metabolic defects have been associated with autistic symptoms. These include phenylketonuria, histidinemia, adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency, dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, 5'-nucleotidase superactivity, and phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase deficiency. When the metabolic consequences of an enzyme defect are well defined (e.g., phenylketonuria, 5'-nucleotidase superactivity), treatment with diet, drugs, or nutritional supplements may bring about a dramatic reduction in autistic symptoms. This review evaluates evidence for metabolic etiologies in autism spectrum disorders, as well as for the efficacy of dietary and vitamin treatments. The relationship between gastrointestinal abnormalities and autism spectrum disorders is also considered.

A theoretical basis for understanding polymerization shrinkage of bone cement is presented based on density changes in converting monomer to polymer. Also, an experimental method, based on dilatometry and the Archimedes' principle is presented for highly precise and accurate measurement of unconstrained volumetric shrinkage of bone cement. Furthermore, a theoretical and experimental analysis of polymerization shrinkage in a constrained deformational state is presented to demonstrate that porosity can develop due to shrinkage. Six bone-cement conditions (Simplex-Ptrade mark vacuum and hand mixed, Endurancetrade mark vacuum mixed, and three two-solution experimental bone cements with higher initial monomer levels) were tested for volumetric shrinkage. It was found that shrinkage varied statistically (p&lt; or = 0.05) from 5.1% (hand-mixed Simplex-Ptrade mark) to 6.7% (vacuum-mixed Simplex-Ptrade mark) to 10.5% for a 0.6:1 (polymer g/monomer mL) two-solution bone cement. Shrinkage was highly correlated with initial monomer content (R(2) = 0.912) but with a lower than theoretically expected rate. This discrepancy was due to the presence of residual monomer after polymerization. Using previously determined residual monomer levels, the theoretic shrinkage analysis was shown to be predictive of the shrinkage results with some residual monomer left after polymerization. Polymerization of a two-solution bone cement in a constrained state resulted in pores developing with volumes predicted by the theory that they are the result of shrinkage. The results of this study show that shrinkage of bone cement under certain constrained conditions may result in the development of porosity at the implant-bone cement interface and elsewhere in the polymerizing cement mantle.
The aims of our study were: to present cases of congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) with deficiency in merosin and the importance of immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis of merosin-deficient CMD. In four years (1997-2000), we found three patients with merosin-deficient CMD, one of them having an unusual clinical and pathological manifestation of the disease. Muscle biopsies of gastrocnemius or quadriceps muscles were investigated. In addition with the conventional HE staining, indirect immunohistochemistry for merosin, dystrophin, utrophin and for the proteins of the dystrophin associated complex (alpha-, beta-, gamma- sarcoglycans; beta-dystroglycan) was performed on cryosections. The findings suggest that there is no correlation between the clinical and histological picture of the disease and the expression of merosin in skeletal muscles. The degree of muscle involvment (assessed by histology) is parallel with the clinical neuromotor deficiency, but not with expression of merosin, which can be absent even in mild cases. The clinical investigations as well as current morphological techniques, only together with immunohistochemistry can differentiate between merosin - deficient CMD and other muscular dystrophy forms.
We have developed a semi-quantitative method for indirectly revealing variations in the concentration of second messengers (Ca(2+), cyclic AMP) in single presynaptic boutons by detecting the phosphorylation of the synapsins, excellent nerve terminal substrates for cyclic AMP- and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases. For this purpose, we employed polyclonal, antipeptide antibodies recognising exclusively synapsin I phosphorylated by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (at site 3) or synapsins I/II phosphorylated by either cAMP-dependent protein kinase or Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I (at site 1). Cerebellar granular neurones in culture were double-labelled with a monoclonal antibody to synapsins I/II and either of the polyclonal antibodies. Digitised images were analysed to determine the relative phosphorylation stoichiometry at each individual nerve terminal. We have found that: (i) under basal conditions, phosphorylation of site 3 was undetectable, whereas site 1 exhibited some degree of constitutive phosphorylation; (ii) depolarisation in the presence of extracellular Ca(2+) was followed by a selective and widespread increase in site 3 phosphorylation, although the relative phosphorylation stoichiometry varied among individual terminals; and (iii) phosphorylation of site 1 was increased by stimulation of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase but not by depolarisation and often occurred in specific nerve terminal sub-populations aligned along axon branches. In addition to shedding light on the regulation of synapsin phosphorylation in living nerve terminals, this approach permits the spatially-resolved analysis of the activation of signal transduction pathways in the presynaptic compartment, which is usually too small to be studied with other currently available techniques.
With the advent and emerging importance of neurobiology and its relation to behavior, scientists desire the capability to apply noninvasive, quantitative imaging of neuronal activity to small rodents. To this end, the authors' laboratory has developed microPET, a high-resolution positron emission tomography (PET) scanner that is capable of performing in vivo molecular imaging at a resolution sufficient to resolve major structures in the rat brain. The authors report in this article that, in conjunction with 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG), microPET provides accurate rates of cerebral glucose metabolism (59.7 to 108.5 micromol/100 g x min) in conscious adult rats as validated by within-subject autoradiographic measurements (59.5 to 136.2 micromol/100 g x min; r = 0.88; F[1,46] = 168.0; P &lt; 0.001). By conducting repeated quantitative scanning, the authors demonstrate the sensitivity and accuracy of FDG-microPET to detect within-subject metabolic changes induced by traumatic brain injury. In addition, the authors report that longitudinal recovery from traumatic brain injury-induced metabolic depression, as measured by quantitative FDG-microPET, is significantly correlated (r = 0.65; P &lt; 0.05) to recovery of behavioral dysfunction, as assessed by the Morris Water Maze performance of the same rats, after injury. This is the first study to demonstrate that FDG-microPET is quantitative, reproducible, and sensitive to metabolic changes, introducing a new approach to the longitudinal study of small animal models in neuroscience research.
Quantification of linear biological structures has important applications in neuroscience; for example, the length of neurotransmitter-specific axonal innervation or length of dendritic processes within particular brain structures. Until recently, however, there have been practical limitations in the application of stereological tools for the unbiased estimation of object length on tissue sections. The recent development of efficient new approaches allows for the wider application of theoretically unbiased sampling and estimation techniques that are devoid of the assumptions and models of earlier methods. In this review, we outline the historical background and recent advances in the estimation of total length for biological objects on tissue sections, including a practical method to estimate the length of cholinergic fibers using newly developed methods. These newer methods also take advantage of three-dimensional image datasets and virtual probes, techniques that may have wider application in quantitative morphometry.

Estrogen has been shown to influence several brain functions as well as the expression of neuropsychiatric diseases. To date, two estrogen receptor (ER) subtypes have been identified, ERalpha and ERbeta. ERalpha messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) distribution in the human forebrain was recently characterized, and the highest expression was found in restricted areas of the amygdala and hypothalamus. However, no information exists with regard to ERbeta mRNA distribution in the human brain. To this end, the anatomical distribution pattern of ERbeta mRNA expression in the human forebrain was investigated in the present study. Overall, the ERbeta mRNA hybridization signal was relatively low, but the most abundant ERbeta mRNA areas were the hippocampal formation (primarily the subiculum), claustrum, and cerebral cortex; expression was also present in the subthalamic nucleus and thalamus (ventral lateral nucleus). In contrast to ERalpha (studied on adjacent brain sections), ERbeta mRNA expression was low in the hypothalamus and amygdala. Based on the revealed anatomical distribution of the human ERbeta gene expression, a putative role for ERbeta in the modulation of cognition, memory, and motor functions is suggested.
Motion sickness symptoms affect approximately 50% of the crew during space travel and are commonly treated with intramuscular injections of promethazine. The purpose of this paper is to compare the effectiveness of three treatments for motion sickness: intramuscular injections (i.m.) of promethazine, a physiological training method (autogenic-feedback training exercise [AFTE]), and a no-treatment control. An earlier study tested the effects of promethazine on cognitive and psychomotor performance and motion sickness tolerance in a rotating chair. For the present paper, motion sickness tolerance, symptom reports, and physiological responses of these subjects were compared to matched subjects selected from an existing database who received either AFTE or no treatment. Three groups of 11 men, between the ages of 33 and 40 years, were matched on the number of rotations tolerated during their initial rotating-chair motion sickness test. The motion sickness test procedures and the 7-day interval between tests were the same for all subjects. The drug group was tested under four treatment conditions: baseline (no injections), a 25 mg dose of promethazine, a 50 mg dose of promethazine, and a placebo of sterile saline. AFTE subjects were given four 30-minute AFTE sessions before their second, third, and fourth motion sickness tests (6 hours total). The no-treatment control subjects were only given the four rotating-chair tests. Motion sickness tolerance was significantly increased after 4 hours of AFTE when compared to either 25 mg (p &lt; 0.00003) or 50 mg (p &lt; 0.00001) of promethazine. The control and promethazine groups did not differ. AFTE subjects reported fewer or no symptoms at higher rotational velocities than subjects in the control or promethazine groups. The primary physiological effect of promethazine was an inhibition of skin conductance level. The AFTE group showed significantly less heart rate and skin conductance variability during motion sickness tests administered after training.

Three new cholinesterase inhibitors, donepezil, rivastigmine, and galantamine, all inhibit the enzyme AChE. Rivastigmine also inhibits BuChE, which could lead to additional benefits in late-stage Alzheimer's disease, but also cause more GI side effects at initiation of therapy. Galantamine is also an allosteric modulator of nicotinic receptors, which could lead to additional efficacy for attention and for behaviors mediated by neurotransmitters other than ACh. We are now entering an exciting era where the options for treating the devastating illness Alzheimer's disease are multiplying and creating a foundation upon which new therapies with new mechanisms of action can be built.
The mechanical frequency selectivity of the cupula located in the supraorbital lateral line canal and the frequency selectivity of the hair cells driven by the cupula were measured simultaneously in vivo. Laser interferometry was used to measure cupular mechanics and extracellular receptor potentials were recorded to determine hair cell frequency selectivity. Results were obtained from two teleost fish species, the ruffe (Acerina cernua L.), a European temperate zone freshwater fish, and the tropical African knife fish (Xenomiystus nigri). In both species cupular displacement grows with increasing frequency of canal fluid displacement, reaching a maximum at 115 Hz in the ruffe and at 460 Hz in the African knife fish. Cupular best frequencies were independent of temperature. Cut-off frequencies of hair cell frequency selectivity were found to depend on temperature with a Q10 of 1.75, ranging from 116 Hz (4 degrees C) to 290 Hz (20 degrees C), as established in the ruffe. At normal habitat temperatures of the two fish species (ruffe, 4 degrees C; African knife fish, 28 degrees C), this results in hair cell cut-off frequencies that match the two different cupular best frequencies remarkably well. This match suggests adjusted signal transfer in these two peripheral stages of canal lateral line transduction.
The effects of 50% ethanol extract of one formulated ayurvedic product, consisting of a mixture of medicinal plant species, was investigated on behavioral despair test (forced swimming test, FST), central dopaminergic and serotonergic activity in rats. The effects on the forced swimming test were assessed along with the levels of dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT) and its metabolites homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindoleaceticacid (5-HIAA) in striatum, frontal cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus and brain stem after 21 days of chronic oral administration of the extract (500 and 1500 mg/kg-body weight). The extract significantly increased climbing behavior at 500 mg/kg and increased swimming behavior by reducing immobility time at 1500 mg/kg when compared with the control group in forced swimming test (P&lt;0.05). This showed that the active substances present in 50% ethanol extract of the ayurvedic preparation possess antidepressant activity and their specificity towards particular behavior, depends on the concentration of the extract. Further it showed that the enhancement of active behavior in FST is not due to generalized motor activity. The neurochemical estimations revealed the swim stressor inducing alterations in the levels of DA, 5-HT and their metabolites HVA and 5-HIAA in the brain regions assayed as compared with the non-stressed control rats. These changes were prevented extract treated rats. The 500 mg/kg extract treated group had significantly increased the levels of DA in frontal cortex, hypothalamus and hippocampus whereas the 5-HT in hypothalamus (P&lt;0.05). However, there were no significant changes in the levels of HVA and 5-HIAA. These behavioral and biochemical results indicate antidepressant properties of the extract, which may be mediated by the dopaminergic and serotonergic mechanisms in rat brain.
The authors propose to study information transmission by comparing the effects of experimental factors on reaction time (RT) with the latency of the changes in activity of single-neurons. An experiment was conducted in which a monkey (Macaca mulatta) performed a tactilo-manual 2-choice RT task and the compatibility of the stimulus-response mapping was manipulated. Task-related neurons were recorded in the monkey's primary somesthetic and motor cortices. The changes in activity of 105 of these neurons were classified either as sensory-like or as motor-like. The sensory-like changes occurred before the motor-like ones. The stimulus-response mapping exerted its entire effect on the RT after the sensory-like changes and before the motor-like ones. These findings suggest that the information was transmitted discretely from the processes affected by the mapping to the processes implemented by the motor-like changes.
The selectivity filter of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels is in part composed of four Glu residues, termed the EEEE locus. Ion selectivity in Ca(2+) channels is based on interactions between permeant ions and the EEEE locus: in a mixture of ions, all of which can pass through the pore when present alone, those ions that bind weakly are impermeant, those that bind more strongly are permeant, and those that bind more strongly yet act as pore blockers as a consequence of their low rate of unbinding from the EEEE locus. Thus, competition among ion species is a determining feature of selectivity filter function in Ca(2+) channels. Previous work has shown that Asp and Ala substitutions in the EEEE locus reduce ion selectivity by weakening ion binding affinity. Here we describe for wild-type and EEEE locus mutants an analysis at the single channel level of competition between Cd(2+), which binds very tightly within the EEEE locus, and Ba(2+) or Li(+), which bind less tightly and hence exhibit high flux rates: Cd(2+) binds to the EEEE locus approximately 10(4)x more tightly than does Ba(2+), and approximately 10(8)x more tightly than does Li(+). For wild-type channels, Cd(2+) entry into the EEEE locus was 400x faster when Li(+) rather than Ba(2+) was the current carrier, reflecting the large difference between Ba(2+) and Li(+) in affinity for the EEEE locus. For the substitution mutants, analysis of Cd(2+) block kinetics shows that their weakened ion binding affinity can result from either a reduction in blocker on rate or an enhancement of blocker off rate. Which of these rate effects underlay weakened binding was not specified by the nature of the mutation (Asp vs. Ala), but was instead determined by the valence and affinity of the current-carrying ion (Ba(2+) vs. Li(+)). The dependence of Cd(2+) block kinetics upon properties of the current-carrying ion can be understood by considering the number of EEEE locus oxygen atoms available to interact with the different ion pairs.
Electrical signals are critical for the function of neurones, muscle cells, and cardiac myocytes. Proteins that regulate electrical signalling in these cells, including voltage gated ion channels, are logical sites where abnormality might lead to disease. Genetic and biophysical approaches are being used to show that several disorders result from mutations in voltage gated ion channels. Understanding gained from early studies on the pathogenesis of a group of muscle diseases that are similar in their episodic nature (periodic paralysis) showed that these disorders result from mutations in a gene encoding a voltage gated Na(+) channel. Their characterisation as channelopathies has served as a paradigm for other episodic disorders. For example, migraine headache and some forms of epilepsy have been shown to result from mutations in voltage gated Ca(2+) channel genes, while long QT syndrome is known to result from mutations in either K(+) or Na(+) channel genes. This article reviews progress made in the complementary fields of molecular genetics and cellular electrophysiology which has led to a better understanding of voltage gated ion channelopathies in humans and mice.
The digital revolution currently under way, as evidenced by the rapid development of the Internet and the world-wide-web technologies, is undoubtedly impacting the field of transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Digital imaging systems based on charge-coupled device (CCD) technologies, with pixel array size up to 2 k x 2 k at the present and increasing, are available for TEM applications and offer many attractions. Is it time to phase out film cameras on TEMs and close the darkrooms for good? This paper reviews digital imaging technologies for TEM at different voltages, and contrasts the performance of digital imaging systems with that of TEM film. The performance characteristics of CCD-based digital imaging systems, as well as methods for assessing them, are discussed. Other approaches to digital imaging are also briefly reviewed.
The adult brain contains neural stem cells that are capable of proliferating, differentiating into neurons or glia, and then either surviving or dying. This process of neural-cell production (neurogenesis) in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus is responsive to brain injury, and both mental and physical activity. We now report that neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus can also be modified by diet. Previous studies have shown that dietary restriction (DR) can suppress age-related deficits in learning and memory, and can increase resistance of neurons to degeneration in experimental models of neurodegenerative disorders. We found that maintenance of adult rats on a DR regimen results in a significant increase in the numbers of newly produced neural cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, as determined by stereologic analysis of cells labeled with the DNA precursor analog bromodeoxyuridine. The increase in neurogenesis in rats maintained on DR appears to result from decreased death of newly produced cells, rather than from increased cell proliferation. We further show that the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, a trophic factor recently associated with neurogenesis, is increased in hippocampal cells of rats maintained on DR. Our data are the first evidence that diet can affect the process of neurogenesis, as well as the first evidence that diet can affect neurotrophic factor production. These findings provide insight into the mechanisms whereby diet impacts on brain plasticity, aging and neurodegenerative disorders.
Molecular genetic analysis indicates that rhythmic changes in the abundance of the Drosophila lark RNA-binding protein are important for circadian regulation of adult eclosion (the emergence or ecdysis of the adult from the pupal case). To define the tissues and cell types that might be important for lark function, we have characterized the spatial and developmental patterns of lark protein expression. Using immunocytochemical or protein blotting methods, lark can be detected in late embryos and throughout postembryonic development, from the third instar larval stage to adulthood. At the late pupal (pharate adult) stage, lark protein has a broad pattern of tissue expression, which includes two groups of crustacean cardioactive peptide (CCAP)-containing neurons within the ventral nervous system. In other insects, the homologous neurons have been implicated in the physiological regulation of ecdysis. Whereas lark has a nuclear distribution in most cell types, it is present in the cytoplasm of the CCAP neurons and certain other cells, which suggests that the protein might execute two different RNA-binding functions. Lark protein exhibits significant circadian changes in abundance in at least one group of CCAP neurons, with abundance being lowest during the night, several hours prior to the time of adult ecdysis. Such a temporal profile is consistent with genetic evidence indicating that the protein serves a repressor function in mediating the clock regulation of adult ecdysis. In contrast, we did not observe circadian changes in CCAP neuropeptide abundance in late pupae, although CCAP amounts were decreased in newly-emerged adults, presumably because the peptide is released at the time of ecdysis. Given the cytoplasmic localization of the lark RNA-binding protein within CCAP neurons, and the known role of CCAP in the control of ecdysis, we suggest that changes in lark abundance may regulate the translation of a factor important for CCAP release or CCAP cell excitability.
The biosynthesis of dopamine (DA) in catecholaminergic neurons is regulated by tyrosine hydroxylase, which converts tyrosine into 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA). In melanocytes, tyrosinase catalyzes both the hydroxylation of tyrosine and the consequent oxidation of L-DOPA to form melanin. Although it has been demonstrated that tyrosinase is also expressed in the brain, the physiological role of tyrosinase in the brain is still obscure. In this study, to investigate the role of tyrosinase in catecholaminergic neuronal cells, we examined the effects of tyrosinase inhibition on the viability of CATH.a and SH-SY5Y cells using tyrosinase inhibitors-specifically, phenylthiourea (PTU) and 5-hydroxyindole (5-HI)-and the transfection of antisense tyrosinase cDNA. Both inhibitors significantly reduced the cell viability of CATH.a cells in a dose-dependent manner. PTU also specifically enhanced DA-induced cell death, but 5-HI did not. This discrepancy in cell death is probably due to the inhibitors' different mechanism of action: 5-HI inhibits the hydroxylation of tyrosine as a competitor for the substrate to induce cell death that may be due to depletion of DA, whereas PTU mainly inhibits the enzymatic oxidation of L-DOPA and DA rather than tyrosine hydroxylation to increase consequently autooxidation of DA. Indeed, the intracellular DA content in CATH.a cells was enhanced by PTU exposure. In contrast, PTU showed no enhancing effects on DA-induced cell death of SH-SY5Y cells, which express little tyrosinase. Furthermore, transfection with antisense tyrosinase cDNA into CATH.a cells dramatically reduced cell viability and significantly enhanced DA-induced cell death. These results suggest that tyrosinase controls the intracellular DA content by biosynthesis or enzymatic oxidation of DA, and the dysfunction of this activity induces cell death by elevation of intracellular DA level and consequent gradual autooxidation of DA to generate reactive oxygen species.
Recent studies implicating dendritic protein synthesis in synaptic plasticity have focused attention on identifying components of the molecular machinery involved in processing dendritic RNA. Although Translin was originally identified as a protein capable of binding single-stranded DNA, subsequent studies have demonstrated that it also binds RNA in vitro. Because previous studies indicated that Translin-containing RNA/single-stranded DNA binding complexes are highly enriched in brain, we and others have proposed that it may be involved in dendritic RNA processing. To assess this possibility, we have conducted studies aimed at defining the localization of Translin and its partner protein, Trax, in brain. In situ hybridization studies demonstrated that both Translin and Trax are expressed in neurons with prominent staining apparent in cerebellar Purkinje cells and neuronal layers of the hippocampus. Subcellular fractionation studies demonstrated that both Translin and Trax are highly enriched in the cytoplasmic fraction compared with nuclear extracts. Furthermore, immunohistochemical studies with Translin antibodies revealed prominent staining in Purkinje neuron cell bodies that extends into proximal and distal dendrites. A similar pattern of somatodendritic localization was observed in hippocampal and neocortical pyramidal neurons. These findings demonstrate that Translin is expressed in neuronal dendrites and therefore support the hypothesis that the Translin/Trax complex may be involved in dendritic RNA processing.
Increasing evidence suggests that mood disorders are associated with a reduction in regional CNS volume and neuronal and glial cell atrophy or loss. Lithium, a mainstay in the treatment of mood disorders, has recently been demonstrated to robustly increase the levels of the cytoprotective B-cell lymphoma protein-2 (bcl-2) in areas of rodent brain and in cultured cells. In view of bcl-2's antiapoptotic and neurotrophic effects, the present study was undertaken to determine if lithium affects neurogenesis in the adult rodent hippocampus. Mice were chronically treated with lithium, and 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling of dividing cells was conducted over 12 days. Immunohistochemical analysis was undertaken 1 day after the last injection, and three-dimensional stereological cell counting revealed that lithium produced a significant 25% increase in the BrdU-labeled cells in the dentate gyrus. Double-labeling immunofluorescence studies were undertaken to co-localize BrdU-positive cells with neuron-specific nuclear protein and showed that approximately 65% of the cells were double-labeled. These results add to the growing body of evidence suggesting that mood stabilizers and antidepressants exert neurotrophic effects and may therefore be of use in the long-term treatment of other neuropsychiatric disorders.
This study was designed to investigate the possible involvement of members of the nuclear receptor family of transcription factors in the effects of antipsychotic drugs used in the treatment of schizophrenia. We have identified, using RT-PCR screening, an important modulation of nerve growth factor-inducible B (NGFI-B) mRNA levels by typical and atypical neuroleptics in the rat forebrain. NGFI-B, a member of the nuclear receptor family, can be observed in target structures of dopaminergic pathways. Using in situ hybridization, we also demonstrate that typical and atypical antipsychotics induced contrasting patterns of expression of NGFI-B after both acute and chronic administration. An acute treatment with clozapine or haloperidol induces high NGFI-B mRNA levels in the prefrontal and cingulate cortices and in the nucleus accumbens shell. However, haloperidol, but not clozapine, dramatically increases NGFI-B expression in the dorsolateral striatum. In contrast, chronic treatment with clozapine reduces NGFI-B expression below basal levels in the rat forebrain, whereas haloperidol still induces high NGFI-B mRNA levels in the dorsolateral striatum. Finally, using a double in situ hybridization technique, we show that acute administration of both neuroleptics increases NGFI-B expression in neurotensin-containing neurons in the nucleus accumbens shell, whereas the effects of haloperidol in the dorsolateral striatum are mainly observed in enkephalin-containing neurons. These results are the first demonstration that members of the nuclear receptor family of transcription factors could play an important role in the effects of antipsychotic drugs.
We have shown that amphetamine produces a delayed and sustained increase in glutamate levels in the ventral tegmental area, a region containing dopamine cell bodies important in acute and chronic effects of amphetamine administration. The present study characterized the mechanism underlying amphetamine-induced glutamate efflux. It was abolished by the glutamate uptake inhibitor dihydrokainate, but unaffected by perfusion with a low Ca(2+)/high Mg(2+) solution, implicating glutamate transporters. Because reactive oxygen species inhibit glutamate uptake, we examined the effect of amphetamine on hydroxyl radical formation by perfusing with D-phenylalanine (5 mM) and monitoring p-tyrosine production. Although no increase in hydroxyl radical formation was detected, D-phenylalanine completely prevented the amphetamine-induced increase in glutamate efflux, as did systemic injection of another trapping agent, alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (60 mg/kg). Thus, amphetamine-induced glutamate efflux may involve reactive oxygen species. In other studies, we found that repeated coadministration of alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone with amphetamine attenuated the development of behavioral sensitization. This supports prior results indicating that the increase in glutamate efflux produced by each amphetamine injection in a chronic regimen is important in triggering drug-induced adaptations in ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons, and that such adaptations may in part represent a response to metabolic and oxidative stress
This study reports that insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) prevents cerebellar granule cells from developing sensitivity to kainate neurotoxicity. Sensitivity to kainate neurotoxicity normally develops 5-6 days after switching cultures to a serum-free medium containing 25 mM K(+). Addition of either IGF-I or insulin to the serum-free medium at the time of the switch prevented the development of sensitivity to kainate, whereas brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, neurotrophin-4, and nerve growth factor did not. The dose-response curves indicated IGF-I was more potent than insulin, favoring the assignment of the former as the physiological protective agent. The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-K) inhibitors wortmannin (10-100 nM) and LY 294002 (0.3-1 microM) abolished the protection afforded by IGF-I. The p70 S6 kinase (p70(S6k)) inhibitor rapamycin (5-50 nM:) also abolished the protection afforded by IGF-I. The activities of both enzymes decreased in cultures switched to serum-free medium but increased when IGF-I was included; wortmannin (100 nM) lowered the activity of PI 3-K from 2 to 5 days after medium switch, whereas rapamycin (50 nM) prevented the increase observed for p70(S6k) activity over the same interval. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase inhibitor U 0126 and the mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor SB 203580 did not abolish IGF-I protection. Kainate neurotoxicity was not prevented by Joro spider toxin; therefore, the development of kainate neurotoxicity could not be explained by the formation of calcium-permeable alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptors. These results indicate that IGF-I functions through a signal transduction pathway involving PI 3-K and p70(S6k) to prevent the development of sensitivity to kainate neurotoxicity in cerebellar granule cells.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) promotes survival and/or neurite outgrowth from a variety of neurons in cell culture and regenerative processes in vivo. FGFs exert their effects by activating cell surface receptor tyrosine kinases. FGF receptor (FGFR) inhibitors have not been characterized on neuronal cell behaviors to date. In the present study, we show that the FGFR1 inhibitor PD 173074 potently and selectively antagonized the neurotrophic and neurotropic actions of FGF-2. Nanomolar concentrations of PD 173074 prevented FGF-2, but not insulin-like growth factor-1, support of cerebellar granule neuron survival under conditions of serum/K(+) deprivation; another FGF-2 inhibitor, SU 5402, was effective only at a 1,000-fold greater concentration. Neither PD 173074 nor SU 5402, at 100 times their IC(50) values, interfered with the survival of dorsal root ganglion neurons promoted by nerve growth factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor, or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. PD 173074 and SU 5402 displayed 1,000-fold differential IC(50) values for inhibition of FGF-2-stimulated neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells and in granule neurons, and FGF-2-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase (p44/42) phosphorylation. The two inhibitors failed to disturb downstream signalling stimuli of FGF-2. PD 173074 represents a valuable tool for dissecting the role of FGF-2 in normal and pathological nervous system function without compromising the actions of other neurotrophic factors.
The human estrogen receptor (ER) alpha gene is transcribed from multiple promoters, generating mRNA isoforms with unique 5' ends in the untranslated region. In the present study, alternative promoters were shown to regulate the ERalpha gene expression in different neuronal populations of the human brain. By using in situ hybridization histochemistry, the A and B promoters, but not the C promoter, in the ERalpha gene were found to be active in the human forebrain. The mRNA isoform transcribed from the A promoter was expressed in low levels in most of the brain areas where ERalpha mRNA was present. In contrast, the B promoter mRNA isoform was more restricted, localized predominantly in high-expressing ERalpha mRNA regions. The gross anatomical distribution of the different mRNA isoforms analyzed with RT-PCR generally supported the results obtained by the in situ hybridization. Estrogen is known to modulate many different brain functions, such as neuroendocrine events associated with reproduction, mood, and cognition, likely to be mediated by different neuronal populations. Thus, the current findings of alternative ERalpha promoter expression in distinct neuronal populations suggest that multiple promoter usage is a possible mechanism to achieve differentiated regulation of the ERalpha expression, dependent on the cell phenotype and consequently the functions mediated by the specific neuron.
The functional diversity of adenylyl cyclases provides for different modes of cyclic AMP signalling in mammals. This study reports the cloning and functional characterisation of a cDNA encoding human adenylyl cyclase IX (ACIX). The data show that human ACIX is a Ca(2+)/calcineurin-inhibited adenylyl cyclase prominently expressed in vital organs, including brain, heart, and pancreas. ACIX mRNA was detected in several brain regions, including neocortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum. By in situ hybridisation, ACIX mRNA was localised to pyramidal and granule cells of the hippocampus, indicating that it is expressed predominantly in nerve cells. Further analysis of ACIX mRNA expression revealed two major forms of ACIX mRNA that arose through tissue-specific differential mRNA polyadenylation. Taken together, the data show that (a) human ACIX is under inhibitory control by Ca(2+) through calcineurin, (b) ACIX may be involved in higher brain functions, and (c) post-transcriptional regulation of ACIX gene expression is a species-specific control mechanism that may enhance the versatility of cyclic AMP signalling in humans.
Recent studies indicate that the Egr family of transcription regulatory factors plays a key role in nervous system development and plasticity. In prior studies, we demonstrated that multiple isoforms of the Egr3 transcription regulatory factor are expressed in brain and appear to be generated by use of alternative translation start sites. To compare the functional activity of these isoforms, we have examined their ability to stimulate transcription of a luciferase reporter construct driven by the Egr response element. Analysis of a series of N-terminal truncation constructs indicates that Egr3 contains two distinct activation domains: one located in the segment upstream of Met(106), the start site of the major truncated isoform Egr3beta, and the other located C-terminal to all of the alternative translation start sites used to generate Egr3 isoforms detected in brain. We confirmed this inference by demonstrating that each of these segments is able to drive transcription when fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain. Taken together, these studies indicate that the internal translation start sites present in Egr3 are used to generate Egr3 isoforms lacking the activation domain located N-terminal to Met(106).
The distribution of glutamate receptors in the monkey subthalamic nucleus was studied using affinity purified polyclonal antibodies to GluR1, phosphorylated GluR1, GluR2/3, NMDAR1, mGluR1a and mGluR5. Intense staining for both the unphosphorylated and the phosphorylated forms of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 was observed in the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of neurons in this nucleus. In comparison to GluR1, less intense staining for GluR2/3 was observed in the cell bodies and processes. NMDAR1 immunoreactivity was present in cell bodies and large numbers of small diameter dendrites. Light staining was observed in cell bodies with mGluR1a and no staining was observed on cell bodies with mGluR5. The neuropil, however, contained many processes that were labeled for mGluR1a or mGluR5. Electron microscopy showed that label was present in cytoplasmic locations in cell bodies and dendrites, in addition to components of the synaptic region, in sections stained for GluR1, GluR2/3 and NMDAR1. In contrast, very lightly labeled or unlabeled cell bodies but labeled dendrites and axon terminals, was observed in sections stained for mGluR1a and mGluR5. In addition to neural processes, occasional astrocytic processes were also labeled for mGluR5. Of the immunogold particles that were associated with components of the synaptic region, label for ionotropic glutamate receptors was mostly present on postsynaptic densities, whilst that for metabotropic glutamate receptors was mostly present in a perisynaptic location. The ratio of GluR1/GluR2 messenger RNAs has been reported to increase in the aged hippocampus (PAGLIUSI, S. R., GERRARD, P., ABDALLAH, M., TALABOT, D. &amp; CATSICAS, S. (1994) Neuroscience 61, 429-433.), and it is possible that a similar change in the ratio of GluR1 and GluR2 may occur in neurons of the subthalamic nucleus with age. It is postulated that this could result an increase in calcium permeability via AMPA receptors, and an enhancement of excitatory transmission in this nucleus.
During myelinogenesis, we found an exceedingly strong, transient expression of the alpha(1E) gene for the R-type voltage-gated calcium channel in CNS white matter. This immunoreactivity appeared in glial cells along specific pathways of the brainstem, cerebellum, and telencephalon. The reactivity followed a wave that progressed from the brainstem at P5, to the cerebellar peduncles by P8, the arbor vitae by P14, and the granular layer by P17. The reactivity-peaked about 3-4 days later and decreased gradually to become negligible in all areas before adulthood. Ultrastructural analysis confirmed that alpha(1E) immunoreactivity was located in oligodendroglial somata, their projections, paranodal wraps and loose myelin sheaths. There was a distinct association of the channel protein reactivity on oligodendroglial membranes in contact with the axon. We propose that glial projections, contacting axons, sense axonal firing through small K(+) currents and open the high voltage R-type calcium channels to signal myelination.
Activation of adenylate cyclase induces cultured neurohypophysial astrocytes (pituicytes) to change from a protoplasmic, nonstellate form to a stellate form. Stellation is inhibited and reversed (destellation) by serum. The objective of the present studies was to examine the roles of Ca2+ and tyrosine phosphorylation in mediating these morphological changes. The effects of forskolin (to induce stellation) and serum (to inhibit and reverse stellation) were not affected by replacement of Ca2+ with Co2+ in the medium or by treatment of cultures with thapsigargin. However, genistein, a specific inhibitor of tyrosine kinase(s), significantly reduced the effect of serum on forskolin-induced stellation. Also, dephostatin, a specific inhibitor of tyrosine phosphatase, inhibited forskolin-induced stellation. In contrast, genistein did not have a dramatic effect on serum-induced destellation. The data demonstrate that morphological changes exhibited by cultured pituicytes are independent of Ca2+ but may be modulated by the activity of tyrosine kinase(s) and phosphatase(s).
We examined whether patients with both amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and cancer differ from classical ALS patients, and whether motor neuron disease responds to oncological therapy. We analyzed clinical and immunological features of 14 patients (9 men, 5 women; mean age 65.3 years) with pure/definite ALS and cancer. Patients with solid tumor cancer and definite ALS were selected according to the E1 Escorial criteria; cases with ALS plus were excluded. Four patients had breast cancer, three lung adenocarcinoma, and three bowel tumor; hepatocarcinoma, kidney cancer, and mesothelioma were observed in one case each, and in one patient the primary tumor was unidentified. Patients' sera were examined for antinervous system antibodies by means of immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis. Of five patients who underwent surgical therapy, two worsened during the procedure, while the other three had no benefit. The remaining two patients did not improve after chemotherapy and radiotherapy. In none of our cases did the oncological disease progress. Death was a consequence of ALS in all eight patients who died. Median survival was 18 months and did not differ from that of 28 ALS patients matched for age, sex, and onset features (bulbar or spinal). Anti-nervous system antibodies were never detected. We conclude that our group of pure ALS patients with cancer do not significantly differ from patients with classical ALS. They usually die as a consequence of the motor neuron syndrome in the absence of cancer progression. To date we have not observed any response of ALS to antitumor therapy.

Cerebral malaria may be the most common non-traumatic encephalopathy in the world. The pathogenesis is heterogeneous and the neurological complications are often part of a multisystem dysfunction. The clinical presentation and pathophysiology differs between adults and children. Recent studies have elucidated the molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis and raised possible interventions. Antimalarial drugs, however, remain the only intervention that unequivocally affects outcome, although increasing resistance to the established antimalarial drugs is of grave concern. Artemisinin derivatives have made an impact on treatment, but other drugs may be required. With appropriate antimalarial drugs, the prognosis of cerebral malaria often depends on the management of other complications-for example, renal failure and acidosis. Neurological sequelae are increasingly recognised, but further research on the pathogenesis of coma and neurological damage is required to develop other ancillary treatments.
To determine whether reduced nerve growth factor (NGF) and/or its high affinity receptor, trkA, play a role in the pathophysiology of Rett syndrome (RS), we used immunohistochemistry in paraffin-embedded human autopsy brain tissue, to quantify NGF and trkA levels within the frontal cortex of 9 RS females and 10 female controls of similar age. The results showed a significant reduction of NGF expression in RS patients (p &lt; 0.001). Specifically, all RS brains exhibited NGF levels at or below the minimum level observed in controls. In 3 RS brains there was no NGF detected. TrkA expression was also reduced in the RS group (p = 0.035). Interestingly, the expression of NGF in the RS group was significantly related to the presence of cortical astrogliosis (r = 0.91) as indicated by immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). This suggests that while the signals for NGF production during injury remain intact, the critical developmental signals required for early NGF production are impaired.
Reaching movements made to visual targets in a rotating room are initially deviated in path and endpoint in the direction of transient Coriolis forces generated by the motion of the arm relative to the rotating environment. With additional reaches, movements become progressively straighter and more accurate. Such adaptation can occur even in the absence of visual feedback about movement progression or terminus. Here we examined whether congenitally blind and sighted subjects without visual feedback would demonstrate adaptation to Coriolis forces when they pointed to a haptically specified target location. Subjects were tested pre-, per-, and postrotation at 10 rpm counterclockwise. Reaching to straight ahead targets prerotation, both groups exhibited slightly curved paths. Per-rotation, both groups showed large initial deviations of movement path and curvature but within 12 reaches on average had returned to prerotation curvature levels and endpoints. Postrotation, both groups showed mirror image patterns of curvature and endpoint to the per-rotation pattern. The groups did not differ significantly on any of the performance measures. These results provide compelling evidence that motor adaptation to Coriolis perturbations can be achieved on the basis of proprioceptive, somatosensory, and motor information in the complete absence of visual experience.
In addition to cells specifically active with visual stimuli, saccades, or fixation, the supplementary eye field contains cells that fire in precise temporal relationship with the occurrence of reward. We studied reward-related activity in two monkeys performing a prosaccade/antisaccade task and in one monkey trained in memory prosaccades only. Two types of neurons were distinguished by their reciprocal firing pattern: reward-predicting (RP) and reward-detecting (RD). RP neurons linearly increased their firing as early as 150 ms before saccade onset until the occurrence of reward, at which time they abruptly ceased firing. In contrast, RD neurons fired in phase with reward delivery, even when its duration was varied and when it was repeated at different frequencies. RD discharges were little affected or unaffected by the position of a visual cue that briefly anchored the goal at the onset of reward. The complementary firing patterns of the RP and RD neurons could provide a feedback mechanism necessary for learning and performing the task.
Spatiotemporal convergence and two-dimensional (2-D) neural tuning have been proposed as a major neural mechanism in the signal processing of linear acceleration. To examine this hypothesis, we studied the firing properties of primary otolith afferents and central otolith neurons that respond exclusively to horizontal linear accelerations of the head (0.16-10 Hz) in alert rhesus monkeys. Unlike primary afferents, the majority of central otolith neurons exhibited 2-D spatial tuning to linear acceleration. As a result, central otolith dynamics vary as a function of movement direction. During movement along the maximum sensitivity direction, the dynamics of all central otolith neurons differed significantly from those observed for the primary afferent population. Specifically at low frequencies (&lt;/=0.5 Hz), the firing rate of the majority of central otolith neurons peaked in phase with linear velocity, in contrast to primary afferents that peaked in phase with linear acceleration. At least three different groups of central response dynamics were described according to the properties observed for motion along the maximum sensitivity direction. &quot;High-pass&quot; neurons exhibited increasing gains and phase values as a function of frequency. &quot;Flat&quot; neurons were characterized by relatively flat gains and constant phase lags (approximately 20-55 degrees ). A few neurons (&quot;low-pass&quot;) were characterized by decreasing gain and phase as a function of frequency. The response dynamics of central otolith neurons suggest that the approximately 90 degrees phase lags observed at low frequencies are not the result of a neural integration but rather the effect of nonminimum phase behavior, which could arise at least partly through spatiotemporal convergence. Neither afferent nor central otolith neurons discriminated between gravitational and inertial components of linear acceleration. Thus response sensitivity was indistinguishable during 0.5-Hz pitch oscillations and fore-aft movements. The fact that otolith-only central neurons with &quot;high-pass&quot; filter properties exhibit semicircular canal-like dynamics during head tilts might have important consequences for the conclusions of previous studies of sensory convergence and sensorimotor transformations in central vestibular neurons.
Sensory information that arises in orofacial organs facilitates exploratory, ingestive, and defensive behaviors that are essential to overall fitness and survival. Because the hypothalamus plays an important role in the execution of these behaviors, sensory signals conveyed by the trigeminal nerve must be available to this brain structure. Recent anatomical studies have shown that a large number of neurons in the upper cervical spinal cord and caudal medulla project directly to the hypothalamus. The goal of the present study was to identify the types of information that these neurons carry to the hypothalamus and to map the route of their ascending axonal projections. Single-unit recording and antidromic microstimulation techniques were used to identify 81 hypothalamic-projecting neurons in the caudal medulla and upper cervical (C(1)) spinal cord that exhibited trigeminal receptive fields. Of the 72 neurons whose locations were identified, 54 were in laminae I-V of the dorsal horn at the level of C(1) (n = 22) or nucleus caudalis (Vc, n = 32) and were considered trigeminohypothalamic tract (THT) neurons because these regions are within the main projection territory of trigeminal primary afferent fibers. The remaining 18 neurons were in the adjacent lateral reticular formation (LRF) and were considered reticulohypothalamic tract (RHT) neurons. The receptive fields of THT neurons were restricted to the innervation territory of the trigeminal nerve and included the tongue and lips, cornea, intracranial dura, and vibrissae. Based on their responses to mechanical stimulation of cutaneous or intraoral receptive fields, the majority of THT neurons were classified as nociceptive (38% high-threshold, HT, 42% wide-dynamic-range, WDR), but in comparison to the spinohypothalamic tract (SHT), a relatively high percentage of low-threshold (LT) neurons were also found (20%). Responses to thermal stimuli were found more commonly in WDR than in HT neurons: 75% of HT and 93% of WDR neurons responded to heat, while 16% of HT and 54% of WDR neurons responded to cold. These neurons responded primarily to noxious intensities of thermal stimulation. In contrast, all LT neurons responded to innocuous and noxious intensities of both heat and cold stimuli, a phenomenon that has not been described for other populations of mechanoreceptive LT neurons at spinal or trigeminal levels. In contrast to THT neurons, RHT neurons exhibited large and complex receptive fields, which extended over both orofacial (&quot;trigeminal&quot;) and extracephalic (&quot;non-trigeminal&quot;) skin areas. Their responses to stimulation of trigeminal receptive fields were greater than their responses to stimulation of non-trigeminal receptive fields, and their responses to innocuous stimuli were induced only when applied to trigeminal receptive fields. As described for SHT axons, the axons of THT and RHT neurons ascended through the contralateral brain stem to the supraoptic decussation (SOD) in the lateral hypothalamus; 57% of them then crossed the midline to reach the ipsilateral hypothalamus. Collateral projections were found in the superior colliculus, substantia nigra, red nucleus, anterior pretectal nucleus, and in the lateral, perifornical, dorsomedial, suprachiasmatic, and supraoptic hypothalamic nuclei. Additional projections (which have not been described previously for SHT neurons) were found rostral to the hypothalamus in the caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, and substantia innominata. The findings that nonnociceptive signals reach the hypothalamus primarily through the direct THT route, whereas nociceptive signals reach the hypothalamus through both the direct THT and the indirect RHT routes suggest that highly prioritized painful signals are transferred in parallel channels to ensure that this critical information reaches the hypothalamus, a brain area that regulates homeostasis and other humoral responses required for the survival of the organism.
Sensory systems often provide ambiguous information. Integration of various sensory cues is required for the CNS to resolve sensory ambiguity and elicit appropriate responses. The vestibular system includes two types of sensors: the semicircular canals, which measure head rotation, and the otolith organs, which measure gravito-inertial force (GIF), the sum of gravitational force and inertial force due to linear acceleration. According to Einstein's equivalence principle, gravitational force is indistinguishable from inertial force due to linear acceleration. As a consequence, otolith measurements must be supplemented with other sensory information for the CNS to distinguish tilt from translation. The GIF resolution hypothesis states that the CNS estimates gravity and linear acceleration, so that the difference between estimates of gravity and linear acceleration matches the measured GIF. Both otolith and semicircular canal cues influence this estimation of gravity and linear acceleration. The GIF resolution hypothesis predicts that inaccurate estimates of both gravity and linear acceleration can occur due to central interactions of sensory cues. The existence of specific patterns of vestibuloocular reflexes (VOR) related to these inaccurate estimates can be used to test the GIF resolution hypothesis. To investigate this hypothesis, we measured eye movements during two different protocols. In one experiment, eight subjects were rotated at a constant velocity about an earth-vertical axis and then tilted 90 degrees in darkness to one of eight different evenly spaced final orientations, a so-called &quot;dumping&quot; protocol. Three speeds (200, 100, and 50 degrees /s) and two directions, clockwise (CW) and counterclockwise (CCW), of rotation were tested. In another experiment, four subjects were rotated at a constant velocity (200 degrees /s, CW and CCW) about an earth-horizontal axis and stopped in two different final orientations (nose-up and nose-down), a so-called &quot;barbecue&quot; protocol. The GIF resolution hypothesis predicts that post-rotatory horizontal VOR eye movements for both protocols should include an &quot;induced&quot; VOR component, compensatory to an interaural estimate of linear acceleration, even though no true interaural linear acceleration is present. The GIF resolution hypothesis accurately predicted VOR and induced VOR dependence on rotation direction, rotation speed, and head orientation. Alternative hypotheses stating that frequency segregation may discriminate tilt from translation or that the post-rotatory VOR time constant is dependent on head orientation with respect to the GIF direction did not predict the observed VOR for either experimental protocol.
We have previously developed a model of the corticogeniculate system to explore cortically induced synchronization of lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) neurons. Our model was based on the experiments of Sillito et al. Recently Brody discovered that the LGN events found by Sillito et al. correlate over a much longer period of time than expected from the stimulus-driven responses and proposed a cortically induced slow covariation in LGN cell membrane potentials to account for this phenomenon. We have examined the data from our model, and we found, to our surprise, that the model shows the same long-term correlation. The model's behavior was the result of a previously unsuspected oscillatory effect, not a slow covariation. The oscillations were in the same frequency range as the well-known spindle oscillations of the thalamocortical system. In the model, the strength of feedback inhibition from the cortex and the presence of low-threshold calcium channels in LGN cells were important. We also found that by making the oscillations more pronounced, we could get a better fit to the experimental data.
Type I putative magnocellular neurosecretory cells of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) express a prominent transient outward rectification generated by an A-type potassium current. Described here is a slow transient outward current that alters cell excitability and firing frequency in a subset of type I PVN neurons (38%). Unlike most of the type I neurons (62%), the transient outward current in these cells was composed of two kinetically separable current components, a fast activating, fast inactivating component, resembling an A-type potassium current, and a slowly activating [10-90% rise time: 20.4 +/- 12.8 (SE) ms], slowly inactivating component (time constant of inactivation: tau = 239.0 +/- 66.1 ms). The voltage dependence of activation and inactivation and the sensitivity to block by 4-aminopyridine (5 mM) and tetraethylammonium chloride (10 mM) of the fast and slow components were similar. Compared to the other type I neurons, the neurons that expressed the slow transient outward current were less excitable when hyperpolarized, requiring larger current injections to elicit an action potential (58.5 +/- 13.2 vs. 15.4 +/- 2.4 pA; 250-ms duration; P &lt; 0.01), displaying a longer delay to the first spike (184.9 +/- 15.7 vs. 89.7 +/- 8.8 ms with 250- to 1,000-ms, 50-pA current pulses; P &lt; 0.01), and firing at a lower frequency (18. 7 +/- 4.6 vs. 37.0 +/- 5.5 Hz with 100-pA current injections; P &lt; 0. 05). These data suggest that a distinct subset of type I PVN neurons express a novel slow transient outward current that leads to a lower excitability. Based on double labeling following retrograde transport of systemically administered fluoro-gold and intracellular injection of biocytin, these cells are neurosecretory and are similar morphologically to magnocellular neurosecretory cells, although it remains to be determined whether they are magnocellular neurons.
The appearance of a stationary but irrelevant cue triggers a smooth eye movement away from the position of the cue in monkeys that have been trained extensively to smoothly track the motion of moving targets while not making saccades to the stationary cue. We have analyzed the parameters that regulate the size of the cue-evoked smooth eye movement and examined whether presentation of the cue changes the initiation of pursuit for subsequent steps of target velocity. Cues evoked smooth eye movements in blocks of target motions that required smooth pursuit to moving targets, but evoked much smaller smooth eye movements in blocks that required saccades to stationary targets. The direction of the cue-evoked eye movement was always opposite to the position of the cue and did not depend on whether subsequent target motion was toward or away from the position of fixation. The latency of the cue-evoked smooth eye movement was near 100 ms and was slightly longer than the latency of pursuit for target motion away from the position of fixation. The size of the cue-evoked smooth eye movement was as large as 10 degrees /s and decreased as functions of the eccentricity of the cue and the illumination of the experimental room. To study the initiation of pursuit in the wake of the cues, we used bilateral cues at equal eccentricities to the right and left of the position of fixation. These evoked smaller eye velocities that were consistent with vector averaging of the responses to each cue. In the wake of bilateral cues, the initiation of pursuit was enhanced for target motion away from the position of fixation, but not for target motion toward the position of fixation. We suggest that the cue-evoked smooth eye movement is related to a previously postulated on-line gain control for pursuit, and that it is a side-effect of sudden activation of the gain-controlling element.
We used whole cell and outside-out patch-clamp techniques with reticulospinal Mauthner neurons of zebrafish embryos to investigate the developmental changes in the properties of glycinergic synaptic currents in vivo from the onset of synaptogenesis. Miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) were isolated and recorded in the presence of TTX (1 microM), kynurenic acid (1 mM), and bicuculline (10 microM) and were found to be sensitive to strychnine (1 microM). The mIPSCs were first observed in 26-29 h postfertilization (hpf) embryos at a very low frequency of approximately 0.04 Hz, which increased to approximately 0.5 Hz by 30-40 hpf, and was approximately 10 Hz in newly hatched (&gt;50 hpf) larvae, indicating an accelerated increase in synaptic activity. At all embryonic stages, the amplitudes of the mIPSCs were variable but their means were similar ( approximately 100 pA), suggesting rapid formation of the postsynaptic matrix. The 20-80% rise times of mIPSCs in embryos were longer (0.6-1.2 ms) than in larvae (approximately 0.3 ms), likely due to slower diffusion of glycine at the younger, immature synapses. The mIPSCs decayed with biexponential (tau(off1) and tau(off2)) time courses with a half-width in 26-29 hpf embryos that was longer and more variable than in older embryos and larvae. In 26- to 29-hpf embryos, tau(off1) was approximately 15 ms and tau(off2) was approximately 60 ms, representing events of intermediate duration; but occasionally long mIPSCs were observed in some cells where tau(off1) was approximately 40 ms and tau(off2) was approximately 160 ms. In 30-40 hpf embryos, the events were faster, with tau(off1) approximately 9 ms and tau(off2) approximately 40 ms, and in larvae, events declined somewhat further to tau(off1) approximately 4 ms and tau(off2) approximately 30 ms. Point-per-point amplitude histograms of the decay of synaptic events at all stages resulted in the detection of similar single channel conductances estimated as approximately 45 pS, indicating the presence of heteromeric glycine receptors (GlyRs) from the onset of synaptogenesis. Fast-flow (1 ms) application of a saturating concentration of glycine (3-10 mM) to outside-out patches obtained at 26-29 hpf revealed GlyR currents that decayed biexponentially with time constants resembling the values found for intermediate and long mIPSCs; by 30-40 hpf, the GlyR currents resembled fast mIPSCs. These observations indicate that channel kinetics limited the mIPSC duration. Our data suggest that glycinergic mIPSCs result from the activation of a mixture of fast and slow GlyR subtypes, the properties and proportion of which determine the decay of the synaptic events in the embryos.

The authors sought to define &quot;abnormal&quot; levels for total scores on the CERAD Behavioral Rating Scale for Dementia (BRSD) and for 37 BRSD items by comparing 242 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 64 normal elderly control subjects (NEC). BRSD total scores for NEC ranged as high as 52 (out of a maximum 167), and although item prevalence rates were higher for AD patients, not all of these differences were significant. Many symptoms were observed in &lt; or = 10% of AD subjects. Lower Mini-Mental State Examination scores were not consistently associated with lower or higher levels of endorsement across all items. Over 6 and 12 months, endorsement rates were relatively stable for both groups. The authors conclude that assessment of behavior in long-term studies will be needed to quantify &quot;abnormal&quot; levels, and that item-level BRSD information could be important in clinical trials.
Thalamic circuits have an intrinsic capacity to generate state-dependent oscillations of different frequency and degrees of synchrony, but little is known of how synchronized oscillation is controlled in the intact brain or what function it may serve. The influence of cortical feedback was examined using slice preparations of the visual thalamus and computational models. Cortical feedback was mimicked by stimulating corticothalamic axons, triggered by the activity of relay neurons. This artificially coupled network had the capacity to self-organize and to generate qualitatively different rhythmical activities according to the strength of corticothalamic feedback stimuli. Weak feedback (one to three shocks at 100-150 Hz) phase-locked the spontaneous spindle oscillations (6-10 Hz) in geniculate and perigeniculate nuclei. However, strong feedback (four to eight shocks at 100-150 Hz) led to a more synchronized oscillation, slower in frequency (2-4 Hz) and dependent on GABA(B) receptors. This increase in synchrony was essentially attributable to a redistribution of the timing of action potential generation in lateral geniculate nucleus cells, resulting in an increased output of relay cells toward the cortex. Corticothalamic feedback is thus capable of inducing highly synchronous slow oscillations in physiologically intact thalamic circuits. This modulation may have implications for a better understanding of the descending control of thalamic nuclei by the cortex, and the genesis of pathological rhythmical activity, such as absence seizures.
Strong constraints on the neural mechanisms underlying the formation of place fields in the rodent hippocampus come from the systematic changes in spatial activity patterns that are consequent on systematic environmental manipulations. We describe an attractor network model of area CA3 in which local, recurrent, excitatory, and inhibitory interactions generate appropriate place cell representations from location- and direction-specific activity in the entorhinal cortex. In the model, familiarity with the environment, as reflected by activity in neuromodulatory systems, influences the efficacy and plasticity of the recurrent and feedforward inputs to CA3. In unfamiliar, novel, environments, mossy fiber inputs impose activity patterns on CA3, and the recurrent collaterals and the perforant path inputs are subject to graded Hebbian plasticity. This sculpts CA3 attractors and associates them with activity patterns in the entorhinal cortex. In familiar environments, place fields are controlled by the way that perforant path inputs select among the attractors. Depending on the training experience provided, the model generates place fields that are either directional or nondirectional and whose changes when the environment undergoes simple geometric transformations are in accordance with experimental data. Representations of multiple environments can be stored and recalled with little interference, and these have the appropriate degrees of similarity in visually similar environments.
To define activity-dependent release of endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), we developed an in vitro model using primary sensory neurons and a modified ELISA, termed ELISA in situ. Dissociate cultures of nodose-petrosal ganglion cells from newborn rats were grown in wells precoated with anti-BDNF antibody to capture released BDNF, which was subsequently detected using conventional ELISA. Conventional ELISA alone was unable to detect any increase in BDNF concentration above control values following chronic depolarization with 40 mM KCl for 72 hr. However, ELISA in situ demonstrated a highly significant increase in BDNF release, from 65 pg/ml in control to 228 pg/ml in KCl-treated cultures. The efficacy of the in situ assay appears to be related primarily to rapid capture of released BDNF that prevents BDNF binding to the cultured cells. We therefore used this approach to compare BDNF release from cultures exposed for 30 min to either continuous depolarization with elevated KCl or patterned electrical field stimulation (50 biphasic rectangular pulses of 25 msec, at 20 Hz, every 5 sec). Short-term KCl depolarization was completely ineffective at evoking any detectable release of BDNF, whereas patterned electrical stimulation increased extracellular BDNF levels by 20-fold. In addition, the magnitude of BDNF release was dependent on stimulus pattern, with high-frequency bursts being most effective. These data indicate that the optimal stimulus profile for BDNF release resembles that of other neuroactive peptides. Moreover, our findings demonstrate that BDNF release can encode temporal features of presynaptic neuronal activity.
Reconstruction of complex neocortical and other CNS circuitry may be possible via transplantation of appropriate neural precursors, guided by cellular and molecular controls. Although cellular repopulation and complex circuitry repair may make possible new avenues of treatment for degenerative, developmental, or acquired CNS diseases, functional integration may depend critically on specificity of neuronal synaptic integration and appropriate neurotransmitter/receptor phenotype. The current study investigated neurotransmitter and receptor phenotypes of newly incorporated neurons after transplantation in regions of targeted neuronal degeneration of cortical callosal projection neurons (CPNs). Donor neuroblasts were compared to the population of normal endogenous CPNs in their expression of appropriate neurotransmitters (glutamate, aspartate, and GABA) and receptors (kainate-R, AMPA-R, NMDA-R. and GABA-R), and the time course over which this phenotype developed after transplantation. Transplanted immature neuroblasts from embryonic day 17 (E17) primary somatosensory (S1) cortex migrated to cortical layers undergoing degeneration, differentiated to a mature CPN phenotype, and received synaptic input from other neurons. In addition, 23.1 +/- 13.6% of the donor-derived neurons extended appropriate long-distance callosal projections to the contralateral S1 cortex. The percentage of donor-derived neurons expressing appropriate neurotransmitters and receptors showed a steady increase with time, reaching numbers equivalent to adult endogenous CPNs by 4-16 weeks after transplantation. These results suggest that previously demonstrated changes in gene expression induced by synchronous apoptotic degeneration of adult CPNs create a cellular and molecular environment that is both permissive and instructive for the specific and appropriate maturation of transplanted neuroblasts. These experiments demonstrate, for the first time, that newly repopulating neurons can undergo directed differentiation with high fidelity of their neurotransmitter and receptor phenotype, toward reconstruction of complex CNS circuitry.
Two TTX-resistant sodium channels, SNS and NaN, are preferentially expressed in c-type dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and have been shown recently to have distinct electrophysiological signatures, SNS producing a slowly inactivating and NaN producing a persistent sodium current with a relatively hyperpolarized voltage-dependence. An attenuation of SNS and NaN transcripts has been demonstrated in small DRG neurons after transection of the sciatic nerve. However, it is not known whether changes in the currents associated with SNS and NaN or in the expression of SNS and NaN channel protein occur after axotomy of the peripheral projections of DRG neurons or whether similar changes occur after transection of the central (dorsal root) projections of DRG neurons. Peripheral and central projections of L4/5 DRG neurons in adult rats were axotomized by transection of the sciatic nerve and the L4 and L5 dorsal roots, respectively. DRG neurons were examined using immunocytochemical and patch-clamp methods 9-12 d after sciatic nerve or dorsal root lesion. Levels of SNS and NaN protein in the two types of injuries were paralleled by their respective TTX-resistant currents. There was a significant decrease in SNS and NaN signal intensity in small DRG neurons after peripheral, but not central, axotomy compared with control neurons. Likewise, there was a significant reduction in slowly inactivating and persistent TTX-resistant currents in these neurons after peripheral, but not central, axotomy compared with control neurons. These results indicate that peripheral, but not central, axotomy results in a reduction in expression of functional SNS and NaN channels in c-type DRG neurons and suggest a basis for the altered electrical properties that are observed after peripheral nerve injury.
PSD-95, DLG, ZO-1 (PDZ) domain-mediated protein interactions have been shown to play important roles in the regulation of glutamate receptor function at excitatory synapses. Recent studies demonstrating the rapid regulation of AMPA receptor function during synaptic plasticity have suggested that AMPA receptor interaction with PDZ domain-containing proteins may be dynamically modulated. Here we show that PKC phosphorylation of the AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit differentially modulates its interaction with the PDZ domain-containing proteins GRIP1 and PICK1. The serine residue [serine-880 (Ser880)] in the GluR2 C-terminal sequence (IESVKI) critical for PDZ domain binding is a substrate of PKC and is phosphorylated in vivo. In vitro binding and coimmunoprecipitation studies show that phosphorylation of serine-880 within the GluR2 PDZ ligand significantly decreases GluR2 binding to GRIP1 but not to PICK1. Immunostaining of cultured hippocampal neurons demonstrates that the Ser880-phosphorylated GluR2 subunits are enriched and colocalized with PICK1 in the dendrites, with very little staining observed at excitatory synapses. Interestingly, PKC activation in neurons increases the Ser880 phosphorylation of GluR2 subunits and recruits PICK1 to excitatory synapses. Moreover, PKC stimulation in neurons results in rapid internalization of surface GluR2 subunits. These results suggest that GluR2 phosphorylation of serine-880 may be important in the regulation of the AMPA receptor internalization during synaptic plasticity.
The relationship between changes in mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)) and the failure of cytoplasmic Ca(2+) homeostasis, delayed Ca(2+)deregulation (DCD), is investigated for cultured rat cerebellar granule cells exposed to glutamate. To interpret the single-cell fluorescence response of cells loaded with tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester (TMRM(+)) or rhodamine-123, we devised and validated a mathematical simulation with well characterized effectors of Deltapsi(m) and plasma membrane potential (Deltapsi(P)). Glutamate usually caused an immediate decrease in Deltapsi(m) of &lt;10 mV, attributable to Ca(2+) accumulation rather than enhanced ATP demand, and these cells continued to generate ATP by oxidative phosphorylation until DCD. Cells for which the mitochondria showed a larger initial depolarization deregulated more rapidly. The mitochondria in a subpopulation of glutamate-exposed cells that failed to extrude Ca(2+) that was released from the matrix after protonophore addition were bioenergetically competent. The onset of DCD during continuous glutamate exposure in the presence or absence of oligomycin was associated with a slowly developing mitochondrial depolarization, but cause and effect could not be established readily. In contrast, the slowly developing mitochondrial depolarization after transient NMDA receptor activation occurs before cytoplasmic free Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](c)) has risen to the set point at which mitochondria retain Ca(2+). In the presence of oligomycin no increase in [Ca(2+)](c) occurs during this depolarization. We conclude that transient Ca(2+) loading of mitochondria as a consequence of NMDA receptor activation initiates oxidative damage to both plasma membrane Ca(2+) extrusion pathways and the inhibition of mitochondrial respiration. Depending on experimental conditions, one of these factors becomes rate-limiting and precipitates DCD.
The neural substrates of learning and memory are thought to involve use-dependent long-term changes in synaptic function, including long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic strength. One biochemical event hypothesized to contribute to the maintenance and expression of LTD is decreased protein phosphorylation, caused by a decrease in protein kinase activity and/or an increase in protein phosphatase activity. We tested whether the activity of protein kinase C (PKC) decreases after the induction of LTD in area CA1 of the adult hippocampus in vivo, and then investigated the mechanism responsible for the LTD-associated alteration in PKC activity. We found that LTD was associated with a significant decrease in both autonomous and cofactor-dependent PKC activity. The decrease in PKC activity was prevented by NMDA receptor blockade and was not accompanied by a decrease in the level of either PKCalpha, beta, gamma, or zeta. Western blot analysis with phosphospecific antibodies revealed that phosphorylation of Ser-657 on the catalytic domain of PKCalpha (Ser-660 on PKCbetaII) was decreased significantly after the induction of LTD, and that this dephosphorylation was prevented by the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid. The decrease in autonomous and cofactor-dependent PKC activity likewise was prevented by okadaic acid. These findings suggest that LTD in the adult hippocampus in vivo involves a decrease in PKC activity that is mediated, at least in part, by dephosphorylation of the catalytic domain of PKC by protein phosphatases activated after LTD-inducing stimulation. Our findings are consistent with the idea that protein dephosphorylation contributes to the expression of LTD.
Using a newly developed dissociation procedure, we isolated the specialized rhabdomeral membranes from Drosophila retinal photoreceptors. From these membranes, we have recorded spontaneous active currents in excised patch, voltage-clamp recordings. We observed rapid opening events that closely resembled those ascribed to one class of light-activated channels, TRP. All activity exhibited Ba(2+) permeability, little voltage dependence, and sensitivity to La(3+) block. Mutational analysis indicated that the spontaneous activity present in these membranes was TRP-dependent. Excised patches from wild-type rhabdomeral membranes exhibited a wide range of conductance amplitudes. In addition, large conductance events exhibited many conductance levels in the open state. Block of activity by La(3+) both developed and recovered in a stepwise manner. Our results indicate that TRP-dependent channels have a small unitary conductance and that many channels can be gated coordinately.
Patients with neuroscience problems offer a wealth of data that can be collected as part of a research study. However, these patients are vulnerable to misunderstanding research purposes and procedures. They are also at risk for feeling pressured to participate in a study if they think it will make them recover or survive. In many instances, these neuroscience problems are devastating and even life-threatening. Because of the vulnerability of these patients, it is the responsibility of the neuroscience nurse to care for and also protect these patients. Therefore, it is incumbent upon nursing personnel to protect these vulnerable patients when they participate in nursing research studies.
Cell replacement for restoration of neurological functions in patients with movement disorders has been investigated for more than 15 years. Initial attempts used autologous adrenal medulla grafts implanted into the denervated striatum of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). This approach was soon abandoned in favor of intrastriatal implantation of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue, rich in dopaminergic neurons. Available data from grafted PD patients show long-term (up to 10 years) graft survival and clinical benefits. The pattern and magnitude of symptomatic relief following transplantation, however, are incomplete and the outcome varies among patients. The need for large amounts of human embryonic tissue has to be circumvented and a better understanding of the relationship between graft placement and symptomatic recovery is necessary before this procedure can be offered to larger groups of patients. Clinical trials in Huntington's disease have so far shown inconclusive results. Neural cell replacement therapy is still an experimental procedure, but has the potential to become a future restorative treatment in PD and other movement disorders.

We describe the effects of different tracheostomy techniques on intracranial pressure (ICP), cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), and cerebral extraction of oxygen. We attempted to identify the main mechanisms affecting intracranial pressure during tracheostomy. To do so we conducted a prospective, block-randomized, clinical study which took place in a neurosurgical intensive care unit in a teaching hospital. The patients studied consisted of thirty comatose patients admitted to the intensive care unit because of head injury, subarachnoid hemorrhage, or brain tumor. Ten patients per group were submitted to standard surgical tracheostomy, percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy or translaryngeal tracheostomy. In every technique a significant increase of ICP (P &lt; .05) was observed at the time of cannula placement. Intracranial hypertension (ICP &gt; 20 mm Hg) was more frequent in the percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy group (P &lt; .05). Cerebral perfusion pressure dropped below 60 mm Hg in eleven cases, more frequently during surgical tracheostomy. Arterial tension of CO2 significantly increased in all three groups during cannula placement. No other major complications were recorded during the procedures. At follow-up no severe anatomic or functional damage was detected. We conclude that the three tracheostomy techniques, performed in selected patients where the risk of intracranial hypertension was reduced to the minimum, were reasonably tolerated but caused an intracranial pressure rise and cerebral perfusion pressure reduction in some cases.
The initial mechanical tissue disruption of spinal cord injury (SCI) is followed by a period of secondary injury that increases the size of the lesion. The secondary injury has long been thought to be due to the continuation of cellular destruction through necrotic (or passive) cell death. Recent evidence from brain injury and ischemia suggested that cellular apoptosis, an active form of programmed cell death seen during development, could play a role in CNS injury in adulthood. Here, we review the evidence that apoptosis may be important in the pathophysiology of SCI. There is now strong morphological and biochemical evidence from a number of laboratories demonstrating the presence of apoptosis after SCI. Apoptosis occurs in populations of neurons, oligodendrocytes, microglia, and, perhaps, astrocytes. The death of oligodendrocytes in white matter tracts continues for many weeks after injury and may contribute to post-injury demyelination. The mediators of apoptosis after SCI are not well understood, but there is a close relationship between microglia and dying oligodendrocytes, suggesting that microglial activation may be involved. There is also evidence for the activation of important intracellular pathways known to be involved in apoptosis in other cells and systems. For example, some members of the caspase family of cysteine proteases are activated after SCI. It appears that the evolution of the lesion after SCI involves both necrosis and apoptosis. It is likely that better understanding of apoptosis after SCI will lead to novel strategies for therapeutic interventions that can diminish secondary injury.
Ceramide is a sphingolipid metabolite that has been implicated in cellular apoptosis and differentiation. It has been shown to induce apoptosis in various mammalian cell lines and, more recently, has been implicated in neuronal apoptosis. Although the mechanisms of ceramide-induced cell death have not been fully elucidated, they appear to involve a number of signal transduction pathways, including proline-directed kinases, phosphatases, phospholipases, transcription factors, and caspases. Interestingly, ceramide also appears to promote survival and differentiation in certain neuronal systems, when applied at lower concentrations and/or at different developmental stages. Together, studies to date indicate an important multipotential role for this lipid in cell death and differentiation.
Caspases are a family of mammalian proteases related to the ced-3 gene of Caenorhabditis elegans. They mediate many of the morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis, including structural dismantling of cell bodies and nuclei, fragmentation of genomic DNA, destruction of regulatory proteins, and propagation of other pro-apoptotic molecules. Based on their substrate specificities and DNA sequence homologies, the 14 currently identified caspases may be divided into three groups: apoptotic initiators, apoptotic executioners, and inflammatory mediators. Caspases are activated through two principal pathways, known as the &quot;extrinsic pathway,&quot; which is initiated by cell surface death receptor ligation, and the intrinsic pathway, which arises from mitochondria. Endogenous inhibitors, such as the inhibitors of apoptosis (IAP) family, modulate caspase activity at various points within these pathways. Upon activation, caspases appear to play an important role in sequelae of traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury, and cerebral ischemia. In addition, they may also play a role in mediating cell death in chronic neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This article reviews the current literature on the role of caspases in acute and chronic CNS injury, and provides evidence for the potential therapeutic use of caspase inhibitors in the setting of these conditions.
To investigate differences in agonist affinity, potency, and efficacy across rat brain regions, five representative cannabinoid compounds were investigated in membranes from three different rat brain regions for their ability to maximally stimulate [(35)S]guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate (GTPgammaS) binding and bind to cannabinoid receptors (measured by inhibition of [(3)H]antagonist binding) under identical assay conditions. In all three brain regions, the rank order of potency for the stimulation of [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding and the inhibition of [(3)H]SR141716A binding for these compounds were identical, with CP55940 approximately levonantradol &gt; WIN55212-2 &gt;/= Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) &gt; methanandamide. The rank order of efficacy was not related to potency, and relative maximal agonist effects varied across regions. Receptor binding fit to a three-site model for most agonists, stimulation of [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding fit to a two-site model for all agonists, and high-affinity receptor binding did not appear to produce any stimulation of [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding. WIN55212-2, methanandamide, and Delta(9)-THC also were assayed for the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase in cerebellar membranes. The rank orders of potency and efficacy were similar to those for [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding, but the efficacies and potencies of methanandamide and Delta(9)-THC compared with WIN55212-2 were higher for adenylyl cyclase inhibition, implying receptor/G-protein reserve.
Thrombin and trypsin activate protease-activated receptors (PARs) that modulate vascular tone. In addition to the PARs, thrombin also binds to thrombomodulin via exosite 1, a domain also involved in the interaction of thrombin with PAR-1 but not PAR-2. The purpose of this study was to determine whether thrombomodulin would alter thrombin-induced vasoconstriction, thought to be mediated predominantly by PAR-1, but not PAR-2, which mediates vascular relaxation. For comparison, thrombomodulin was examined for its effect on both thrombin and trypsin-induced responses. Trypsin was 2000-fold more potent as a relaxant than as a contractile peptide, whereas thrombin was only 7.8-fold more potent as a relaxant than contractile agonist, consistent with activation of PAR-1 predominantly mediating contraction and PAR-2 predominantly mediating relaxation. Although thrombomodulin (10(-7) M) alone did not alter vascular tone or the rate of thrombin-induced vascular responses, thrombomodulin (10(-8) and 10(-7) M) attenuated maximal thrombin (10(-8) and 10(-7) M)-induced vasoconstriction preferentially compared with thrombin-induced relaxation and had no effect on equieffective trypsin-induced responses. The inhibition of thrombin-induced contraction resulted from the interaction of thrombin with thrombomodulin rather than any direct effect of thrombomodulin on tissue PARs. Thus, this study describes a novel vascular action of thrombomodulin to selectively attenuate thrombin-induced vascular contractility. This action of thrombomodulin may serve to protect vasculature from thrombin-induced vasoconstriction during conditions of endothelial injury known to increase plasma and cellular levels of thrombomodulin.
Clozapine is the prototype atypical antipsychotic drug, producing little or no extrapyramidal side effects, while improving negative symptoms of psychosis. Clozapine's high affinity for serotonin receptors has been hypothesized to confer the unique antipsychotic properties of this drug. Recently, we demonstrated that both typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs are inverse agonists at constitutively active 5-hydroxytryptamine2A (5-HT(2A)) receptors. To determine whether inverse agonist activity at 5-HT(2C) receptors plays a role in antipsychotic efficacy, typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs were tested for inhibition of basal inositol phosphate production in mammalian cells expressing rat or human 5-HT(2C) receptors. Atypical antipsychotic drugs (sertindole, clozapine, olanzapine, ziprasidone, risperidone, zotepine, tiospirone, fluperlapine, tenilapine) displayed potent inverse agonist activity at rat and human 5-HT(2C) receptors. Typical antipsychotic drugs (chlorpromazine, loxapine, thioridazine, prochlorperazine, perphenazine, mesoridazine, trifluperidol, fluphenazine, spiperone, haloperidol, pimozide, penfluridol, thiothixene) were devoid of inverse agonist activity, with the exception of loxapine. We review the evidence that loxapine has unique properties characteristic of both atypical and typical antipsychotic drugs. Several typical antipsychotic drugs (chlorpromazine, thioridazine, spiperone, thiothixene) displayed neutral antagonist activity by reversing clozapine inverse agonism. These data suggest that 5-HT(2C) inverse agonist activity is associated with atypical antipsychotic drugs with moderate to high affinity for 5-HT(2C) receptors, and imply that effects of atypical antipsychotic drugs on the 5-HT(2C) receptor may play a role in their unique clinical properties. These data also imply that dysfunction of brain 5-HT(2C) receptor systems may be one of the factors involved in the etiology of psychosis.
Prosaptide (trademark of Myelos Corporation, San Diego, CA) peptides are based on the 14-amino-acid neurotrophic sequence of human prosaposin and, like the parent protein, have potent neurotrophic and neuroprotective properties. We previously examined the in vivo stability of a series of bioactive Prosaptide peptides and designed peptides with increased enzymatic stability in the central and peripheral nervous systems. In this article, we examined the stability, biological activity, and permeability of the blood-brain barrier to retro-inverso Prosaptide peptidomimetics. Retro-inversion both reverses the primary sequence and replaces L-amino acids with D-amino acids. We examined the bioactivity of five peptidomimetics, Prosaptides D1-D5. Prosaptide D1, a peptide containing all D-amino acids with the primary sequence intact, was inactive. However, four retro-inverso peptidomimetics, Prosaptides D2-D5 retained bioactivity in neurite outgrowth and [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding assays. We focused on Prosaptide D4 as a prototypical retro-inverso Prosaptide peptidomimetic for further study. (125)I-Prosaptide D4 remained intact in brain or serum for 60 min after i.v. administration and was transported across the blood-brain barrier with a unidirectional influx constant of 2.5 x 10(-4) ml. g(-1). min(-1). We conclude that retro-inverso Prosaptide peptidomimetics are excellent candidates for development as therapeutics for central nervous system neurodegeneration.
Chlormethiazole positively modulates the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor complex and is primarily used to treat certain life-threatening neurological events (e.g., refractory seizures and ethanol withdrawal syndrome). On account of several experimental and clinical studies reporting effectiveness against the toxic effects of heroin and methamphetamine, chlormethiazole was systematically tested in the present study for its effectiveness against cocaine-induced seizures and lethality in mice. The protective effects of chlormethiazole were evaluated against single, submaximal convulsive (75 mg/kg) or lethal (110 mg/kg) doses of cocaine. Chlormethiazole also was tested against the expression (anticonvulsant effect) and development (antiepileptogenic effect) of cocaine-kindled seizures, and against fully developed kindled seizures. Cocaine-kindled seizures were produced by a total of five daily treatments with 60 mg/kg cocaine. The inverted-screen test was used to assess behavioral side effects of chlormethiazole. Chlormethiazole protected against acute cocaine-induced convulsions (ED(50) = 7.0 mg/kg) and lethality (ED(50)= 21.8 mg/kg) with a robust separation [protective index (PI) = TD(50)/ED(50) = 22.3 and 7.2, respectively] from doses producing behavioral side effects (TD(50) = 156 mg/kg). Chlormethiazole suppressed the behavioral expression of cocaine-kindled seizures and prevented the development of sensitization to the convulsant effects of cocaine. It was also effective in suppressing fully developed kindled seizures. Relative to cocaine seizures in naive mice, chlormethiazole was equieffective, less potent (ED(50) = 22.3 mg/kg), and had a reduced protective index (PI = 3.7) against cocaine-induced seizures in kindled mice. The protective profile and protective index of chlormethiazole were superior to those of the benzodiazepines clonazepam and diazepam, which were of limited efficacy and had low protective indices (PI = approximately 1). The results of this study predict the potential utility of chlormethiazole for the treatment of life-threatening complications of cocaine abuse for which no specific treatment has yet been identified.

The Core Conflictual Relationship Theme (CCRT) method is one of the most widely used and tested instruments developed within a psychoanalytic context for assessing central relationship patterns or characteristic patterns of relating to others. The Swedish version of the Central Relationship Questionnaire (CRQ), a recently developed self-report instrument based on the CCRT, was tested in a sample of Swedish psychology students (31 men, 60 women) and compared with responses of Swedish outpatients (15 men, 15 women) and North American students (49 men, 49 women). The subscales of the Swedish CRQ showed acceptable internal consistency and correlated with each other in a predictable fashion, displaying a pattern of intercorrelations similar to the English version. The CRQ showed meaningful patterns of correspondence with self-reported interpersonal problems as well as meaningful differences between the Swedish students and Swedish outpatients, indicating preliminary convergent and divergent validity.

Thirty-four polydrug-dependent participants enrolled in a voucher-based substance abuse treatment program were given choices between hypothetical amounts of money and hypothetical amounts of vouchers, which are traded for goods and services, to determine their preferences for the two payment modalities. It was hypothesized that the majority of participants would prefer money to voucher because under the circumstances of the treatment program, the delay associated with money exchange is shorter than the delay associated with voucher exchange. It was further hypothesized that those participants who selected money over voucher also would have greater levels of impulsivity as assessed by the Barratt Impulsiveness Rating Scale (BIS) (Barratt, 1965). The results show large individual differences in money/voucher preference with approximately half of the participants preferring money to voucher when the two amounts are equivalent. In addition, as the magnitude of the money/voucher comparisons increased from 0.50 dollars to 32.00 dollars, the percentage of participants that preferred money increased. No correlations were found between money/voucher preference and impulsivity scores.


In the present study, the rapid effects of five steroids (17 beta-estradiol, progesterone, allopregnanolone, 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one and 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 beta-pregnan-20-one) and the plant steroid trans-resveratrol upon the calcium response to beta-amyloid(25-35) peptide (A beta(25-35)) in human platelets was measured. A beta(25-35) produced a robust increase in intracellular calcium due to a direct activation of phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C. None of the steroids significantly affected the response to A beta(25-35). In contrast, trans-resveratrol appeared to increase the response to A beta(25-35) at a concentration that decreased the response to thrombin, although the possibility that these changes are artifactual could not be ruled out. It is concluded that although steroids affect human platelet Ca2+ homeostasis, this is not a rapid event, unless very high concentrations are used.
In this article, we review the principles of, and provide examples for, the new approach of functional neuropsychology in the field of amnesia. In the permanent amnesic syndrome, positron emission tomography (PET) can provide statistical maps of the brain regions with significantly impaired resting metabolism in comparison with control subjects. These regions include not only Papez's circuit but also the left supramarginal gyrus, which may explain in part the retrograde amnesia present in most cases of amnesic syndrome. This approach is also of great interest in transient global amnesia (TGA) because the defect of episodic memory is highly selective and occurs without permanent damage. The few available PET studies in TGA suggest the dysfunction of a distributed network including the hippocampal region and the prefrontal cortex, with a different pattern individually. Further studies will be necessary to better understand the relationships between the precise cognitive deficits in TGA and the pattern of brain hypometabolism. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the study of the correlations between memory test scores and metabolic values across a sample of subjects provides a map of those brain structures whose synaptic pathology dysfunction underlies the particular neuropsychological alteration. The distribution of the sites of correlations shows striking differences according to each memory system. This approach should open the way for the unravelling of the neurobiological substrates of both cognitive impairment and compensatory mechanisms in neurodegenerative diseases. Over and above their applications in neurological research, such studies in brain-diseased subjects are particularly useful for establishing cognitive and neurobiological models of human memory, because they allow the highlighting of the neural networks that are essential for memory function. From a cognitive neuroscience perspective, the functional neuropsychology of amnesia is, therefore, complementary to the classic activation paradigm in normal subjects, which identifies the cerebral structures that are involved with, but not necessarily indispensable for, the execution of the task.
A cognitive task can often be subdivided into several subprocesses, which follow a specific temporal order. Here, we report an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment on memory search, in which the temporal onset of search in primary memory was varied relative to retrieval from secondary memory. Furthermore, previous behavioral studies demonstrated that search times in primary memory depend on the number of items in a memory set, whereas retrieval from secondary memory is a set-size independent process. We analyzed the dependency of the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD)-response on the temporal onset of memory search on the one hand and on memory set size on the other hand to differentiate the contribution of retrieval from secondary memory, maintenance in primary memory, item search in primary memory, and response-related processes. The timing of activation followed cue presentation bilaterally in the middle frontal gyri (Brodmann area (BA) 9,46) and the inferior parts of the precentral gyri (BA6). In all other regions of interest (ROI), supplementary motor area (SMA), posterior parietal cortex, antero-superior insula, and primary motor cortex, the onset of activation was delayed with delayed probe presentation, ruling out participation in retrieval from secondary memory. The amplitude of the BOLD-response increased with increasing memory set size in all ROI except primary motor cortex and left posterior parietal cortex. All areas with cue-associated BOLD onset, suggesting involvement in retrieval, showed prolonged BOLD activation, suggesting that they also support maintenance of the retrieved information.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the major cause of dementia in most developed countries. Treatment to modify this disease is currently unavailable, but needed urgently. The amyloid-cascade hypothesis proposes that amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), found in the plaques characteristic of AD, plays an early, critical role in the disease process. It follows that preventing the generation of Abeta could be therapeutically useful in all cases of AD. Inhibition of the secretases that produce Abeta from a large precursor protein is the main approach to achieve this goal.
In this paper, we describe the postural activity in sitting rats and rabbits. An animal was positioned on the platform that could be tilted in the frontal plane for up to +/-20-30 degrees, and postural corrections were video recorded. We found that in both rat and rabbit, the postural reactions led to stabilization of the dorsal-side-up trunk orientation. The result of this was that the trunk tilt constituted only approximately 50% (rat) and 25% (rabbit) of the platform tilt. In addition, in the rabbit the head orientation was also stabilized. Trunk stabilization persisted in the animals subjected to the bilateral labyrinthectomy and blindfolding, suggesting that the somatosensory input is primarily responsible for trunk stabilization. Trunk stabilization was due to extension of the limbs on the side moving down, and flexion of the opposite limbs. EMG recordings showed that the limb extension was caused by the active contraction of extensor muscles. We argue that signals from the Golgi tendon organs of the extensor muscles may considerably contribute to elicitation of postural corrective responses to the lateral tilt.
A number of uncontrolled studies and randomised, placebo-controlled trials have shown that treatment with intravenous gammaglobulin (IVIG) reduces the exacerbation rate in relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS). Two randomised studies from Denmark and Israel, respectively have used MRI as efficacy endpoint. In a Danish crossover trial, the number of gadolinium-enhancing lesions in serial cranial MRI was significantly reduced by approximately 60% during IVIG treatment compared to placebo. Neither the Danish study nor an Israeli study were able to show significant reductions in the total lesion load on T2-weighted cranial MRI. However, the studies were either too short or comprised too few patients for showing significant differences in T2-weighted MRI. In conclusion, IVIG is of benefit to patients with relapsing MS, but larger studies are required before the place of IVIG in the treatment of MS can be established.
Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is very sensitive in the detection of active lesions of multiple sclerosis (MS) and has become a valuable tool to monitor the evolution of the disease either natural or modified by treatment. In the past few years, several studies, on the one hand, have assessed several ways to increase the sensitivity of enhanced MRI to disease activity and, on the other, have investigated in vivo the nature and evolution of enhancing lesions using different non-conventional MR techniques to better define the relationship between enhancement and tissue loss in MS. The present review is a summary of these studies whose results are discussed in the context of MS clinical trial planning and monitoring. Multiple Sclerosis (2000) 6 320 - 326
The American Dental Association is considering giving the emerging field of orofacial pain full status as a new dental specialty. Many recent advances in the neuroscience of orofacial pain have lead to treatments by orofacial pain dentists that provide significant relief for patients with chronic disorders. However, access to this care has been limited, leaving many patients to continue to suffer. Recent efforts to improve this situation by developing the field into a specialty have received broad support among dentists and have increased awareness of the benefits this field can provide for dentists and their patients.
In a series of [15O]PET experiments aimed at investigating the neural basis of emotion and feeling, 41 normal subjects recalled and re-experienced personal life episodes marked by sadness, happiness, anger or fear. We tested the hypothesis that the process of feeling emotions requires the participation of brain regions, such as the somatosensory cortices and the upper brainstem nuclei, that are involved in the mapping and/or regulation of internal organism states. Such areas were indeed engaged, underscoring the close relationship between emotion and homeostasis. The findings also lend support to the idea that the subjective process of feeling emotions is partly grounded in dynamic neural maps, which represent several aspects of the organism's continuously changing internal state.
Use-dependent modifications, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic efficacy, are believed to be essential for information storage in the nervous system. Repetitive correlated spiking of presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons can induce LTP at excitatory glutamatergic synapses. In cultured hippocampal neurons, we show that repetitive correlated activity also results in a rapid and persistent enhancement of presynaptic excitability, decreasing the threshold for spiking and reducing the variability of interspike intervals. Furthermore, we found that correlated activity modified sodium channel gating in the presynaptic neuron. This modification of presynaptic excitability required a temporal order between presynaptic and postsynaptic spiking and activation of postsynaptic NMDA receptors. Presynaptic inhibition of protein kinase C abolished the change in excitability without affecting LTP. Such rapid activity-dependent changes in the efficacy of presynaptic spiking may be involved in the processing and storage of information within the nervous system.


Transcranial magnetic stimulation has been used to investigate almost all areas of cognitive neuroscience. This article discusses the most important (and least understood) considerations regarding the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation for cognitive neuroscience and outlines advances in the use of this technique for the replication and extension of findings from neuropsychology. We also take a more speculative look forward to the emerging development of strategies for combining transcranial magnetic stimulation with other brain imaging technologies and methods in the cognitive neurosciences.
For over 100 years a central assumption in the field of neuroscience has been that new neurons are not added to the adult mammalian brain. This perspective examines the origins of this dogma, its perseverance in the face of contradictory evidence, and its final collapse. The acceptance of adult neurogenesis may be part of a contemporary paradigm shift in our view of the plasticity and stability of the adult brain.
One of the enduring mysteries of brain function concerns the process of cognitive control. How does complex and seemingly willful behaviour emerge from interactions between millions of neurons? This has long been suspected to depend on the prefrontal cortex--the neocortex at the anterior end of the brain--but now we are beginning to uncover its neural basis. Nearly all intended behaviour is learned and so depends on a cognitive system that can acquire and implement the 'rules of the game' needed to achieve a given goal in a given situation. Studies indicate that the prefrontal cortex is central in this process. It provides an infrastructure for synthesizing a diverse range of information that lays the foundation for the complex forms of behaviour observed in primates.
Songbirds are one of the best-studied examples of vocal learners. Learning of both human speech and birdsong depends on hearing. Once learned, adult song in many species remains unchanging, suggesting a reduced influence of sensory experience. Recent studies have revealed, however, that adult song is not always stable, extending our understanding of the mechanisms involved in song maintenance, and their similarity to those active during song learning. Here we review some of the processes that contribute to song learning and production, with an emphasis on the role of auditory feedback. We then consider some of the possible neural substrates involved in these processes, particularly basal ganglia circuitry. Although a thorough treatment of human speech is beyond the scope of this article, we point out similarities between speech and song learning, and ways in which studies of these disparate behaviours complement each other in developing an understanding of general principles that contribute to learning and maintenance of vocal behaviour.
The article contributes to the quest to relate global data on brain and behavior (e.g. from PET, Positron Emission Tomography, and fMRI. functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging) to the underpinning neural networks. Models tied to human brain imaging data often focus on a few &quot;boxes&quot; based on brain regions associated with exceptionally high blood flow, rather than analyzing the cooperative computation of multiple brain regions. For analysis directly at the level of such data, a schema-based model may be most appropriate. To further address neurophysiological data, the Synthetic PET imaging method uses computational models of biological neural circuitry based on animal data to predict and analyze the results of human PET studies. This technique makes use of the hypothesis that rCBF (regional cerebral blood flow) is correlated with the integrated synaptic activity in a localized brain region. We also describe the possible extension of the Synthetic PET method to fMRI. The second half of the paper then exemplifies this general research program with two case studies, one on visuo-motor processing for control of grasping (Section 3 in which the focus is on Synthetic PET) and the imitation of motor skills (Sections 4 and 5, with a focus on Synthetic fMRI). Our discussion of imitation pays particular attention to data on the mirror system in monkey (neural circuitry which allows the brain to recognize actions as well as execute them). Finally, Section 6 outlines the immense challenges in integrating models of different portions of the nervous system which address detailed neurophysiological data from studies of primates and other species; summarizes key issues for developing the methodology of Synthetic Brain Imaging; and shows how comparative neuroscience and evolutionary arguments will allow us to extend Synthetic Brain Imaging even to language and other cognitive functions for which few or no animal data are available.
Nervous systems facing complex environments have to balance two seemingly opposing requirements. First, there is a need quickly and reliably to extract important features from sensory inputs. This is accomplished by functionally segregated (specialized) sets of neurons, e.g. those found in different cortical areas. Second, there is a need to generate coherent perceptual and cognitive states allowing an organism to respond to objects and events, which represent conjunctions of numerous individual features. This need is accomplished by functional integration of the activity of specialized neurons through their dynamic interactions. These interactions produce patterns of temporal correlations or functional connectivity involving distributed neuronal populations, both within and across cortical areas. Empirical and computational studies suggest that changes in functional connectivity may underlie specific perceptual and cognitive states and involve the integration of information across specialized areas of the brain. The interplay between functional segregation and integration can be quantitatively captured using concepts from statistical information theory, in particular by defining a measure of neural complexity. Complexity measures the extent to which a pattern of functional connectivity produced by units or areas within a neural system combines the dual requirements of functional segregation and integration. We find that specific neuroanatomical motifs are uniquely associated with high levels of complexity and that such motifs are embedded in the pattern of long-range cortico-cortical pathways linking segregated areas of the mammalian cerebral cortex. Our theoretical findings offer new insight into the intricate relationship between connectivity and complexity in the nervous system.
For cognitive neuroscience to go forward a more explicit effort is needed to use neurophysiology to constrain how the brain produces human mental functions. This review begins with the suggestion that two fundamental features may be critical for this effort. The first is the connectivity of the brain, which occupies an intermediate position between complete redundant interconnections and independence. The term semniconnected is presented as a designation, which is an obvious derivation of the term semiconductors as used in engineering. The second is transient response plasticity where a given neuron or collection of neurons may show rapid changes in response characteristics depending on experience. Response plasticity is a ubiquitous property of the brain rather than a unique characteristic of &quot;neurocognitive&quot; regions. These two properties may be brought together when brain areas interact such that their aggregate function embodies cognition. Three examples are used to illustrate these general principles and to develop the idea that a particular region in isolation may not act as a reliable index for a particular cognitive function. Instead, the neural context in which an area is active may define the cognitive function. Neural context emphasizes that the particular spatiotemporal pattern of neural interactions may hold the key to bridge between brain and mind.



Our previous studies have shown a local decrease in glutamate and aspartate levels during seizures, induced by picrotoxin microdialysis in the hippocampus of chronic freely moving rats. In this paper, we study the effect of continuous hippocampal microperfusion of the NMDA, AMPA and kainate glutamate receptor inhibitors 5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5, 10-imine (MK-801); 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX), and 1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine hydrochloride (GYKI 52466). We also examine the action of L(-)-threo-3-hydroxyaspartic acid (THA), a glutamate and aspartate reuptake blocker, on the modification of extracellular glutamate and aspartate levels induced by picrotoxin, using the microdialysis method in freely moving rats. We found that changes in extracellular hippocampal concentrations in both amino acids are prevented by NMDA, AMPA and kainate receptor inhibitors. Seizures elicited under DNQX also induce a transient increase in aspartate extracellular levels coincident with seizure time. L(-)-threo-3-hydroxyaspartic acid increased the basal extracellular concentrations of both amino acids, but did not prevent the seizure-related decrease. Our results suggest that glutamate, the major neurotransmitter at the synaptic level, may also play an important role in non-synaptic transmission during seizures.
The kinetic parameters at equilibrium of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors in platelets, lymphocytes and granulocytes of 15 patients affected by migraine without aura were tested using [3H]PK 11195, a specific radioligand for this receptor and compared with the same number of healthy controls: a statistically significant increase (platelets 212%, lymphocytes 203%, granulocytes 171%, as absolute percentage) in the maximal number of binding sites (B(max)) in all three patient samples, compared with healthy controls was detected; on the contrary, the values of the dissociation constant (K(d)) at equilibrium do not show any statistically significant variations between the two groups. These data further confirm the presence of peripheral biochemical alterations in migraine without aura. As peripheral benzodiazepine receptors appear to be involved in the regulation of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, the observed increase in B(max) might be related to the mitochondrial anomalies found in migraine disorders.
Alpha II-spectrin (alpha-fodrin) is a demonstrated endogenous substrate for caspase-3 in neurons undergoing unscheduled apoptotic death. We have previously identified the caspase cleavage site that yields the distinctive 120 kDa spectrin breakdown product (SBDP120) as (DSLD(1478)*SVEAL). Here, by using a synthetic peptide (NH(2)-SVEALC) mimicking the neo-N-terminal of SBDP120 as antigen, we report the development of chicken antibodies that specifically recognize the SBDP120 generated by in vitro caspase-3 digestion of bovine alpha-spectrin on Western blot. These anti-SBDP120 antibodies recognize SBDP120 generated by two apoptotic challenges (staurosporine, EGTA) to human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Yet they neither react with intact alpha-spectrin nor its other fragments on Western blots. These anti-SBDP120 work equally well in detecting SBDP120 generated in rat cerebellar granule neurons undergoing potassium withdrawal-induced apoptosis. In immunocytochemical studies, these antibodies also specifically stained apoptotic SH-SY5Y or CGN's undergoing apoptosis in a caspase- inhibitor-sensitive manner. These anti-SBDP120s might become powerful markers for apoptotic neurons in various neurological or neurodegenerative conditions in vivo.
Nuclear Magnetic Relaxation field-cycling relaxometry is a technique, able to report on water mobility in tissues. By means of this technique, post-mortem specimens from both controls and idiopathic Parkinson's disease patients have been investigated. Results show different relaxometric behavior between the groups, which is consistent with protein aggregation in Parkinson's disease specimens.


William Hogarth's famous etching Gin Lane is often used to illustrate the debilitating results of alcohol addiction. Less well known is the companion etching Beer Street in which death, murder and squalor are replaced by health, orderliness and joy. Some 250 years later, the rise of science, and specifically of neurochemical research, has defined how the malnutrition, including avitaminosis, resulting from addiction to distilled spirits (rather than more judicious use of less potent alcoholic beverages) disturbs brain metabolism and function. These two etchings, which have survived for their historical and artistic value, continue to have sociological and clinical relevance.
The AMPA receptors for glutamate are oligomeric structures that mediate fast excitatory responses in the central nervous system. Phosphorylation of AMPA receptors is an important mechanism for short-term modulation of their function, and is thought to play an important role in synaptic plasticity in different brain regions. Recent studies have shown that phosphorylation of AMPA receptors by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and Ca2+- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) potentiates their activity, but phosphorylation of the receptor subunits may also affect their interaction with intracellular proteins, and their expression at the plasma membrane. Phosphorylation of AMPA receptor subunits has also been investigated in relation to processes of synaptic plasticity. This review focuses on recent advances in understanding the molecular mechanisms of regulation of AMPA receptors, and their implications in synaptic plasticity.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, neurodestructive process of the human neocortex, characterized by the deterioration of memory and higher cognitive function. A progressive and irreversible brain disorder, AD is characterized by three major pathogenic episodes involving (a) an aberrant processing and deposition of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) to form neurotoxic beta-amyloid (betaA) peptides and an aggregated insoluble polymer of betaA that forms the senile plaque, (b) the establishment of intraneuronal neuritic tau pathology yielding widespread deposits of agyrophilic neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and (c) the initiation and proliferation of a brain-specific inflammatory response. These three seemingly disperse attributes of AD etiopathogenesis are linked by the fact that proinflammatory microglia, reactive astrocytes and their associated cytokines and chemokines are associated with the biology of the microtubule associated protein tau, betaA speciation and aggregation. Missense mutations in the presenilin genes PS1 and PS2, implicated in early onset familial AD, cause abnormal betaAPP processing with resultant overproduction of betaA42 and related neurotoxic peptides. Specific betaA fragments such as betaA42 can further potentiate proinflammatory mechanisms. Expression of the inducible oxidoreductase cyclooxygenase-2 and cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) are strongly activated during cerebral ischemia and trauma, epilepsy and AD, indicating the induction of proinflammatory gene pathways as a response to brain injury. Neurotoxic metals such as aluminum and zinc, both implicated in AD etiopathogenesis, and arachidonic acid, a major metabolite of brain cPLA2 activity, each polymerize hyperphosphorylated tau to form NFT-like bundles. Further, epidemiological and longitudinal studies have identified a reduced risk for AD in patients (&lt;70 yrs) previously treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for non-CNS afflictions that include arthritis. This review will focus on the interrelationships between the mechanisms of PS1, PS2 and betaAPP gene expression, tau and betaA deposition and the induction, regulation and proliferation in AD of the neuroinflammatory response. Novel therapeutic interventions in AD are discussed.
We used simultaneous electrophysiological and intracellular calcium microfluorometry recordings to directly test for the presence of a calcium-induced calcium release mechanism in individual GH(3) cells and cells of a lactotrope-enriched primary culture. In voltage-pulse experiments, extending the duration of a depolarizing voltage-pulse increased intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), but we did not observe any evidence for recruitment of intracellular calcium stores. Furthermore, depletion of intracellular calcium stores with thapsigargin or caffeine did not change the calculated calcium buffer capacity of the cells. In current-clamp experiments, we observed elevations in [Ca(2+)](i) in response to spontaneous action potentials. These [Ca(2+)](i) responses were not inhibited by thapsigargin or caffeine. We did find a significant correlation between the magnitude of spontaneous [Ca(2+)](i) increases and action potential duration. We conclude that intracellular calcium stores are not released during the spontaneous [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations observed in these cells, and that the magnitude of [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations is a direct result of extracellular calcium influx that is determined in part by action potential duration.
The functional anatomy of Chinese character processing was investigated using fMRI. Right-handed Mandarin-English bilingual participants made either semantic or perceptual size judgements with characters and pictures. Areas jointly activated by character and picture semantic tasks compared to size judgement tasks included the left prefrontal region (BA 9, 44, 45), left posterior temporal, left fusiform, and left parietal regions. Character processing produced greater activation than picture processing in the left mid and posterior temporal as well as left prefrontal regions. The lateral occipital regions were more active during picture semantic processing than character semantic processing. A similar pattern of activation and contrasts was observed when English words and pictures were compared in another set of bilingual participants. However, there was less contrast between word and picture semantic processing than between character and picture processing in the left prefrontal region. When character and word semantic processing were compared directly in a third group, the loci of activation peaks was similar in both languages but Chinese character semantic processing was associated with a larger MR signal change. The semantic processing of Chinese characters, English words, and pictures activates a common semantic system within which there are modality-specific differences. The semantic processing of Chinese characters more closely resembles English words than pictures.

Because nitric oxide (NO) is a highly reactive signaling molecule, chemical inactivation by reaction with oxygen, superoxide, and glutathione competes with specific interactions with target proteins. NO signaling may be enhanced by adaptor proteins that couple neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) to specific target proteins. Here we identify a selective interaction of the nNOS adaptor protein CAPON with Dexras1, a brain-enriched member of the Ras family of small monomeric G proteins. We find that Dexras1 is activated by NO donors as well as by NMDA receptor-stimulated NO synthesis in cortical neurons. The importance of Dexras1 as a physiologic target of nNOS is established by the selective decrease of Dexras1 activation, but not H-Ras or four other Ras family members, in the brains of mice harboring a targeted genomic deletion of nNOS (nNOS-/-). We also find that nNOS, CAPON, and Dexras1 form a ternary complex that enhances the ability of nNOS to activate Dexras1. These findings identify Dexras1 as a novel physiologic NO effector and suggest that anchoring of nNOS to specific targets is a mechanism by which NO signaling is enhanced.
Multipotent stem cells that generate both neurons and glia are widespread components of the early neuroepithelium. During CNS development, neurogenesis largely precedes gliogenesis: how is this timing achieved? Using clonal cell culture combined with long-term time-lapse video microscopy, we show that isolated stem cells from the embryonic mouse cerebral cortex exhibit a distinct order of cell-type production: neuroblasts first and glioblasts later. This is accompanied by changes in their capacity to make neurons versus glia and in their response to the mitogen EGF. Hence, multipotent stem cells alter their properties over time and undergo distinct phases of development that play a key role in scheduling production of diverse CNS cells.
We have identified a stromal cell-derived inducing activity (SDIA) that promotes neural differentiation of mouse ES cells. SDIA accumulates on the surface of PA6 stromal cells and induces efficient neuronal differentiation of cocultured ES cells in serum-free conditions without use of either retinoic acid or embryoid bodies. BMP4, which acts as an antineuralizing morphogen in Xenopus, suppresses SDIA-induced neuralization and promotes epidermal differentiation. A high proportion of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons producing dopamine are obtained from SDIA-treated ES cells. When transplanted, SDIA-induced dopaminergic neurons integrate into the mouse striatum and remain positive for tyrosine hydroxylase expression. Neural induction by SDIA provides a new powerful tool for both basic neuroscience research and therapeutic applications.


When administered continuously for several days at relatively low plasma levels, a variety of drugs of abuse with strong dopaminergic actions induce degeneration in axons traveling from the lateral habenula through the sheath of fasciculus retroflexus to midbrain monoaminergic nuclei. With some of these drugs, such as cocaine, this is virtually the only degeneration induced in brain. Nicotine given continuously also selectively induces degeneration in fasciculus retroflexus, but in the other half of the tract: the cholinergic axons running from medial habenula in the core of the tract to the interpeduncular nucleus. Fasciculus retroflexus appears to be a weak link in brain for diverse drugs of abuse when administered incessantly for several days. Alterations in this tract would be predicted to be especially important for the genesis of the symptomatology which develops during drug binges, residual effects of such binges, and the processes underlying relapse.
Activation of presynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) can enhance the release of glutamate from synapses in hippocampal slices and cultures. In hippocampal cultures making autaptic connections, rapid application of a high concentration of nicotine activated presynaptic, postsynaptic, and somatic nAChRs, which consequently enhanced the amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs) mediated by glutamate receptors. The increased eEPSC amplitudes arose from enhanced glutamate release caused by presynaptic nAChRs (Radcliffe and Dani, 1998, Journal of Neuroscience 18, 7075). The same whole-cell nicotine applications that enhanced non-NMDA eEPSCs often decreased the NMDA-receptor component of the eEPSCs. Furthermore, whole-cell activation of nAChRs by nicotine selectively reduced the amplitude of the whole-cell NMDA-receptor currents without affecting the non-NMDA receptor currents. The inhibition by nicotine was prevented by the alpha7-specific antagonist, methyllycaconitine, and required the presence of extracellular Ca(2+). The calmodulin antagonist fluphenazine prevented inhibition of the NMDA-receptor current by nAChR activity, suggesting that a Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent process mediated the effect of nicotine. Our results indicate that activation of nAChRs can modulate glutamatergic synapses in several ways. Presynaptic nAChR activity enhances synaptic transmission by increasing transmitter release. Additionally, somatic or postsynaptic nAChRs can initiate a Ca(2+) signal that can act via calmodulin to reduce the responsiveness of NMDA receptors.
We have used the styryl dye FM 2-10 to monitor changes in synaptic activity mediated by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) on cultured hippocampal neurons. We show that both 100 microM ACh and nicotine at 20 microM causes a significant increase in staining intensities of presynaptic boutons in the presence of 0.5 microM tetrodotoxin (TTX). This effect of nicotine is blocked by d-tubocurarine. Interestingly, nicotine also had a long-lasting effect on high potassium-induced staining of boutons. These results suggest that nicotine can have significant and sustained effects on synaptic efficacy in cultured hippocampal neurons.
Many nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunits are known to be co-expressed with the alpha6 subunit in neurons. Because alpha6beta4 AChRs assemble inefficiently and alpha6beta2 AChRs not at all, more complex mixtures of human subunit cDNAs were tested for their abilities to form functional AChRs when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. alpha6beta4beta3 AChRs produced the largest and most consistent responses. alpha6alpha3beta2 AChRs exhibited reduced potency for ACh and increased potency and efficacy for nicotine compared to alpha3beta2 AChRs, but similar resistance to functional inactivation after prolonged exposure to nicotine. alpha6alpha4beta2 AChRs differed little in potency or efficacy for ACh or nicotine compared to alpha4beta2 AChRs, and had similarly high sensitivity to inactivation by prolonged exposure to nicotine. Co-expression of alpha6 and beta2 cRNAs resulted in large numbers of (3)H-epibatidine binding sites in the form of large aggregates but not in functional pentameric AChRs. Co-expression of alpha6, beta2, and alpha5 resulted in assembly of some functional pentameric AChRs. Chimeras with the large extracellular domain of alpha6 and the rest from either alpha3 or alpha4 efficiently formed functional AChRs. Thus, the extracellular domain of alpha6 efficiently assembles with beta2 to form ACh binding sites, but more C-terminal domains cause difficulties in forming pentameric AChRs. Chimeric alpha6/alpha3 and alpha6/alpha4 AChRs containing either beta2 or beta4 subunits were blocked by alpha-conotoxin MII which had previously been reported to be specific for alpha3beta2 AChRs.

J. Sergent (1991) claimed that split-brained people are highly accurate in judging which is the larger of 2 circles in opposite visual hemifields but are relatively poor at judging whether circles in the 2 hemifields are of the same size. The discrepancy could be due, at least in part, to an artifact. A split-brained man, L.B., was markedly worse than normals at judging which was the larger of 2 circles or the longer of 2 horizontal lines in opposite hemifields, and his performance could be largely accounted for without assuming any interhemispheric transfer. L.B. also judged whether a single flashed line extended further into the left or right hemifield and, as in a previous study (M. C. Corballis, 1995), was strongly biased to respond &quot;right longer.&quot; This bias was not observed in the judgments about the circles or the separated lines, suggesting that it is not due to a compression of perceived space in the left hemifield.
This investigation of fluvoxamine and fluoxetine-norfluoxetine distributions in vivo at steady-state and of quantitative kinetics in brain and plasma after drug therapy interruption was performed by fluorine nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (19F MRS), spectroscopic imaging (MRSI), and plasma HPLC on 12 subjects treated for depression. MRSI suggests a homogeneous distribution of 19F MRS visible fluvoxamine mainly in brain. Fluvoxamine steady-state brain concentrations (12 +/- 5 microM; n = 13) and brain-to-plasma concentration ratios (10 +/- 2; n = 12) were similar to those of combined fluoxetine-norfluoxetine (CF-norfluoxetine) (13 +/- 6 microM; n = 4 and 10 +/- 6; n = 4). Fluvoxamine brain elimination half-life (79 +/- 24 hours; n = 4) was significantly shorter than that of CF-norfluoxetine (382 +/- 48 hours; n = 2). Fluvoxamine brain-to-plasma-half-life-ratio was 2.2 +/- 0.3 (n = 4), contrarily to CF-norfluoxetine (1.0 +/- 0.3; n = 2). This study shows that quantitative pharmacokinetics in target organs by 19F MRS in vivo should prove useful for understanding and investigating outcome of treatment modifications and side effects.
Peripheral nerve injury results in sprouting of sympathetic and sensory nerve terminals around large diameter neurons in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), but the underlying mechanism is not clear. Current study sought to examine changes of the nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor TrkA in DRG and spinal cord after a spinal nerve transection by an immunohistochemical technique and to investigate effects of NGF on the expression of TrkA protein in the same animal model. In the control rat, TrkA immunoreactivity was localized to about 55 +/ -1% of total neurons in DRG and to laminae I and II of the spinal cord. The percentage of TrkA immunoreactive neurons in DRG and TrkA staining intensity of spinal cord were reduced 1 week after the nerve lesion. The changes became maximal 2 weeks, but recovered partially 4 weeks after the lesion. The size of TrkA immunoreactive neurons dramatically shifted to smaller sizes, becoming more remarkable 4 weeks after the lesion. In the contralateral DRG, the percentage of TrkA immunoreactive neurons also decreased significantly. Exogenous NGF delivered to DRG for 2 weeks partially reversed the reduction of TrkA expression as well as atrophy of TrkA immunoreactive neurons. No TrkA immunoreactive basket was found around neuronal somata. Our data show that unilateral peripheral nerve injury results in dynamic downregulation of TrkA in sensory neurons in bilateral DRG and spinal cord, and that TrkA expression in sensory neurons is partially regulated by target-derived NGF.
Forebrain heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) immunohistochemical reactivity was investigated in rats subjected to gamma knife irradiation focusing on the right caudate putamen nucleus. The forebrain sections of all experimental animals were processed with anti-HSP70 antiserum and then by avidin-biotin peroxidase complex immunohistochemistry after gamma ray irradiation with a dose of 100Gy and they each survived for different times (from 30 min to 30 days). Some neurons, glial cells, and endothelial cells were HSP70-like immunoreactivity (HSP70-LI) positive. HSP70-LI was mainly distributed in the target area of irradiation, as well as in non-target regions, e.g. the cortex, hippocampus, and hypothalamus, etc. The expression and change of HSP70-LI from 3 h to 30 days after irradiation followed the following rules: (1) Within 3 to 24 h, the dilated vessels with HSP70-LI endothelial cells were found at first, and a few lightly stained HSP70-LI neurons and glias were observed in the target and non-target regions; (2) In 3-7 days, darkly stained HSP70-LI neurons and glias were apparently increased and formed an expression peak. From 14 to 30 days, HSP70-LI cells were distinctly decreased and became weakly stained or negative. These results suggested that although the irradiation target of the gamma knife was localized, the response to irradiation occurred extensively.



The association between acute rise of blood pressure and encephalopathy with early recognition, and therapy reversibility has been reported. We reported a case of a young lady in postnatal period, presented with acute rise of blood pressure, encephalopathy, quadriparesis, and apraxia. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed hyperintense lesions in occipital, parietal and right temporal areas. Cerebral angio showed multiple segmental vasoconstriction and narrowing of intracerebral vessels. Immediate control of blood pressure enhanced recovery but it is incomplete.
Post carotid endarterectomy seizure is a known clinical presentation in patients who suffer from hyperperfusion syndrome. This case focuses on the importance of identification of high risk patients for developing this syndrome and delaying their discharge from the hospital after successful carotid endarterectomy.
Ankylosing spondylitis is not an uncommon disease worldwide, yet is relatively rare in Bahrain. There is a typical pattern of joint involvement in cases of ankylosing spondylitis, but the presentation of discitis is rare. We present a case of a patient presenting with backache and was diagnosed to have discitis. The diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis was made only after he was found to be Human Leukocyte Antigen-827 positive. This is the first case report of ankylosing spondylitis presenting as discitis in Bahrain.
This study presents a 14-year-old Saudi child with poor school achievement, diagnosed by psychiatrists as mentally retardated with a significant social deficit. No neurological disorder was evident. She has high to very high intellectual abilities on testing her intelligence quotient. Her verbal learning ability was also very high. Her social skills and capacity were impaired. No evidence of poor language was detected. The patient is diagnosed as suffering from Asperger`s syndrome, and not mentally retarded. She has the criteria for Asperger`s syndrome according to Diagnositic and Statistical Manual, 4th edition, including the significant social deficit with normal intellectual functioning. The utility of such a diagnosis is briefly discussed.






Guillain-Barre syndrome is an acute, or more often, a subacutely evolving paralytic disease of unestablished etiology. The condition is often designated as the Landy-Guillain-Strohl syndrome in recognition of the description provided by Landy in 1859 and again in 1916 by Guillain, Barre and Strohl. The pathogenesis and specific therapy in this condition remains imperfectly defined. The diagnosis is usually clinical with supportive laboratory tests. In this syllabus, we review the diagnostic criteria in Guillain-Barre syndrome and current therapies in the acute management followed by presentation of the acute management protocol used in the Neurosciences Department at the Riyadh Armed Forces Hospital.
Trauma is the most common cause of death in childhood and non-accidental injury is the leading cause of death in infants between one month and one year of life. This is a newly emerging entity in Saudi Arabia. However, there is little available literature on the extent of child maltreatment in Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries. In this review, we will discuss various aspects of the central nervous system insults resulting from the inflicted trauma of child abuse. We aim to raise awareness in the region as the tragic loss of life and function is unequalled in childhood beyond the perinatal period.
The Wada test is the standard part of the pre-operative evaluation for epilepsy surgery. The procedure involves the slow injection of sodium amobarbital (typically 100-500mg) into the internal carotid artery following a transfermoral approach. The amobarbital anesthetizes the anterior two-thirds of the ipsilateral cerebral hemisphere for approximately 5-10 minutes. During this period of hemispheric anesthesia, assessment of expressive and receptive language can establish cerebral language representation. In addition, the procedure provides a reversible model to assess the risk of significant memory change following surgery. This is important because patients undergoing surgery involving the temporal lobe may experience significant memory decline following surgical resection of a temporal lobe seizure focus. This paper will represent information about the use of Wada testing, and discuss issues involved in establishing cerebral language representation, lateralization of temporal lobe dysfunction, seizure and memory outcome prediction, and future directions of this technique.

Interindividual and intraindividual variability in neuromotor behaviors is expected and normal. Early changes in neuromotor behaviors associated with neurodegenerative disorders or neurotoxic effects are often subtle and fluctuating in their characteristics. Therefore, their detection at an early stage is particularly difficult without precise recording instruments. The CATSYS system developed by Danish Product Development (DPD) is a portable device recording four measures of neuromotor control including tremor, reaction time, hand coordination and postural sway. The aim of this study is to develop a set of normative data. One hundred and fifty healthy men and women were divided into five age groups: (1) 20 to 29 years (n=30); (2) 30 to 39 years (n=30); (3) 40 to 49 years (n=30); (4) 50 to 59 years (n=30); (5) 60 to 70 years (n=30). All participants were free of neurological deficits at the time of testing and they were tested individually for approximately 30 min. Hand coordination was measured with prono-supination and finger-tapping movements executed at constant and accelerated rhythms. Reaction time was assessed in both hands using a hand held switch activated by the thumb. Postural tremor was quantified in both hands during 24.6 sec. by asking the subject to hold a stylus horizontally at 10 cm in front of his/her navel. The stylus contained a biaxial accelerometer. Postural sway was tested by asking the subject to stand on a force platform for 75 sec. under four conditions: (1) eyes open; (2) eyes closed; (3) eyes open standing on a foam pad; and (4) eyes closed standing on a foam pad. ANOVAs and multiple comparison tests were performed and the results were examined taking into account age, gender and experimental condition effects.
Neuroimaging is a powerful and innovative tool for studying the pathology of psychiatric and neurological diseases and, more recently, for studying the drugs used in their treatment. Technological advances in imaging have made it possible to noninvasively extract information from the human brain regarding a drug's mechanism and site of action. Until now, our understanding of human brain pharmacology has depended primarily on indirect assessments or models derived from animal studies. However, the advent of multiple techniques for human brain imaging allows researchers to focus directly on human pharmacology and brain function. In this review article, our PET studies on histaminergic neuron system were presented as an example. We have developed and used the PET techniques for 10 years in order to examine the functions of histaminergic neurons in the living human brain. This review outlines available PET techniques and examines how these various methods have already been applied to the drug development process and neuropharmacology in the living human brain.
After a brief review of the past and present status of stereotactic surgery, prospect of neurosurgical approach to Parkinson's disease in the 21st century was considered. The stereotactic surgery has progressed markedly in its technical and theoretical aspects due to the rapid development of the basic neuroscience and computerized imaging technique. Although there are some points to be clarified and estimated in the future, these new tendencies will stand to the next century, and further progress will be achieved if it contains some truth in the light of the modern neuroscience. Also it should be clinically effective, safety and smart. The idea of stereotaxy since the beginning, namely the maximum effect with minimal damage of the human brain always holds true.
There is an obesity epidemic in the industrialized world that is not simply explained by excess energy intake and decreased energy expenditure. Persistent obesity develops when genetically predisposed individuals are in a chronic state of positive energy balance. Once established, the obese body weight is avidly defended against both over- and underfeeding. Animal studies have shown that lean individuals who are genetically predisposed toward obesity have abnormalities of neural function that prime them to become obese when caloric density of the diet is raised. These neural abnormalities are gradually &quot;corrected&quot; as obesity becomes fully developed, suggesting that obesity is the normal state for such individuals. Thus, defense of the obese body weight may be perpetuated by the formation of new neural circuits involved in energy-homeostasis pathways that are not then easily abolished. Such neural plasticity can occur in both adult life and during nervous-system development. Early pre- and postnatal metabolic conditions (maternal diabetes, obesity, undernutrition) can lead genetically predisposed offspring to become even more obese as adults. This enhanced obesity is associated with altered brain neural circuitry, and these changes can then be passed on to subsequent generations in a feed-forward cycle of ever-increasing body weight. Thus, the metabolic perturbations associated with obesity during both brain development and adult life can produce &quot;metabolic imprinting&quot; on genetically predisposed neural circuits involved in energy homeostasis. Drugs that reduce body weight decrease the defended body weight and alter neural pathways involved in energy homeostasis but have no permanent effect on body weight or neural function in most individuals. Thus, early intervention in mothers, infants, children, and adults may be the only way to prevent the formation of permanent neural connections that promote and perpetuate obesity in genetically predisposed individuals.
Because daily food intake is the product of the size of a meal and the frequency of meals ingested, the characteristic of meal size to meal number during a 24-h light-dark cycle constitutes an identifiable pattern specific to normal states and obesity and that occurs during early cancer anorexia. An understanding of simultaneous changes in meal size and meal number (constituting a change in feeding patterns) as opposed to an understanding of only food intake provides a more insightful dynamic picture reflecting integrated behavior. We have correlated this to simultaneous changes in dopamine and serotonin concentrations and to their postsynaptic receptors, focusing simultaneously on two discrete hypothalamic food-intake-related nuclei, in response to the ingestion of food. The relation between concentrations of dopamine and serotonin limited to the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) and the ventromedial nucleus (VMN) as they relate to the influence of meal size and meal number during the hyperphagia of obesity and anorexia of cancer as measured in our experiments are discussed. Based on these data, conceptual models are proposed concerning: 1) an &quot;afferent-efferent neurotransmitter unit,&quot; with facilitatory or inhibitory neuropeptide properties to generate an appropriate neuroendocrine and neuronal response that ultimately modifies food intake; 2) initiation and termination of a meal, thereby determining the number and size of a meal under normal conditions; and 3) a schema integrating the onset mechanism of cancer anorexia. Nicotine is used as a tool to further explore the relation of meal size to meal number, with a focus on simultaneous changes in dopamine and serotonin concentrations in the LHA and VMN with the onset of acute anorexia of nicotine infusion and acute hyperphagia of nicotine cessation. Data concerning the role of sex-related hormones on dopamine and serotonin with regard to the LHA and VMN in relation to the modulation of food intake are also presented.
The homeostasis of body fluid traditionally is viewed as involving the regulation of its osmolality and of blood volume. However, the control of thirst is more complex than can be described in a two-factor model, and consideration of plasma sodium concentration and of arterial blood pressure also must be included in the discussion. This review is organized around those four variables and focuses on the seven distinct signals that appear to influence water intake in rats. These signals include four that are excitatory for thirst: increased plasma osmolality detected by cerebral osmoreceptors, decreased blood volume presumably detected by cardiac stretch receptors, increased circulating levels of angiotensin II detected by angiotensin II receptors in the subfornical organ, and increased gastric sodium load apparently detected by putative sodium receptors in the abdominal viscera. There also appear to be three signals that inhibit thirst: decreased plasma osmolality detected by cerebral osmoreceptors, increased arterial blood pressure detected by arterial baroreceptors, and increased gastric water load apparently detected by putative sodium receptors in the abdominal viscera.
The experimental analysis of the controls of eating has undergone a paradigmatic shift in the past decade. Instead of seeing meals as a problem of how intake serves metabolism and nutritional homeostasis, meals are now seen as a problem in behavioral neuroscience. The major developments underlying this significant change are behavioral, neurological, and theoretical. Behavioral analysis has shown that a central pattern generator in the caudal brainstem organizes eating movements and that the size of a liquid meal is determined by the number and size of clusters of licking. Neurologic analysis has shown that eating is under orosensory positive-feedback control and postingestive, preabsorptive, negative-feedback control. These feedback controls are activated by food ingested during a meal. The sensory information of the feedbacks is carried by afferent fibers that project to the caudal brainstem. The new theory is based on the fact that the feedback controls are stimulated by food acting directly on mucosal receptors along the gastrointestinal tract, from the mouth to the end of the small intestine. Thus, they are referred to as direct controls, and the caudal brainstem is sufficient for organizing their action. All other controls, such as metabolic, rhythmic, and ecologic, that do not contact the mucosal receptors are indirect controls. Indirect controls act by modulating the potency of the central effects of the direct controls, and they require the forebrain and its reciprocal connections with the caudal brainstem for their control of eating and meal size.
Interpretation of the new information arising from the Plasmodium falciparum Genome Project requires a good working knowledge of the ultrastructure of the parasite; however many aspects of the morphology of this species remain obscure. Lawrence Bannister, John Hopkins and colleagues here give an illustrated overview of the three-dimensional (3-D) organization of the merozoite, ring, trophozoite and schizont stages of the parasite, based on available data that include 3-D reconstruc-tion from serial electron microscope sections. The review describes the chief organelles present in these stages, emphasizing the continuity of structure in addition to specialized, stage-specific features developed during the asexual erythrocytic cycle.
Following the introduction of tolcapone, a potent, reversible Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor, it has been possible to optimise the management of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients in chronic Levodopa (L-dopa) therapy. The interaction between tolcapone and the endogenous metabolism of catecholamines points to a possible influence on autonomic cardiovascular function.Cardiovascular reflexes have been analysed in a group of seven PD patients (four males, three females; mean age 69.7years, mean disease duration 14.1years) by means of the heart rate variability (HRV) method using a continuous 24-h ECG (ECGD), before and after six months of treatment with tolcapone (in addition to L-dopa).We have observed no statistically significant differences in HRV parameters, nor any changes in the incidence of hyperkinetic and hypokinetic arrhythmias, which suggest that autonomic cardiovascular function in PD patients is not influenced by six months of treatment with tolcapone.
The purpose of this study was to use Corsi's Block Tapping Test as a spatial analog of Benton's Serial Digit Learning Test, using the cognitive neuroscience approach utilized in the California Verbal Learning Test. 60 normal participants, ages 19-52 years, were included and administered an 8-block sequence for 9 trials or until they recalled the entire sequence for 3 consecutive errorless trials. The score was the number of blocks tapped in the correct serial order. An interference trial was administered. Following a 10-min. delay, free recall of the original sequence, cued recall, and recognition measures were obtained. Retroactive interference was significant, but no proactive interference emerged. Scores showed a strong primacy effect. Most participants who learned the sequence to the criterion of three successive errorless trials recalled the sequence after the 10-min. delay. Scores on the cued recall and recognition trials tended to support their validity as less demanding retrieval tasks. The use of this spatial learning and memory procedure allows finer discriminations among nonverbal memory deficits and may facilitate direct comparisons with scores on verbal memory tasks such as Serial Digit Learning and the California Verbal Learning Test.
The pharmacological physiological effects of the endogenous cannabinomimetic (endocannabinoid) anandamide have been well characterized. Another endocannabinoid, 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol (2-AG), has been less-widely studied. 2-AG occurs in vertebrate and invertebrate tissues and binds to both cannabinoid receptors (CB1 and CB2). In the current study, 2-AG was found to cause human monocytes and immunocytes from Mytilus edulis to become round and immobile, which may correlate with decreased production of cytokines and adhesion molecules, i.e. an immunosuppressive response. In addition, exposure of these cells to 2-AG results in nitric oxide (NO) release, which is blocked by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, l-NAME and a CB1 antagonist, but not by a CB2 antagonist. The results obtained in the human vascular system were similar to those obtained in immune cells. Treatment of human saphenous veins and atria with 2-AG stimulated basal NO release, which was antagonized by l-NAME and a CB1 antagonist. Taken together these results indicate that 2-AG exerts immune and vascular actions similar to those observed with anandamide.
To determine the effect of copper status on the preference for copper-containing food, male Sprague-Dawley rats were weaned to a copper-deficient, copper-adequate or high-copper diet. Four weeks later, alterations in copper status were confirmed by measurement of liver copper concentrations. Rats (n=10) were then given the choice between a copper-adequate or a copper-restricted diet of similar composition. Preference scores indicated that control rats preferred copper-deficient food. Preferences of rats on the high-copper diet were not different from control rats, suggesting that copper overload did not alter the pattern of selection. However, 7 of the 10 copper-deficient rats ate 80% or more of their intake as copper-adequate food resulting in preference scores that were significantly different from controls (p&lt;0.03). This alteration in preference was corrected within 1 day of access to copper-adequate food.
The aim of this review is to summarise and critically evaluate studies of vestibular compensation published over the last 2 years, with emphasis on those concerned with the molecular mechanisms of this process of lesion-induced plasticity. Recent studies of vestibular compensation have confirmed and extended the previous findings that: (i) compensation of the static ocular motor and postural symptoms occurs relatively rapidly and completely compared to the dynamic symptoms, many of which either do not compensate substantially or else compensate variably due to sensory substitution and the development of sensori-motor strategies which suppress or minimize symptoms; (ii) static compensation is associated with, and may be at least partially caused by a substantial recovery of resting activity in the ipsilateral vestibular nucleus complex (VNC), which starts to develop very quickly following the unilateral vestibular deafferentation (UVD) but does not correlate perfectly with the development of some aspects of static compensation (e.g., postural compensation); and (iii) many complex biochemical changes are occurring in the VNC, cerebellum and even areas of the central nervous system like the hippocampus, following UVD. However, despite many recent studies which suggest the importance of excitatory amino acid receptors such as the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, expression of immediate early gene proteins, glucocorticoids, neurotrophins and nitric oxide in the vestibular compensation process, how these various factors are linked and which of them may have a causal relationship with the physiological changes underlying compensation, remains to be determined.
Neuromedin B (NMB) is one of the bombesin (BN)-related peptides in mammals. It was originally purified from pig spinal cords, and it has been shown to be present in central nervous system as well as in gastrointestinal tract. BN and its related peptides have various physiological effects. These include regulation of exocrine and endocrine secretions, smooth muscle contraction, feeding, blood pressure, blood glucose, body temperature and cell growth. NMB exerts its effect by binding to the cell surface receptor. A high affinity receptor, NMB receptor (NMB-R) has been identified. This is a G-protein coupled receptor with seven membrane-spanning regions. Upon agonist binding, several intracellular signaling cascades including phospholipase activation, calcium mobilization and protein kinase C (PKC) activation lead to expression of several genes, DNA synthesis or cellular effects such as secretion. Existence of NMB-R has been demonstrated in several brain regions, notably in olfactory and thalamic regions, and in gastrointestinal tracts. Recent analysis using NMB-R-deficient mice, generated by gene-targeting technique, enables to distinguish functional properties of NMB-R from GRP-R. In this review, molecular characterization, anatomical distribution and pharmacological properties of NMB and NMB-R will be presented. Moreover, physiological roles of NMB and its receptor demonstrated by the analysis of NMB-R-deficient mice will be reported. Comparison with GRP/GRP-R system will provide important information about BN-like peptide systems in mammals.
1. The main objective of this work was to investigate the extent of cellular colocalization of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the rat brain. A double labeling technique, that combined immunocytochemical labeling of the D2 receptor using polyclonal antibodies raised against the third intracellular loop of the short isoform of the human D2 receptor in combination with in situ hybridization detecting D1 mRNA expression, was designed to accomplish this goal. 2. The specificity of the antisera obtained was confirmed by immunoprecipitation assay, Western blot analysis, and immunocytochemistry on D2R transfected cells and murine brain tissue. Western blot using the D2 receptor antibody revealed a specific broad band centered at 67 kDa in transfected cells and a major protein of 88 kDa corresponding to D2R expressed in the caudate-putamen, to a lesser extent in the cortex, and not at all detected in the hypothalamic region. 3. The content of neurons double-labeled for D1/D2 receptors was observed at in differing intensities in the dorsal endopiroform nucleus, the intercalated nucleus of amygdala, the anterior part of the cortical nucleus amygdala, the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, the piriform cortex, the parabrachial nucleus, the supraoptic nucleus and the parabigeminal nucleus. All other regions of the brain revealed neurons expressing either D1 or D2 dopamine receptors but not both at that same time. 4. These results clearly demonstrated that specific neurons expressed both receptors D1 and D2, and that this colocalization was restricted to particular regions of the rat brain.
1. Different animal tests model different anxiety disorders. Thus, the social interaction test is a model of generalised anxiety disorder, plus-maze Trial 1 models elements of panic disorder and Trial 2 in the elevated plus-maze is a model of specific phobia. 2. Studies of the neuroanatomical and neurochemical pathways controlling behaviour in these different tests provides information on the neurobiological mechanisms modulating anxiety disorders. 3. In the social interaction test, nicotine and 8-OH-DPAT had anxiogenic effects when injected into the dorsal hippocampus or the lateral septum. 4. These ligands were without effect on Trial 1 in the plus-maze when injected into the dorsal hippocampus, but had anxiogenic effects when injected into the lateral septum. 5. On Trial 2 in the elevated plus-maze, nicotine had an anxiolytic effect, but 8-OH-DPAT had an anixiogenic effect when injected into the dorsal hippocampus.
The competing theories in the psychoanalytic marketplace today should be judged on their merits, not on the basis of the authority of whoever first proposed them. What is valid in each theory should be included in any formulation of a psychoanalytic theory of mental development and functioning. Since psychoanalysis, as part of psychology, is a branch of natural science, pluralism in theory is to be avoided in psychoanalysis as in every branch of science. The psychoanalytic method is a valid one of studying a particular aspect of brain functioning. The method and the theories based upon it are as &quot;organic&quot; as is the case with any of the other neurosciences. Any valid psychoanalytic theory of mental functioning and development should include the following conclusions: (1) Unconscious mental processes are omnipresent and of great importance in mental functioning; (2) Thoughts are as causally related to one another as are other events in the universe; (3) Mental functioning is a developmental phenomenon with describable, sequential features; and (4) A major role in mental functioning and development is played by conflicts over the sexual and aggressive wishes that characterize mental life during the period from three to six years of age, and by the compromise formations that result from those conflicts. The last of these conclusions, though disputed by many, is abundantly supported by evidence that is not dependent on the use of the psychoanalytic method, as well as by evidence furnished by the use of the psychoanalytic method. There is also much evidence to support the assertion that any psychoanalytic theory that attributes language-dependent thoughts to a child whose brain is not yet mature enough to be capable of language is to be considered invalid, as are any observations made by the psychoanalytic method (= clinical observations) that are influenced by such an invalid theory. In psychoanalysis, as in every other branch of science, an observer--no matter how astute and how experienced--who subscribes to an invalid theory will be led astray by that theory, sooner or later, in one way or another.
The neuroendocrine responses to the alpha(2)-adrenoreceptor agonist clonidine (CLO) (0.35 mg if body weight &lt;65 kg or 0.375 mg if body weight&gt; or =65 kg, PO) were studied in a large group of subjects: 134 drug-free inpatients--with either DSM-IV schizophrenia (SCZ, n=31), schizoaffective disorder (SAD, n=16), or major depressive episode (MDE, n=87) - and 22 hospitalized controls (HCs). Comparison with a previous placebo test performed in a subgroup of 92 subjects (46 MDEs, 20 SCZs, 8 SADs, and 18 HCs) showed that CLO induced a significant increase of growth hormone, prolactin (PRL) and thyrotropin (TSH) levels but no significant change in adrenocorticotropin and cortisol release. According to diagnostic categories, we found significantly lower GH stimulation in MDEs and in SADs compared to HCs or to SCZs. In addition, we found significantly lower CLO induced PRL and TSH stimulations in paranoid SCZ patients compared to controls and disorganized SCZ patients. Taken together, these results suggest a hyposensitivity of noradrenergic alpha(2)-receptors in patients with affective symptoms.
We tested the hypothesis that changes in endogenous neuroactive steroids acting as positive allosteric modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors may be related to the menopause-associated mood alterations. The study sample consisted of twenty five drug-free menopausal women, 1-3 years since the onset of menopause, homogeneous for age and body mass index (BMI) and without personal history of psychiatric, metabolic or endocrine disorders. Depression and anxiety-related symptoms were assessed with the Zung Self-administered Depression Scale (ZSDS) and the Cornell's Dysthymia Rating Scale (CDRS). The cut-off value predicted by the ZSDS index defined two groups of women (asymptomatic [35.5+/-4.6, n=12] and symptomatic [60.8+/-7.9, n=13]), that were also significantly different according to the CDRS scores (10.6+/-3.4 and 31.5+/-12, respectively, P&lt;0.05). Upon evaluation of the scores relative to the anxiety factor of the CDRS (items 11-15) the symptomatic, but not the asymptomatic, group showed a moderate level of anxiety. The plasma concentrations of several neuroactive steroids were measured, after extraction and HPLC purification, by radioimmunoassay with specific antisera. Only dehydroepiandrosterone and its metabolite 5alpha-androstane-3alpha,17betadiol (3alpha-ADIOL), a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptors, were significantly (P&lt;0.05 and P&lt;0.005) higher (+110% and +64%, respectively) in the asymptomatic group. A highly significant and negative correlation (r=-0.672, P=0.003) was found between the plasma 3alpha-ADIOL concentrations and the scores of the anxiety factor of the CDRS. These data suggest that endogenous 3alpha-ADIOL modulates the central GABAergic tone and that higher 3alpha-ADIOL concentrations could have a role in preventing the expression of anxiety in the asymptomatic women.





This study examined the interaction between hyperthyroidism and opioid receptor function on control of ventilation and metabolism in male Harlan hamsters 4 and 8 weeks after implanting thyroxine (T(4)) or placebo pellets. Metabolism, but not body temperature, increased in T(4)-treated hamsters relative to placebo-treated animals. After 4 weeks, body weights were greater in the T(4)-treated hamsters, but comparable to controls after 8 weeks. At that time, body length was greater in T(4)-treated hamsters than in controls. Thyroxine did not affect ventilation in air or in response to CO(2). Naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist, decreased metabolism in T(4)-treated, but not in placebo-treated hamsters without affecting ventilation in air in either group. In the placebo group naloxone augmented the ventilatory response to hypercapnia by increasing frequency. These results negate our hypotheses that: (1) hyperthyroid hamsters exhibit greater ventilation in air and in response to hypercapnia than controls; and (2) that naloxone augments these effects.

In order to study the relationship between the firing patterns of injured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons of rat and their sensitivity to tetraethylammonium (TEA), spontaneous activities from single fibers of chronically compressed DRG neurons were recorded. Two patterns of spontaneous activity were found: periodic pattern and non-periodic pattern. These two types of neurons showed different sensitivity to TEA with 27.3% in periodic and 93.2% in non-periodic firing neurons responding to TEA (2 mmol/L) (P&lt;0.01). The responses to TEA of different concentrations were greater in the non-periodic firing neurons than in the periodic firing ones (P&lt;0.01). The responses to TEA became apparent in 5 neurons after their periodic firing pattern was transformed into non-periodic firing pattern through an increase in Ca(2+). The non-periodic interburst interval of the bursting discharge decreased significantly while the periodic burst interspike interval had no response to TEA. The unstable period orbits were found in bursting discharge, indicating deterministic chaos during bursting discharge. It is concluded that non-periodic firing neurons with chaos are more sensitive to TEA than periodic firing neurons.


This study used cluster analysis to explore prominent personality traits among a sample of suicidal psychiatric patients (n = 86), with a goal of identifying distinct clusters based on descriptive personality traits as measured by the Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory-II (MCMI-II). Three clusters were identified, accounting for 97% of study participants with available data. Additional analyses were conducted to explore differences and similarities among the three groups. The three clusters were comparable with respect to symptomatology (i.e., depression, anxiety, hopelessness), psychiatric diagnoses, and negative life stress, suggesting that cluster differences were not due to severity of disturbance (i.e., symptom severity) or diagnosis. Although all three clusters evidenced prominent negativistic and avoidant traits and two of the clusters showed prominent borderline traits, each was characterized by a distinct trait with implications for interpersonal functioning. Results are discussed in terms of implications for treatment and future research, particularly the importance of the therapeutic relationship with suicidal patients.
Acute activation of opioid receptors in the ventral pallidum increases motor behaviors in rats. The present study was designed to investigate the possibility that the ventral pallidum influences motor responses induced by chronic opiate treatments and to examine the receptors that may be involved in such an effect. For five consecutive days, ambulations were quantified after rats received once-daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of morphine (10 mg/kg) or saline following bilateral intra-ventral pallidal injections of either saline (0.5 microl/hemisphere), the mu antagonist CTOP (2. 1 microg/0.5microl/hemisphere), or the D1 antagonist SCH23390 (0.25 microg/0.5microl/hemisphere). Behavioral sensitization to an acute morphine challenge (10 mg/kg i.p.) was assessed 72 h after terminating the repeated treatment regimen. Rats who repeatedly received the intra-ventral pallidal saline + i.p. morphine exhibited increases in ambulations during the chronic treatment protocol and this effect was greatly enhanced (i.e., sensitized) following the post withdrawal acute morphine challenge. Rats repeatedly treated with intra-ventral pallidal CTOP + i.p. morphine did not display a motor response either during the chronic treatment regime or to the acute morphine challenge; an effect not seen when CTOP was injected into brain structures located dorsal to the ventral pallidum. The rats repeatedly treated with intra-ventral pallidal injections of SCH23390 + i.p. morphine demonstrated a motor response during the chronic protocol but the magnitude of this response was not significantly enhanced by the acute morphine challenge. These results demonstrate that: 1) mu opioid and D1-like dopamine receptors in the ventral pallidum influence the increase in locomotion that occurs during repeated morphine treatments; and 2) mu opioid (but not D1) receptors in the ventral pallidum are important in the postwithdrawal sensitized response to morphine. Such observations indicate that the ventral pallidum plays a critical role in morphine-induced behavioral sensitization.
Serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists potentiate the effects of serotonin reuptake inhibitors on extracellular serotonin levels in a variety of brain regions. These effects are quite variable, however, with reports indicating potentiations of anywhere from 100-1900%. One factor that might impact the magnitude of such potentiations is the timing of administration of the two agents; reports in which the reuptake inhibitor is given prior to the serotonin receptor antagonist consistently report larger potentiations than reports in which the antagonist is given first. To test this relationship directly, microdialysis and electrophysiology studies were performed to assess the magnitude of increase in extracellular serotonin and changes in cellular activity produced by the serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine and the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY-100635 under various dosing regimens. In microdialysis studies, when WAY-100635 (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) was administered 80 min after fluoxetine (10 mg/kg i.p.) the increase in serotonin was more than twice that observed when the compounds were coadministered. In electrophysiology studies in vivo, WAY-100635 reversed the depression of cell firing produced by fluoxetine when administered 30 min after fluoxetine, but when the two compounds were coadministered, a depression in firing rate was observed comparable to that produced by fluoxetine alone. In contrast, slice recording studies showed that WAY-100635 blocked the effects of fluoxetine regardless of the order of administration. These results indicate that fluoxetine and WAY-100635 can interact in a fashion not predicted by the currently accepted model. It is likely that neuronal circuitry outside of the raphe nuclei underlies this relationship.
What makes us conscious? Many theories that attempt to answer this question have appeared recently in the context of widespread interest about consciousness in the cognitive neurosciences. Most of these proposals are formulated in terms of the information processing conducted by the brain. In this overview, we survey and contrast these models. We first delineate several notions of consciousness, addressing what it is that the various models are attempting to explain. Next, we describe a conceptual landscape that addresses how the theories attempt to explain consciousness. We then situate each of several representative models in this landscape and indicate which aspect of consciousness they try to explain. We conclude that the search for the neural correlates of consciousness should be usefully complemented by a search for the computational correlates of consciousness.

Gene regulation studies demonstrate that dopamine differentially regulates the direct and indirect projection neurons of the striatum through their respective expression of the D1 and D2 dopamine receptors. Induction of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in striatal neurons is used to study dopamine-receptor-mediated neuronal plasticity. In the dopamine-depleted striatum there is a switch in receptor-mediated signal transduction mechanisms to produce a supersensitive form of D1- mediated neuronal plasticity. This switch is suggested to underlie dopamine-agonist-induced dyskinetic movements that develop during the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Insight into the organization of the basal ganglia in the normal, parkinsonian and L-dopa-induced dyskinesia states is critical for the development of newer and more effective therapies for Parkinson's disease. We believe that the basal ganglia can no longer be thought of as a unidirectional linear system that transfers information based solely on a firing-rate code. Rather, we propose that the basal ganglia is a highly organized network, with operational characteristics that simulate a non-linear dynamic system.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder with an average onset age of 60 years. In the United States, approximately one million persons suffer from PD, and there are 60,000 newly diagnosed cases every year. The estimated cost of PD to society is $27 billion per year. Based on United States Census Bureau projections, it is estimated that the frequency of PD will increase fourfold by the year 2040, making it an even larger burden on patients, their families and society.
Visual cortical cells are commonly characterized by their receptive-field structure. Originally, a visual receptive field was defined in a purely spatial way as that retinal area from which a change in spiking response of the regarded cell could be elicited by visual stimulation. The first attempts to understand receptive-field structure were based entirely on the anatomical connectivity of the primary visual pathway. More recently, however, it has been discovered that the spatial and temporal context in which a stimulus is presented to a cell can strongly influence its receptive field, and this in turn is dependent on the state of arousal and attention. Accordingly, new concepts recognize that cortical receptive fields are highly dynamic entities embracing more than the sum of the full spatial and temporal response properties of a cell.
This is a great age to participate in biological inquiry. Behavioral neuroscience offers a rich perspective for molecular biologists. However, behavioral analysis is not simply an assay. Whereas molecular biology has become a unique tool in the armamentarium of behavioral neuroscience, the powerful methodology of molecular biology is no substitute for careful behavioral exploration.

Adult neurones fail to regenerate when injured in the CNS, which leads to severe and irreversible functional deficits. Several important advances in understanding the reasons for this failure have been gained from the use of primary sensory neurones as a model system. The peripherally and centrally projecting branches of sensory neurones are differentially capable of regeneration, which is why these cells are ideally situated to elucidate the mechanisms that underlie regeneration failure. Such mechanisms include both a hostile environment within the spinal cord and a poor growth response following injury. For successful functional regeneration to occur, it is likely that both of these barriers will have to be surmounted, along with the challenge of guiding regrowing axons to appropriate postsynaptic targets. The contribution that the study of primary sensory neurones has made to the attainment of this goal will be reviewed.

The simian type D retroviruses (SRVs) are one of the causative agents of simian acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (SAIDS) in Asian macaques. In this report, we describe the infection of a rhesus macaque with the SRV serogroup 5 isolate, D5/RHE/OR. Using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and dot blot hybridization analyses, we have determined the tissue distribution of D5/RHE/OR in this infected rhesus macaque, and have demonstrated viral mRNA in the majority of the surveyed tissues, including robust loads in the bone marrow, seminal vesicle, submaxillary salivary gland, prostate, and skeletal muscle. Microscopic examination of necropsy tissues revealed generalized lymphoid hyperplasia that was most severe in the salivary gland, bone marrow, kidney, and spleen. We also describe the first sequence analyses of portions of the D5/RHE/OR gag-prt region, obtained as a RT-PCR amplification product from infected rhesus macaque tissue, and report the first confirmation using Northern blot analyses that the SRV serogroups, including D5/RHE/OR, express similarly-sized genomic and subgenomic env mRNAs.


In situ hybridisation was used to determine the distribution and levels of mRNA for galanin precursor preprogalanin (ppGAL) and galanin receptor-1 (GAL-R1) in the rat hindbrain before and after birth. Quantification of mRNA levels was performed from E21. Also, immunohistochemistry was used to study GAL-like immunoreactivity (GAL-LI) prenatally. On E16, no expression of ppGAL mRNA could be detected in any areas examined, whereas on E19 low transcript levels were observed. GAL-LI, however, was seen at relatively high levels in nerve fibres already on E16, mainly in the areas receiving primary afferents. Also, GAL-R1 mRNA was expressed at high levels in discrete areas of the hindbrain on E16. On E21 ppGAL mRNA was found in the locus coeruleus (LC), the nucleus of the solitary tract, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (nX), the lateral reticular nucleus (LRn) and superficially along the ventral medullary surface. Expression increased postnatally in all these areas except in nX and LRn. GAL-R1 mRNA, on the other hand, was found to be expressed at high levels on E21 in the LC, where levels then decreased on P1. Expression of GAL-R1 mRNA was also found in other areas of the brainstem, but here no changes were detected around birth. These findings demonstrate that ppGAL and GAL-R1 mRNAs, as well as GAL-LI, are present in the brainstem in the rat fetus and that the changes in expression after birth could be of importance for the newborn in the transition from pre- to postnatal life.
Understanding the action of the mood stabilizer lithium is dependent on availability of experimental models where lithium treatment at clinically relevant concentrations induces marked phenotypic and genotypic changes. Here we report on such changes in the chicken embryo. Lithium chloride (0.6 mM), applied in ovo 60 h after incubation, markedly delayed the heart rate increase observed from ED2.5 to ED5, and induced the brain expression of a new chicken gene cETO from ED7 to ED15. At the same time the overall developmental dynamics and embryo survival, or the expression of chicken gephyrin were not significantly affected. Furthermore, lithium treatment (0.3 mM, 48 h after incubation) abolished the difference in neuronal number between ED12 ciliary ganglia developing in the presence or absence of postganglionic target muscles. We show that cETO is a close homologue of the human transcription factor MTG8/ETO; named after its location on chromosome 8, and participation in chromosomal translocation 8;21 in myeloid leukemia. The mRNA and protein levels of ETO and gephyrin had a parallel course in chicken brain development suggesting that the expression of both genes is regulated mainly at the level of gene transcription. However, the patterns of expression were markedly different. ETO peaked at ED7 and decreased five-fold at ED15. In contrast, gephyrin levels increased five-fold from ED7 to ED15. We propose that the induction of ETO expression, in concert with lithium-induced upregulation of other genes, such as PEBP2beta and bcl-2, is participating in the neuroprotective effect of chronic lithium treatment.
Treatment of rat cerebellar granule neurons with the phosphatase inhibitor, okadaic acid (OKA) or the excitatory neurotransmitter, L-glutamate, resulted in progressive cell death associated with apoptotic-like changes in nuclear morphology. The OKA-induced neurotoxicity was accompanied by the activation of caspase-3 (ICE-related cysteine protease) and the development of an oligonucleosomal DNA ladder, whereas neither activation of caspase-1, -2, -3, -5, or -9, nor internucleosomal DNA fragmentation accompanied L-glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. At the same time, both OKA and L-glutamate induced a similar pattern of nuclear DNA disintegration into high molecular weight (HMW)-DNA fragments of about 50-100 kb, which are widely believed to originate from the excision of DNA loop domains. Z-DEVD-fmk, a specific caspase-3 inhibitor, as well as a general caspase inhibitor, z-VAD-fmk, inhibited both the internucleosomal- and HMW-DNA fragmentation in OKA-treated neurons. However neither z-DEVD-fmk nor z-VAD-fmk had any obvious inhibitory effect on the formation of HMW-DNA fragments induced by L-glutamate. The results indicate that the formation of the HMW-DNA fragments in cerebellar granule neurons accompanies both caspase-dependent and -independent types of cell death, indicative of multiple mechanisms in the regulation of excision of DNA loop domains during neuronal cell death.
Morphine was identified in the adrenal medulla chromaffin PC-12 cell line by reversed-phase HPLC, following liquid and solid extraction. The morphine corresponding HPLC fractions (1.746+/-0.615 ng of morphine/million cells) were further analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and found to be identical to synthetic morphine. Furthermore, using primers derived from the human neuronal mu 1 opiate receptor, we used RT-PCR to detect expression of mu transcripts from this cell line. The transcript was absent. The study conclusively proves morphine, but not a mu opiate receptor, is constitutively expressed in the adrenal medulla chromaffin PC-12 cell line.
Most synapses contain high concentrations of neurotransmitter receptors in the postsynaptic plasma membrane. Agrin (Ag) is an extracellular matrix protein necessary for the localization of acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction and for the differentiation of synapses in hippocampal neurons in vitro. The temporal pattern of agrin expression during the development of the central nervous system (CNS) is consistent with the notion that agrin expression is regulated during synaptogenesis. To identify the processes underlying this regulation, we have analyzed levels and alternative splicing of agrin mRNA in primary hippocampal neurons. Our results indicate that in the initial phases of synapse formation, contact-mediated processes and action potential-dependent neurotransmission regulate agrin mRNA expression, while secreted factors from glial cells, but not from hippocampal neurons, influence the alternative splicing of agrin mRNA. Previous studies have shown that specific agrin isoforms are able to induce the activation of a transcription factor and that secreted agrin associates with cellular surfaces. Therefore, we have tested whether agrin isoforms contribute to the contact-mediated induction of agrin expression in hippocampal neurons. None of the agrin isoforms tested in this study revealed this activity. Finally, we show that the role of evoked neural transmission in controlling agrin transcription changes during differentiation in vitro.
The neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) is an important regulator of feeding behavior. A hypothalamic site of action for 5-HT in body weight control is supported by the presence of 5-HT receptors in hypothalamic regions which are intimately associated with regulation of food intake. In the present study we have investigated whether there may be an interaction between the hormone leptin, an adipose tissue-derived cytokine signaling factor that inhibits food intake and lowers body weight, and the brain serotonergic system. Immunohistochemical analysis of colchicine-treated rats showed colocalization of 5-HT transporter- and leptin receptor-immunoreactivity in cell bodies of the dorsal raphe nucleus, suggesting that dorsal raphe neurons are targets for circulating leptin. Levels of 5-HT transporter mRNA expression were compared in neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus of obese leptin-deficient ob/ob mice and their lean littermates using in situ hybridization. 5-HT transporter mRNA levels were significantly down-regulated in neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus of obese ob/ob mice as compared to lean control mice. Behavioral analysis showed that obese ob/ob mice had significantly lower locomotor activity and exhibited increased immobility in Porsolt's test, a model for depression. Taken together, these results suggest that serotonergic cell bodies in the rodent dorsal raphe nucleus possess leptin receptors and that the serotonergic system, as reflected by expression levels of 5-HT transporter mRNA, is down-regulated in the obese behaviorally depressed ob/ob mouse.
The bFGF/FGFR, VEGF/VEGFR and Angiopoietin/Tie receptor system are crucial for angiogenesis and vascular remodeling. With a rat focal cerebral ischemia model, we previously reported dramatic changes in the vascular density and angiogenesis related genes in the ipsilateral cortex after 60 minutes severe ischemia. While only a small increase in the capillary density was noted in the contralateral cortex with very mild ischemia. In the present study we further reported that only Tie-1 and VEGFR-2 mRNA were significantly changed in the contralateral cortex with a p value of 0.0001 and 0.0168, respectively, and the degree of changes were very small. Interestingly, in contrast to a huge increase in the ipsilateral cortex, Tie-1 mRNA was slowly decreased after the onset of ischemia and stayed below the basal level throughout the remaining periods studied. The mechanism and significance for this decrease is not presently clear. In contrast to the ipsilateral cortex, the Angpo-1/Angpo-2 mRNA ratio was also slightly dropped below the basal level in the contralateral side in most of the ischemia-reperfusion periods studied, which is in line with the notion that small decrease in Angpo-1/Angpo-2 mRNA ratio implied small vascular remodeling activity. It is very likely that increase in this Angpo-1/Angpo-2 ratio is crucial for remodeling into large vessels and increase in Tie-1 may be crucial for capillary density increasing. Nevertheless, the detailed mechanisms and significance of differential expression of these genes and relationship to vascular remodeling remain to be characterized.

CCK activates neurons in rat hindbrain and small intestinal myenteric ganglia. Activation of neurons at both sites is mediated through type A CCK receptors. CCK-induced activation of hindbrain neurons is mediated by capsaicin-sensitive vagal fibers. Therefore, it is possible that CCK-induced activation of myenteric neurons also depends upon vagal activation. To test this hypothesis, we examined hindbrain and myenteric neuronal expression of Fos immunoreactivity following CCK injection in rats that had undergone bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy or systemic treatment with capsaicin, a neurotoxin that destroys small unmyelinated primary sensory neurons in the vagus, as well as in other peripheral nerves. We found that CCK (2 or 10 microg/kg) significantly increased Fos expression in both the brains and small intestinal myenteric plexuses of control rats. CCK-induced Fos expression was abolished or attenuated in the brains of vagotomized or capsaicin-treated animals. However, vagotomy or capsaicin treatment did not diminish CCK-induced Fos expression in the small intestinal myenteric plexus. We conclude that CCK-induced activation of intestinal myenteric neurons does not depend on activation of vagal sensory or motor neurons, while activation of neurons in the dorsal hindbrain is mediated, at least in part by CCK-induced activity of small unmyelinated vagal sensory neurons.
Stress and the development of a (schizophrenic) psychosis are inextricably related. The process by which stress actually affects psychosis is far less clear. The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal system, and in particular the release of corticosteroids, has been attributed an essential role. However, schizophrenia is a disorder in which many functions are distorted. Dysfunctions can be found in behavior, cognition, coping, physiology, pituitary-adrenal and immune functioning. In this short paper, these functions are discussed as to how they contribute to the way stress is appraised and processed. Schizophrenic patients are impaired in their biological response to stress by showing a blunted cortisol response to psychosocial stress. It is hypothesized that this reflects rather cognitive dysfunction, based on biological dysfunctions in those brain structures that are responsible for these processes, i.e. the prefrontal cortex and the limbic system. Considering the blunted cortisol response as a maladaptive stress response, its consequences are commented on with an emphasis on the immune system. Finally, the role of neuroleptics, and in particular the atypical ones, is discussed for their beneficial effect, beyond their fear-and anxiety-reducing properties, in restoring some of the cognitive dysfunctions schizophrenic patients display. By doing so, they may improve perception of the environment, enhance adjustment and thus a proper stress response. Integration of these processes in stress research described, may provide new vistas of the stress concept in schizophrenia.
Psychoneuroendocrinology is a branch of neuroscience that developed in the beginning of the last century, which investigates the possibility of a cause-effect link between endocrinopathies and mental disorders - with these studies ending in negative results. Psychoneuroendocrinology was then used as a methodological approach for the investigation of neurotransmitter function, on the basis of the observation that neurotransmitters regulate neurohormone and peripheral hormone secretions. Data were obtained for hypothalamic noradrenergic, serotoninergic, dopaminergic, gabaergic and acetylcholinergic functions, which could not be automatically extended to higher brain centers whose impairments might be etiopathogenetically involved in the development of mental disorders. Future studies should focus on new methodological approaches to brain biochemistry, on investigation of genetic, molecular biology, brain imaging, psychoneuroimmunoendocrinology, neuropeptide and neurosteroid secretion in relation to brain endocrine function in mental diseases.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a lethal neurodegenerative disease in which motor neurons in the nervous system die. The cause is unknown, and no effective treatment exists. Mutations in the gene for superoxide dismutase found in a subpopulation have led to an animal model, but research with these mice has not produced complete insight into the disease mechanism. Studies with isolated motor neurons may produce important information. This review discusses approaches to culture motor neurons - single cells, cocultured with other cells, and in intact preparations, such as the spinal or cortical slice. Motor neurons in monoculture are suitable for acute but not for chronic studies, whereas cocultures and slices survive up to months and are used for chronic studies. Results with toxic substances believed to play a role in the disease, such as oxidants and glutamate, and of studies where the energy status of the cells is manipulated, are presented.
Learning and memory are essential requirements for every living organism in order to cope with environmental demands, which enables it to adapt to changes in the conditions of life. Research on the effects of hormones on memory has focused on hormones such as adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), glucocorticoids, vasopressin, oxytocin, epinephrine, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) that are released into the blood and brain following arousing or stressful experiences. Most of the information have been derived from studies on conditioned behavior, in particular, avoidance behavior in rats. In these tasks, an aversive situation was used as a stimulus for learning. Aversive stimuli are associated with the release of stress hormones and neuropeptides. Many factors play a role in different aspects of learning and memory processes. Neuropeptides not only affect attention, motivation, concentration and arousal or vigilance, but also anxiety and fear. In this way, they participate in learning and memory processes. Furthermore, neuropeptides such as CRF and vasopressin modulate the release of stress hormones such as epinephrine. In turn, systemic catecholamines enhance memory consolidation. CRF and vasopressin are colocalized in neurons from the nucleus paraventricularis, which project to nuclei in the brainstem involved in autonomic regulation. The objective of this paper is to discuss the role of CRF, vasopressin, and the autonomic nervous system (ANS) in learning and memory processes. Both CRF and vasopressin have effects in the same direction on behavior, learning and memory processes and stress responses (release of catecholamines and ACTH). These neuropeptides may act synergistically or in a concerted action aimed to learn to adapt to environmental demands.
Stressful experiences in humans can result in a spectrum of long-term changes in behavioural, autonomic and hormonal responsivity. An extreme form of such alterations is found in patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). A number of animal models has been developed in which intense stressful experiences (shocks, social confrontations) result in longterm altered responsivity of behavioural, autonomic and hormonal responses to aversive challenges which mimic many of the changes seen in PTSD. These models of stress-induced sensitisation are beginning to generate a better understanding of the vulnerability factors, time-course and underlying neuronal substrates of the long-term disturbances experienced by humans as a result of stressful life events.
Psychobiology is the discipline that attempts to integrate the impact of environmental and psychological variables on biological systems. This paper focuses on the psychobiology of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and illustrates several processes that influence the response of the HPA axis. The interaction of the developing rodent or primate with their primary care giver has permanent long-term effects on the HPA axis. Manipulations that alter maternal behavior during critical periods of development permanently modify the HPA axis. The HPA axis can be programmed to be hypo-responsive or hyper-responsive as a function of time and length of maternal separation. In the adult organism, the HPA response to stress is highly dependent on specific psychological factors such as control, predictability, and feedback. In primates, social variables have been shown to diminish or exacerbate the HPA stress response. During the post-natal period of development, the mother appears to actively inhibit the pups' HPA axis. Different aspects of maternal behavior regulate different components of the HPA system.
The discovery of endogenous opioids has markedly influenced the research on the biology of addiction and reward brain processes. Evidence has been presented that these brain substances modulate brain stimulation reward, self-administration of different drugs of abuse, sexual behaviour and social behaviour. There appears to be two different domains in which endogenous opioids, present in separate and distinct brain regions, are involved. One is related to the modulation of incentive motivational processes and the other to the performance of certain behaviours. It is concluded that endogenous opioids may play a role in the vulnerability to certain diseases, such as addiction and autism, but also when the disease is present, such as alcoholism.
The neuropeptide concept concerns the diverse and broad physiological functions of neuropeptides in behavioral adaptation. Neuropeptides like vasopressin and corticotropin-releasing hormone can coordinate multiple brain functions due to the anatomical organization of the neurons producing them. The cell bodies are focally positioned in the hypothalamus and send long-reaching efferents to limbic and brainstem areas. Likewise, midbrain dopamine systems coordinate emotional behaviors and movement control by specific connectivity of neurons in the midbrain to limbic and striatal centers, respectively. The fundament of the functions of these signalling molecules is laid out during development when transmitter identity and connectivity are specified. This is a highly controlled process involving multiple transcription factors and growth factors acting together in genetic pathways. Here, the genetic pathways enrolling in developing vasopressin, corticotropin-releasing hormone, and midbrain dopamine neurons are discussed.
Given the tremendous number of neuropeptides, which are synthesized in the central nervous system, the brain can be viewed as one of the most prominent endocrine organs. Elucidation of the functions of these peptides is hampered by the facts that after intravenous administration access to brain receptors is prevented or impaired by the blood-brain barrier. Here, we provide evidence that intranasal administration can be a way to circumvent the blood-brain barrier. Selected experiments will be reported indicating that peptides after intranasal administration in humans can specifically alter a great variety of brain functions. For vasopressin, we demonstrated improving effects of long-term intranasal treatment on sleep in elderly people. Insulin showed improving effects of short-term memory functions. For adrenocorticotropin/melanocyte stimulating hormone, ACTH/MSH-(4-10), a twofold action was isolated: The melanocortin fragment diminished selective attention and, with subchronic administration, reduced body fat. These results could provide the basis for developing a new, specific, and &quot;soft&quot; neuropharmacology.
It has been reported that the ACTH-(4-9) analog H-Met(O(2))-Glu-His-Phe-D-Lys-Phe-OH (ORG 2766) administered in adulthood has trophic effects on neuronal tissue and when given postnatally, it can induce long-lasting changes in brain development. In the present study, we investigated whether early postnatal treatment with ORG 2766 affects adult neuronal vulnerability, i.e. the sensitivity of cholinergic neurons against excitotoxic damage. Wistar rat pups received injections of ORG 2766 or saline on postnatal days 1, 3 and 5 and were then left undisturbed until adulthood. At the age of 6 months, the animals were subjected to unilateral lesion of magnocellular basal nucleus by infusion of high dose of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). The effects of the excitotoxic insult were studied 28 hours and 12 days after the lesion by measuring both the acute cholinergic and glial responses, and the final outcome of the degeneration process. Twenty eight hours after NMDA infusion, postnatally ACTH-(4-9)-treated animals showed stronger suppression of choline-acetyltransferase immunoreactivity and increased reaction of glial fibrillary acidic protein -immunopositive astrocytes in the lesioned nucleus compared to control animals. However, 12 days post-surgery, the NMDA-induced loss of cholinergic neurons, as well as the decrease of their acetylcholinesterase -positive fibre projections in the cortex, were less in ACTH-(4-9) animals. Our data indicate that the early developmental effects of ACTH-(4-9) influence intrinsic neuroprotective mechanisms and reactivity of neuronal and glial cells, thereby resulting in a facilitated rescuing mechanism following excitotoxic injury.
The lack of specific receptors (and antagonists) has hampered the research on the neural mechanism of action of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)- and melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH)-like peptides. Yet the original observations in the 1970s already pointed to cAMP as a possible mediator of ACTH/MSH effects in neurons. The cloning of melanocortin receptors since 1992, the identification of at least two subtypes (melanocortin MC(3) and MC(4) receptors) that are present in neural tissue and the development of selective and potent agonists as well as antagonists have markedly furthered the position of melanocortins as important neuropeptides. In this paper we discuss the role of especially the receptor subtype melanocortin MC(4) in various behaviors including grooming behavior and feeding behavior and consider new insights in the interaction between the opioid and the melanocortin system at the level of the spinal cord (i.e. pain perception). Finally, based on new data obtained in molecular pharmacological studies on brain melanocortin receptors, we suggest a general concept for selective receptor-ligand interaction: ligand residues outside the peptide core-sequence may direct the conformation of the residues in the ligand core-sequence that interact directly with the receptor-binding pocket and thereby determine selectivity.
This review in honor of David de Wied summarizes the work done in my laboratory that first indicated that adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) has a direct effect on the neuromuscular system. Cold stress or ACTH and its related peptides alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH ) and beta-lipotropin improve the electromechanical characteristics of adrenalectomized and hypophysectomized rats. ACTH-(1-39) accelerates the return of motor and sensory function and improves the morphological characteristics of the motor endplate after peripheral nerve crush. The non-corticotropic fragments ACTH-(4-10), alpha-MSH, the ACTH-(4-9) analogue Organon 2766 (Org 2766) or the ACTH-(4-10) analogue Biomeasure 22015 (BIM 22015) improve electrophysiological and morphological parameters of the regenerating neuromuscular system. ACTH-(4-10) immunoreactivity, present in ventral horn motor neurons in low levels, is decreased ipsilaterally following ipsilateral nerve crush but increases both ipsilaterally and contralaterally if injured animals are treated with ACTH-(4-10) indicating a neuroprotective action. Similarly, Org 2766 appears to have a protective action in the brain following nigrostriatal lesions. In developmental studies, perinatal exposure to ACTH peptides improves the structure of the neuromuscular junction, accelerates the maturation of electromechanical properties and enhances nerve-muscle integration and nerve regeneration. Perinatal exposure to these peptides decreases adult male sexual behavior, a change correlated with increased serotinergic input within the medial preoptic area. Similar changes occur in female rats and appear to be long-lasting. In tissue culture studies, both Org 2766 and BIM 22015 promote neurite outgrowth in the absence of nerve growth factor, indicating a neurotrophic role for these peptides.

In order to delineate the neuroprotective role of the low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) against amyloid beta-protein toxicity, studies were performed in C6 cells challenged with amyloid beta-protein in the presence or absence of activated alpha(2)-macroglobulin. Toxicity was assessed via two cell viability assays. We found that this endocytic receptor conferred protection against amyloid beta-protein toxicity in the presence of activated alpha(2)-macroglobulin and its down-regulation via inhibition by receptor-associated protein or transfection of cells with presenilin 1, increased susceptibility to amyloid beta-protein toxicity. Increased surface LRP immunoreactivity in response to amyloid beta-protein challenge was associated with increased translocation of LRP from the endoplasmic reticulum to the surface, rather than from increased mRNA or protein expression. Furthermore, this translocation of LRP to the surface was mediated by a calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II-dependent signaling pathway. These studies provide evidence for a protective role of LRP against amyloid beta-protein toxicity and may explain the aggressive nature of presenilin-1 mutation in familial Alzheimer's disease.
Bresiliid shrimp from hydrothermal vents on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge have non-imaging eyes adapted for photodetection in light environments of very low intensity. Comparison of retinal structures between both vent shrimp and surface-dwelling shrimp with imaging eyes, and between juvenile and adult vent shrimp, suggests that vent shrimp have evolved from ancestors that lived in a light environment with bright cyclic lighting. Whether the vent shrimp live in swarms and have large dorsal eyes or live in sparse groupings and have large anterior eyes, the basic retinal adaptations are the same across species. Retinal adaptations in adult vent shrimp include the loss of dioptrics, enlargement of both the rhabdomeral segment of the photoreceptors and the light-sensitive rhabdomere therein, attenuation of the arhabdomeral segment of the photoreceptors, reduction of black screening pigment, development of a white diffusing layer behind the photoreceptors, and the loss of rhabdom turnover.
Although dichotomously defined for clinical purposes, psychosis may exist as a continuous phenotype in nature. A random sample of 7076 men and women aged 18-64years were interviewed by trained lay interviewers with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI). Those with evidence of psychosis according to the CIDI were additionally interviewed by psychiatrists. For the 17 CIDI core psychosis items, we compared a psychiatrist's rating of hallucinations and/or delusions (Clinical Psychosis; sample prevalence 4.2%) with three other possible positive CIDI ratings of the same items: (i) symptom present, but not clinically relevant (NCR Symptom; sample prevalence 12.9%); (ii) symptom present, but the result of drugs or somatic disorder (Secondary Symptom; sample prevalence 0.6%); (iii) symptom appears present, but there is a plausible explanation (Plausible Symptom; sample prevalence 4.0%). Of the 1237 individuals with any type of positive psychosis rating (sample prevalence 17.5%), only 26 (2.1%) had a DSM-III-R diagnosis of non-affective psychosis. All the different types of psychosis ratings were strongly associated with the presence of psychiatrist-rated Clinical Psychosis (NCR Symptom: OR=3.4; 95% CI: 2.9-3.9; Secondary Symptom: OR=4.5; 95% CI: 2.7-7.7; Plausible Symptom: OR=5.8; 95% CI: 4.7-7.1). Associations with lower age, single marital status, urban dwelling, lower level of education, lower quality of life, depressive symptoms and blunting of affect did not differ qualitatively as a function of type of rating of the psychotic symptom, were similar in individuals with and without any CIDI lifetime diagnosis, and closely resembled those previously reported for schizophrenia. Presence of any rating of hallucinations was strongly associated with any rating of delusions (OR=6.7; 95% CI: 5.6-8.1), regardless of presence of any CIDI lifetime diagnosis. The observation by Strauss (1969. Hallucinations and delusions as points on continua function. Arch. Gen. Psychiatry 21, 581-586) that dichotomously diagnosed psychotic symptoms in clinical samples are, in fact, part of a continuum of experiences, may also apply to the general population. The boundaries of the psychosis phenotype may extend beyond the clinical concept of schizophrenia.


The Wnt family of secreted signalling molecules are essential in embryo development and tumour formation. The Frizzled (Fz) family of serpentine receptors function as Wnt receptors, but how Fz proteins transduce signalling is not understood. In Drosophila, arrow phenocopies the wingless (DWnt-1) phenotype, and encodes a transmembrane protein that is homologous to two members of the mammalian low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-related protein (LRP) family, LRP5 and LRP6 (refs 12-15). Here we report that LRP6 functions as a co-receptor for Wnt signal transduction. In Xenopus embryos, LRP6 activated Wnt-Fz signalling, and induced Wnt responsive genes, dorsal axis duplication and neural crest formation. An LRP6 mutant lacking the carboxyl intracellular domain blocked signalling by Wnt or Wnt-Fz, but not by Dishevelled or beta-catenin, and inhibited neural crest development. The extracellular domain of LRP6 bound Wnt-1 and associated with Fz in a Wnt-dependent manner. Our results indicate that LRP6 may be a component of the Wnt receptor complex.
Irregular burst firing is spontaneously generated by rat dorsal root ganglion neuron after chronic compression. To investigate the time series of burst firing, we recorded interspike intervals (ISIs) of single-unit firing in vitro and processed the ISIs to obtain interevent intervals (IEIs). Then, two non-linear methods were applied to detect deterministic dynamic behaviors in IEI series. No evidence for the existence of determinism was found with non-linear prediction method. Using unstable periodic orbit identification method, significant period-1 orbits were identified in all 10 data, period-2 orbits in eight, and period-3 orbits in six. The results indicate that there exist significant deterministic behaviors in the time series of irregular burst firing from the injured sensory neuron.
TrkB mRNA was shown to be localized in the somatodendritic compartment in vitro but no data are currently available on the subcellular distribution of the neurotrophin receptors mRNAs in vivo. Here we describe the subcellular distribution of TrkA, TrkB, TrkC and p75 mRNAs in the adult rat basal forebrain. We find that TrkA, TrkC and p75 mRNAs are restricted to the cell soma but in addition, p75 mRNA labelling extends in average for 8 microm within the proximal dendrites of 34% of the labelled neurons. TrkB mRNA has a somatodendritic distribution in 95% of the labelled neurons reaching variable distances in different neurons (23-84.5 microm) and forebrain regions (mean: 40, 51 and 55 microm for diagonal band, septum and ventral pallidum).
Most effects of nociceptin are related to blockade of stress and anxiolytic-like effects. This neuropeptide is highly expressed in septal nuclei, which are involved in response to stressful situations. Dopamine and adenosine may have modulatory effects on stress behaviour by acting on septal neurons. We therefore analysed the regulation of septal nociceptin expression using quantitative in situ hybridization following manipulations of adenosine and dopamine neurotransmission. No difference was observed between wild-type and A2A receptor-deficient mice. In both genotypes, chronic treatments with caffeine, an equipotent A1 and A2A adenosine receptor antagonist, did not significantly modify nociceptin expression. 6-Hydroxydopamine-induced dopamine depletion was also without effect. These results demonstrate that dopamine and adenosine are not involved in the regulation of septal nociceptin expression in spite of the involvement of these three neurotransmitters in stress and anxiety behaviours.
A major objective of cognitive neuroscience is to identify those neurocomputational processes that may be shared by multiple cognitive functions vs those that are highly specific. This problem of identifying general vs specialized functions is of particular interest in the domain of language processing. Within this domain, event related brain potential (ERP) studies have demonstrated a left anterior negativity (LAN) in a range 300-700 ms, associated with syntactic processing, often linked to grammatical function words. These words have little or no semantic content, but rather play a role in encoding syntactic structure required for parsing. In the current study we test the hypothesis that the LAN reflects the operation of a more general sequence processing capability in which special symbols encode structural information that, when combined with past elements in the sequence, allows the prediction of successor elements. We recorded ERPs during a non-linguistic sequencing task that required subjects (n = 10) to process special symbols possessing the functional property defined above. When compared to ERPs in a control condition, function symbol processing elicits a left anterior negative shift between temporal and spatial characteristics quite similar to the LAN described during function word processing in language, supporting our hypothesis. These results are discussed in the context of related studies of syntactic and cognitive sequence processing.
Using a subtractive hybridization method for the identification of genes related to the development of the murine cerebral cortex, we cloned a mouse homologue of a human tetraspanin family member, Tspan-5. We have isolated a 3.1 Kb cDNA fragment containing the entire coding region. Analysis of the cDNA nucleotide sequence revealed that mouse Tspan-5 shares 98% amino acid sequence identity with its human homologue. The predicted length of the mouse protein is 268 amino acids, with four putative hydrophobic domains with N- and C-intracellular tails, and two extracellular domains. Northern blot analysis of adult mouse tissues showed a single transcript, which is preferentially expressed in the brain. In situ hybridization showed prominent expression of Tspan-5 in the neocortex, the hippocampus, amygdala and in Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. The pattern of expression of Tspan-5 in the mouse brain suggests a role for the tetraspanins in the maintenance of adult brain function.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to an increase in extracellular excitatory amino acid (EAA) concentrations, resulting in glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity and central sensitization. To test contributions of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in SCI induced release of glutamate and in behavioral outcomes of central sensitization following injury, we administered 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA; 0.1 nmol intraspinally), a potent group I mGluR antagonist, to rats immediately after spinal cord contusion injury. EAAs were collected by microdialysis and quantified using HPLC. AIDA significantly decreased extracellular glutamate but not aspartate concentrations and significantly attenuated the development of mechanical but not thermal allodynia. These results suggest mGluRs play an important role in injury-induced EAA release and in central sensitization following SCI.

To elucidate the dynamics and the nature of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) changes preceding new lesion formation in MS, the authors obtained weekly diffusion-weighted images for 12 weeks from 6 patients. NAWM areas subsequently involved by enhancement had a significant increase in mean diffusivity values starting 6 weeks before the appearance of enhancement (p values ranging between &lt; 0.0001 and 0.04). This suggests that focal edema and demyelination play a part in the NAWM changes preceding new lesion formation in MS.
Before the discoveries of John Call Dalton, Jr., MD (1824-1889), innervation of laryngeal muscles, long-term effects of cerebellar lesions, and consequences of raised intracranial pressure were poorly understood. Dalton discovered that the posterior cricoarytenoid muscles adducted the vocal cords during inspiration. He confirmed Flourens' observations that acute ablation of the cerebellum of pigeons caused loss of coordination. Dalton observed that properly cared for pigeons gradually recovered &quot;coordinating power.&quot; Dalton observed that prolonged raised intracranial pressure caused tachycardia and then fatal bradycardia in dogs. Before Dalton published his photographic atlas of the human brain, neuroanatomy atlases were sketched by Europeans and imported into the United States. Dalton's atlas of the human brain contained precise photographs of vertical and horizontal sections that equal modern works. Before Dalton introduced live demonstrations of animals, physiology was taught by recitation of texts only. Dalton was the first American-born professor to teach physiology employing demonstrations of live animals operated on under ether anesthesia. He wrote an essay advocating experimentation on animals as the proper method of acquiring knowledge of function and that humane animal experimentation would ultimately improve the health of man and animals. His eloquent advocacy for humane experimental physiology quelled attacks by contemporaneous antivivisectionists. Dalton was America's first experimental neurophysiologist.

Inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta) by S(9) phosphorylation is implicated in mechanisms of neuronal survival. Phosphorylation of a distinct site, Y(216), on GSK3beta is necessary for its activity; however, whether this site can be regulated in cells is unknown. Therefore we examined the regulation of Y(216) phosphorylation on GSK3beta in models of neurodegeneration. Nerve growth factor withdrawal from differentiated PC12 cells and staurosporine treatment of SH-SY5Y cells led to increased phosphorylation at Y(216), GSK3beta activity, and cell death. Lithium and insulin, agents that lead to inhibition of GSK3beta and adenoviral-mediated transduction of dominant negative GSK3beta constructs, prevented cell death by the proapoptotic stimuli. Inhibitors induced S(9) phosphorylation and inactivation of GSK3beta but did not affect Y(216) phosphorylation, suggesting that S(9) phosphorylation is sufficient to override GSK3beta activation by Y(216) phosphorylation. Under the conditions examined, increased Y(216) phosphorylation on GSK3beta was not an autophosphorylation response. In resting cells, Y(216) phosphorylation was restricted to GSK3beta present at focal adhesion sites. However, after staurosporine, a dramatic alteration in the immunolocalization pattern was observed, and Y(216)-phosphorylated GSK3beta selectively increased within the nucleus. In rats, Y(216) phosphorylation was increased in degenerating cortical neurons induced by ischemia. Taken together, these results suggest that Y(216) phosphorylation of GSK3beta represents an important mechanism by which cellular insults can lead to neuronal death.
Combined lesions of retinal targets and ascending auditory pathways can induce, in developing animals, permanent retinal projections to auditory thalamic nuclei and to visual thalamic nuclei that normally receive little direct retinal input. Neurons in the auditory cortex of such animals have visual response properties that resemble those of neurons in the primary visual cortex of normal animals. Therefore, we investigated the behavioral function of the surgically induced retino-thalamo-cortical pathways. We showed that both surgically induced pathways can mediate visually guided behaviors whose normal substrate, the pathway from the retina to the primary visual cortex via the primary thalamic visual nucleus, is missing.
One method used to study gene function is through the manipulation of gene expression by transfecting cells with DNA constructs designed to overexpress or knock out particular proteins. Unfortunately, transfection of cells and tissues remains a rate-limiting step for molecular studies in many fields, especially neurobiology. Conventional transfection techniques are of limited effectiveness, particularly in intact tissue. This protocol describes an alternative method for transfecting cells, called biolistics. Biolistics is a physical method of transfection in which target tissue is bombarded with DNA-coated gold particles using a &quot;gene gun,&quot; produced by Bio-Rad Laboratories. Cells penetrated by gold particles have a high likelihood of becoming transfected. Because biolistic transfection relies only on the physical penetration of a cell's membrane, it is possible to use biolistics to transfect cells that are resistant to transfection by other methods, such as neurons in primary culture and organotypic slice cultures. This protocol provides information on optimizing the biolistic parameters for transfecting neurons in both of these preparations. Once optimized, biolistic transfection is a reliable and efficient method for studying gene function in many cell types, especially postmitotic neurons.
The present study reports for the first time the distribution of androgen receptor immunoreactivity (AR-ir) in the human hypothalamus of ten human subjects (five men and five women) ranging in age between 20 years and 39 years using the antibody PG21. Prolonged postmortem delay (72:00 hours) or fixation time (100 days) did not influence the AR-ir. In men, intense nuclear AR-ir was found in neurons of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca, in neurons of the lateromamillary nucleus (LMN), and in the medial mamillary nucleus (MMN). An intermediate nuclear staining was found in the diagonal band of Broca, sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, ventromedial nucleus, and infundibular nucleus, whereas weaker labeling was found in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic area, dorsal and ventral zones of the periventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, and nucleus basalis of Meynert. In most brain areas, women revealed less staining than men. In the LMN and the MMN, a strong sex difference was found. Cytoplasmic labeling was observed in neurons of both sexes, although women showed a higher variability in the intensity of such staining. However, no sex differences in AR-ir were observed in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the nucleus basalis of Meynert, or the islands of Calleja. Species differences and similarities of the AR-ir distribution are discussed. The present results suggest the participation of androgens in the regulation of various hypothalamic processes that are sexually dimorphic.
Our previous work (Couper Leo et al. [2000] J. Comp. Neurol. 417:325-336) introduced a technique for focally denervating the olfactory bulb soon after birth and described the pattern of changes incurred by this procedure by postnatal day (P) 30. The current study extends these findings with a developmental analysis of the effects of focal denervation in P10 and P20 rats. The results suggest that denervation begins to affect bulb architecture and cell survival soon after the procedure is performed, but that alterations within the bulb occur over an extended time period. For example, at P10, bulb and laminar sizes and mitral/tufted cell profile number had begun their decline, and nearly all measurements were significantly reduced by P20. Furthermore, a superficial-to-deep gradient of alterations in bulb architecture and a temporal separation of the effects on mitral/tufted cell dendrites vs. somata were observed. Immunohistochemical analyses of olfactory marker protein (OMP)-, calretinin- calbindin-, parvalbumin-, tyrosine hydroxylase-, and glutamic acid decarboxylase-stained sections indicated that: 1) denervation alters the interaction between olfactory axons and their targets in a developmentally significant manner; 2) the fine structure of denervated cells is altered; 3) cell phenotypes are differentially affected by loss of afferent contact, perhaps due to the age-dependent expression of their defining antigens; and 4) specific cell populations may be lost as a result of denervation.
The retrospleniocollicular connection is of interest because it constitutes one link between the limbic system, which is considered the anatomical substrate of emotional experience, and the superior colliculus (SC), which mediates approach and avoidance behavior. The morphology, topography, and origin of the retrospleniocollicular connections were studied by using anterograde [biotinylated dextranamine 10,000 (BDA)] and retrograde [Fluoro-Gold (FG)] tracers. After BDA injections involving retrosplenial granular and agranular cortices, terminal fibers innervating all collicular layers except stratum griseum superficiale were found throughout nearly the entire colliculi. Axons branched within restricted portions of the dorsoventral collicular axis with variable morphologies, suggesting functional heterogeneity. Terminal fields originating in anterior and posterior regions of the retrosplenial cortex were preferentially distributed in laterodorsal and medioventral collicular regions, respectively, but there were also large, densely innervated regions in which the terminal fields overlapped. FG injections in the SC confirmed the retrospleniocollicular topography and demonstrated that this connection originated from layer V pyramidal cells of all retrosplenial areas. The distribution of retrospleniocollicular boutons was related to that of the AChE modules, which are associated with connections in the intermediate layers of the SC. In lateral portions of the SC intermediate layers, most retrospleniocollicular boutons were found in medium AChE stained regions, whereas in medial portions, they terminated in AChE-poor domains. The present results demonstrate that the retrosplenial cortex is the origin of a broad and dense network of axonal branches that may modulate SC-mediated motor and physiological responses involved in emotional behavior.
Area MT/V5 is reciprocally connected with both V1 and V2; but, despite extensive anatomical and physiological investigations, detailed information on the feedback component of these connections is still not available. The present report uses serial section reconstruction of single axons, labeled by anterograde tracers injected in area MT of squirrel monkeys, to characterize these connections further. As with other feedback systems, MT axons terminating in both areas V1 (n = 9) and V2 (n = 6) are widely divergent. In area V1, MT fields are larger than those from V2 and are about comparable to those from V4 or TEO. Terminations in V1, unlike other feedback connections described so far, terminate in several laminar combinations: only layer 1 (n = 2); only layer 4B (n = 3); layers 1 and 4B (n = 1); and layers 1, 4B, and 6 (n = 3). In V2, they occur mainly in layers 1 and 5 or 6. Terminations have two patterns even within a single axon: strung along collateral segments and grouped within small clusters. There are no apparent differences in the size, shape, or density of terminal specializations in V1 or V2, and, consistently with previous double-labeling experiments (Kennedy and Bullier [1985] J Neurosci 5:2815-2830), some axons can branch to both areas. This result, along with the laminar evidence for subtypes of feedback connections, argues against an exclusively hierarchical organization based on &quot;pairwise&quot; connectivity. For V1 and MT, there may be directly reciprocal loops between feedforward and feedback projecting neurons, but this is less likely to be so for V2 and MT.
Over 20 mutations affecting the neurophysin moiety of the vasopressin prohormone, have been identified in families suffering from familial neurohypophysial diabetes insipidus (FNDI). Only one of these, NP87E--&gt;stop, is located outside the central conserved domain implicated in sorting of the vasopressin prohormone. To obtain clues about the mechanism of induction of FNDI by this atypical mutant we stably expressed wild type and NP87E--&gt;stop vasopressin prohormones in (neuro)endocrine cell lines. Metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation demonstrated reduced processing of the mutant prohormone to neurophysin. In addition, evoked secretion of neurophysin and vasopressin was diminished, suggesting that part of the mutant is retained in another intracellular compartment than the secretory granules. Indeed, immunofluorescence demonstrated accumulation of the truncated vasopressin prohormone in the endoplasmic reticulum. We conclude that the presence of the vasopressin moiety and the central conserved core of the neurophysin domain suffices for sorting and processing, but not for efficient endoplasmic reticulum exit of the vasopressin-neurophysin molecule.
In this article, we review the immunohistochemical evidence for the pathway-specific expression of co-existing neuropeptides in autonomic vasomotor neurons, and examine the functional significance of these expression patterns for the autonomic regulation of the vasculature. Most final motor neurons in autonomic vasomotor pathways contain neuropeptides in addition to non-peptide co-transmitters such as catecholamines, acetylcholine and nitric oxide. Neuropeptides also occur in preganglionic vasomotor neurons. The precise combinations of neuropeptides expressed by neurons in vasomotor pathways vary with species, vascular bed, and the level within the vascular bed. This applies to both vasoconstrictor and vasodilator pathways. There is a similar degree of variation in the expression of neuropeptide receptors in the vasculature. Consequently, the contributions of different peptides to autonomic vasomotor control are closely matched to the functional requirements of specific vascular beds. This arrangement allows for a high degree of precision in vascular control in normal conditions and has the potential for considerable plasticity under pathophysiological conditions.
The Emx1 gene is a mouse homologue of a Drosophila head gap gene, empty spiracles. Corpus callosum defects have been reported for mutant mice lacking the Emx1 gene, indicating a possible involvement of the Emx1 gene in the regulation of axon guidance during development. However, it has recently come to light that genetic background could influence the outcome of the corpus callosum defects in mutant mice generated by ES cell technology. To investigate whether the corpus callosum defects resulted directly from Emx1 gene inactivation, we backcrossed the Emx1 mutant mice into the C57BL/6 background and found that the Emx1 homozygous mutant mice with the C57BL/6 background showed a normal corpus callosum score even though the cross-sectional area was 8% less than that of their wild-type littermates, indicating that genetic background could change the pattern of corpus callosum defects in Emx1 mutant mice. Furthermore, the indusium griseum and taenia tecta were always present and the cerebral cortical layers were well differentiated in Emx1 mutant mice. These results suggest that inactivation of the Emx1 gene does not contribute directly to the defects of corpus callosum and other brain structures associated with Emx1 mutant mice derived from a 129/Sv background.
Fragile X syndrome, the most common known cause of inherited mental retardation, is caused by alterations of the FMR1 gene encoding the FMRP protein. We investigated the relation between FMRP protein levels and functional brain activation during a working memory task. Our study provides the first evidence for a relation between FMR1 gene expression and neural activity during higher-order cognition. More broadly, our findings provide the first demonstration of how gene-brain-behavior investigations can help to bridge the gap between molecular and systems neuroscience.
Previous studies in our laboratory using rat brain tissue have shown that neuropeptide Y (NPY) can enhance NMDA- and potassium-stimulated dopamine release from various brain regions and that this enhancement is reversed by sigma (sigma) receptor antagonists. In the current study, we sought to determine whether SH-SY5Y cells are suitable for investigating sigma receptor effects and whether any sigma receptors present are of the subtype responsive to NPY. We compare mechanisms by which the prototypical sigma receptor agonist (+)-pentazocine, and the proposed endogenous sigma receptor ligand NPY regulate potassium-stimulated [(3)H]dopamine release from SH-SY5Y cells. Both (+)-pentazocine and NPY inhibit potassium-stimulated [(3)H]dopamine release. Unlike our studies in rat brain tissue, the effect of NPY on [(3)H]dopamine release is not reversed by sigma receptor antagonists. SH-SY5Y cells appear to be an appropriate model to study the regulation of dopamine release by sigma receptors or by NPY receptors, but this population is not identical to that population identified in brain slices.
The functional connections between the barrel cortex and visual cortex on the one hand and the perirhinal (PER) and postrhinal (POR) cortices on the other hand were investigated in the rat. Stimulation of the barrel cortex evoked field potentials throughout the longitudinal extent of both PER and POR. In contrast, visual cortex stimulation evoked responses only in the caudal portion of PER as well as in POR. Therefore, the information from the visual cortex on the way to the hippocampus is transferred preferentially by a relay in POR, whereas somatosensory information is transferred via both PER and POR. Moreover, stimulation of both cortical regions elicited firing of multiple units; however, unit activity was more commonly found in POR than in PER. We conclude that the transfer of somatosensory and visual information to the hippocampal formation is preferentially mediated by parallel channels through PER and POR respectively. Although the information transfer through these channels does overlap to some extent, each channel appears to have specific properties.
Identifying the neurocircuitry involved in behavioral responses to drugs of abuse is an important step towards understanding the mechanisms of drug addiction. The present study sought to distinguish brain regions involved in pharmacological effects of cocaine and ethanol from secondary effects by administering these drugs in the presence or absence of pentobarbital anesthesia. Changes in neuronal activity were assessed by immunohistochemical analysis of expression of an inducible transcription factor (ITF), c-Fos, in the brain of rats habituated to repeated pentobarbital anesthesia or saline administration. Cocaine administration (15 mg/kg, i.v.) in non-anesthetized animals produced a strong induction of c-Fos in the striatum and large number of other brain areas. Ethanol administration (2 g/kg, i.p.) induced c-Fos in a smaller number of characteristic brain areas, including the central nucleus of amygdala and paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus. However, neither of these drugs was able to induce c-Fos in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats (50 mg/kg, i.v.). The suppressive effects of pentobarbital were not specific to c-Fos, such that pentobarbital also suppressed expression of ITFs FosB and Egr1 in the striatum of cocaine-treated rats. On the other hand, pentobarbital by itself strongly induced c-Fos expression in the lateral habenula of saline-, cocaine-, and ethanol-injected rats. It is not clear whether the suppressive effects of anesthesia on ITF expression in other areas are mediated by activation of lateral habenula, or are independent of this event. Our data suggest that in the absence of conscious awareness of drug-associated cues, cocaine and alcohol activate only a fraction of the neural elements engaged in the unanesthetized state.
ATP is released from motor nerve endings together with acetylcholine. Released adenine nucleotides can be extracellularly metabolized into adenosine, which is a presynaptic neuromodulator at neuromuscular junctions, but it is not known if P(2) receptor activation also modulates acetylcholine release from mature motor nerve endings. We now tested the effect of a stable ATP analogue, beta,gamma-imido ATP on the nerve-evoked release of acetylcholine from adult rat hemidiaphragm preparations. beta,gamma-Imido ATP (10-100 microM) facilitated in a concentration-dependent manner evoked acetylcholine release, and 30 microM beta,gamma-imido ATP caused a 125% facilitation of evoked acetylcholine release. This facilitatory effect of beta,gamma-imido ATP (30 microM) was abolished by the P(2) receptor antagonists, suramin (100 microM) and pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS, 10 microM), but not by the A(1) or A(2A) adenosine receptor antagonists, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (50 nM) and ZM 241385 (50 nM), respectively. The facilitation of acetylcholine release by beta, gamma-imido ATP (30 microM) was also prevented by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, D-tubocurarine (1 microM) and the facilitatory effect (40%) of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (1 microM) was abolished by PPADS (10 microM). These results demonstrate a presynaptic facilitatory effect of P(2) receptor activation at the rat phrenic nerve endings, which is tightly coupled with the presynaptic nicotinic autofacilitatory system.
Previous work in our laboratory has shown that Urocortin (Ucn), a peptide related to corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), injected into the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) in male Wistar rats would result in an anxiogenic response as measured in the social interaction (SI) test. In addition, it was found that repeated injections of subthreshold doses of Ucn would 'prime' the animal's response. This 'priming' effect induces a sensitivity to sodium lactate infusions that results in a panic-like reaction. Currently, we examined the effects of the CRF(1) and CRF(2) antagonist Astressin (Asn) on the anxiety-like responses produced during 'priming' as well as during a sodium lactate infusion into 'primed' rats. The results showed that Asn (60 pmoles) was able to reverse the anxiogenic effects seen during acute administration of Ucn, but was only able to partially antagonize the same response following 'priming' with Ucn. Furthermore, Asn administered either alone or prior to a sodium lactate infusion had no effect on the primed rat's behavior. Autoradiographic studies, in Ucn primed and sham-primed animals indicated no significant changes in [(125)I]-Sauvagine binding to CRF(1) and CRF(2) receptors in several brain regions. Thus, a 60 pmole dose of Asn blocks the effects of an acute injection of Ucn (100 pmoles), while only partially blocking the behavioral effects after repeated injections of subthreshold doses of Ucn (6 pmoles) are given. Furthermore, Asn has no effect on anxiogenic responses due to sodium lactate infusions in 'primed' rats
Morphine sensitized rats appear protected from the sequelae of an unavoidable stress: when exposed to stress (after a 7-day morphine wash-out) and then tested for escape, they perform like naive animals. This protection appears similar to that induced by chronic imipramine treatment, as it is antagonized by the inhibition of D(1)-dopamine receptors before exposure to unavoidable stress. Repeated unavoidable stress induces in rats a condition characterized by hyporeactivity to noxious stimuli and reverted by long-term antidepressant treatments, and this state is regarded as an experimental model of depression. The resistance to stress in morphine sensitized rats could be considered as the behavioral counterpart of the sensitivity to stress in control rats, i.e. as a model of mania. The aim of the present study was to validate such a putative model by studying whether the resistance to stress induced by morphine sensitization would respond to a long-term administration of lithium, the reference antimanic drug. Long-term lithium treatment induces in rats a condition of hyporeactivity to noxious stimuli, accompanied by decreased levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell. In morphine sensitized rats chronic lithium abolished the resistance to stress, but it did not modify the D(1)-dopamine receptor mediated response to morphine, nor did it modify the levels of extraneuronal dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell. Thus, lithium treatment abolished the resistance to stress in morphine sensitized rats, conferring predictive validity to the paradigm. Moreover, it did so through a mechanism which appeared to be independent of D(1)-dopamine receptor activity.
Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we screened for proteins interacting with presenilin 2 (PS2) and cloned DRAL. DRAL is an LIM-only protein containing four LIM domains and an N-terminal half LIM domain. Previously DRAL has been cloned as a co-activator of the androgen receptor and as a protein interacting with a DNA replication regulatory protein, hCDC47. Our yeast two-hybrid assay showed that DRAL interacted with a hydrophilic loop region (amino acids 269-298) in the endoproteolytic N-terminal fragment of PS2, but not that of PS1, although the region 269-298 of PS2 and the corresponding PS1 sequence differ by only three amino acids. Each point mutation within this region, R275A, T280A, Q282A, R284A, N285A, P287T, I288L, F289A and S296A, in PS2 abolished the binding. This suggests that DRAL recognizes the PS2 structure specifically. The in vitro interaction was confirmed by affinity column assay and the physiological interactions between endogenous PS2 and DRAL by co-immunoprecipitation from human lung fibroblast MRC5 cells. Furthermore, in PS2-overexpressing HEK293 cells, we found an increase in the amount of DRAL in the membrane fraction and an increase in the amount of DRAL that was co-immunoprecipitated with PS2. The potential role of DRAL in the cellular signaling suggests that DRAL functions as an adaptor protein that links PS2 to an intracellular signaling.
The calcium-sensing receptor (CaR) belongs to family C of the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily. To date 14 activating mutations in CaR showing increased sensitivity to Ca(2+) have been identified in humans with autosomal dominant hypocalcemia. Four of these activating mutations are found in the Ala(116)-Pro(136) region of CaR, indicating that this part of the receptor is particularly sensitive to mutation-induced activation. This region was subjected to random saturation mutagenesis, and 219 mutant receptor clones were isolated and screened pharmacologically in a high throughput screening assay. Selected mutants were characterized further in an inositol phosphate assay. The vast majority of the mutants tested displayed an increased affinity for Ca(2+). Furthermore, 21 of the mutants showed increased basal activity in the absence of agonist. This constitutive activity was not diminished when the mutations were transferred to a chimeric receptor Ca/1a consisting of the amino-terminal domain of the CaR and the 7 transmembrane and intracellular domains of the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR1a. CPCCOEt, a noncompetitive antagonist acting at the 7 transmembrane domain of mGluR1a, suppressed the elevated basal response of the constitutively activated Ca/1a mutants demonstrating inverse agonist activity of CPCCOEt. Taken together, our results demonstrate that the Ala(116)-Pro(136) region is of key importance for the maintenance of the inactive conformation of CaR.
Infection with the mosquito-transmitted Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus (VEE) causes an acute systemic febrile illness followed by meningoencephalitis. In this communication we characterize the cytokine profile induced in the central nervous system (CNS) in response to virulent or attenuated strains of VEE using RNase Protection Assays. Virulent VEE causes an upregulation of multiple pro-inflammatory genes including inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). To determine if iNOS and TNF-alpha contribute to the neuropathogenesis of VEE infection, iNOS and TNF receptor knockout mice were used in VEE mortality studies and exhibited extended survival times. Finally, CNS tissue sections labeled for VEE antigen, and adjacent sections double-labeled for an astrocyte marker and apoptosis, revealed that apoptosis of neurons occurs not only in areas of the brain positive for VEE-antigen, but also in areas of astrogliosis. These findings suggest that the inflammatory response, which is in part mediated by iNOS and TNF-alpha, may contribute to neurodegeneration following encephalitic virus infection.
Platelet monoamine oxidase B (MAO; EC 1.4.3.4.) activity is stable in the individual and is mainly genetically regulated. Levels of MAO-B in platelets have repeatedly been shown to be associated with personality traits. We have recently also demonstrated an association between the genotype of AP-2beta to a variety of personality traits as well as binge-eating disorder. In the present study we have analysed blood samples from 158 males and 64 females with regard to platelet MAO activity and genotype of transcription factor AP-2beta. In both sexes homozygotes for the long allele [CAAA](5) were significantly associated with low platelet MAO activity P&lt;0.0001 (males) and P=0.0158 (females). This study represents a novel approach to increase the understanding about the molecular mechanisms for how the MAOB gene is regulated in blood cells and how this regulation is linked to personality traits.
Here we reported the effects of neurite outgrowth-promoting prostaglandins (NEPP's) on neurons of the central nervous system (CNS). Serum deprivation promoted neurite outgrowth from CAD cells, a CNS-derived cathecholaminergic neuronal cell line. NEPP's (0.05-0.2 microM) accelerated the neurite outgrowth from CAD cells in serum-free medium but didn't in serum-containing medium. Through the study of structure-function relationship with the NEPP's 1-10, NEPP 10 (13,14-dihydro-15-epi-Delta(7)-prostaglandin A(1) (methyl ester) revealed the best compound, exhibiting potent neurite outgrowth-promoting activity with minimal cytotoxicity, suggesting that it is the best compound for drug development.
The development of connections between neurons and their target cells involves competition between axons for target-derived neurotrophic factors. Although the notion of competition is commonly used in neurobiology, the process is not well understood, and only a few formal models exist. In population biology, in contrast, the concept of competition is well developed and has been studied by means of many formal models of consumer-resource systems. Here we show that a recently formulated model of axonal competition can be rewritten as a general consumer-resource system. This allows neurobiological phenomena to be interpreted in population biological terms and, conversely, results from population biology to be applied to neurobiology. Using findings from population biology, we have studied two extensions of our axonal competition model. In the first extension, the spatial dimension of the target is explicitly taken into account. We show that distance between axons on their target mitigates competition and permits the coexistence of axons. The model can account for the fact that in many types of neurons a positive correlation exists between the size of the dendritic tree and the number of innervating axons surviving into adulthood. In the second extension, axons are allowed to respond to more than one neurotrophic factor. We show that this permits competitive exclusion among axons of one type, while at the same time there is coexistence with axons of another type innervating the same target. The model offers an explanation for the innervation pattern found on cerebellar Purkinje cells, where climbing fibres compete with each other until only a single one remains, which coexists with parallel fibre input to the same Purkinje cell.
This study was undertaken to begin to elucidate the mechanisms by which cytokines influence intracellular iron homeostasis. Intracellular iron homeostasis is maintained by the coordinated regulation of ferritin and transferrin receptor synthesis. The synthesis of these proteins is coordinated by cytoplasmic iron regulatory proteins (IRP), which bind to iron responsive elements (IRE) on their mRNAs. We evaluated the effects of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) on iron metabolism in human astrocytoma cells (SW1088). Exposure to IL-1beta for 16 h increased binding of the IRPs to the IRE and also increased ferritin synthesis. Using the iron sensitive dye calcein, we determined that the intracellular labile iron pool increased within 4 h of IL-1beta exposure and continued to increase for 8 h, returning to normal by 16 h. We propose that the cytokine induced increase in the labile iron pool stimulates ferritin synthesis resulting in a subsequent decrease in the labile iron pool. The decrease in the labile iron pool is consistent with the increase in IRE/IRP interaction measured at 16 h. These results indicate that cytokines can influence the labile iron pool and the post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism for maintaining iron homeostasis. These results contribute to understanding the response of ferritin to inflammation by suggesting ferritin synthesis may reflect changes in the labile iron pool. The approach used in this study may provide a model system for studying relations between the labile iron pool and proteins responsible for maintaining intracellular homeostasis
The light response in Drosophila photoreceptor cells is mediated by a series of proteins that assemble into a macromolecular complex referred to as the signalplex. The central player in the signalplex is inactivation no afterpotential D (INAD), a protein consisting of a tandem array of five PDZ domains. At least seven proteins bind INAD, including the transient receptor potential (TRP) channel, which depends on INAD for localization to the phototransducing organelle, the rhabdomere. However, the determinants required for localization of INAD are not known. In this work, we showed that INAD was required for retention rather than targeting of TRP to the rhabdomeres. In addition, we demonstrated that TRP bound to INAD through the COOH terminus, and this interaction was required for localization of INAD. Other proteins that depend on INAD for localization, phospholipase C and protein kinase C, also mislocalized. However, elimination of any other member of the signalplex had no impact on the spatial distribution of INAD. A direct interaction between TRP and INAD did not appear to have a role in the photoresponse independent of localization of multiple signaling components. Rather, the primary function of the TRP/ INAD complex is to form the core unit required for localization of the signalplex to the rhabdomeres.
Increasing evidence indicates that the eph family of ligands and receptors guides the formation of topographic maps in the brain through repulsive interactions. For example, we have recently found that in the hippocamposeptal system, the ligand ephrin-A2, which is expressed in an increasing gradient from dorsal to ventral septum, selectively induces pruning of topographically inappropriate medial hippocampal axons. The recent detection of ephrins A3 and A5, as well as A2, in the septum raised critical functional questions. Do the ligands act combinatorially, ensuring appropriate three-dimensional spatiotemporal projection, or do they exert entirely distinct actions in addition to guidance mechanisms? To approach these alternatives, we cloned mouse ephrin-A2 and compared the activities of the three ligands. Here, we show that these ligands reduce the number of hippocampal neurites in a similar fashion. The effect was regionally specific; medial hippocampal neurites were reduced 1.5- to 1.8-fold, whereas lateral hippocampal neurites were not significantly affected, conforming to topographic projection in vivo. Furthermore, we found that ephrins regulated neurite number in a stage-specific fashion, affecting E19 hippocampal neurites more than E16 neurites. Our observations suggest that all three septal ephrins, A2, A3, and A5, play spatiotemporally specific roles in guiding topographic projections from the hippocampus.
Dopamine (DA) afferents to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) play an important role in the cognitive functions subserved by this cortical area. Within the PFC, DA terminals synapse onto the distal dendrites of both local circuit neurons and pyramidal projection cells. We have previously demonstrated in the rat PFC that some of the dendrites and spines postsynaptic to DA terminals arise from pyramidal neurons that project to the nucleus accumbens. However, it is not known whether the pyramidal cells that give rise to callosal intercortical connections of the PFC also receive DA synaptic input. To address this question, retrograde tract tracing using an attenuated strain of pseudorabies virus (PRV-Bartha) was combined with immunocytochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to identify DA terminals in the PFC. Thirty-six to 40 hours following injection of PRV into the contralateral PFC, numerous callosal projection neurons were extensively labeled throughout their dendritic trees, with no evidence of PRV trans-synaptic passage. In tissue prepared for electron microscopy, labeling for PRV was distributed throughout pyramidal cell somata and extended into distal dendrites and dendritic spines. Some PRV-labeled dendrites and spines received symmetric synaptic input from terminals containing peroxidase labeling for TH. These results demonstrate that DA terminals synapse onto the distal dendrites of callosally projecting PFC neurons and suggest substrates through which DA may modulate interhemispheric cortical communication.
We examined the effects of neurotrophins nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) on trigeminal axon growth patterns. Embryonic (E13-15) wholemount explants of the rat trigeminal pathway including the whisker pads, trigeminal ganglia, and brainstem were cultured in serum-free medium (SFM) or SFM supplemented with NGF or NT-3 for 3 days. Trigeminal axon growth patterns were analyzed with the use of lipophilic tracer DiI. In wholemount cultures grown in SFM, trigeminal axon projections, growth patterns, and differentiation of peripheral and central targets are similar to in vivo conditions. We show that in the presence of NGF, central trigeminal axons leave the tract and grow into the surrounding brainstem regions in the elongation phase without any branching. On the other hand, NT-3 promotes precocious development of short axon collaterals endowed with focal arbors along the sides of the central trigeminal tract. These neurotrophins also affect trigeminal axon growth within the whisker pad. Additionally, we cultured dissociated trigeminal ganglion cells in the presence of NGF, NT-3, or NGF+NT-3. The number of trigeminal ganglion cells, their size distribution under each condition were charted, and axon growth was analyzed following immunohistochemical labeling with TrkA and parvalbumin antibodies. In these cultures too, NGF led to axon elongation and NT-3 to axon arborization. Our in vitro analyses suggest that aside from their survival promoting effects, NGF and NT-3 can differentially influence axon growth patterns of embryonic trigeminal neurons.
Calretinin is a marker that differentially labels neurons in the central nervous system. We used this marker to distinguish subtypes of neurons within the general population of neurons in the entorhinal cortex of the rat. The distribution, morphology, and ultrastructure of calretinin-immunopositive neurons in this cortical area were documented. We further analyzed the co-localization of the marker with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and studied whether calretinin-positive neurons project to the hippocampal formation. Methods used included single-label immunocytochemistry at the light and electron microscopic level, retrograde tracing combined with immunocytochemistry, and double-label confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). The entorhinal cortex contained calretinin-positive cells in a scattered fashion, in all layers except layer IV (lamina dissecans). Bipolar and multipolar dendritic configurations were present, displaying smooth dendrites. Bipolar cells had a uniform morphology whereas the multipolar calretinin cell population consisted of large neurons, cells with long ascending dendrites, horizontally oriented neurons, and small spherical cells. Retrograde tracing combined with immunocytochemistry showed that calretinin is not present in cells projecting to the hippocampus. Few synapic contacts between calretinin-positive axon terminals and immunopositive cell bodies and dendrites were seen. Most axon terminals of calretinin fibers formed asymmetrical synapses, and immunopositive axons were always unmyelinated. Results obtained in the CLSM indicate that calretinin co-exists in only 18-20% of the GABAergic cell population (mostly small spherical and bipolar cells). Thus, the entorhinal cortex contains two classes of calretinin interneurons: GABA positive and GABA negative. The first class is presumably a classical, GABAergic inhibitory interneuron. The finding of calretinin-immunoreactive axon terminals with asymmetrical synapses suggests that the second class of calretinin neuron is a novel type of a (presumably excitatory) interneuron.
At least two different models for the transmembrane topology of the glutamate receptor subunits have been proposed. We investigated some features of these two models for the GluR1 subunit by inserting epitope tags between residues Lys(502)-Pro(503), Ala(632)-Glu(633), Lys(712)-Pro(713), or after the C-terminal residue Leu(889). The accessibility of the tags then was detected using a tag-specific antibody before and after detergent-permeabilizing oocytes expressing the tagged subunits. The epitope tag inserted between residues Lys(712)-Pro(713) is extracellular and after Leu(889) intracellular. Epitope tags inserted between residues Lys(502)-Pro(503) and residues Ala(632)-Glu(633) were not detectable. Collectively, these results provide supporting evidence for a previously proposed topological model of GluR subunits containing an N-terminal extracellular domain, three transmembrane domains, the first two of which are bridged by a reentrant membrane pore-lining loop, and an intracellular C-terminal domain.
Charged amino acid residues in the amino terminus of gap junction forming proteins (connexins) form part, if not all, of the transjunctional voltage sensor of gap junction channels and play a fundamental role in ion permeation. Results from studies of the voltage dependence of N-terminal mutants predict that residues 1-10 of Group I connexins lie within the channel pore and that the N-terminus forms the channel vestibule by the creation of a turn initiated by the conserved G12 residue. Here we report that intercellular channels containing mutations of G12 in Cx32 to residues that are likely to interfere with flexibility of this locus (G12S, G12Y, and G12V) do not express junctional currents, whereas a connexin containing a proline residue at G12 (Cx32G12P), which is expected to maintain a structure similar to that of the G12 locus, forms nearly wild-type channels. We have solved the structure of an N-terminal peptide of Cx26 (MDWGTLQSILGGVNK) using 1H 2D NMR. The peptide contains two structured domains connected by a flexible hinge (domain-hinge-domain motif) that would allow the placement of the amino terminus within the channel pore. Residues 1-10 adopt a helical conformation and line the channel entrance while residues 12-15 form an open turn. Overall, there is good agreement between the structural and dynamic features of the N-terminal peptide provided by NMR and the functional studies of the voltage dependence of channels formed by wild-type and N-terminal mutations.
We have much yet to accomplish in research on bipolar disorder. We must find vulnerability genes. We must identify the circuits that regulate mood, emotion, energy, and other relevant functions that are affected in bipolar disorder, and we must determine what goes wrong in those circuits during mania, depression, and other aspects of this illness. We will need to translate findings in basic neuroscience, genetics, and basic behavioral science into diverse clinical applications: novel treatments, diagnostic tools, epidemiologic approaches that could lead to preventive interventions, and surrogate markers for clinical trials. We must develop improved psychosocial interventions and test both pharmacologic and psychosocial treatments in trials that, simultaneously, improve the quality of care available and convince insurers and employers that these treatments are of substantial benefit and cost effective. The agenda is ambitious, but entirely feasible, given the scientific tools and technologies that are currently available or on the horizon. The National Institute of Mental Health is newly recommitted to harnessing these tools and technologies for the benefit of people with bipolar disorder.

Prenatal cocaine exposure increases mu-opioid receptor binding in dopaminergic terminal areas and enhances behavioral responsiveness to mu-opioid agonists. We investigated the influence of early postnatal cocaine treatment on in vitro mu- and delta-opioid receptor activation in male and female weanling rats. Pups received subcutaneous injections of either 20 mg/kg cocaine HCl or saline once daily on postnatal days 1 through 5. On postnatal day 25, animals were decapitated and their brains were removed and frozen for later sectioning. Opioid receptor activation was assessed in the striatum and the shell of the nucleus accumbens by autoradiographic analysis of agonist-stimulated [(35)S]GTP gamma S binding. Brain sections were incubated in the presence of [(35)S]GTP gamma S, GDP, and either the mu-opioid agonist [D-Ala(2)-N-MePhe(4)-Gly(5)-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO) or the delta-opioid agonist D-Pen(2)-D-Pen(5)-enkephalin (DPDPE). Baseline binding was assessed in the absence of agonist, and nonspecific binding was determined by the addition of unlabeled GTP gamma S. Film images were quantified using brain mash-calibrated [(14)C] standards. Neonatal cocaine treatment had no effect on either baseline or agonist-stimulated [(35)S]GTP gamma S binding. However, males exhibited significantly greater activation than females of delta-opioid receptors in both striatum and accumbens shell, regardless of neonatal treatment. These findings indicate a gender difference in delta-opioid receptor function that could mediate behavioral differences in response to opioid agonists.
In 1870, Fritsch and Hitzig demonstrated that dogs have a motor cortex. In a chapter published 6 years later, Otto Soltmann studied the functional development of the motor cortex, which he believed functioned in willed movement. He was the first to show that the dog's motor cortex becomes electrically excitable at about 10 days of age, with the contralateral forepaw area appearing first. He also studied the effects of ablating the cortical motor regions unilaterally and bilaterally, and encountered a remarkable degree of sparing of function in his animals operated on as newborns, but not in older-operated dogs. Soltmann turned to the theory of functional take-over (vicariation) to account for the absence of deficits in his young animals. He was especially intrigued by the fact that electrical stimulation of a healthy motor cortex could produce bilateral matched movements, but only in dogs that sustained opposite motor cortex lesions very early in life.
In the male zebra finch, highly variable juvenile song and stereotyped adult song induce mRNA expression of the immediate early gene zenk in telencephalon. However, the functional consequences of this behavior-driven gene expression remain unknown. Here we characterize the developmental expression of zenk mRNA and protein in two forebrain song regions (HVC, the higher vocal center, and RA, the robust nucleus of the archistriatum). In HVC, singing results in similar percentages of cells producing zenk mRNA and zenk protein at different stages of vocal development. Similarly, song behavior at all stages of vocal development induces a comparable percentage of RA cells expressing zenk mRNA. However, the percentage of RA zenk immunoreactive cells is low during early vocal learning, increasing only as the vocal pattern matures. Early induction of a stereotyped vocal pattern in juvenile birds is associated with increased zenk immunoreactivity in RA, indicating that it is the form of the behavior (and not the age of the bird) that correlates with changes in zenk immunoreactivity. Together, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized relationship between behavioral development and post-transcriptional gene regulation.
By homologue cloning, we have isolated a cDNA encoding a voltage-gated K(+) channel, rKCNQ2, from a rat brain cDNA library using RACE. The open reading frame of the translated protein comprises 852 amino acids with 6 transmembrane segments and a pore motif between S5 and S6. rKCNQ2 shares 96% amino acid identity with human KCNQ2 in which mutations cause a form of epilepsy known as benign familial neonatal convulsions (BFNC). Northern blotting with a rKCNQ2-specific probe revealed a robust single band of 8.6-kb transcript expressed in brain not in other tissues. Functional expression of rKCNQ2 in an HEK 293 cell line by whole-cell current recording and in Xenopus oocytes by two-electrode voltage clamp showed outward K(+) selective currents that displayed delayed rectifier-type kinetics. The G-V curve, fitted with a Boltzmann function, showed voltage dependence of activation with a threshold of activation approximately -60 mV. The rKCNQ2 currents were sensitive to TEA block with a Ki of 0.1 mM. In addition, rKCNQ2 currents were down-regulated upon exposure of cells to either a broad-spectrum tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein or a Src-like tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin A. Our findings add a rodent member to the KCNQ channel subfamily, providing new information of the channel modulation, and will facilitate generation of rodent models of epilepsy.
To investigate the distribution of GABA(A) receptor alpha5 subunit expression in brain, polyclonal antisera were raised, characterised and applied to human and rat brain sections. The resultant antibodies detected a major band of 53 kDa in sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis immunoblots. Abundant immunostaining was demonstrated in the hippocampal formation in multiple cell types, although predominantly in pyramidal neurons. These data are supportive of GABA-ergic involvement in cognition, and suggest that this influence may be mediated through receptors containing the alpha5 subunit.
Expression of the immediate-early gene, NGFI-B (nerve growth factor inducible gene B), was examined in the amygdala, hippocampus, and neocortex following contextual fear conditioning. Rats were either handled, placed within the testing context without receiving the footshock, received a footshock immediately upon placement within the context, or received a footshock after a 3-min delay (delayed-shock). Only the delayed-shock group displayed a fear response (freezing) in the post-shock period and in a retention test 24 h after fear conditioning. Expression of NGFI-B mRNA was increased in the dorsolateral part of the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LaDL) and the neocortex 30 min following conditioning in the delayed-shock group compared to the other three groups. In addition, following a retention test conducted 24 h after fear conditioning, NGFI-B mRNA expression was increased in the neocortex of the delayed-shock group compared to the handled group. In a subsequent experiment, the effects of pretreatment with the anxiolytic drug, diazepam, on fear conditioning and the concomitant increases in NGFI-B mRNA were investigated. Rats administered a 2.5 mg/kg, i.p. dose of diazepam before fear conditioning did not acquire contextual fear as demonstrated by a lack of freezing in a retention test. Although diazepam blocked fear conditioning while the 40% propylene glycol, 10% ethanol vehicle solution did not, both diazepam and the vehicle reduced the conditioning-induced increase in NGFI-B expression in the LaDL. In contrast, the fear-conditioning-induced NGFI-B increase in the neocortex was blocked by diazepam, but not by the vehicle. The data suggest that the transcriptional factor NGFI-B in the LaDL and neocortex may play a functional role in learning and memory of contextual fear, but blocking the increase in NGFI-B expression in the LaDL is not essential for diazepam to interfere with fear conditioning.
The effect of hexarelin and four related peptide analogues, EP 40904, EP 40737, EP 50885 and EP 60761, injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats in doses between 2 and 2000 ng on spontaneous penile erection was studied. Of these peptides, EP 60761 and EP 50885, but not hexarelin, EP 40904 or EP 40737, increased dose-dependently the number of spontaneous penile erections. EP 60761 was active already at the dose of 20 ng, which induced the sexual response in 70% of the treated rats. The maximal response was induced by 200 ng of the peptide. EP 50885 was less potent than EP 60761, with 1000 ng being the minimal effective dose and 2000 ng as the dose required to induce the maximal response. At the doses used, both peptides also increased slightly the number of spontaneous yawning episodes. EP 60761- and EP 50885-induced penile erection was prevented by the oxytocin receptor antagonist [d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)]vasotocin (0.1-1 microg) given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.), but not into the paraventricular nucleus (0.1-1 microg), by the competitive nitric oxide (NO) inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) given either into the paraventricular nucleus (10-20 microg) or i.c.v. (75-150 microg), by the N-type Ca(2+) channel blocker omega-conotoxin-GVIA (2-5 ng) or by the opiate morphine (1-10 microg), but not by the dopamine receptor antagonist (Z)-4-[3-[2-(trifluoromethyl)-9H-thioxanthen-9-ylidene]propyl]-1-p ipe razine-ethanol (cis-flupenthixol) (10 microg) or by the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist (5R, 10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5, 10-imine ((+)-MK-801) (1 microg), all given into the paraventricular nucleus before either peptide. The present results show that EP 60761 and EP 50885 induced penile erection by increasing central oxytocin transmission, possibly by activating NO synthase in the cell bodies of oxytocinergic neurons located in the paraventricular nucleus that control penile erection.
The therapeutic efficacy of antidepressant drugs that inhibit the reuptake of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) may be enhanced by blocking their indirect activation of 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors, which mediate feedback inhibition of serotonergic neuronal activity. In this study, we examined the effects of venlafaxine, a dual 5-HT/noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, alone and in combination with the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexanecarboxamide (WAY 100635), on the single-unit activity of serotonergic dorsal raphe neurons and concurrent behavior in freely moving cats. Systemic administration of venlafaxine (0.05-1.0 mg/kg, i.v.) produced a dose-dependent decrease in firing rate (ED(50)=0.19 mg/kg), with virtually complete inhibition of neuronal discharge at the highest dose tested. The subsequent administration of WAY 100635 (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.) rapidly reversed the neuronal suppression produced by venlafaxine and significantly elevated the firing rate above baseline levels. The overshoot in neuronal activity was associated with the onset of an adverse behavioral reaction resembling the 5-HT syndrome resulting from excessive levels of brain 5-HT. The intensity of this reaction paralleled the degree of neuronal restoration induced by WAY 100635, suggesting a causal relationship. Such behavioral responses were either not observed previously, or of a low intensity, when WAY 100635 was combined with selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors. Overall, these results suggest that the risk of inducing adverse effects, such as the 5-HT syndrome, may be higher with dual 5-HT/noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors than with selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors, when these agents are combined with a potent 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor antagonist. Possible mechanisms that might account for these differences in drug interaction are discussed.
The effect of the endogenous cannabinoid, anandamide on Ca(2+) flux responses mediated by voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels was studied in transverse tubule membrane vesicles from rabbit skeletal muscle. Vesicles were loaded with 45Ca(2+) and membrane potentials were generated by establishing K(+) gradients across the vesicle using the ionophore, valinomycin. Anandamide, in the range of 1-100 microM, inhibited depolarization-induced efflux responses. Anandamide also functionally modulated the effects of nifedipine (1-10 microM) and Bay K 8644 (1 microM) on Ca(2+) flux responses. Pretreatment with the specific cannabinoid receptor antagonist, SR141716A (1 microM), pertussis toxin (5 microg/ml), the amidohydrolase inhibitor, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (0.2 mM) or the cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin (5 microM) did not alter the inhibition of efflux responses by anandamide. Arachidonic acid (10-100 microM) also effectively inhibited 45Ca(2+) efflux from membrane vesicles. In radioligand binding studies, it was found that both anandamide and arachidonic acid inhibited the specific binding of [3H]PN 200-110 to transverse tubule membranes with IC(50) values of 4.4+/-0. 7 and 13.4+/-3.5 microM, respectively. These results indicate that anandamide, independent of cannabinoid receptor activation, directly inhibits the function of voltage-dependent calcium channels and modulates the specific binding of calcium channel ligands of the dihydropyridine class.
Several mechanisms couple heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) to cellular effectors. Although alpha subunits of G proteins (Galpha) were the first recognized mediators of receptor-effector coupling, Gbetagamma regulation of effectors is now well known. Five Gbeta and 12 Ggamma subunit genes have been identified, suggesting through their diversity that specific subunits couple selectively to effectors. The molecular determinants of Gbetagamma-effector coupling, however, are not well understood, and most studies of G protein-effector coupling do not support selectivity of Gbetagamma action. To explore this issue further, we have introduced recombinant Gbetagamma complexes into avian sensory neurons and measured the inhibition of Ca(2+) currents mediated by an endogenous phospholipase Cbeta- (PLCbeta) and protein kinase C-dependent pathway. Activities of Gbetagamma in the native cells were compared with enzyme assays performed in vitro. We report a surprising selective activation of the PLCbeta pathway by Gbetagamma complexes containing beta(1) subunits, whereas beta(2)-containing complexes produced no activation. In contrast, when assayed in vitro, PLCbeta and type II adenylyl cyclase did not discriminate among these same Gbetagamma complexes, suggesting the possibility that additional cellular determinants confer specificity in vivo.
Expression of neurotransmitter receptors encoded by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAchR) subunit gene cluster depends on coexpression of the beta4, alpha3, and alpha5 subunits in certain kinds of neurons. One way in which coexpression might be achieved is through the regulation of promoters in the cluster by neuron-selective enhancers. The beta43' enhancer is located between the beta4 and alpha3 promoters and it directs cell type-specific expression in cell lines. It is not known, however, whether beta43' is active in neurons. Therefore, we assayed beta43' in dissociated rat sympathetic ganglia cultures, which contain nAchR-positive neurons as well as nAchR-negative non-neuronal cells. Reporters controlled by the alpha3 promoter and beta43' were expressed in a neuron-selective manner; greater than 90% and up to 100% of luciferase expression was detected in neurons. Neuron selectivity was maintained when beta43' was placed next to ubiquitously active viral promoters. In contrast, replacing beta43' with the SV40 enhancer eliminated neuron selectivity. The enhancer is composed of at least two separate but functionally interdependent elements, each of which interacts with a different type of ETS domain factor. These findings support a model in which beta43' controls neuronal expression of one or more genes in the cluster through interactions with a combination of ETS factors.
The Ki-67 antigen (pKi-67) is widely used as a cell proliferation marker protein. Its actual role in the cell cycle progression, however, is presently unclear. Using a two-hybrid screening in yeast, a novel protein, termed Hklp2 (human kinesin-like protein 2), was identified and shown to interact with the forkhead-associated (FHA) domain of pKi-67. Hklp2 has 1388 amino acids and shows a striking similarity (a 53% identity in amino acids) to Xklp2, a plus-end directed kinesin-like motor found in Xenopus. The interaction domain of Hklp2 was mapped to the portion that comprised residues 1017-1237 and that was phosphorylated in vitro by incubating with mitotic but not interphasic HeLa cell extracts. That the interaction was striking in the mitotic extract was also verified. In addition, immunofluorescence using specific antibodies revealed an association between pKi-67 and Hklp2 at the periphery of mitotic chromosomes, largely in close proximity to the centromeres. These findings suggest that pKi-67 is involved in the progression of mitosis via its interaction with Hklp2.
Induction of homosynaptic long term depression (LTD) in the CA1 field of the hippocampus is thought to require activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, an elevation of postsynaptic Ca(2+) levels, and a subsequent increase in phosphatase activity. To investigate the spatial and temporal changes in protein phosphatase activity following LTD induction, we determined the in situ phosphorylation state of a pre- (GAP-43/B-50) and postsynaptic (RC3) protein kinase C substrate during N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-dependent LTD in the CA1 field of rat hippocampal slices. We show that LTD is associated with a transient (&lt;30 min) and D-AP5-sensitive reduction in GAP-43/B-50 and RC3 phosphorylation and that LTD is prevented by the phosphatase inhibitors okadaic acid and cyclosporin A. Our data provide strong evidence for a transient increase in pre- and postsynaptic phosphatase activity during LTD. Since the in situ phosphorylation of the calmodulin-binding proteins GAP-43/B-50 and RC3 changes during both LTD and long term potentiation, these proteins may form part of the link between the Ca(2+) signal and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent processes implicated in long term potentiation and LTD.
We observed intermediate conductance channels in approximately 20% of successful patch-clamp seals made on collecting tubules dissected from Ambystoma adapted to 50 mm potassium. These channels were rarely observed in collecting tubules taken from animals which were maintained in tap water. Potassium-adaptation either leads to an increase in the number of channels present or activates quiescent channels. In cell-attached patches the conductance averaged 30.3 +/- 2.4 (9) pS. Since replacement of the chloride in the patch pipette with gluconate did not change the conductance, the channel carries cations, not anions. Notably, channel activity was observed at both positive and negative pipette voltages. When the pipette was voltage clamped at 0 mV or positive voltages, the current was directed inward, consistent with the movement of sodium into the cell. The pipette voltage at which the polarity of the current reversed (movement of potassium into the pipette) was -29.6 +/- 6.5(9) mV. Open probability at 0 mV pipette voltage was 0.08 +/- 0.03 and was unaffected when the apical membrane was exposed to either 2 x 10(-6) or 2 x 10(-5) m of amiloride. Exposure of the basolateral surface of the tubule to a saline containing 15 mm potassium caused a significant increase (P less than 0.001) in the open probability of these channels to 0.139 +/- 0.002 without affecting the conductance of the apical channel. These data illustrate the presence of an intermediate conductance, poorly selective, amiloride-insensitive cation channel in native vertebrate collecting tubule. We postulate that, at least in amphibia, this channel may be used to secrete potassium.
Lesion studies show that the hippocampus is critically involved in timing behavior, but so far there has been little analysis of how it might encode time. We recorded the activity of 266 CA1 neurons, 51 CA3 neurons, and 219 entorhinal neurons from rats performing on a differential reinforcement of low rates (DRL) 15 sec schedule in which reinforcement was contingent on responses that occurred at least 15 sec after the preceding response. The unit data were analyzed using two different methods. First, each unit was subjected to an ANOVA that examined the effects of the following: (1) the outcome of the previous response (reward or nonreward); (2) the outcome of the response on which the firing of the cell was synchronized; and (3) time. This showed that, for CA1, CA3, and entorhinal cortex, changes in unit activity were related to all aspects of the task, with the firing of &gt;90% of units recorded in each region being related to at least one of the three factors. Second, intercorrelations between the firing profiles of individual units revealed several functional categories of hippocampal neurons but no clear categories of entorhinal neurons. Of the hippocampal categories, the most common profile was an initial increase in unit activity at the beginning of the DRL interval, followed by a gradual decrease throughout the interval. We suggest that this profile reflects temporal decay in circuits that may code details of the previous trial and that could be used to &quot;time&quot; the DRL interval.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) belong to a class of extracellular proteinases responsible for maintaining and remodeling the extracellular matrix. In addition to multiple functions in normal physiology, abnormal MMP expression and activity may also participate in the pathophysiology of cerebral disease. Here, we show that MMP-9 (gelatinase B; EC.3.4.24.35) contributes to the pathophysiology of traumatic brain injury. After controlled cortical impact in mice, MMP-9 was increased in traumatized brain. Total MMP-9 levels at 24 hr were significantly increased as measured by a substrate cleavage assay. Zymograms showed that MMP-9 was elevated as early as 3 hr after traumatic brain injury, reaching a maximum at approximately 24 hr. Increased MMP-9 levels persisted for up to 1 week. Western blot analysis indicated increased profiles of MMP-9 expression that corresponded with the zymographic data. Knock-out mice deficient in MMP-9 gene expression were compared with wild-type littermates in terms of morphological and motor outcomes after trauma. Motor outcomes were measured at 1, 2, and 7 d after traumatic brain injury by the use of a rotarod device. MMP-9 knock-out mice had less motor deficits than wild-type mice. At 7 d, traumatic brain lesion volumes on Nissl-stained histological sections were significantly smaller in MMP-9 knock-out mice. These data demonstrate that MMP-9 contributes to the pathophysiology of traumatic brain injury and suggest that interruption of the MMP proteolytic cascade may be a possible therapeutic approach for preventing the secondary progression of damage after brain trauma.
Neural systems operate in various dynamic states that determine how they process information (Livingstone and Hubel, 1981; Funke and Eysel, 1992; Morrow and Casey, 1992; Abeles et al., 1995; Guido et al., 1995; Mukherjee and Kaplan, 1995; Kenmochi and Eggermont, 1997; Wrgtter et al., 1998; Kisley and Gerstein, 1999). To investigate the function of a brain area, it is therefore crucial to determine the state of that system. One grave difficulty is that even under well controlled conditions, the thalamocortical network may undergo random dynamic state fluctuations which alter the most basic spatial and temporal response properties of the neurons. These uncontrolled state changes hinder the evaluation of state-specific properties of neural processing and, consequently, the interpretation of thalamocortical function. Simultaneous extracellular recordings were made in the auditory thalamus and cortex of the ketamine-anesthetized cat under several stimulus conditions. By considering the cellular and network mechanisms that govern state changes, we develop a complex stimulus that controls the dynamic state of the thalamocortical network. Traditional auditory stimuli have ambivalent effects on thalamocortical state, sometimes eliciting an oscillatory state prevalent in sleeping animals and other times suppressing it. By contrast, our complex stimulus clamps the network in a dynamic state resembling that observed in the alert animal. It thus allows evaluation of neural information processing not confounded by uncontrolled variations. Stimulus-based state control illustrates a general and direct mechanism whereby the functional modes of the brain are influenced by structural features of the external world.
The functional enhancement of NMDA receptors after peripheral tissue injury is proposed to contribute to the sensitization of spinothalamic tract (STT) cells and hyperalgesia. Protein phosphorylation is a major mechanism for the regulation of NMDA receptor function. In this study, Western blots, immunofluorescence double labeling, and the retrograde tracing method were used to examine whether phosphorylation of NMDA receptor 1 (NR1) subunits increases in spinal cord tissue and spinal dorsal horn neurons, especially in STT cells, after injection of capsaicin (CAP) into the glabrous skin of one hindpaw of anesthetized rats. Western blots showed that phosphorylated NR1 protein in spinal cord tissue was increased 30 min after CAP injection. Immunofluorescence double-labeling staining showed no significant difference in the number of the NR1-like immunoreactive neurons in laminae I-VII in the lumbosacral segments (L(4)-S(1)) on the ipsilateral and the contralateral sides 30 min after CAP or vehicle injection. However, the numbers of phospho-NR1-like immunoreactive neurons were significantly increased on the ipsilateral side compared with the vehicle injection group. STT cells were labeled by bilateral microinjections of the retrograde tracer fluorogold into the lateral thalamus, including the ventral-posterior lateral nucleus. Immunofluorescence staining was performed at 30, 60, and 120 min after CAP injection or at 30 min after vehicle injection. There was a significant increase in the proportion of STT cells with phosphorylated NR1 subunits compared either with the contralateral side 30 and 60 min after CAP injection or either side of animals after intradermal injection of vehicle. These results provide direct evidence that NMDA receptors in STT cells are phosphorylated after CAP injection.
Elevated plasma levels of the sulfur-containing amino acid homocysteine increase the risk for atherosclerosis, stroke, and possibly Alzheimer's disease, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We now report that homocysteine induces apoptosis in rat hippocampal neurons. DNA strand breaks and associated activation of poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) and NAD depletion occur rapidly after exposure to homocysteine and precede mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and caspase activation. The PARP inhibitor 3-aminobenzamide (3AB) protects neurons against homocysteine-induced NAD depletion, loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential, and cell death, demonstrating a requirement for PARP activation and/or NAD depletion in homocysteine-induced apoptosis. Caspase inhibition accelerates the loss of mitochondrial potential and shifts the mode of cell death to necrosis; inhibition of PARP with 3AB attenuates this effect of caspase inhibition. Homocysteine markedly increases the vulnerability of hippocampal neurons to excitotoxic and oxidative injury in cell culture and in vivo, suggesting a mechanism by which homocysteine may contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders.
Cathepsin D-deficient (CD-/-) mice have been shown to manifest seizures and become blind near the terminal stage [approximately postnatal day (P) 26]. We therefore examined the morphological, immunocytochemical, and biochemical features of CNS tissues of these mice. By electron microscopy, autophagosome/autolysosome-like bodies containing part of the cytoplasm, granular osmiophilic deposits, and fingerprint profiles were demonstrated in the neuronal perikarya of CD-/- mouse brains after P20. Autophagosomes and granular osmiophilic deposits were detected in neurons at P0 but were few in number, whereas they increased in the neuronal perikarya within days after birth. Some large-sized neurons having autophagosome/autolysosome-like bodies in the perikarya appeared in the CNS tissues, especially in the thalamic region and the cerebral cortex, at P17. These lysosomal bodies occupied the perikarya of almost all neurons in CD-/- mouse brains obtained from P23 until the terminal stage. Because these neurons exhibited autofluorescence, it was considered that ceroid lipofuscin may accumulate in lysosomal structures of CD-/- neurons. Subunit c of mitochondrial ATP synthase was found to accumulate in the lysosomes of neurons, although the activity of tripeptidyl peptidase-I significantly increased in the brain. Moreover, neurons near the terminal stage were often shrunken and possessed irregular nuclei through which small dense chromatin masses were scattered. These results suggest that the CNS neurons in CD-/- mice show a new form of lysosomal accumulation disease with a phenotype resembling neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis.
The neurotrophin BDNF has been shown to modulate long-term potentiation (LTP) at Schaffer collateral-CA1 hippocampal synapses. Mutants in the BDNF receptor gene trkB and antibodies to its second receptor p75NTR have been used to determine the receptors and cells involved in this response. Inhibition of p75NTR does not detectably reduce LTP or affect presynaptic function, but analyses of newly generated trkB mutants implicate TrkB. One mutant has reduced expression in a normal pattern of TrkB throughout the brain. The second mutant was created by cre-loxP-mediated removal of TrkB in CA1 pyramidal neurons of this mouse. Neither mutant detectably impacts survival or morphology of hippocampal neurons. TrkB reduction, however, affects presynaptic function and reduces the ability of tetanic stimulation to induce LTP. Postsynaptic glutamate receptors are not affected by TrkB reduction, indicating that BDNF does not modulate plasticity through postsynaptic TrkB. Consistent with this, elimination of TrkB in postsynaptic neurons does not affect LTP. Moreover, normal LTP is generated in the mutant with reduced TrkB by a depolarization-low-frequency stimulation pairing protocol that puts minimal demands on presynaptic terminal function. Thus, BDNF appears to act through TrkB presynaptically, but not postsynaptically, to modulate LTP.
Cell death from spinal cord injury is mediated in part by apoptotic mechanisms involving downstream caspases (e.g., caspase-3). Upstream mechanisms may involve other caspases such as procaspase-8, a 55 kDa apical caspase, which we found constitutively expressed within spinal cord neurons along with Fas. As early as 1.5 hr after transient ischemia, activated caspase-8 (p18) and caspase-8 mRNA appeared within neurons in intermediate gray matter and in medial ventral horn. We also detected evidence for an increase in death receptor complex by co-immunoprecipitation using Fas and anti-procaspase-8 after ischemia. At early time points, Fas and p18 were co-expressed within individual neurons, as were activated caspase-8 and caspase-3. Moreover, we detected p18 in cells before procaspase-3 cleavage product (p20), suggesting sequential activation. The appearance of cytosolic cytochrome c and gelsolin cleavage after ischemia was consistent with mitochondrial release and caspase-3 activation, respectively. Numerous terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated DNA nick end-labeling-positive neurons contained p18 or p20 (65 and 80%, respectively), thereby supporting the idea that cells undergoing cell death contain both processed caspases. Our data are consistent with the idea that transient spinal cord ischemia induces the formation of a death-inducing signaling complex, which may participate in caspase-8 activation and sequential caspase-3 cleavage. Death receptors as well as downstream caspases may be useful therapeutic targets for limiting the death of cells in spinal cord.
The cellular and network mechanisms of the transition of brief interictal discharges to prolonged seizures are a crucial issue in epilepsy. Here we used hippocampal slices exposed to ACSF containing 0 Mg(2+) to explore mechanisms for the transition to prolonged (3-42 sec) seizure-like (&quot;ictal&quot;) discharges. Epileptiform activity, evoked by Shaffer collateral stimulation, triggered prolonged bursts in CA1, in 50-60% of slices, from both adult and young (postnatal day 13-21) rats. In these cases the first component of the CA1 epileptiform burst was followed by a train of population spikes at frequencies in the gamma band and above (30-120 Hz, reminiscent of tetanically evoked gamma oscillations). The gamma burst in turn could be followed by slower repetitive &quot;tertiary&quot; bursts. Intracellular recordings from CA1 during the gamma phase revealed long depolarizations, action potentials rising from brief apparent hyperpolarizations, and a drop of input resistance. The CA1 gamma rhythm was completely blocked by bicuculline (10-50 microm), by ethoxyzolamide (100 microm), and strongly attenuated in hyperosmolar perfusate (50 mm sucrose). Subsequent tertiary bursts were also blocked by bicuculline, ethoxyzolamide, and in hyperosmolar perfusate. In all these cases intracellular recordings from CA3 revealed only short depolarizations. We conclude that under epileptogenic conditions, gamma band oscillations arise from GABA(A)ergic depolarizations and that this activity may lead to the generation of ictal discharges.
Secretion of the neuropeptide arginine vasopressin (AVP) from the neurohypophysis is optimized by short phasic bursts of action potentials with a mean intraburst frequency around 10 Hz. Several hypotheses, most prominently action-potential broadening and buildup of residual calcium, have been proposed to explain this frequency dependence of AVP release. However, how either of these mechanisms would optimize release at any given frequency remains an open question. We have addressed this issue by correlating the frequency-dependence of intraterminal calcium dynamics and AVP release during action-potential stimulation. By monitoring the intraterminal calcium changes with low-affinity indicator dyes and millisecond time resolution, the signal could be dissected into three separate components: rapid Ca(2+) rises (Delta[Ca(2+)](tr)) related to action-potential depolarization, Ca(2+) extrusion and/or uptake, and a gradual increase in residual calcium (Delta[Ca(2+)](res)) throughout the stimulus train. Action-potential stimulation modulated all three components in a manner dependent on both the stimulation frequency and number of stimuli. Overall, the cumulative Delta[Ca(2+)](tr) amplitude initially increased with f(Stim) and then rapidly deteriorated, with a maximum around f(Stim) &lt;/= 5 Hz. Residual calcium levels, in contrast, increased monotonically with stimulation frequency. Simultaneously with the calcium measurements we determined the amount of AVP release evoked by each stimulus train. Hormone release increased with f(Stim) beyond the peak in Delta[Ca(2+)](tr) amplitudes, reaching its maximum between 5 and 10 Hz before returning to its 1 Hz level. Thus, AVP release responds to the temporal patterning of stimulation, is sensitive to both Delta[Ca(2+)](tr) and Delta[Ca(2+)](res), and is optimized at a frequency intermediate between the frequency-dependent maxima in Delta[Ca(2+)](tr) and Delta[Ca(2+)](res).
Histamine is a neurotransmitter at arthropod photoreceptors. Even though the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, is a widely used model in neuroscience research, the histamine content of its nervous system has not so far been reported. We have developed a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method with pre-column o-phtaldialdehyde-mercaptoethanol (OPA-ME) derivatization and electrochemical detection, to determine this amine in Drosophila. The histamine content of the fly's head averages about 2.0 ng per head. In heads of the mutant hdc(JK910), a presumed null for the gene encoding the enzyme that synthesizes histamine, histamine was not detected in measurable amounts. In heads of the mutant sine oculis, which lacks compound eyes, only 28% of this amine was found compared with wild type flies, so histamine is mainly present in the compound eye photoreceptors. Also observed in histamine-deficient mutants was a decrease in the peak which contains a substance having the same retention time as carcinine (beta-alanyl-histamine). Our method was not able to detect compounds previously reported as histamine metabolites in insects. In spite of this, the method we have developed enables the fast and accurate measurement of histamine in the heads of Drosophila, suitable for screening mutants.
Agonist activation of G protein-coupled receptors induces an increase in the binding of guanosine 5'-(gamma-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS); this increase in binding has been used as a tool to investigate receptor interaction with the heterotrimer guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein (G protein). The present study uses agonist-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding to characterize serotonin 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors in rat brain membrane fractions and demonstrate the anatomical localization of the receptors by in vitro autoradiography on slide-mounted sections. The stimulatory effect of the agonist [1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)]-2 aminopropane (DOI) is compared to that of serotonin (5-HT). Autoradiography revealed a similar localization of DOI- and 5-HT-stimulated binding of [(35)S]GTPgammaS in distinct areas of prefrontal and parietal cortex, consistent with previously reported 5-HT(2A) receptor distribution. Specific binding was demonstrated in the frontal and parietal cortex, medial prefrontal, and cingular and orbital-insular areas as well as in the hippocampal formation, septal areas, the nucleus accumbens, and the choroid plexus. MDL 100105, a specific 5-HT(2A) antagonist, and ketanserin, an antagonist of 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors, blocked DOI stimulation in all labeled areas, whereas 5-HT stimulation was only partially blocked (70-80%). A small but significant inhibition was observed with the specific antagonist of 5-HT(2C/2B), SB 206553. This autoradiographic technique provides a useful tool for measuring in situ changes in specific receptor-Gq protein coupling in anatomically discrete brain regions, under physiological and pathological conditions.
Robust process outgrowth and high expression of the growth-associated protein GAP-43 seem to be intrinsic features of neurons, but both are down-regulated after axonal contact of target cells. We report that chronic exposure of the serotonergic CNS cell line RN46A to cyclic AMP analogs, forskolin, or cholera toxin represses GAP-43 expression in a dose dependent manner. Thus, cAMP could mediate a GAP-43 repressive signal that is initiated extracellularly. Activation of the cyclic AMP pathway by these same reagents, however, enhances the rate that RN46A cells extend neurites. This stimulation of neurite growth can occur during inhibition of new transcription, and in the absence of high levels of GAP-43. These findings demonstrate that a GAP-43-repressing intracellular signaling pathway exists, that repression of GAP-43 expression by cAMP is not directly coupled to inhibition of neurite growth, and that acceleration of growth cone advancement by cAMP is not dependent on the presence of GAP-43.
Astrocytes are cell constituents of the mammalian CNS whose intricate relationships with neurons, blood vessels and meninges in situ are well documented. These relationships and their complex morphologies imply numerous functions. Over the past quarter century or so, however, the main experimental basis for determining which roles are likely have been derived from studies on primary astrocyte cultures, usually prepared from neonatal rodent brains. We list a number of examples where these cultures have shown quantitative and qualitative differences from the properties exhibited by astrocytes in situ. The absence of an adequate reliable database makes proposals of likely hypotheses of astrocyte function difficult to formulate. In this article we describe representative studies from our laboratory showing that freshly isolated astrocytes (FIAs), can be used to determine the properties of astrocytes that seem more in concordance with the properties exhibited in situ. Although the cells are most easily isolated from &lt; or =15 day old rat hippocampi they can be isolated from up to 30 day old rats. The examples we describe are that several different types of K(+) currents can be determined by patch clamp electrophysiology, of all the mGluRs only mGluR3 and 5 were detected by single cell RT-PCR, and that single cell Ca(2+) imaging shows that the mGluR5 receptor is functional. It was found that the frequency of cells expressing mGluR5 declines with the age of the animal with the mGluR5b type splice variant replacing the mGluR5a type, as occurs in the intact brain. It is concluded that FIAs can be used to determine the individual characteristics of astrocytes and their properties without the problems of indirect effects inherent in a heterogeneous system such as the slice, and without the problem of cultures unpredictably reflecting the in situ state. The FIAs obviously cannot be used to study interactions of astrocytes with the other CNS components but we propose that they will provide a good database on which hypotheses regarding such interactions can be tested in slices. FIAs can also be isolated from brain slices or intact brain after various pharmacological or electrophysiological perturbations to determine the changes in astrocyte properties that correlate with the perturbations.
The single channel properties of P2X ATP receptors were investigated in outside-out patches from hippocampal granule cells in brain slices from 12-day-old rats. The results demonstrate that functional P2X ATP receptors are expressed in hippocampal granule cells and, combined with previously published information on the P2X subunits expressed in the hippocampus, suggest that the receptors may be heteromers of the P2X4 and P2X6 subunits or P2X1, P2X2, P2X4 and P2X6 subunits. Two distinct types of P2X channel openings were observed. A flickery P2X receptor channel was observed in three patches with a mean chord conductance of 32 +/- 6 pS, a mean open time of 1.0 +/- 0.3 ms and a mean burst length of 11 +/- 5 ms at a membrane potential of -60 mV. A large conductance P2X receptor was observed in 19 out of 98 patches with a mean conductance of 56 +/- 1. 8 pS, a linear current-voltage relationship between -80 and +60 mV with a reversal potential around 0 mV, a mean open time of 2.6 +/- 0. 2 ms and a mean burst length of 8.8 +/- 1.8 ms at -60 mV. At an ATP concentration of 1 mM, these channels exhibited a low steady-state open probability (Popen, 0.07 +/- 0.008; n = 15), little apparent desensitisation and were also activated by alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP, 40 microM; Popen, 0.007 +/- 0.0002; conductance, 57 +/- 1.1 pS; n = 3). No decrease in the single channel conductance was observed on increasing the free extracellular calcium concentration from 0.3 to 0.85 mM. Channel closed time distributions were fitted with five exponential components with time constants (and relative areas) of 90 micros (20 %), 0.77 ms (32 %), 10 ms (15 %), 90 ms (18 %) and 403 ms (15 %) at 1 mM ATP. Of these, the first two components are suggested to represent gaps within single activations of the receptor based on the lack of agonist concentration dependence of these two shut time components between 1 microM and 1 mM ATP. Suramin (40 microM) significantly increased the single channel conductance (19 +/- 7 %; n = 5) and produced a small decrease in Popen (39 +/- 9 %; n = 5) by decreasing mean open time, burst length and total open time per burst. These actions of suramin are not consistent with simple competitive antagonism.
A persistent outward K+ current (IPO), activated by depolarization from resting potential, has been identified and characterized in rat subthalamic nucleus (SThN) neurones using whole-cell voltage-clamp recording in brain slices. IPO both rapidly activated (tau = 8 ms at +5 mV) and deactivated (tau = 2 ms at -68 mV), while showing little inactivation. Tail current reversal potentials varied with extracellular K+ concentration in a Nernstian manner. Intracellular Cs+ did not alter either IPO amplitude or the voltage dependence of activation, but blocked transient (A-like) outward currents activated by depolarization. When extracellular K+ was replaced with Cs+, IPO tail current reversal potentials were dependent upon the extracellular Cs+ concentration, indicating an ability to conduct Cs+, as well as K+. IPO was blocked by Ba2+ (1 mM), 4-aminopyridine (1 mM) and tetraethylammonium (TEA; 20 mM), with an IC50 for TEA of 0.39 mM. The IPO conductance appeared maximal (38 nS) at around +27 mV, half-maximal at -13 mV, with the threshold for activation at around -38 mV. TEA (1 mM) blocked the action potential after-hyperpolarization and permitted accommodation of action potential firing at frequencies greater than around 200 Hz. We conclude that IPO, which shares many characteristics of currents attributable to Kv3.1 K+ channels, enables high-frequency spike trains in SThN neurones.

Sex differences in thermoregulation have been reported following acute morphine administration in rats only. This study assessed whether male and female mice also differ in thermoregulatory responses following acute and chronic morphine administration. Females displayed significantly higher baseline colorectal temperature and greater morphine (24mg/kg, s.c.) hypothermia (2. 5-fold) on day 1. Two additional days of morphine treatment did not alter baseline temperature readings on Day 4 in either sex, but significantly reduced the morphine hypothermia relative to Day 1 in a sex-dependent manner. Whereas the morphine hypothermia was completely abolished in males, significant hypothermia was still observed in females. Acute and chronic saline injections had no effect on colorectal temperature. The data demonstrate sex differences in the thermoregulatory responses to acute and chronic morphine administration in mice.
Neonatal rat cerebellar granule cells were used to assess the possible role of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) signaling pathway in the neuroprotective effects of neurotrophic factors against ethanol toxicity. Culture conditions included medium with ethanol (400 and 600 mg/dl), nerve growth factor (NGF) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), ethanol+NGF or BDNF, the PI3-K inhibitor wortmannin (10 or 100 microM), and wortmannin+ethanol+NGF or BDNF. Neuronal survival was determined via the MTT assay. The results indicated that both NGF and BDNF ameliorate ethanol neurotoxicity, and wortmannin abolished this effect, except at the higher ethanol concentration combined with the lower wortmannin level. These data strongly implicate the PI3-K pathway in growth factor protection against ethanol neurotoxicity.
Endogenous adenosine, acting upon A(1) receptors, attenuates long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices. Adenosine might exert these effects by inhibiting the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor. Theta burst-induced LTP was larger in the presence of the selective adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, 1, 3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 50nM, 40.5+/-6.6% increase in fEPSP) than in the control solution (18.2+/-4.7% increase), and was completely prevented in the presence of DPCPX (50nM) plus the selective NMDA receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (AP5, 50microM, -3.3+/-7.0% change). In contrast, LTD was induced by low-frequency stimulation in the presence of DPCPX (50nM), even in experiments performed in AP5 (50microM). Thus LTP, but not LTD, observed upon blockade of adenosine A(1) receptors is dependent upon NMDA receptor activation.
Although there are elegants maps of the human brain that reveal differences in cellular architecture between different cortical regions, there is not much information about how corresponding cortical regions differ between the left and right hemispheres. As Gazzaniga explains in his Perspective, new results reveal the surprising finding of asymmetry in area 22 (which is important for language processing) of the left and right hemisphere (Galuske et al.). Clusters of neurons in area 22 of the left hemisphere are spaced farther apart and have longer axons cabling them together than neuronal clusters in area 22 of the right hemisphere.

Numerous reports support evidence that dopaminergic mesolimbic pathways interact with opioid systems to influence the reinforcing properties of cocaine. Withdrawal from chronic administration of cocaine in rats causes an upregulation of mesocorticolimbic mu-opioid receptors during early stages, but information about prolonged cocaine abstinence is lacking. We addressed this issue by treating rats with cocaine or saline (control) intermittently (1 mg/kg, i.v., every 12 min for 2 h daily) for 10 days followed by a 10- or 20-day withdrawal period. The animals were then decapitated and the brains removed for quantitative in vitro autoradiographic analysis of 14 brain regions with (125)I-DAMGO. A separate group of animals received two consecutive cycles of the 10-day cocaine/10-day withdrawal regimen. Only the group that participated in the two consecutive cycles showed a significant effect of treatment: downregulation of mu-opiate receptors in limbic cortical layer 3 (17% lower than saline-treated controls, P = 0.03), the core of the nucleus accumbens (16% decrease, P = 0.05), and the nucleus of the diagonal band (18% decrease, P = 0.05). The mu-receptor may manifest, as do other neural markers (e.g., dopamine transporter, dopamine efflux), a biphasic temporal pattern with upregulation during early phases of cocaine withdrawal but a downregulation at later times.


Antagonists of glutamate receptors of the N-methyl-d-aspartate subclass (NMDAR) or inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) prevent nervous system plasticity. Inflammatory and neuropathic pain rely on plasticity, presenting a clinical opportunity for the use of NMDAR antagonists and NOS inhibitors in chronic pain. Agmatine (AG), an endogenous neuromodulator present in brain and spinal cord, has both NMDAR antagonist and NOS inhibitor activities. We report here that AG, exogenously administered to rodents, decreased hyperalgesia accompanying inflammation, normalized the mechanical hypersensitivity (allodynia/hyperalgesia) produced by chemical or mechanical nerve injury, and reduced autotomy-like behavior and lesion size after excitotoxic spinal cord injury. AG produced these effects in the absence of antinociceptive effects in acute pain tests. Endogenous AG also was detected in rodent lumbosacral spinal cord in concentrations similar to those previously detected in brain. The evidence suggests a unique antiplasticity and neuroprotective role for AG in processes underlying persistent pain and neuronal injury.
After axotomy in the ventral funiculus of the cat spinal cord, about half of the population of lesioned motoneurons die at 1-3 weeks postoperatively, whereas the other half survives and generates new axons through the lesion area. To identify conditions that may promote survival and regeneration of motoneurons subjected to this kind of injury, the authors examined ultrastructurally lesion-induced changes in the number and distribution of nerve terminals on the somata and proximal dendrites of alpha-motoneurons in the 7th lumbar spinal segment (L7) of the cat spinal cord. Intramedullary axotomy resulted in a profound reduction in the number of nerve terminals impinging on the somata and proximal dendrites, with the maximal effect seen at 3 weeks postlesion. At that time, only 12-25% of the normal number of terminals remained on the cell somata, and 22-33% remained on proximal dendrites. Thereafter, a gradual increase in terminal numbers occurred, reaching normal levels at 34 weeks after the lesion. Already at 2 days postoperatively and, most obviously, at 3 weeks postoperatively, type S nerve terminals were eliminated to a larger degree than type F terminals. Postembedding immunohistochemistry confirmed that the largest reduction at 3 weeks was seen for excitatory glutamate-immunopositive type S nerve terminals (90%), whereas inhibitory glycine-immunoreactive and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-immunoreactive type F terminals were affected less (70% reduction). This led to a distinct shift in the ratio between the numbers of terminals that were immunopositive for glycine and GABA and the numbers of terminals that were labeled for glutamate. For the cell body, this ratio increased from 3.7 in normal material to 14.5 in lesioned motoneurons, whereas the corresponding values for proximal dendrites were 3.8 and 7.5. The preferential elimination of glutamatergic inputs to lesioned motoneurons may reflect an active reorganization of the synaptic input to diminish the excitotoxic influence on these neurons, thereby promoting the survival of motoneurons after intramedullary axotomy.
Human subjects generally perceive the global form of hierarchically organized visual patterns faster than the local form. To test whether macaque monkeys show a similar precedence for global processing, two monkeys were trained to discriminate either the global or local form of hierarchical visual patterns. The response time to discriminate the global form was shorter than that to discriminate the local form. Consistent patterns, in which the global and local forms were identical, were discriminated faster than inconsistent ones, in which the two forms were different from each other, both in discrimination of the global form and of the local form. Similar results were obtained in two human subjects who were subjected to the identical tests. The results suggest that, both in monkeys and humans, the global form is processed faster than the local form with a temporal overlap which allows bidirectional interactions between the two processes.
The olfactory nerve is the only cranial nerve with established ipsilateral primary cerebral anatomical projections. Whether these projections correspond to the functional pathways for monorhinal processing of odor perception is, however, unknown. We therefore studied cerebral blood flow (rCBF) with [15O]butanol-PET in 18 healthy females during monorhinal smelling of single odors (OS) and odorless air (AS). Compared with AS, OS activated right amygdala and piriform cortex (confluent cluster), right orbitofrontal cortex, left insula, right thalamus, and anterior cingulate. A post hoc analysis showed that the first three regions were activated independently of the stimulated side, but that right orbitofrontal rCBF was higher during the right nostril stimulations. Left insula was activated mainly by the right nostril stimuli, and right thalamus by the left nostril stimuli. Odors seem to be processed both ipsi and contralaterally, with a right hemisphere preponderance irrespective of the stimulated nostril.
Visuomotor tasks elicit neuronal activity in primate motor areas at relatively short latencies. Although this early activity embodies features of visual responses (short latency, stimulus-dependency), its sensory nature has been questioned. We investigated neural correlates of visuomotor performance in human motor areas using scalp and intracranial event-related potential measures. A simple visuomanual reaction-time task evoked early potentials at 133-145 ms post-stimulus which occurred much earlier than the motor potentials of the same region. The amplitude of the early potentials covaried with stimulus location and was independent of parameters of the motor response. Because of their timing, stimulus-dependency and characteristics of our behavioral task, the early potentials are suggested to reflect neuronal responses of sensory nature rather than processing related to pure motor aspects of the task.
We have identified an alternatively spliced 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptor (5-HT(2A)-R) transcript by PCR of human brain cDNA using degenerate oligonucleotide primers to transmembrane (TM) domains 3 and 7 of the 5-HT(2)-R subfamily. The variant contains a 118-bp insertion at the exon II/III boundary of the 5-HT(2A)-R, which produces a frame shift in the coding sequence and a premature stop codon. PCR analysis showed that the truncated receptor (5-HT(2A-tr)) and native 5-HT(2A)-R were co-expressed in most brain tissues, with the highest levels being found in hippocampus, corpus collosum, amygdala and caudate nucleus. Western blot analysis of HEK-293 cells transfected transiently with a 5-HT(2A-tr) construct showed that a 30-kDa protein was expressed on cell membranes. Co-transfection studies showed no effect of the 5-HT(2A-tr) variant on 3H-ketanserin binding to the native 5-HT(2A)-R or on functional coupling of the 5-HT(2A)-R to 5-HT-stimulated Ca(2+) mobilization. The functional significance of the 5-HT(2A-tr) variant and other truncated receptors remains to be established.
Saccade-related activity recorded in the primate pregeniculate nucleus, and its anatomical connections with the pretectal nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) and superior colliculus (SC), suggest that it plays a role in visual-ocular motor integration. To study this role, a clearer understanding of pregeniculate organization is required. Based on its connectivity and neurotransmitter immunocytochemistry, we demonstrate that this nucleus is composed of several subnuclei, suggesting the term, pregeniculate complex (PrGC). The PrGC includes a weakly developed dorsal lamina, rostrally, and a well-developed ventral lamina. The ventral lamina includes the retinorecipient and superior sublayers, rostrally, and the medial division, caudally. A thin lamina of cells lateral to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus is contiguous with the PrGC; we term this the lateral division. The PrGC and the lateral division each project to the SC/NOT; the superior sublayer and medial division of the PrGC are connected reciprocally to the SC/NOT. Immunocytochemistry for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and substance P (SP) further delineate the PrGC subnuclei. The retinorecipient sublayer stains most intensely for GABA and SP. The superior sublayer and medial division also stain strongly for GABA and SP. Essentially all neurons in the lateral division are GABA-positive. The combination of tract tracing and immunocytochemistry demonstrate differences in the connectivity of the PrGC subnuclei and the lateral division with the SC/NOT. This, combined with the differential localization of GABA in the PrGC, provides a basis for further study of its functional role.
Mounting evidence suggests that ethanol exerts effects on learning and memory by altering cellular activity in the hippocampus and related structures. However, little is actually known regarding ethanol's effects on hippocampal function in awake, freely-behaving animals. The present study examines the effects of ethanol on hippocampal place-cell and interneuron activity in freely-behaving rats. Signals from individual hippocampal neurons were isolated while subjects traversed a symmetric Y-maze for food reward. Following 15 min of baseline recording, subjects were injected with one of four doses of ethanol (0.0, 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 g/kg), and cellular activity was monitored for a 1-h time period. Following sufficient time for recovery (minimum of 3 h post injection), cellular activity was monitored for an additional 15-min period. Both 1.0 and 1.5 g/kg ethanol potently suppressed the firing of hippocampal place-cells without altering place-field locations. Ethanol did not significantly suppress out-of-field firing rates, leading to a decrease in spatial specificity (i.e. the ratio of in-field/out-of-field firing rates). Interneuron activity was not altered by 1.0 g/kg ethanol, but was occasionally suppressed by 1.5 g/kg ethanol. Results are interpreted in light of recent behavioral and electrophysiological studies examining the effects of ethanol on hippocampal function.
To determine the spatio-temporal expression in brain of the high-affinity kainate receptor subunit KA1, we generated transgenic mice expressing Cre recombinase from the KA1 gene on a chromosomally integrated 550 kb yeast artificial chromosome (YAC). Activity of the KA1 gene promoter during brain development was visualized by Cre immunohistochemistry, and by X-gal staining of beta-galactosidase induced by Cre recombinase in double transgenic KA1-Cre/lacZ indicator mice. During early brain development, expression from the YAC-carried KA1-Cre transgene was observed in all major brain areas, predicting a function for KA1 in the developing central nervous system. In the adult brain, KA1-Cre transgene expression was restricted mainly to hippocampal CA3 pyramidal and dentate gyrus granule cells, an adult expression pattern characteristic for the endogenous KA1 alleles. KA1-Cre transgenic mice may help in elucidating the role of floxed genes ablated in vivo in KA1 expressing neurons.
NGF is an important link between inflammation and hyperalgesia and interacts with many different mediators of inflammation, including the MAPK signaling pathway. In these studies, carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia was evaluated in the mouse and the role of NGF and the MAPK pathway investigated. Carrageenan induced a time-dependent inflammation and thermal hyperalgesia, which was maximal 4 h post administration. Both indomethacin (0.3, 1.0 and 10 mg/kg s.c., 30 min pre-carrageenan) and morphine (0.4, 1.2, 4.0 mg/kg; s.c., 30 min pre-hyperalgesia measurement) significantly inhibited carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia and indomethicin inhibited paw inflammation, demonstrating the model as suitable for the assessment of anti-hyperalgesic and anti-inflammatory agents. Anti-NGF (0.67 mg/kg sc, 60 min pre-carrageenan) produced a significant inhibition of thermal hyperalgesia, but not inflammation. NGF itself produced a time-dependent hyperalgesia, but not inflammation, following intraplantar injection. The specific MAPK pathway inhibitor, PD98059 (0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg sc, 30 min pre-carrageenan) significantly inhibited carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia, but not inflammation. These data demonstrate a role for both NGF and the MAPK signaling pathway in the production of thermal hyperalgesia, but not inflammation, in the mouse.
Precise regulation of neurotransmitter release is essential for the normal function of neural networks, but the mechanisms involved are largely unclear. Using superfused synaptosomes, we have studied the readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles, measured as the amount of release triggered by hypertonic sucrose. We show that activation of presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors by dihydroxyphenylglycine and stimulation of protein kinase C by phorbol esters enhance the readily releasable pool of glutamate. Although the molecular nature of the readily releasable pool is unknown, one possibility is that during its generation, SNARE proteins form full core complexes, and that core complex formation occurs prior to neurotransmitter release. To test this possibility, we employed N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), an inhibitor of the ATPase N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor that dissociates core complexes, to study the relation of the readily releasable pool to core complex assembly in synaptosomes. NEM induced a dose-dependent increase in the readily releasable pool of neurotransmitters but by itself did not trigger release. Direct measurements of core complexes confirmed that NEM caused an increase in the levels of SNARE core complexes under these conditions. Our data suggest that in the readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles, SNARE proteins are fully assembled into core complexes, and that SNARE complex assembly is a target of presynaptic regulation.
The mechanism(s) underlying lead neurotoxicity are not fully elucidated. cDNA expression microarray analysis identified lead-sensitive genes in immortalized human fetal astrocytes (SV-FHA). Of the represented genes expressed, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was one of the most sensitive. Lead induced VEGF mRNA 3-fold and VEGF protein approximately 2-fold with maximum mRNA induction following incubation with 10 micrometer lead acetate for 24 h. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), a potent protein kinase C (PKC) activator, increased VEGF mRNA 2-fold and PKC inhibition by GF-109203 completely blocked VEGF induction by lead. Expression of dominant-negative PKC-epsilon, but not PKC-alpha, completely inhibited VEGF mRNA induction by lead. Lead activated the transcription factor AP-1 and increased AP-1-dependent luciferase expression &gt;2-fold. Transfection of cells with a c-jun dominant-negative effectively inhibited both AP-1 activation and VEGF mRNA induction by lead. Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) activity in SV-FHAs was moderately increased by lead (86%) and PMA (96%). Pretreatment with GF-109203 completely inhibited these effects of lead and PMA. However, lead did not alter HIF-1-dependent luciferase expression and a HIF-1alpha dominant-negative had no effects on the induction of VEGF mRNA by lead. These findings indicate that lead induces VEGF expression in SV-FHAs via a PKC/AP-1-dependent and HIF-1-independent signaling pathway.
For the type I cGMP-dependent protein kinases (cGKIalpha and cGKIbeta), a high affinity interaction exists between the C2 amino group of cGMP and the hydroxyl side chain of a threonine conserved in most cGMP binding sites. To examine the effect of this interaction on ligand binding and kinase activation in the type II isozyme of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (cGKII), alanine was substituted for the conserved threonine or serine. cGKII was found to require the C2 amino group of cGMP and its cognate serine or threonine hydroxyl for efficient cGMP activation. Of the two binding sites, disruption of cGMP-specific binding in the NH(2)-terminal binding site had the greatest effect on cGMP-dependent kinase activation, like cGKI. However, ligand dissociation studies showed that the location of the rapid and slow dissociation sites of cGKII was reversed relative to cGKI. Another set of mutations that prevented cyclic nucleotide binding demonstrated the necessity of the NH(2)-terminal, rapid dissociation binding site for cyclic nucleotide-dependent activation of cGKII. These findings suggest distinct mechanisms of activation for cGKII and cGKI isoforms. Because cGKII mediates the effects of heat-stable enterotoxins via the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator Cl(-) channel, these findings define a structural target for drug design.
The pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (LM) receives direct input from the contralateral retina and is dedicated to the analysis of optic flowfields resulting from self-motion. The activity of 126 LM neurons in response to optic flow stimuli was recorded. As with previous studies, it was found that most neurons (approximately 90%) exhibited direction-selectivity to large-field stimuli moving in the contralateral hemifield. However, some neurons (approximately 10%) responded to stimulation of both eyes and had receptive field structures conducive for detection of particular patterns of optic flow resulting from either self-translation or self-rotation. These binocular neurons were maximally responsive to panoramic optic flowfields simulating either translational or rotational optic flow.
The full-length cDNA encoding aminopeptidase A (APAL) was cloned from a rat hippocampus cDNA library. A short variant aminopeptidase A (APAS), produced by deletion, was also cloned. In the case of APAL, the longest open reading frame encodes 945 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 108 kDa, and the deduced amino acid sequence shows 76, 86 and 78% identity with its human, murine and porcine counterparts, respectively. Rat aminopeptidase A mRNAs were detected in the kidney, liver, heart and brain by Northern blot analysis. When overexpressed in COS-1 cells, APAL shows apparent aminopeptidase A activity, whereas APAS does not.
The question of how our brains and those of other animals code sensory information is of fundamental importance to neuroscience research. Visual illusions offer valuable insight into the mechanisms of perceptual coding. One such illusion, the tilt after-effect (TAE), has been studied extensively since the 1930s, yet a full explanation of the effect has remained elusive. Here, we put forward an explanation of the TAE in terms of a functional role for adaptation in the visual cortex. The proposed model accounts not only for the phenomenology of the TAE, but also for spatial interactions in perceived tilt and the effects of adaptation on the perception of direction of motion and colour. We discuss the implications of the model for understanding the effects of adaptation and surround stimulation on the response properties of cortical neurons.
The progressive aggregation and deposition of amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) in brain regions subserving memory and cognition is an early and invariant feature of Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of cognitive failure in aged humans. Inhibiting Abeta aggregation is therapeutically attractive because this process is believed to be an exclusively pathological event. Whereas many studies have examined the aggregation of synthetic Abeta peptides under nonphysiological conditions and concentrations, we have detected and characterized the oligomerization of naturally secreted Abeta at nanomolar levels in cultures of APP-expressing CHO cells [Podlisny, M. B., Ostaszewski, B. L., Squazzo, S. L., Koo, E. H., Rydell, R. E., Teplow, D. B., and Selkoe, D. J. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 9564-9570 (1); Podlisny, M. B., Walsh, D. M., Amarante, P., Ostaszewski, B. L., Stimson, E. R., Maggio, J. E., Teplow, D. B., and Selkoe, D. J. (1998) Biochemistry 37, 3602-3611 (2)]. To determine whether similar species occur in vivo, we probed samples of human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and detected SDS-stable dimers of Abeta in some subjects. Incubation of CSF or of CHO conditioned medium at 37 degrees C did not lead to new oligomer formation. This inability to induce oligomers extracellularly as well as the detection of oligomers in cell medium very early during the course of pulse-chase experiments suggested that natural Abeta oligomers might first form intracellularly. We therefore searched for and detected intracellular Abeta oligomers, principally dimers, in primary human neurons and in neuronal and nonneural cell lines. These dimers arose intracellularly rather than being derived from the medium by reuptake. The dimers were particularly detectable in neural cells: the ratio of intracellular to extracellular oligomers was much higher in brain-derived than nonbrain cells. We conclude that the pathogenically critical process of Abeta oligomerization begins intraneuronally.
Perinatal development is often viewed as the major window of time for organization of steroid-sensitive neural circuits by steroid hormones. Behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to steroids are dramatically different before and after puberty, suggesting that puberty is another window of time during which gonadal steroids affect neural development. In the present study, we investigated whether the presence of gonadal hormones during pubertal development affects the number of androgen receptor and estrogen receptor alpha-immunoreactive (AR-ir and ER alpha-ir, respectively) cells in limbic regions. Male Syrian hamsters were castrated either before or after pubertal development, and 4 weeks later they received a single injection of testosterone or oil vehicle 4 h prior to tissue collection. Immunocytochemistry for AR and ER alpha was performed on brain sections from testosterone-treated and oil-treated males, respectively. Adult males that had been castrated before puberty had a greater number of AR-ir cells in the medial preoptic nucleus than adult males that had been castrated after puberty. There were no significant differences in ER alpha-ir cell number in any of the brain regions examined. The demonstration that exposure to gonadal hormones during pubertal development is associated with reduced AR-ir in the medial preoptic nucleus indicates that puberty is a period of neural development during which hormones shape steroid-sensitive neural circuits.
Vincristine, along with other antimitotic chemotherapeutic drugs, produces a peripheral neuropathy in humans that is accompanied by painful paresthesias, dysesthesias, and occasionally hypoesthesia, and by hyporeflexia (Holland et al. [1973] Cancer Res. 33:1258-1264; McLeod and Penny [1969] J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 32:297-304; Postma et al. [1993] J Neurooncol. 15:23-27; Sandler et al. [1969] Neurology 19:367-374). Systemic administration of vincristine causes swelling of unmyelinated axons and disorientation of axonal microtubules (Tanner et al. [1998a1998a] J Comp Neurol. 395:481-492) at a time when it also produces allodynia and mechanical hyperalgesia (Aley et al. [1996] Neuroscience 73:259-265; Authier et al. [1999] Neuroreport 10:965-968) and enhanced responsiveness in C-fibers in the rat (Tanner et al. [1998b] J Neurosci. 18:6480-6491). Because slowing of A-fiber conduction velocities had also been demonstrated (Tanner et al. [1998b] J Neurosci. 18:6480-6491), and mechanical hyperalgesia can occur secondary to damage to large diameter sensory afferents (Basbaum et al. [1991] Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 69:647-651; Coggeshall et al. [1993] Pain 52:233-242; Woolf and Mannion [1999] Lancet 353:1959-1964), we sought to determine whether vincristine also induced ultrastructural changes in myelinated A-fibers. Moreover, since systemic treatment with vincristine did not cause profound microtubule depolymerization in the unmyelinated axons of the peripheral nerve, we hypothesized that the drug's effects may be more extensive in the cell body, because in the spinal ganglion, the blood-nerve barrier is less restrictive. We used quantitative ultrastructural methods to analyze the microtubule cytoskeleton in myelinated axons in the mid-shaft of the saphenous nerve and in the sensory ganglion cells. Vincristine induced swelling of the whole nerve and an increase in the cross-sectional areas of myelinated axons but no loss of myelinated axons. There was a significant decrease in axonal microtubules, as well as microtubule disorganization, in myelinated fibers from vincristine-treated rats. In the spinal ganglion, vincristine induced swelling of large diameter sensory neurons and a build-up of neurofilaments in the cell bodies and proximal axons, suggestive of impaired anterograde axonal transport.
This study examined the first participants who registered for the Huntington's disease predictive testing program 1990-1995 in Stockholm, Sweden. A psychosocial investigation was performed to evaluate potential effects of the presymptomatic testing. The results showed no significant differences between 13 gene carriers and 21 noncarriers in pretest attitudes, expectations, general well-being, life satisfaction and lifestyle, the need for support, estimated sense of wellbeing or degree of health. However, both groups showed high suicidal ideation and self-injurious behavior. Noncarriers had a very high frequency of attempted suicide, and both groups had similarly pronounced psychiatric dysfunction. Their relatives also had high frequencies of psychiatric diseases, suicide or suicidal attempts. Most of the participants had a desire to meet a psychologist or a social worker. The need for counseling, using a well designed protocol, and the importance of focusing on suicide risk of participants in predictive testing programs is emphasized.
This paper provides an overview of research into early identification of children with developmental disabilities in child healthcare, especially those disabilities related to cognitive impairment. The review covers the following related topics: definition of the target group, the predictive value of developmental screening instruments and psychomotor tests, risk indexes, early intervention and evaluation of developmental screening programmes. Empirical research into child development and the predictive value of developmental tests is extensive. However, proportionally few, mostly cohort or case-control, studies focusing on evaluation of developmental screening programmes conducted within a clinical setting were found. Some sensitivity and most specificity rates reported fell within what is considered acceptable for developmental screening performed in the pre-school years, i.e. a sensitivity of more than 70% and a specificity between 70% and 80%. Overall, between 1-6% of the children screened were identified. Typically, most children with severe disabilities were identified prior to the screening or excluded from the studies reviewed. The shortcomings of developmental screening (instruments) and difficulties in early identification are discussed.



Low platelet monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) activity and the presence of the Taq1 A1 allele of the dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) gene have independently been proposed as 'biological/genetic' markers for alcoholism. In the present study, the relationship between these two markers was investigated in a group of socially stable Caucasian middle-aged men with a mean (+/-SD) daily ethanol consumption of 85 +/- 57 g. The platelet MAO-B activity was significantly lower in individuals with the DRD2 A1 allele (n = 8), compared to those without it (n = 29). This relationship remained unchanged when including only subjects who fulfilled DSM-IV criteria for alcohol dependence (n = 27). The finding suggests that alcoholics who are carriers of the DRD2 A1 allele may have lower platelet MAO-B activity.
Acetaldehyde, the first metabolite of ethanol, has been shown to be capable of binding covalently to liver proteins in vivo, which may be responsible for a variety of toxic effects of ethanol. Acetaldehyde-protein adducts have previously been detected in the liver of patients and experimental animals with alcoholic liver disease. Although a role for acetaldehyde as a possible mediator of ethanol-induced neurotoxicity has also been previously suggested, the formation of protein-acetaldehyde adducts in brain has not been examined. This study was designed to examine the occurrence of acetaldehyde-protein adducts in rat brain after lifelong ethanol exposure. A total of 27 male rats from the alcohol-preferring (AA) and alcohol-avoiding (ANA) lines were used. Four ANA rats and five AA rats were fed 10-12% (v/v) ethanol for 21 months. Both young (n = 10) and old (n = 8) rats receiving water were used as controls. Samples from frontal cortex, cerebellum and liver were processed for immunohistochemical detection of acetaldehyde adducts. In four (two ANA, two AA rats) of the nine ethanol-exposed rats, weak or moderate positive reactions for acetaldehyde adducts could be detected both in the frontal cortex and cerebellum, whereas no such immunostaining was found in the remaining five ethanol-treated rats or in the control rats. The positive reaction was localized to the white matter and some large neurons in layers 4 and 5 of the frontal cortex, and to the molecular layer of the cerebellum. Interestingly, the strongest positive reactions were found among the ANA rats, which are known to display high acetaldehyde levels during ethanol oxidation. We suggest that acetaldehyde may be involved in ethanol-induced neurotoxicity in vivo through formation of adducts with brain proteins and macromolecules.

Mutations in the X-linked gene doublecortin lead to &quot;double cortex&quot; syndrome (DC) in females and to X-linked lissencephaly (XLIS) in males. Because most patients with DC and XLIS are sporadic, representing de novo doublecortin mutations, we considered that some of these patients could be somatic or germline mosaics. Among a population of 20 patients and their families, we found evidence for mosaic doublecortin mutations in 6 individuals. Germline mosaicism was identified in two unaffected women, each with two affected children. Additionally, one affected male with DC was found to be a somatic mosaic, which presumably spared him from the more severe phenotype of lissencephaly. The high rate of mosaicism indicates that there may be a significant recurrence risk for DC/XLIS in families at risk, even when the mother is unaffected.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is liberated as part of the immune response to antigenic challenge, carcinogenesis, and radiation therapy. Previous studies have implicated elevated circulating levels of this cytokine in the gastric hypomotility associated with these disease states. Our earlier studies suggest that a site of action of TNF-alpha may be within the medullary dorsal vagal complex. In this study, we describe the role of TNF-alpha as a neuromodulator affecting neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract that are involved in vago-vagal reflex control of gastric motility. The results presented herein suggest that TNF-alpha may induce a persistent gastric stasis by functioning as a hormone that modulates intrinsic vago-vagal reflex pathways during illness.
Presynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) were studied in myenteric plexus preparations from guinea pig ileum using intracellular electrophysiological methods. Microapplication of nicotine (1 mM) caused a biphasic depolarization in all AH neurons (n = 30) and in 36 of 49 S neurons. Cytisine (1 mM) caused fast depolarizations in S neurons and no response in AH neurons. Mecamylamine (10 microM) blocked all responses caused by nicotine and cytisine. TTX (0.3 microM) blocked slow excitatory synaptic potentials in S and AH neurons but had no effect on fast depolarizations caused by nicotine. Nicotine-induced slow depolarizations were reduced by TTX in two of twelve AH neurons (79% inhibition) and four of nine S neurons (90+/-12% inhibition). Slow nicotine-induced depolarizations in the remaining neurons were TTX resistant. TTX-resistant slow depolarizations were inhibited after neurokinin receptor 3 desensitization caused by senktide (0.1 microM); senktide desensitization inhibited the slow nicotine-induced depolarization by 81+/-5% and 63+/-15% in AH and S neurons, respectively. A low-calcium and high-magnesium solution blocked nicotine-induced slow depolarizations in AH neurons. In conclusion, presynaptic nAChRs mediate the release of substance P and/or neurokinin A to cause slow depolarizations of myenteric neurons.
We hypothesize that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), a regulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, is involved in sleep-wake regulation on the basis of observations that the CRH receptor antagonist astressin, after a delay of several hours, reduces waking and increases slow-wave sleep (SWS) in rats. This delay suggests a cascade of events that begins with the HPA axis and culminates with actions on sleep regulatory systems in the central nervous system. One candidate mediator in the brain for these actions is interleukin (IL)-1. IL-1 promotes sleep, and glucocorticoids inhibit IL-1 synthesis. In this study, central administration of 12.5 microgram astressin into rats before dark onset reduced corticosterone 4 h after injection and increased mRNA expression for IL-1alpha and IL-1beta but not for IL-6 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the brain 6 h after injection. To determine directly whether IL-1 is involved in astressin-induced alterations in sleep-wake behavior, we then pretreated rats with 20 microgram anti-IL-1beta antibodies before injecting astressin. The increase in SWS and the reduction in waking that occur after astressin are abolished when animals are pretreated with anti-IL-1beta. These data indicate that IL-1 is a mediator of astressin-induced alterations in sleep-wake behavior.
Dehydrated dogs are known to inhibit secretion of vasopressin (VP) within minutes after drinking water, before plasma osmolality (P(osmol)) diminishes. The present studies determined whether water ingestion causes a similar rapid inhibition of neurohypophyseal hormone secretion in rats. Adult rats were infused with 1 M NaCl (2 ml/h iv) for 240 min to stimulate VP and oxytocin (OT) secretion. After 220 min of infusion, rats were given water to drink for 5 min, and blood samples were taken 5 and 15 min later for RIA. Plasma VP (pVP) was much lower when rats ingested water than when they drank nothing even though P(osmol) was not significantly altered. Plasma OT (pOT) was affected similarly. In contrast, no effects on pVP or pOT occurred when rats drank isotonic NaCl solution for 5 min in amounts comparable to the water intakes (approximately 5.5 ml). These results suggest that neurohypophyseal secretion of VP and OT in rats is inhibited rapidly by water drinking, and that this inhibition is mediated by a visceral signal of osmotic dilution rather than by the act of drinking per se.
The novel endogenous mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonists endomorphin 1 (EM1) and 2 (EM2) were tested for their cardiorespiratory effects in conscious, freely behaving rats. After systemic (intravenous) administration of EM1, EM2, or the selective MOR agonist DAMGO, analgesia, minute ventilation (V E), heart rate (HR) and mean arterial blood pressure (BP) were measured. The threshold dose for analgesia was similar for all 3 peptides ( approximately 900 nmol/kg). All 3 compounds elicited biphasic V E responses, with marked, short-lived V E depressions (4-6 s) followed by more sustained V E increases (10-12 min). However, compared with responses elicited by EM2 or DAMGO, EM1 decreased V E only at higher doses, and produced greater V E stimulation. Morphine produced a V E decrease, but no subsequent V E increase. EM2 and DAMGO decreased HR and BP, while EM1 decreased HR, but did not decrease BP in conscious rats at doses up to 9,600 nmol/kg. In anesthetized rats, all 3 peptides decreased HR and BP. The decreases in V E, HR, and BP were blocked by the MOR antagonist, naloxone HCI (NIx). Only the HR and BP responses, however, were blocked by naloxone-methiodide (MeNIx), indicating central mediation of V E responses and peripheral mediation of cardiovascular responses. We conclude that MOR-selective compounds vary in their cardiorespiratory response characteristics which could be linked to differential cellular actions. The results support the concept that the analgesic, respiratory, and cardiovascular effects of MOR agonists can be dissociated and that EM1-like compounds could provide the basis for novel, safer analgesics.

18-MC, a novel iboga alkaloid congener, is being developed as a potential treatment for multiple forms of drug abuse. Like ibogaine (40 mg/kg), 18-MC (40 mg/kg) decreases the intravenous self-administration of morphine and cocaine and the oral self-administration of ethanol and nicotine in rats; unlike ibogaine, 18-MC does not affect responding for a nondrug reinforcer (water). Both ibogaine and 18-MC ameliorate opioid withdrawal signs. Both ibogaine and 18-MC decrease extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, but only ibogaine increases extracellular levels of serotonin in the nucleus accumbens. Both ibogaine and 18-MC block morphine-induced and nicotine-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens; only ibogaine enhances cocaine-induced increases in accumbal dopamine. Both ibogaine and 18-MC enhance the locomotor and/or stereotypic effects of stimulants. Ibogaine attenuates, but 18-MC potentiates, the acute locomotor effects of morphine; both compounds attenuate morphine-induced locomotion in morphine-experienced rats. Ibogaine produces whole body tremors and, at high doses (&gt; or = 100 mg/kg), cerebellar damage; 18-MC does not produce these effects. Ibogaine, but not 18-MC, decreases heart rate at high doses. While 18-MC and ibogaine have similar affinities for kappa opioid and possibly nicotinic receptors, 18-MC has much lower affinities than ibogaine for NMDA and sigma-2 receptors, sodium channels, and the 5-HT transporter. Both 18-MC and ibogaine are sequestered in fat and, like ibogaine, 18-MC probably has an active metabolite. The data suggest that 18-MC has a narrower spectrum of actions and will have a substantially greater therapeutic index than ibogaine.
Methamphetamine (METH) and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or Ecstasy) are amphetamine analogs with high abuse potential. These drugs also cause damage to dopamine and serotonin nerve terminals in vivo. The mechanisms by which these drugs cause neurotoxicity are not known, but a great deal of attention has been focused on reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) as mediators of this toxicity. ROS and RNS have very short biological half-lives in vivo, and it is virtually impossible to measure them in brain directly. However, ROS and RNS are also characterized by their extreme reactivity with proteins and nucleotides. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the initial and rate limiting enzymes in the synthesis of serotonin and dopamine, respectively, are identified targets for the actions of METH and MDMA. Using recombinant forms of these proteins, we have found that nitric oxide, catechol-quinones, and peroxynitrite, all of which are potentially produced by the neurotoxic amphetamines, covalently modify both TPH and TH. The ROS and RNS cause reductions in catalytic function of these enzymes in a manner that is consistent with the effects of METH and MDMNA in vivo. Protein-bound ROS or RNS may serve as molecular footprints of neurotoxic amphetamine action.
As immediate-early genes (IEGs) are thought to play a critical role in mediating stimulus-induced neural plasticity, IEG response induced by methamphetamine (METH) has been characterized to define the changes in gene expression that may underlie its long-lasting behavioral effects. Although activation of several transcription factor IEGs has been described, little is known about effector IEGs. Here, we have examined whether METH administration affects expression of an effector IEG arc (activity-regulated, cytoskeleton-associated) that encodes a protein with homology to spectrin. Using in situ hybridization, we observed that METH caused a rapid and transient dose-dependent increase in arc mRNA level in the striatum and cortex that was abolished by pretreatment with the specific dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 but not by an atypical neuroleptic clozapine. METH induced arc mRNA in layers IV and VI of the cortex which dopamine receptor are localized to. These results suggest that D1 receptors are coupled to activation of arc gene, which may be involved in functional or structural alterations underlying neural plasticity triggered by METH.
Brain metabolism and the activity of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), a mitochondrial enzyme, are diminished in brains from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In 109 subjects, the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) score was highly correlated with brain KGDHC activity. In AD patients who carried the epsilon 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (ApoE4), the CDR score correlated better with KGDHC activity than with the densities of neuritic plaques or neuritic tangles. In contrast, in patients without ApoE4, the CDR score correlated significantly better with tangles and plaques than with KGDHC activity. The results suggest that mitochondrial/oxidative damage may be more important for the cognitive dysfunction in AD patients who carry ApoE4 than in those who do not.


Rolipram, a phosphodiesterase type 4 inhibitor, is reported to have anti-inflammatory effects. It can markedly downregulate antigen-driven T cell proliferation and suppress TNF-(alpha and TNF-beta production in vitro and in vivo, which have led to its use in the treatment of a number of autoimmune disorders including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN). EAN is a CD4+ T cell-mediated demyelinating autoimmune disease of peripheral nervous system (PNS) that represents an animal model for the study of the immunopathogenesis and immunotherapy of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) in human. In the previous study, we reported that suppression of EAN by Rolipram was associated with down-regulated myelin antigen-induced T cell responses as well as downregulated IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha production. Here we report that EAN induced in Lewis rats by inoculation with the PNS P2 protein peptide 57-81 and Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA), was strongly suppressed by Rolipram administered twice daily intraperitoneally from day 9 post immunization (p.i.), i.e. after onset of clinical EAN to day 18 p.i. This clinical effect was associated with dose-dependent down-regulated production of IFN-gamma and the chemokines macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha, MIP-2 and monocyte chemotactic protein-1(MCP-1) as well as up-regulated IL-4 production in sciatic nerve sections from Rolipram-treated EAN rats at maximum of clinical EAN, i.e. on day 14 p.i.. These findings suggest that Rolipram may be useful in certain T cell-dependent autoimmune diseases and inflammatory neuropathies. These observations call for further studies on the potential role of Rolipram in the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
We reported previously that supine subjects inside a furnished room who are tilted 90 degrees may experience themselves and the room as upright to gravity. We call this the levitation illusion because it creates sensations similar to those experienced in weightlessness. It is an example of a larger class of novel static reorientation illusions that we have explored. Stationary subjects inside a furnished room rotating about a horizontal axis experience complete self rotation about the roll or pitch axis. We call this a dynamic reorientation illusion. We have determined the incidence of static and dynamic reorientation illusions in subjects ranging in age from 9 to 78 yr. Some 90% of subjects of all ages experienced the dynamic reorientation illusion but the percentage of subjects experiencing static reorientation illusions increased with age. We propose that the dynamic illusion depends on a primitive mechanism of visual-vestibular interaction but that static reorientation illusions depend on learned visual cues to the vertical arising from the perceived tops and bottoms of familiar objects and spatial relationships between objects. Older people become more dependent on visual polarity to compensate for loss in vestibular sensitivity. Of 9 astronauts, 4 experienced the levitation illusion. The relationship between susceptibility to reorientation illusions on Earth and in space has still to be determined. We propose that the Space Station will be less disorienting if pictures of familiar objects line the walls.
The locomotor effects of acute amphetamine treatment (1 mg/kg, i.p.) were assessed in Long-Evans rats after 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5, 7-DHT) injections into the fimbria-fornix/cingular bundle (FiFx/CB; 4 microg/side), or the dorsal and median raphe (Raphe; 10 microg). In control rats, amphetamine induced a significant increase of home-cage activity for about 2 h. This effect was similar in Raphe rats, but was absent in FiFx/CB rats. The raphe lesions reduced serotonin concentrations by 50% in the dorsal hippocampus, 75% in the ventral hippocampus and 58% in the fronto-parietal cortex. After FiFx/CB lesions, the reduction amounted 50, 61 and only 25%, in each of these regions, respectively. In the fronto-partietal cortex, dopamine concentration was significantly decreased in Raphe (-27%) and FiFx/CB rats (-65%). The results suggest that a serotonergic denervation of the hippocampus by injections of 5,7-DHT into the FiFx/CB pathways hampers the stimulating effects of amphetamine on locomotor activity. This effect might be related to the reduced dopaminergic tone in the fronto-parietal cortex.
The elevated plus-maze has been used in animal research to measure anxiety since 1985 and is currently the most widely used animal model of anxiety. Since this paradigm has been the subject of several principal components analyses, it is well qualified for confirmatory factor analysis research. The current report builds on the substantial theoretical knowledge and empirical data obtained from these structural analyses with a view to obtain further progress in the evolution of our understanding of animal anxiety in the elevated plus-maze. The purpose of the present report was two-fold: (a) to test if the a piori imposition of a 3-factor model, or a competing 2-factor elevated plus-maze model, would fit our sample (n=200 CD-1 mice) data in each of two trials within an inferential confirmatory factor analytic framework; (b) provide a well-fitting model that confers indicator variables that can most effectively and parsimoniously measure underlying constructs of elevated plus-maze behaviour. Multiple model-fitting criteria were used, and issues related to data non-normality, outliers, replicability of the model, sampling error and error of approximation in the estimation of final model fit were addressed. The final 2-factor model, with estimated error covariance between two different pairs of indicator variables, was a good fit on the trial-1 data, although it was necessary to allow unprotected stretch attends to non-significantly cross-load on factor-2. A 2-factor model also fit the trial-2 data from the present analysis, although it was necessary to allow closed arm time ratio to negatively cross-load on factor-1. These results indicate that inferential hypothesis testing and model building procedures within a confirmatory factor analysis framework produces interpretable animal anxiety indices in the elevated plus-maze. Moreover, a 2-factor, rather than a 3-factor model, parsimoniously and unambiguously explained the underlying constructs of anxiety-like mouse behaviour in the elevated plus-maze in the present study. Taken together, a reduction in the growing number of behavioural indices reported in elevated plus-maze pharmacological studies is suggested.
The effect of posttraining D-amphetamine on Morris water task (MWT) performance was analyzed in this study by training rats using a single training trial per day procedure. In addition to acquisition latency, learning was assessed by a probe trial given 24 h after the last training trial. Rats given immediate post-trial D-amphetamine demonstrated improved performance over saline rats on both acquisition and the probe trial. An analysis of the mechanisms underlying facilitation revealed that eticlopride (a D2 antagonist) blocked D-amphetamine's facilitatory effects on the probe trial and dopamine synthesis was increased in the medial prefrontal cortex in the D-amphetamine group relative to controls. These results show that chronic administration of posttraining D-amphetamine facilitated MWT performance, and this facilitation may be mediated by the dopaminergic system and dopamine synthesis in the prefrontal cortex.
Response duration differentiation (RDD), an operant schedule requiring fine motor timing and control, was assessed as a possible baseline for study of the long-term consequences of nigrostriatal lesions and as a possible baseline to test the therapeutic efficacy of candidate palliative, neuroprotective and neurorestorative drugs. Rats were subjected to unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of striatum, medial forebrain bundle (mfb), or were sham lesioned, and their ability to acquire the operant task was studied in a single overnight session. In a second set of studies, rats that had been well trained in the RDD task were sham lesioned or were given unilateral 6-OHDA lesions of the mfb, and behavior under this baseline was studied for more than 30 weeks. Lesions of both striatum and of mfb resulted in impaired acquisition of RDD responding, with the relatively greater effect by the mfb lesion. In rats previously trained under the RDD schedule, mfb lesions produced marked disruptions in RDD performance, which did not fully recover. L-DOPA administration decreased the variability of the response durations, primarily by decreasing the proportion of short-duration lever presses.
The effect of richness of the environment on behavioral function was investigated in C57B6 mice. Animals were raised in either enriched (group-housed in large clear plexiglas cages with stimulating objects) or restricted (group housed in opaque white plastic cages with no stimulating objects) environmental conditions and their spatial learning and visual acuity were measured as adults. The performance of enriched and restricted groups were indistinguishable in place and cued versions of the Morris water task; however, the visual acuity of the enriched group, measured in a grating versus gray version of the visual water task, was 18% higher than the restricted group. These data demonstrate that the function of the mouse visual system can be significantly influenced by the nature of early visual input. They also indicate that the effects of environmental enrichment are manifested differently in behavioral measures of spatial learning and visual acuity.
In the development of medications for the treatment of cocaine abuse, the drug discrimination paradigm can be used to identify medications that can attenuate the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine. To ascertain that participants are basing the discrimination on the drug's central effects, this paradigm requires that the drug and placebo administrations do not produce any peripheral effects on which the discrimination can be based. This study examined whether intranasal cocaine (50 mg) can be discriminated from placebo (46 mg lactose + 4 mg cocaine), how quickly this discrimination can be made, and whether pretreatment with intranasal benzocaine can affect this discrimination. Results showed that subjects were generally able to discriminate the drug conditions correctly 15 s after administration, and this was unaffected by benzocaine. These results suggest that subjects base the discrimination on peripheral drug effects (e.g. taste) that are not affected by anaesthesia of the nasal passage, and that the intranasal route of cocaine administration is unlikely to be feasible with a drug discrimination paradigm.
In the rat, fear-potentiated startle (FPS) test animals are first trained to associate brief light presentations with a mild electric footshock and then tested for startle responses to acoustic stimuli, delivered either in darkness (i.e. baseline startle) or after the conditioning stimulus. Following light presentation the magnitude of the startle response is markedly increased, and the test is commonly used to distinguish anxiolytic drug effects (i.e. a reduction in FPS) from non-specific effects such as sedation/muscle relaxation. However, recent studies suggest that the environment in which the animal is trained may also contribute towards the acquisition of a conditioned fear response (i.e. contextual fear conditioning) and that this may elevate startle responses recorded in the dark. In the present study, therefore, we have compared the benzodiazepine/gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptor agonist chlordiazepoxide with the partial agonists FG 8205 and bretazenil, which are known to have a reduced propensity to produce sedation/myorelaxation, using two different FPS procedures: (i) conditioning and testing in stabilimeter chambers, and (ii) conditioning and testing in different environments. The results show that FPS can be demonstrated in both procedures and that treatment with chlordiazepoxide, FG 8205 or bretazenil dose-dependently attenuates the response. However, animals conditioned and tested in stabilimeter chambers also showed a significant increase in dark-startle amplitudes compared with non-shocked rats, suggesting that this response was elevated by contextual fear conditioning. Furthermore, despite clear differences in side-effect liabilities, FG 8205 and bretazenil significantly reduced dark-startle responses, suggesting that this measure is also sensitive to the anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines. In contrast, when animals were conditioned and tested in different environments, dark-startle responses were not significantly different from those recorded in non-shocked rats and treatment with FG 8205 or bretazenil had no effect. Thus, conditioning and testing animals in different environments may provide a more effective means of distinguishing anxiolytic from non-specific drug effects in the rat FPS test.
Cholera toxin, pertussis toxin, mastoparan, maitotoxin, and alpha-latrotoxin are complex protein or polyether-based toxins of bacterial, insect, or phytoplankton origin that act with high potency at the endocrine pancreas to stimulate secretion of insulin from beta-cells located in the islets of Langerhans. The remarkable insulinotropic properties of these toxins have attracted considerable attention by virtue of their use as selective molecular probes for analyses of beta-cell stimulus-secretion coupling. Targets of the toxins include heptahelical cell surface receptors, GTP-binding proteins, ion channels, Ca(2+) stores, and the exocytotic secretory apparatus. Here we review the value of insulinotropic toxins from the perspective of their established use in the study of signal transduction pathways activated by the blood glucose-lowering hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1). Our analysis of one insulinotropic toxin (alpha-latrotoxin) leads us to conclude that there exists a process of molecular mimicry whereby the 'lock and key'analogy inherent to hormone-receptor interactions is reproduced by a toxin related in structure to GLP-1.
The effects of low electromagnetic field (EMF) exposure (4.5-15.8 microT, 50 Hz AC) on neurite outgrowth and cell division in rat PC12 pheochromocytoma cells were examined. The study involved two separate experimental series in which culture conditions during exposure to the magnetic fields differed. In series 1 (14 experiments in which culture conditions were not strongly conducive to cell differentiation [15% serum]), exposure to 4.5-8.25 microT for 23 h significantly inhibited neurite outgrowth by 21.5 +/- 1.3% (by Manova, p = 0.003). In contrast, in series 2 (12 experiments in which culture conditions promoted cellular differentiation [4% serum]), exposure to 4.35-8.25 microT for 23 h significantly stimulated neurite outgrowth by 16.9 +/- 1.1% (by Manova, p = 0.009). Thus, in both series, exposure to a narrow range of low EMF has significant, but opposite effects on neurite outgrowth. Exposure to higher fields, 8.25-12.5 microT (series 1) and 8.25-15.8 microT (series 2) had no significant effect on neurite outgrowth. These data, when considered with other reports, suggest that neuronal differentiation can be altered by low level EMF exposure. While this may not be detrimental, it merits further research. At present, the reasons for the significant changes in neurite outgrowth being confined to the same narrow field strength are unclear. As stated above, culture conditions in series 2 were more conducive to cell differentiation than those in series 1. This is reflected in the lower number of cells in control samples in series 2, at the end of the 23-h incubation, than in series 1 (- 16.9 +/- 1.7%, p = 0.003). As the same numbers were plated in both series, the medium used in series 1 allows more of the PC12 cells to divide; this is consistent with some cells reverting to a non-neuronal adrenal chromaffin phenotype [L. Greene, A. Tischler. Establishment of a noradrenergic clonal line of rat adrenal pheochromocytoma cells which respond to nerve growth factor. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A., 73 (1976) 2424-2426]. Exposure to both ranges of magnetic fields (4.35-8.25 and 8.25-15.8 microT) has no effect on cell division. Thus, there is no evidence in this study that there is a mitogenic effect arising from low EMF exposure.

A computational model of the lesion and single unit data from navigation in rats is reviewed. The model uses external (visual) and internal (odometric) information from the environment to drive the firing of simulated hippocampal place cells. Constraints on the functional form of these inputs are drawn from experiments using an environment of modifiable shape. The place cell representation is used to guide navigation via the creation of a representation of goal location via Hebbian modification of synaptic strengths. The model includes consideration of the phase of firing of place cells with respect to the theta rhythm of hippocampal EEG. A series of predictions for behavioural and single-unit data in rats are derived from the input and output representations of the model.

It has become increasingly appreciated that the long-term treatment of complex neuropsychiatric disorders like bipolar disorder (BD) involves the strategic regulation of signaling pathways and gene expression in critical neuronal circuits. Accumulating evidence from our laboratories and others has identified the family of protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes as a shared target in the brain for the long-term action of both lithium and valproate (VPA) in the treatment of BD. In rats chronically treated with lithium at therapeutic levels, there is a reduction in the levels of frontal cortical and hippocampal membrane-associated PKC alpha and PKC epsilon. Using in vivO microdialysis, we have investigated the effects of chronic lithium on the intracellular cross-talk between PKC and the cyclic AMP (cAMP) generating system in vivo. We have found that activation of PKC produces an increase in dialysate cAMP levels in both prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, effects which are attenuated by chronic lithium administration. Lithium also regulates the activity of another major signaling pathway the c-Jun N-terminal kinase pathway--in a PKC-dependent manner. Both Li and VPA, at therapeutically relevant concentrations, increase the DNA binding of activator protein 1 (AP-1) family of transcription factors in cultured cells in vitro, and in rat brain ex vivo. Furthermore, both agents increase the expression of an AP-1 driven reporter gene, as well as the expression of several endogenous genes known to be regulated by AP-1. Together, these results suggest that the PKC signaling pathway and PKC-mediated gene expression may be important mediators of lithium's long-term therapeutic effects in a disorder as complex as BD.

1. This study made use of a nitric oxide-sensitive electrode to examine possible means of generating nitric oxide from nitroxyl anion (NO(-)) released upon the decomposition of Angeli's salt. 2. Our results show that copper ions (from CuSO(4)) catalyze the rapid and efficient oxidation of nitroxyl to nitric oxide. Indeed, the concentrations of copper required to do so (0.1 - 100 microM) are roughly 100-times lower than those required to generate equivalent amounts of nitric oxide from S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP). 3. Experiments with ascorbate (1 mM), which reduces Cu(2+) ions to Cu(+), and with the Cu(2+) chelators, EDTA and cuprizone, and the Cu(+) chelator, neocuproine, each at 1 mM, suggest that the oxidation is catalyzed by copper ions in both valency states. 4. Some compounds containing other transition metals, i.e. methaemoglobin, ferricytochrome c and Mn(III)TMPyP, were much less efficient than CuSO(4) in catalyzing the formation of nitric oxide from nitroxyl, while FeSO(4), FeCl(3), MnCl(2), and ZnSO(4) were inactive. 5. Of the copper containing enzymes examined, Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase and ceruloplasmin were weak generators of nitric oxide from nitroxyl, even at concentrations (2500 and 30 u ml(-1), respectively) vastly greater than are present endogenously. Two others, ascorbate oxidase (10 u ml(-1)) and tyrosinase (250 u ml(-1)) were inactive. 6. Our findings suggest that a copper-containing enzyme may be responsible for the rapid oxidation of nitroxyl to nitric oxide by cells, but the identity of such an enzyme remains elusive.

We aimed to determine the reproducibility of assessments made by independent reviewers of papers submitted for publication to clinical neuroscience journals and abstracts submitted for presentation at clinical neuroscience conferences. We studied two journals in which manuscripts were routinely assessed by two reviewers, and two conferences in which abstracts were routinely scored by multiple reviewers. Agreement between the reviewers as to whether manuscripts should be accepted, revised or rejected was not significantly greater than that expected by chance [kappa = 0.08, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.04 to -0.20] for 179 consecutive papers submitted to Journal A, and was poor (kappa = 0.28, 0.12 to 0. 40) for 116 papers submitted to Journal B. However, editors were very much more likely to publish papers when both reviewers recommended acceptance than when they disagreed or recommended rejection (Journal A, odds ratio = 73, 95% CI = 27 to 200; Journal B, 51, 17 to 155). There was little or no agreement between the reviewers as to the priority (low, medium, or high) for publication (Journal A, kappa = -0.12, 95% CI -0.30 to -0.11; Journal B, kappa = 0.27, 0.01 to 0.53). Abstracts submitted for presentation at the conferences were given a score of 1 (poor) to 6 (excellent) by multiple independent reviewers. For each conference, analysis of variance of the scores given to abstracts revealed that differences between individual abstracts accounted for only 10-20% of the total variance of the scores. Thus, although recommendations made by reviewers have considerable influence on the fate of both papers submitted to journals and abstracts submitted to conferences, agreement between reviewers in clinical neuroscience was little greater than would be expected by chance alone.
Amnesic patients often show improved performance when stimuli are repeated, even in the absence of conscious memory for those stimuli. Although these performance changes are typically attributed to perceptual or motor systems, in some cases they may be related to basic language processing. We examined two neurophysiological measures that vary with word repetition in 12 amnesic patients and 12 control subjects: (i) a late positive component of the event-related potential (ERP) linked to conscious memory and (ii) the N400 component that varies with language comprehension. In each trial, the subject heard a category name, then viewed a word, and then decided whether the word was semantically congruous or incongruous (e.g. 'yes' for 'baby animal: cub'; 'no' for 'water sport: kitchen'). Recall and recognition testing at the end of the experiment showed that control subjects had better memory for congruous than for incongruous words, as did the amnesic patients, who performed less well overall. In contrast, amnesic patients were unimpaired on the category decisions required in each trial and, like the control subjects, showed a large N400 for incongruous relative to congruous words. Similarly, when incongruous trials were repeated after 0-13 intervening trials, N400s were reduced in both groups. When congruous trials were repeated, a late positive repetition effect was observed, but only in the control group. Furthermore, the amplitude of the late positive repetition effect was highly correlated with later word recall in both patients and controls. In the patients, the correlation was also observed with memory scores from standardized neuropsychological tests. These data are consistent with a proposed link between the late positive repetition effect and conscious memory. On the other hand, the N400 repetition effect was not correlated with episodic memory abilities, but instead indexed an aspect of memory that was intact in the amnesic patients. The preserved N400 repetition effect is an example of preserved memory in amnesia that does not easily fit into the categories of low-level perceptual processing or of motor learning. Instead, the sensitivity of the N400 to both semantic context and repetition may reflect a short-term memory process that serves language comprehension in realtime.
Ischaemic stroke can be caused by a number of monogenic disorders, and in such cases stroke is frequently part of a multisystem disorder. Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leucoencephalopathy (CADASIL), due to mutations in the NOTCH: 3 gene, is increasingly appreciated as a cause of familial subcortical stroke. The genetics and phenotypes of monogenic stroke are covered in this review. However, the majority of cases of ischaemic stroke are multifactorial in aetiology. Strong evidence from epidemiological and animal studies has implicated genetic influences in the pathogenesis of multifactorial ischaemic stroke, but the identification of individual causative mutations remains problematic; this is in part limited by the number of approaches currently available. In addition, genetic influences are likely to be polygenic, and ischaemic stroke itself consists of a number of different phenotypes which may each have different genetic profiles. Almost all human studies to date have employed a candidate gene approach. Associations with polymorphisms in a variety of candidate genes have been investigated, including haemostatic genes, genes controlling homocysteine metabolism, the angiotensin-converting enzyme gene, and the endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene. The results of these studies, and the advantages and limitations of the candidate gene approach, are presented. The recent biological revolution, spurred by the human genome project, promises the advent of novel technologies supported by bioinformatics resources that will transform the study of polygenic disorders such as stroke. Their potential application to polygenic ischaemic stroke is discussed.
Adult axolotls have approximately 1,400 taste buds in the epithelium of the pharyngeal roof and floor and the medial surfaces of the visceral bars. These receptors are most dense on the lingual surfaces of the upper and lower jaws, slightly less dense throughout lateral portions of the pharyngeal roof and floor, and more sparse within medial portions of the pharyngeal roof and floor, except for a median oval patch of receptors located rostrally between the vomerine tooth fields. Each taste bud is a pear-shaped organ, situated at the center of a raised hillock and averaging 80 and 87 microm in height and width, respectively. Each comprises 50 to 80 cells, which can be classified as basal, dark fusiform, or light fusiform, based on differences in their morphology. The distal ends of the apical processes of the fusiform cells reach the surface of each hillock, forming a single taste pore with an average diameter of 15 microm. Each apical process terminates in one of three ways: as short, evenly spaced microvilli; as long clustered microvilli; or as large, stereocilia-like microvilli. The pharyngeal epithelium and associated taste buds in axolotls are innervated solely by rami of the facial, glossopharyngeal and vagal nerves. Approximately, the rostral one half of the pharyngeal roof is innervated by the palatine rami of the facial nerve, whereas the caudal one half of the pharyngeal roof is innervated by the pharyngeal rami of the glossopharyngeal and vagal nerves. The lingual surface of the lower jaw is innervated by the pretrematic (mandibular) ramus of the facial nerve. The dorsal two-thirds of the visceral arches, and the ventral one-third of the visceral arches and the pharyngeal floor, are innervated by both the pretrematic and post-trematic rami of the glossopharyngeal and vagal nerves, respectively.
We have studied the function of inhibitory interneurons within the motor cortex in several movement disorders using a paired-pulse magnetic stimulation technique. Their function was disturbed in patients with dystonia or focal lesions of the basal ganglia. On the other hand, the inhibition was normal in patients with chorea or essential tremor. The inhibitory circuit in the motor cortex must be functionally involved in some movement disorders probably because of changes of the inputs from basal ganglia to motor cortices, but not involved in the others. This difference in the functional involvement of inhibitory interneurons of the motor cortex may reflect different pathogenesis of these movement disorders.
Environmental light-dark alternation is the most potent zeitgeber of circadian rhythm in most organisms. Responses of the circadian system to brief light pulses and rectangular light-dark cycles have been extensively studied in many species. Under natural conditions, however, light intensity changes gradually throughout the day, and light-responsive neurons in the mammalian circadian system have response characteristics suitable for detection of gradual changes in light intensity during twilight. Several researchers have examined rhythm-entraining properties of artificial twilight and fluctuating light intensity cycles, and have stressed the importance of gradual transition between light and darkness for entrainment of circadian rhythms. But many questions about photic entrainment still remain to be answered. Further studies on entrainment of circadian rhythms will be useful for prevention and treatment of circadian rhythm-related disorders.
The nucleus accumbens (Acb), a major sector of the ventral striatum, is considered to be an integral part of the striatal complex. The Acb has been shown to be composed of two subdivisions, core and shell, which are distinguishable in several aspects, suggesting that these two subdivisions play different functional roles. The aim of this study was to identify pathways of the efferents of the shell of the Acb to influence the outflow of the core of the Acb. Potential disynaptic projections of the shell to the core of the Acb were investigated in chloral hydrate-anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats. Following ipsilateral injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the shell of the Acb and cholera toxin B subunit (CT-B) into the core, strong overlapping distributions of BDA-labeled terminals and CT-B-labeled neuronal cell somata were found in the medial part of the ventral tegmental area, medial part of the lateral hypothalamic area, and dorsolateral part of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus. The significance of multiple sites of relay between the efferents of the shell and the afferents of the core of the Acb at different levels of the neuraxis may be related to the functional specificity of each relay site.
The functional specificity of different brain areas recruited in auditory language processing was investigated by means of event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while subjects listened to speech input varying in the presence or absence of semantic and syntactic information. There were two sentence conditions containing syntactic structure, i.e., normal speech (consisting of function and content words), syntactic speech (consisting of function words and pseudowords), and two word-list conditions, i.e., real words and pseudowords. The processing of auditory language, in general, correlates with significant activation in the primary auditory cortices and in adjacent compartments of the superior temporal gyrus bilaterally. Processing of normal speech appeared to have a special status, as no frontal activation was observed in this case but was seen in the three other conditions. This difference may point toward a certain automaticity of the linguistic processes used during normal speech comprehension. When considering the three other conditions, we found that these were correlated with activation in both left and right frontal cortices. An increase of activation in the planum polare bilaterally and in the deep portion of the left frontal operculum was found exclusively when syntactic processes were in focus. Thus, the present data may be taken to suggest an involvement of the left frontal and bilateral temporal cortex when processing syntactic information during comprehension.
Gabapentin, a drug useful in several neurological and psychiatric disorders, decreased K(+) (15 mM)-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase in Fura-PE3-loaded rat neocortical synaptosomes (IC(50)=9.7 microM; submaximal inhibition of 28.6%). This effect may indicate a selective modulation of presynaptic Ca(2+) influx in response to depolarizing (pathological) conditions causing excessive neurotransmitter release.
A widely postulated mechanism of action for the atypical profile of many novel antipsychotic drugs (APDs) is their relatively high affinity for 5-HT(2) receptors. The present study investigated motor function and striatal dopamine (DA) efflux and metabolism in rats given 21 daily injections of drugs that differed in 5-HT(2) affinity. These drugs included: risperidone (high 5-HT(2A/2C)/high D(2)), clozapine (high 5-HT(2A/2C)/low D(2)), haloperidol (low 5-HT(2A/2C)/high D(2)), haloperidol+ritanserin (selective 5-HT(2A/2C)), or vehicle. Rats injected with haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) or haloperidol+ritanserin (0.5 mg/kg and 1.0 mg/kg, respectively) showed extreme catalepsy on day 1, but significantly decreased catalepsy when tested again on days 7 and 21. Acute or subchronic risperidone (0.05 or 0.5 mg/kg), clozapine (20 mg/kg), or vehicle did not induce significant catalepsy. Microdialysis performed 24 h after the last injection demonstrated that rats treated with risperidone, clozapine, or vehicle showed similar increases in DA efflux and metabolism following an acute injection of a selective DA D(2/3) antagonist (raclopride, 0.5 mg/kg). DA efflux showed an attenuated response to raclopride in the haloperidol alone group; this effect was less apparent in the haloperidol+ritanserin group. However, both of these groups showed a similar tolerance effect to the raclopride-induced increase in DA metabolites. These results suggest that the profile seen after subchronic risperidone more closely resembles clozapine than haloperidol. While ritanserin reduced the tolerance-like effects of haloperidol on striatal DA efflux, the overall results demonstrate that potent 5-HT(2) blockade alone may not entirely account for the distinctive profile of novel APDs.
A comparative analysis of catecholaminergic systems in the brain and spinal cord of vertebrates forces to reconsider several aspects of the organization of catecholamine systems. Evidence has been provided for the existence of extensive, putatively catecholaminergic cell groups in the spinal cord, the pretectum, the habenular region, and cortical and subcortical telencephalic areas. Moreover, putatively dopamine- and noradrenaline-accumulating cells have been demonstrated in the hypothalamic periventricular organ of almost every non-mammalian vertebrate studied. In contrast with the classical idea that the evolution of catecholamine systems is marked by an increase in complexity going from anamniotes to amniotes, it is now evident that the brains of anamniotes contain catecholaminergic cell groups, of which the counterparts in amniotes have lost the capacity to produce catecholamines. Moreover, a segmental approach in studying the organization of catecholaminergic systems is advocated. Such an approach has recently led to the conclusion that the chemoarchitecture and connections of the basal ganglia of anamniote and amniote tetrapods are largely comparable. This review has also brought together data about the distribution of receptors and catecholaminergic fibers as well as data about developmental aspects. From these data it has become clear that there is a good match between catecholaminergic fibers and receptors, but, at many places, volume transmission seems to play an important role. Finally, although the available data are still limited, striking differences are observed in the spatiotemporal sequence of appearance of catecholaminergic cell groups, in particular those in the retina and olfactory bulb.
A neuroprotective role for adenosine is commonly assumed. Recent studies revealed that adenosine may unexpectedly, under certain circumstances, have the opposite effects contributing to neuronal damage and death. The basis for this duality may be the activation of distinct subtypes of adenosine receptors, interactions between these receptors, differential actions on neuronal and glial cells, and various time frames of adenosinergic compounds administration. If these aspects are understood, adenosine should remain an interesting target for therapeutical neuroprotective approaches after all.
Neurotrophins are released from target tissues following neural innervation and bind to specific receptors situated on the nerve terminal plasma membrane. The neurotrophin-receptor complex undergoes retrograde axonal transport towards the cell soma, where it signals to the nucleus. This process allows neurotrophins to perform their numerous functions, which include the promotion of neuronal survival and the outgrowth of axons towards certain target tissues. The molecular events controlling each of the components of retrograde axonal transport are beginning to become defined. There is good evidence for the participation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase and the actin cytoskeleton in neurotrophin retrograde axonal transport in vivo. It also appears that the retrograde motor protein dynein mediates the retrograde axonal transport in vivo of neurotrophins such as nerve growth factor. This review discusses the role of the neurotrophin receptors in binding and axonal transport, the endocytic processes required for neurotrophin internalization, the targeting and trafficking of neurotrophins, and the propagation of neurotrophin-induced signals along the axon.
The cerebellum and motor cortices are hypothesized to make fundamentally different but synergistic contributions to the control of movement. Richly interconnected, these structures must communicate and translate salient parameters of movement. This review examines the similarities and differences in the encoding of multiple limb movement parameters in the cerebellum and motor cortices. Also presented are recent data on direction and speed coding by cerebellar Purkinje cells and primary motor and dorsal premotor cortical neurons during a visually-instructed, manual tracking task. Both similarities and differences have been found in the way that these two motor areas process movement parameters. For example, the two motor control structures encode direction with almost identical depths of modulation, which may simplify the exchange of directional signals. Two major differences between the cerebellum and motor cortices consist of the distribution of the preferred directions and the manner in which direction and speed are jointly signaled within the discharge of individual neurons. First, an anterior-posterior distribution of preferred directions has been shown for both reaching and manual tracking, consistent with an intrinsic reference frame and/or the structure of afferent input. In contrast, neurons in the motor cortices have uniformly distributed preferred directions, consistent with general purpose directional calculations. Secondly, Purkinje cells in the cerebellum and motor cortices combine movement direction and speed information differently. For example, Purkinje cell discharge encodes combinations of direction and speed, a 'preferred velocity', while the motor cortical neurons use a temporal parcellation scheme to encode multiple parameters of movement. These results demonstrate that the cerebellum and motor cortices process and use kinematic information in fundamentally different ways that may underlie the functional uniqueness of the two motor control structures.
The effects of brief but repeated bouts of micro- and hypergravity on cerebrovascular responses to head-up tilt (HUT) were examined in 13 individuals after (compared to before) parabolic flight. Middle cerebral artery mean flow velocity (MCA MFV; transcranial Doppler ultrasound), eye level blood pressure (BP) and end tidal CO(2) (P(ET)CO(2)) were measured while supine and during 80 degrees HUT for 30 min or until presyncope. In the postflight tests subjects were classified as being orthostatically tolerant (OT) (n = 7) or intolerant (OI) (n = 6). BP was diminished with HUT in the OT group in both tests (p &lt; 0.05) whereas postflight BP was not different from supine in the OI group. Postflight compared to preflight, the reduction in P(ET)CO(2) with HUT (p &lt; 0.05) increased in both groups, although significantly so only in the OI group (p &lt; 0.05). The OI group also had a significant decrease in supine MCA MFV postflight (p &lt; 0.05) that was unaccompanied by a change in supine P(ET)CO(2). The decrease in MCA MFV that occurred during HUT in both groups preflight (p &lt; 0.05) was accentuated only in the OI group postflight, particularly during the final 30 s of HUT (p &lt; 0.05). However, this accentuated decrease in MCA MFV was not correlated to the greater decrease in P(ET)CO(2) during the same period (R = 0.20, p = 0.42). Although cerebral vascular resistance (CVR) also increased in the OI group during the last 30 s of HUT postflight (p &lt; 0.05), the dynamic autoregulatory gain was not simultaneously changed. Therefore, we conclude that in the OI individuals, parabolic flight was associated with cerebral hypoperfusion following a paradoxical augmentation of CVR by a mechanism that was not related to changes in autoregulation nor strictly to changes in P(ET)CO(2).
This paper will discuss experiments dedicated to the exploration of pathways linking the sensorimotor cortex (SMC) and the main bulbar nuclei involved in cardiovascular control: the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), the dorsal nucleus of the vagus (DMV) and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). Results obtained through neurofunctional and neuroanatomical methods are presented in order to bring new answers to relevant points concerning somato-cardiovascular integration: firstly to show the ability of the SMC to influence neurons in bulbar cardiovascular nuclei, and secondly to identify pathways that transmit such influences. The neurofunctional approach, based on the identification of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons, indicated that the SMC has functional connections with cardiovascular bulbar nuclei. The neuroanatomical approach, which employed retrograde and anterograde axonal tracing methods, provided evidence of direct projections from the SMC to NTS/DMV and RVLM. Furthermore, experiments showed clearly that corticospinal neurons sent collaterals to bulbar cardiovascular nuclei, especially to the RVLM. Direct cortical projections to the NTS/DMV and the RVLM provide the anatomical basis for cortical influences on the baroreceptor reflex and sympathetic vasomotor mechanisms for blood pressure control, and support the hypothesis of cortical commands coupling somatic and cardiovascular outputs for action.
It is well established that labyrinth and neck afferent information contributes to the regulation of somatomotor function during movement and changes in posture. There is also convincing evidence that the vestibular system participates in the modulation of sympathetic outflow and cardiovascular function during changes in posture, presumably to prevent orthostatic hypotension. However, the labyrinth organs do not provide any signals concerning body movements with respect to the head. In contrast, the neck receptors, particularly muscle spindles, are well located and suited to provide information about changes in body position with respect to the head and vestibular signals. Studies in the cat suggest that neck afferent information may modulate the vestibulosympathetic reflex responses to head-neck movements. There is some evidence in the cat to suggest involvement of low threshold mechanoreceptors. However, human studies do not indicate that low threshold mechanoreceptors in the neck modulate cardiovascular responses. The human studies are consistent with the studies in the cat in that they demonstrate the importance of otolith activation in mediating cardiovascular and sympathetic responses to changes in posture. This paper briefly reviews the current experimental evidence concerning the involvement of neck afferent information in the modulation of cardiovascular control during movement and changes in posture.
Although the orthostatic cardio-respiratory response is primarily mediated by the baroreflex, studies have shown that vestibular cues also contribute in both humans and animals. We have demonstrated a visually mediated response to illusory tilt in some human subjects. Blood pressure, heart and respiration rate, and lung volume were monitored in 16 supine human subjects during two types of visual stimulation, and compared with responses to real passive whole body tilt from supine to head 80 degrees upright. Visual tilt stimuli consisted of either a static scene from an overhead mirror or constant velocity scene motion along different body axes generated by an ultra-wide dome projection system. Visual vertical cues were initially aligned with the longitudinal body axis. Subjective tilt and self-motion were reported verbally. Although significant changes in cardio-respiratory parameters to illusory tilts could not be demonstrated for the entire group, several subjects showed significant transient decreases in mean blood pressure resembling their initial response to passive head-up tilt. Changes in pulse pressure and a slight elevation in heart rate were noted. These transient responses are consistent with the hypothesis that visual-vestibular input contributes to the initial cardiovascular adjustment to a change in posture in humans. On average the static scene elicited perceived tilt without rotation. Dome scene pitch and yaw elicited perceived tilt and rotation, and dome roll motion elicited perceived rotation without tilt. A significant correlation between the magnitude of physiological and subjective reports could not be demonstrated.
Growing evidence suggests a role for the vestibular system in regulation of autonomic outflow during postural adjustments. In the present paper we review evidence for the patterning of sympathetic nerve activity elicited by vestibular stimulation. In response to electrical activation of vestibular afferents, firing of sympathetic nerves located throughout the body is altered. However, activity of the renal nerve is most sensitive to vestibular inputs. In contrast, high-intensity simultaneous activation of cutaneous and muscle inputs elicits equivalent changes in firing of the renal, superior mesenteric and lumbar colonic nerves. Responses of muscle vasoconstrictor (MVC) efferents to vestibular stimulation are either inhibitory (Type I) or are comprised of a combination of excitation and inhibition (Type II). Interestingly, single MVC units located in the hindlimb exhibited predominantly Type I responses while those located in the forelimb and face exhibited Type II responses. Furthermore, brachial and femoral arterial blood flows were dissociated in response to vestibular stimulation, such that brachial vascular resistance increased while femoral resistance decreased. These studies demonstrate that vestibulosympathetic reflexes are patterned according to both the anatomical location and innervation target of a particular sympathetic nerve, and can lead to distinct changes in local blood flow.
Data collected in both human subjects and animal models indicate that the vestibular system influences the control of blood pressure. In animals, peripheral vestibular lesions diminish the capacity to rapidly and accurately make cardiovascular adjustments to changes in posture. Thus, one role of vestibulo-cardiovascular influences is to elicit changes in blood distribution in the body so that stable blood pressure is maintained during movement. However, deficits in correcting blood pressure following vestibular lesions diminish over time, and are less severe when non-labyrinthine sensory cues regarding body position in space are provided. These observations show that pathways that mediate vestibulo-sympathetic reflexes can be subject to plastic changes. This review considers the adaptive plasticity in cardiovascular responses elicited by the central vestibular system. Recent data indicate that the posterior cerebellar vermis may play an important role in adaptation of these responses, such that ablation of the posterior vermis impairs recovery of orthostatic tolerance following subsequent vestibular lesions. Furthermore, recent experiments suggest that non-labyrinthine inputs to the central vestibular system may be important in controlling blood pressure during movement, particularly following vestibular dysfunction. A number of sensory inputs appear to be integrated to produce cardiovascular adjustments during changes in posture. Although loss of any one of these inputs does not induce lability in blood pressure, it is likely that maximal blood pressure stability is achieved by the integration of a variety of sensory cues signaling body position in space.
We investigated the time-course and scalp topography of multisensory interactions between simultaneous auditory and somatosensory stimulation in humans. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 64 scalp electrodes while subjects were presented with auditory-alone stimulation (1000-Hz tones), somatosensory-alone stimulation (median nerve electrical pulses), and simultaneous auditory-somatosensory (AS) combined stimulation. Interaction effects were assessed by comparing the responses to combined stimulation with the algebraic sum of responses to the constituent auditory and somatosensory stimuli when they were presented alone. Spatiotemporal analysis of ERPs and scalp current density (SCD) topographies revealed AS interaction over the central/postcentral scalp which onset at approximately 50 ms post-stimulus presentation. Both the topography and timing of these interactions are consistent with multisensory integration early in the cortical processing hierarchy, in brain regions traditionally held to be unisensory.
This article is a transcription of an electronic symposium in which some active researchers were invited by the Brazilian Society for Neuroscience and Behavior (SBNeC) to discuss the last decade's advances in neurobiology of learning and memory. The way different parts of the brain are recruited during the storage of different kinds of memory (e.g., short-term vs long-term memory, declarative vs procedural memory) and even the property of these divisions were discussed. It was pointed out that the brain does not really store memories, but stores traces of information that are later used to create memories, not always expressing a completely veridical picture of the past experienced reality. To perform this process different parts of the brain act as important nodes of the neural network that encode, store and retrieve the information that will be used to create memories. Some of the brain regions are recognizably active during the activation of short-term working memory (e.g., prefrontal cortex), or the storage of information retrieved as long-term explicit memories (e.g., hippocampus and related cortical areas) or the modulation of the storage of memories related to emotional events (e.g., amygdala). This does not mean that there is a separate neural structure completely supporting the storage of each kind of memory but means that these memories critically depend on the functioning of these neural structures. The current view is that there is no sense in talking about hippocampus-based or amygdala-based memory since this implies that there is a one-to-one correspondence. The present question to be solved is how systems interact in memory. The pertinence of attributing a critical role to cellular processes like synaptic tagging and protein kinase A activation to explain the memory storage processes at the cellular level was also discussed.
Transgenic mice expressing c-myc and v-Ha-ras specifically in the mammary gland under the control of the mammary specific promoter MMTV develop unifocal mammary tumors with a half time of about 46 days, and these tumors express high levels of osteopontin mRNA and protein. In order to evaluate the requirement for osteopontin expression by these tumors, we have crossed transgenic mice expressing these two oncogenes with mice with a targeted disruption of the osteopontin gene. Littermates expressing both myc and ras, and with either wild-type or disrupted OPN alleles were evaluated for tumor incidence and growth rate. Both of these parameters were found to be unaffected by a lack of osteopontin in the whole animal. Ras and myc expression level, measured at the level of mRNA, was not different in tumors of the two genotypes. Macrophage accumulation, while extremely variable among different tumors, did not correlate with the OPN status of the animals. Expression of the related gene BSP was not detected in any of the tumors, and was similar in bones of wildtype and OPN -/- mice. Similarly, the vitronectin gene was expressed at very low levels in tumors of either genotype. These results indicate that despite its high level of expression, OPN is either not required for mammary primary tumor formation and growth in this system, or can be replaced by molecules other than BSP and vitronectin in mice that totally lack osteopontin.

We have studied the action of cholinergic agonists on outer hair cells, both in situ and isolated from the cochlea of the guinea pig, combining new fast CCD technology for Ca2+ imaging and conventional patch-clamp methods. Carbachol (1 mM) activated a current with a reversal potential near -70 mV and a bell-shaped I-V curve, suggesting that it was a Ca2+ activated K+ current. In a few cells, this current was preceded by a transient inward current, probably owing to an influx of Ca2+ and other cations through the acetylcholine (ACh) receptors. The amplitude of the Ca2+ signal was maximal in a circumscribed region at the basal pole of the cell and decreased steeply towards the apical pole, compatible with Ca2+ influx and/or Ca2+ induced Ca2+ release at the cells base. The time course of the Ca2+ rise was fastest at the base, but it was still slightly slower, and more rounded, than that of the K+ current. In some recordings the K+ current was observed without any measurable change of intracellular Ca2+. The K+ current was potentiated (18%) by caffeine (5 mM), and decreased (19%) by ryanodine (0.1 mM) in the majority of cells tested. The results are discussed in terms of a labile intracellular Ca2+ store located at the base of the cell, close to the Ca2+ permeable ACh receptor channels and Ca2+ activated K+ channels, whose contribution to the Ca2+ rise occurring in the region of the channels is variable, and probably dependent on its ability to refill with Ca2+.

Nerve growth factor (NGF) exerts both trophic (cell survival) and tropic (axonal growth-promoting) effects on several neuronal populations. In particular, its robust ability to prevent lesion-induced and spontaneous age-related basal forebrain cholinergic neuronal degeneration, and to promote mnemonic recovery, has suggested its potential use as a therapeutic agent in Alzheimer's disease. When infused intracerebroventricularly, however, NGF is associated with several adverse effects that make this delivery route impractical. The present study examined whether intraparenchymal infusions of NGF adjacent to cholinergic neuronal soma are an effective and well-tolerated means of providing NGF to degenerating cholinergic neurons. Cholinergic neuronal rescue together with axonal sprouting responses and local tissue damage in the brain were assessed in adult rats that underwent complete unilateral fornix transections, followed by intraparenchymal infusions of recombinant human NGF for a 2-week period. Intraparenchymal NGF infusions prevented the degeneration of 94.7+/-6.6% of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons compared to 21.7+/-2.6% in vehicle-infused animals (p &lt; 0.0001). Cholinergic axons sprouted toward the intraparenchymal NGF source in an apparent gradient-dependent manner. Glial responses to intraparenchymal infusions were minimal, and no apparent toxic effects of the infusions were observed. Thus, when infused intraparenchymally, NGF rescues basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, alters the topography of axonal sprouting responses, and does not induce adverse affects over a 2-week infusion period. Intraparenchymal NGF delivery merits further study at longer term time points as a means of treating the cholinergic component of neuronal loss in Alzheimer's disease.
Transplantation of embryonic ventral mesencephalon is a potential therapy for patients with Parkinson's disease. As only around 5-10% of embryonic dopaminergic neurons survive grafting into the adult striatum, it is considered necessary to use multiple donor embryos. To increase the survival of the grafted dopaminergic neurons, the clinical transplantation program in Lund currently employs the lipid peroxidation inhibitor, tirilazad mesylate, in all solutions used during tissue storage, preparation, and transplantation. However, the difficulty in obtaining a sufficient number of donor embryos still remains an important limiting factor for the clinical application of neural transplantation. In many clinical transplantation programs, it would be a great advantage if human nigral donor tissue could be stored for at least 1 week. This study was performed in order to investigate whether storage of embryonic tissue at 4 degrees C for 8 days can be applied clinically without creating a need to increase the number of donors. We compared the survival of freshly grafted rat nigral tissue, prepared according to the clinical protocol, with tissue transplanted after hibernation. Thus, in all groups tirilazad mesylate was omnipresent. One group of rats was implanted with fresh tissue and three groups with hibernated tissue with or without addition of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the hibernation medium and/or the final cell suspension. Earlier studies have suggested that GDNF improves the survival of hibernated nigral transplants. We found no statistically significant difference between the groups regarding graft survival after 3 weeks. However, there was a nonsignificant trend for fewer surviving dopaminergic neurons in grafts from hibernated tissue compared to fresh controls. Furthermore, we show that the addition of GDNF to the hibernation medium and/or to the final cell suspension does not significantly increase the survival of the dopaminergic neurons.
It has been hypothesized that language functions are more strongly lateralized to the left hemisphere in males than in females. Previous anatomical data and patient studies have suggested that the posterior language areas should exhibit sex differences. However, neuroimaging studies to date have only provided support for differences in the anterior language areas. To look for differences in the posterior language areas, functional magnetic resonance imaging scans were obtained while male and female subjects listened attentively to a story read aloud and to the same story replayed in reverse. Comparing activation in the superior and the middle temporal gyri during a story to activation during reverse replay of the story showed lateralization to the left in males but not in females. There was no lateralization in either sex when comparing activation during random fragmentation of the story to reverse replay. In the angular and the supramarginal gyri, however, activation was lateralized to the left hemisphere in both sexes, unlike the sex-dependent activation of the posterior temporal lobes. We infer that females use the posterior temporal lobes more bilaterally during linguistic processing of global structures in a narrative than males do.
Lacunar infarcts represent a stroke subgroup with controversial risk factors. Lacunar syndromes may be divided into two groups: the classic group (pure motor hemiplegia, pure sensory stroke, ataxic hemiparesis, dysarthria-clumsy hand syndrome, sensorimotor stroke) and the miscellaneous group including all other lacunar syndromes. We studied risk factors of 200 consecutive patients with symptomatic lacunar infarcts diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. This study tested whether lacunar infarcts represent a homogeneous subgroup of strokes or not. Using descriptive and bivariate statistics, we found that the prevalences of arterial hypertension and cigarette smoking are lower in the miscellaneous group. Analysis of variance shows a significant difference in age between subgroups without interaction of sex. Nevertheless, using multivariate analysis, we did not find a difference between subgroups. Thus, lacunar infarcts seem to be a homogeneous subgroup of strokes, and the miscellaneous group of lacunar infarcts may be included into the lacunar infarct group and not into the vertebrobasilar large-artery infarct group.

Melatonin has been traditionally considered to be derived principally from the pineal gland. However, several investigations have now demonstrated that melatonin synthesis occurs also in the retina (and in other organs as well) of several vertebrate classes, including mammals. As in the pineal, melatonin synthesis in the retina is elevated at night and reduced during the day. Since melatonin receptors are present in the retina and retinal melatonin does not contribute to the circulating levels, retinal melatonin probably acts locally as a neuromodulator. Melatonin synthesis in the retinas of mammals is under control of a circadian oscillator located within the retina itself, and circadian rhythms in melatonin synthesis and/or release have been described for several species of rodents. These rhythms are present in vivo, persist in vitro, are entrained by light, and are temperature compensated. The recent cloning of the gene responsible for the synthesis of the enzyme arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (the only enzyme unique to the melatonin synthetic pathway) will facilitate localizing the cellular site of melatonin synthesis in the retina and investigating the molecular mechanism responsible for the generation of retinal melatonin rhythmicity. Melatonin has been implicated in many retinal functions, and the levels of melatonin and dopamine appear to regulate several aspects of retinal physiology that relate to light and dark adaptation. In conclusion, it seems that retinal melatonin is involved in several functions, but its precise role is yet to be understood.

The objective of this investigation was to compare changes in antioxidant status (together with other metabolites relevant to hypertension) in plasma and cardiac tissue from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY), following 8 weeks of treatment with lisinopril (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor) or amlodipine (Ca(2+) channel antagonist) respectively. There was no significant difference in the levels of total antioxidant capacity, retinol, urea, albumin or triglyceride in plasma from SHR or WKY rats, with or without lisinopril or amlodipine treatment. However in SHR rats, levels of alpha-tocopherol were substantially reduced in both plasma (-54% WKY, P&lt;0.01) and cardiac tissue (-43% WKY, P&lt;0.05). Treatment with lisinopril ameliorated reduced levels of plasma alpha-tocopherol in SHR rats, but not in cardiac tissue. Amlodipine treatment had no effect on alpha-tocopherol levels in plasma or cardiac tissue in SHR rats. In SHR rats total cholesterol levels were significantly lower thanWKY controls (-36%, P&lt;0.001). This effect was reversed in lisinopril treated SHR rats (+27%, P&lt;0.01). Plasma high density lipoprotein (HDL) and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol were reduced in untreated SHR rats (P&lt;0.025) when compared to WKY controls; neither lisinopril nor amlodipine treatment significantly altered these parameters. These findings suggest possible alternative mechanisms of action for lisinopril, and reinforce its use in hypertensive patients or patients with left ventricular hypertrophy.

1. Influx of calcium via voltage-dependent calcium channels during the action potential leads to increases in cytosolic calcium that can initiate a number of physiological processes. One of these is the activation of potassium currents on the plasmalemma. These calcium-activated potassium currents contribute to action potential repolarization and are largely responsible for the phenomenon of spike frequency adaptation. This refers to the progressive slowing of the frequency of discharge of action potentials during sustained injection of depolarizing current. In some cell types, this adaptation is so marked that despite the presence of depolarizing current, only a single spike (or a few spikes) is initiated. Following cessation of current injection, slow deactivation of calcium-activated potassium currents is also responsible for the prolonged hyperpolarization that often follows. 2. A number of macroscopic calcium-activated potassium currents that can be separated on the basis of kinetic and pharmacological criteria have been described in mammalian neurons. At the single channel level, several types of calcium-activated potassium channels also have been characterized. While for some macroscopic currents the underlying single channels have been unambiguously defined, for other currents the identity of the underlying channels is not clear. 3. In the present review we describe the properties of the known types of calcium-activated potassium currents in mammalian neurons and indicate the relationship between macroscopic currents and particular single channels.
Brucellosis is an infection due to Brucella species and is characterized by acute febrile illness, chilly sensations, sweats, weakness, generalized malaise, body aches and headache. The involvement of the nervous system is rare. A few cases have been reported with symptoms and sign of optic neuritis, meningoencephalitis, meningomyelitis and cranial nerve palsy. We report a case with culture proven neurobrucellosis who presented with diabetes insipidus along with systemic signs. Neuroimaging revealed multiple lesions in brain parenchyma, including the suprasellar region. Both diabetes and suprasellar lesions improved markedly with specific antibiotic therapy.
Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN) and infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy (INAD) are two progressive neurodegenerative disorders of childhood that have considerable clinical as well as histological overlap but are believed to be ultrastructurally distinct. The clinicopathological and ultrastructural features of three cases of INAD, two of whom are siblings and one case of GAN are described. The sural nerve biopsies in all four cases were essentially similar on light microscopy revealing giant axons. On electron microscopy, the findings in the case of GAN were typical with dense accumulation of neurofilaments within the giant axons. In the three cases of INAD, too, in addition to accumulation of mitochondria and organelles with vesiculotubular profiles, a similar increase in neurofilaments was evident. We, therefore, believe that these two disorders may represent a spectrum in evolution of intermediate filament pathology with various organelles participating in the temporal evolution of the disease process.
We report a patient with idiopathic Parkinson's disease who underwent bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the nucleus subthalamicus (STN) and developed visual hallucinations (VH) while taking no medications only when the DBS was turned on. The hallucinations resolved when the stimulator was turned off. The phenomenology and the prompt response to clozapine suggest that DBS-induced VH mimic pharmacologically-induced VH.
